396 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY ROOK chicken. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Whip the cream, and mix in. Fill the moulds with this preparation before it is completely set. Close the two halves of each mould firmly together (care should be taken that the marks of each part of the mould are opposite one another). Place on the ice long enough to set. The remainder of aspic should be tinted with a little spinach greening, and poured into a saute-pan to set. Cut out some leaf- shapes, place them on a dish so arranged as to receive the tomatoes. Turn out the moulds, dish up, chop some aspic, and decorate. 1157. Petites Cremes de Volatile d VJEcarlate.—\ lb. cooked chicken, freed from bone and skin, \ lb. cooked tongue, \ gill Allemande {No. 204) or veloutee {No. 206) sauce, H gill aspic (No. 298), 1 gill cream, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 1 large ripe tomato, % oz. butter, pepper, salt, cayenne. Mince the chicken and tongue, put it in a mortar, and pound till smooth. Add the sauce, previously mixed, with ^ gill aspic, season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Cut the tomato into slices, saute them in a little butter, and cook over a quick fire. Rub through a fine sieve or tammy, and mix with a gill of aspic. Line eight or ten little fancy moulds with this. Whip the cream and mix with the chicken puree before it is completely set; mix with it two or three leaves of tarragon and chervil, finely chopped, fill the moulds with this mixture, and put on the ice till set. Unmould, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. 1158. JPetites Darioles de Volailles d la Chartreuse.— 6 oz. cold chicken {freed from skin and bone), 6 preserved mush- rooms, pint aspic jelly, 1 gill Espagnole sauce {No. 236), ^ oz. meat- glaze, 1 gill cream, 1 hard-boiled egg, 6 to 8 small chicken quenelles (No. 408), 3 or 4 cooked cocks' combs, seasoning, 1 glass sherry, 1 gill veloutee {No. 206) or bechamel {No. 202) sauce. Line about eight or ten small dariole moulds with a thin layer, of aspic. Ornament the bottoms and the sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg, fix the garniture with liquid aspic. Put the white sauce and one gill of aspic in a stewpan, reduce to one- third, add the cream, reduce again, and pass through a tammy. Allow this to cool a little, then mask the insides of the moulds with this preparation. Cut the chicken meat, mushrooms, and remainder of truffles into convenient slices, cubes or fillets ; mix with a sauce composed of Espagnole sauce, sherry, half a pint aspic, and meat-glaze. Reduce a little, and mix carefully with the meat &c.; allow to cool, and season the whole to taste, then fill up the moulds, and stand them on the ice until perfectly firm. To serve immerse the moulds in warm water for a few seconds, wipe quickly with a cloth, and turn out quickly on to a dish with folded napkin or dish-paper. Garnish with chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and send to table. 1159. JPetites JBonibes a la Victoria.—Boast or boiled fowl, % pint rich bechamel or veloutee sauce (206), \ oz. French leaf