418 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK (remove) serve it whole, and put the peas round the dish as a garnish; if as an entree, put a bed of peas into the dish, cut the ballotine into slices and place on top ; sauce over a little and serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 1208. Carre d’Agneau froid a la Jiohemienne.— Procure a nice neck of lamb, remove the skin from the fat, shorten the ribs, saw off the spiny parts, pare and trim nicely, put it in a saute-pan with a handful of sliced vegetables, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, and braise in the oven for about an hour or more, according to the size. When done take out the neck and put in a cool place. Add a little more stock to the vegetables in the saute-pan, let it reduce to half, skim off the fat and pass through a sieve, mixed with sufficient dissolved gelatine to make it set as aspic, also half a pint of tomato sauce (No. 271) and a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly ; when nearly cold, but still liquid, sauce over the neck with the sauce, and when set mask with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up on a crouton of bread or socle of boiled rice, garnish the sides with six aspic timbales of peas. Have ready two silver hatelets decorated with a cock’s kernel and comb at the top, a slice of truffle and a plover’s egg beneath ; stick them into each side of the top of the neck ; it is then ready to serve. 1209. Selle d’Agneau d la Hollandaise {Saddle of Lamb, Dutch Style).—Eemove the skin of a fine saddle of lamb, and bard it with slices of fat bacon ; truss the joints as for roasting, and place it on a roasting-tin with a few slices of onion, carrot, and a little dripping for basting. Cook it in a rather quick oven at first, so as to nicely brown the surface, then reduce the heat and finish cooking till quite done, basting it frequently. Eemove the bacon and moisten the joint; place it on an oblong joint-dish, and glaze the surface with liquefied meat-glaze. Garnish the sides with small new potatoes, baked in the oven, and put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish. Insert two hatelets, suitably garnished, at each end of the joint and serve with a boat of rich gravy or thin demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 1210. Frieandeau pique aux Epinards.—4 to 5 lbs. cushion or kernel of veal {often called fillet of veal), larding-bacon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 small bunch parsley and herbs, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint stock, ^ pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper, 1 glass sherry, 2 lbs. or more cooked spinach. Free the meat from the skin that covers it, remove likewise the fat and the sinewy skin showing, then lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, four or five rows neatly arranged. Line a deep saute-pan or a braising-pan with the trimmings of bacon and fragments of veal, the onion and carrot, previously peeled and scraped and sliced, also the bunch of herbs; place the meat on top (larded side upwards), spread over with butter, season with pepper and salt, and put it in a hot oven in order to slightly brown the surface of the meat. Then