121 ELEMENTARY METHODS until the paste becomes quite smooth. Allow it to stand for about half an hour or more, and when you require to use some, whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix gently. The batter is then ready for use. If intended for fruit fritters add a teaspoonful of caster sugar ; if for fish or meat a few drops of lemon juice added to the batter will be found an improvement. A thinnish batter is preferable to a thick one. 86. Chouoc Paste (Pate a Chouoc), for General Use.— 8 oz. butter, 1% gill water, 4 oz. flour (sifted), 2 whole and 1 yolk of eggs, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar. Put the water and butter in a small stewpan, add a saltspoonful of salt and a pinch of sugar ; bring it to the boil. Stir in the flour, work vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon, continue to work on the stove until the paste leaves the sides of the stewpan clean. Let it cool, and add by degrees the eggs. Use as directed. Note.— When choux paste is used for savoury or soup quenelles the sugar must be omitted. 37. How to Mash or Coat Moulds.—See that the mould to be used is perfectly clean and dry, place it on the ice or in a small vessel containing enough crushed ice to keep the mould well sur- rounded. When the mould is cold pour in some cold liquid jelly or whatever is to be used for coating the inside of the mould. Now move it round on the ice, so that it (the jelly) reaches all sides of the mould, then pour the liquid portion out of the mould. This will coat or mask a mould with a thin layer: if, however, a thicker coating is wanted, the operation must be repeated. Cutlet and other small fancy moulds are treated in the same manner for masking purposes. Aspic, wine jellies, sweet cream, chaud-froid saucer, &c., are used for coating or masking moulds. 38. Savoury Jelly for Cold Entrees, Savouries, &c.— 1 guart clear stock orteater, 2% oz. gelatine (French leaf), the juice of 1 lemon and its rind, ^ gill sherry, ^ gill tarragon vinegar, \ gill French wine or Orleans vinegar, 1 small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), 1 small onion sliced, 1 bay-leaf, 10 peppercorns, 10 allspice, 1 blade of mace, a few celery leaves, ^ small carrot, sliced, ^ tea- spoonful salt, the whites and shells of 2 eggs. See that all the ingredients are ready and the vegetables clean. Whisk up lightly the whites of eggs with the shells, and put them, together with the remainder of the above-named ingredients, into a well-tinned stewpan, stir with a whisk over the fire, and bring it thus slowly to the boil. Remove the whisk and draw the stewpan away from the fire, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a clean cloth previously steeped in boiling water and tied over a soup stand or the legs of a stool turned upside down ; or pass it through a warm jelly-bag ; if not clear at first, pass it through a second or third time. The aspic is then ready for use. This aspic is suitable for borders or decorative