ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 297 809. Langue de Bceuf a la Romaine.—Braised pickled ox-tongue, served with sauce Romaine, composed of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), white wine, blanched currants, sultanas, Italian pine-seeds (pignolis), chilli vinegar, and a little powdered sugar, all well reduced and passed through a tammy. 810. Langue de Bceuf au Gratin.—Slices of boiled ox-tongue dressed on a buttered baking or gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of brown sauce, fresh bread-crumbs, chopped shallots, parsley and mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and fresh butter, baked in a quick oven, and sent to table on the dish in which it is baked. 811. Langue de Bceuf au Parmesan.— Boiled ox-tongue sliced, arranged on a gratin dish, spread over with a mixture of white sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, bread-crumbs, chopped shallots, and fresh butter, baked and served in a gratin or baking dish. 812. Palais de Bceuf a l’Orly.—Stewed ox-palate, spread over, when cold, on one side with forcemeat mixed with a little savoury herbs, then rolled, and dipped in cold white sauce. When set, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 813. Palais de Bceuf grille.—Pickled ox-palates, boiled, pressed, and cut into pieces, egged and crumbed, dipped in oiled butter, and grilled. Serve with a piquante tomato sauce. 814. Queue de bceuf. braisee d la Polonaise (.Braised Ox- tail with Cauliflower).—Cut a good-sized ox-tail into sections, blanch the pieces in slightly-salted water, cool and drain them thoroughly on a cloth. Melt about two ounces of butter in a braising- pan, when hot put in the ox-tail, season with salt and pepper and fry them over a quick fire for some minutes, now add one large carrot cut into slices, a sliced onion, a few slices of lean bacon, twelve peppercorns and a bay-leaf. Fry a little longer, so as to blend the vegetables. Pour off the butter, moisten with a pint of Madere sauce (No. 237 a), and cook in the oven (pan covered) from one and a half to two hours, or till the meat is quite tender. Meanwhile cook a large cauliflower (previously trimmed and washed) in salted water. Dish the ox-tail pieces on a round dish, sauce over carefully, put the centre part of the cauliflower in the centre of the dish, and place the smaller parts around it. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and pour a little butter (beurre noisette, No. 244) over the vegetable. The slices of bacon, carrot, and onion may, if liked, be included when dishing up, but the sauce must be strained before being used. 815. Steak and Kidney Pie.—Make a puff-paste crust (see ‘Pastry’), cut about a pound of rump or buttock steak into thin slices, dip each slice into a mixture of flour, salt, and pepper, and roll a slice of kidney and a tiny piece of fat into each slice of beef. Place them in a pie-dish pour, in enough water or stock to come half-way