THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 574 1826. Palmettes de Caviar—Procure a small jar of Senn’s ‘ hygienic caviare,’ mix it with a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice and two finely-chopped shallots. Stir with a wooden fork or wooden skewer. Prepare a few slices of plain or toasted brown bread, cut them into heart shapes of even size. Spread over one side of each with caviare. Cream some fresh butter and mix with a little lobster coral; put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet, and decorate the border of each with this butter. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper on a silver dish (pointed ends of the croutes inwards, so as to form a rosette shape), garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and quartered lemon. Serve cold as hors-d’oeuvre or savoury. 1827. Croutes de La it a nee de Cabillaud d la Madras {Cod's Roe, Madras Style).—\ lb. cod roe smoked, £ onion, a clove of garlic, 2 tablespoonfuls tamarind pulp, 1 tablespoonful Favourite chutney, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, 1^ oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 French gherkin, 8 oval-shaped pieces of fried bread. Cut the cod roe into eight slices, chop the onion and garlic very finely, and fry in the butter ; stir in the curry powder, fry a little, and add the tamarind pulp, chutney, and lemon-juice ; stir until it boils, then lay in the slices of cod roe and let them get hot through. Chop the gherkin, cut a few fanciful slices of the white of egg, chop the remainder, also the yolk. Dress each slice of cod roe with a sufficient quantity of pulp on the fried pieces of bread; decorate with the gherkins, white of egg, and yolk of egg, so as to produce a neat design; dish up, place in the oven for a few minutes, or serve cold. 1828. Laitance de Harengs d la Broche.—Toss some herring roes in butter and finely-chopped shallots (well blended), fasten each with a small silver skewer, and place each on a piece of toasted bread cut to the required size and spread over with anchovy paste. Dish up, and garnish with parsley and lemon quarters. 1829. Petites Tartelettes, Cracovienne.—i lb. puff-paste, 1 dozen oysters, 1 oz. butter, ^ oz. flour, 2 oz. cooked ivhiting or other white fish, ^ gill cream, oyster liquor, hard-boiled egg, seasoning, 1 dessertspoonful meat-glaze. Roll out the puff-paste about a quarter of an inch thick; cut out some rounds and six or eight flat tartlet moulds, fill these with raw rice, bake a nice colour, and take out the rice and put the crusts on a sieve. Chop the white of the hard-boiled egg and the flesh of the whiting finely. Warm up the oysters in their liquor, beard them, put six or eight of the nicest on one side, and cut the remaining ones into small slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; stir in the flour and cook without browning ; then add the oyster liquor and cream, stir well, put in the minced fish, white of egg, and oysters ; season with pepper and salt. Fill the tartlets with this mixture. Glaze the oysters, put aside the liquid meat-glaze ; put one on top of each tartlet. Rub the yolk of egg through a sieve and decorate round the oysters. Bake for ten minutes, dish up, and serve.