ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 335 white wine, chopped chives, parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Garnished with fried button onions. 946. Pigeons en Papillotes {Pigeons in Cases).—Pigeons cut in halves and boned, well seasoned, covered with a mixture of liver forcemeat (No. 406), chopped shallots and parsley, and sliced button mushrooms. Dressed in well-buttered paper cases, baked slowly in the oven, and glazed before serving. 947. Pate de Pigeons chaud.—Parboiled stuffed pigeons cut into halves filled into a pie-dish with slices of rump steak, parsley, seasoning, and hard-boiled slices of eggs, and stock, covered with a rich pie-crust, and baked. 948. Medallions de JPoularde d la Heine.—1 -pullet or large fowl, 2 oz. blotter, 4 oz. panade, 1 egg, 1 gill cream, f pint of asparagus tips, \ pint veloutee or Allemande sauce {Nos. 206 and 204), 1 truffle {large), a little lobster spaion, seasoning, bread for croutes. Eemove the meat from the fowl (all the fleshy parts), free from skin and sinews. Flatten some of the best pieces, and shape them into round fillets or medaillons. Cook them for a few minutes in a saute-pan containing the butter, strain and press lightly until cold. Put the remainder of meat, trimmings, &c., into a mortar and pound till smooth, adding half its quantity of panade, one white of egg, and sufficient cream to form a farce of medium consistency. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg and rub it through a fine sieve. Now spread one side of the medaillons with a thick layer of this farce, smooth it nicely by means of a knife dipped in hot water. Mix the remainder of farce with sufficient pounded lobster coral to give it a red tint, and pipe a neat border of a star or rosette on each medaillon. Slice the truffle, cut out the letters V.R., and place carefully in the centre of each. Arrange the medaillons on a well-buttei-ed drainer to fit the pan in which they are to be cooked (steamed), put them in the pan contain- ing some boiling water, and allow to steam gently for about twenty minutes. Meanwhile prepare and fry in clarified butter or lard some bread croutes about the size of the medaillons. Cook the asparagus tops in salted water, drain, and finish them in the butter in which the fillets were first cooked ; moisten with a little white sauce, and season to taste. Fix the croutes on a hot dish in the form of a crown, dish up the medaillons on these, dress the asparagus ragofit in the centre, pour a little hot white sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. The sauce should be Carefully warmed, and any cream left over stirred into it a few minutes before it is required. 949. JPoularde souffl.ee d VOrloff. 1 fat pullet, 1 small chicken, 2 or 3 whites of egg, 1^ pint cream, a few slices fat bacon,