615 PATISSERIE, ETC. small balls with the remainder of the choux paste, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake also. Have ready some sugar cooked au caramel, dip the cake balls and the same number of large glace cherries in the ready prepared sugar; place them alternately one against the other on the border, and fill up the centre with creme a gateau (No. 1960). 1998. Quillets (Small Dessert Tartlets).—Line some very small tartlet moulds with rough puff-paste (No. 1950), fill them with madeleine mixture (No. 1957), dredge with sugar, and bake in a slack oven. Turn out of the mould, scoop out centre partially, and fill cavities, with almond cream (No. 1953). Decorate with whipped cream and serve. 1999. Tartelettes aux Frmnboises.—1 punnet raspberries (picked), ^ glass brandy, \ pint syrup, f lb. Coombs's self-raising flour, 6 oz. butter, \ oz. butter, ^ oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, a little water, and milk. Sift the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, add the sugar, mix the yolk of egg with a little milk. Add a pinch of salt and put with the above; work into a smooth paste, adding a little water if more moistening be required. Roll out the paste, stamp out some rounds, and line a number of buttered tartlet moulds ; fill with rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Boil up the syrup, put in the raspberries, and cook for a few seconds. Add the brandy and let cool. Drain and fill the tartlet-cases with the raspberries. Reduce the fruit-syrup to about half its quantity. Pour about a tablespoonful over each tartlet, and serve when cold. A little desiccated cocoanut sprinkled over the tartlets will be found an improvement. 2000. Gateau JRusse (Russian Cake).—Prepare a Genoise cake mixture (No. 1979), divide it into three equal parts ; mix one part with one ounce of chocolate, previously melted or grated, and one part with a few drops of cochineal or liquid carmine, leaving the third part plain. Bake each lot separately in a well buttered and floured flat cake-tin. When baked turn on to a wire sieve and let cool. Carefully line a square or oblong biscuit-tin with almond paste (No. 1954). Melt some apricot marmalade, and rub it through a sieve. Cut the prepared Genoise into even-sized long strips about half an inch thick. Arrange these in alternate colours, and place them in layers neatly into the almond-paste lined tin. Spread each layer with apricot marmalade, and proceed thus until the tin is filled. Spread a little more marmalade over the top, and cover with almond- paste. Let the tin stand in a cool place for about one hour. Un- mould carefully, and cut the shape crosswise into neat slices, accord- ing to the thickness desired. Dish up tastefully, and serve as a cold dinner sweet or for afternoon tea. As a guide to those who try this recipe I may say that the cake, when cut into slices, should look like parts of a draught-board. 2001. Eclairs au Cafe.—| pint milk, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. corn-