THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK FUMET A fumet is very much the same preparation as an essence, but much richer, being reduced with sherry or madeira. Fumet, in other words, may be termed the flavour, for it is the condensed steam which rises from certain cooked and raw meats, game, or poultry, whereby a concentrated flavour is obtained. For a fumet the raw ingredients required are usually sauted in the first instance, after which a bouquet of herbs, stock, and wine are added for reduction. Foundation Sauces.—All the great sauces, or sauces mere, as they are called in France, have either well-reduced stock or essences for their foundation. Espagnole, veloutee, allemande, and bechamel, are the names of the four sauces known as Les grand.es sauces, though the actual leading foundation sauces are a brown and a white sauce. Espagnole and Bechamel.—These are justly termed the Adam and Eve of all the other preparations, because from these an endless variety of sauces can be made. If we look into the above statement concerning the four grande sauces more closely, we find that espagnole is a brown sauce, whilst the other three are white sauces. This must strike the uninitiated as somewhat odd, because only one brown sauce is recognised, whereas in cookery, a brown sauce is used at least three times as often as a white one. It is furthermore curious, or apparently so, that the brown sauce which the French cuisine recognises as the sauce should be called Spanish (espagnole). The white sauce has two varieties, the bechamel and allemande or veloutee. It would, however, be much more distinctive to recognise but two kinds of sauces as foundation or grande sauces, viz.:— The Spanish and bechamel, which are unquestionably the two leading sauces in cookery, and as such is the case they deserve to be recognised. Sauce espagnole, versus Brown Sauce.—There are many people who imagine that espagnole sauce is nothing more than an ordinary brown sauce. The French practically owe much of their advancement in cookery to Spain, although they have excelled the Spanish cuisine by a long way. Spanish cookery was at one time the pioneer, when no doubt this sauce was introduced into France, and such being the case, it cannot be wondered at that the French cooks have stuck to the name of so important an item, which they have adopted as their chief brown sauce. The great secret about this brown sauce consists in the hammy flavour which is blended into the sauce in such a skilful manner, making it superior to and distinguishable from an ordinary brown sauce. Much of the success of a brown sauce, as a fundamental sauce, depends upon the manner in which the flour is blended, or, to be