THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 590 1887. Omelette a la Raphael.—Make a savoury omelet with six eggs, and place in the centre a fine stew of fillet of beef (goulash de bceuf) and truffles, fold the omelet. When browned slightly, turn on to a hot dish, and pour some demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish. Serve quickly. 1888. Omelette aux JPoireaux (Leek Omelet).—6 eggs, 1| oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful grated cheese, salt and cayenne, 1 tablespoonful milk or cream, 2 leeks, well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream, beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stewpan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan ; when thoroughly warm (not too hot) pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. 1889. Retites Omelettes a la Mar exhale.—8 eggs, 8 slices of cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, £ gill of cream, 1^ oz. butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce (No. 258). Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions; melt a little of the butter, and prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture ; place it on the slice of tongue, trimmed to required size,' and proceed thus until the eight omelets are made ; dish up on a hot'dish in-the shape of a border (encouronne), pour Colberirsauce round the dish, and serve. 1890. Omelettes gratinees an Parmesan.—6 eggs, 1 large tablespoonful Kcream, 2 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan, 1^ oz. butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, tomato sauce (No. 271). Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of the grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a whisk, add the bream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in half the egg-mixture. Stir over a brisk fire until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), then fold into a cushion shape, let it rest for one minute to take colour ; turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan, also a few drops of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely-seasoned hot tomato sauce poured round the omelets. 1891. Fricassee d’CEufs.—6 eggs, 1^ oz. of butter, 1 gill cream, i gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), a small shallot, pepper, salt,