THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 596 bechamel sauce, sprinkle well with grated cheese, season with a good pinch of paprika, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes. Stand the dish on a folded napkin and serve very hot. 1910. JBeignets a la Gruyere (Cheese Fritters).—About % lb. choux paste (No. 36), 6 oz. Gruyere cheese, 1 egg, soft bread- crumbs, salt, Nepaul pepper, fat for frying. Cut the cheese into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some ovals with a pastry-cutter, wipe each piece with a dry cloth, coat one side of each piece of cheese with choux paste, smooth over with a palette knife, beat up the eggs. Have ready a plateful of bread-crumbs, mix with them two saltspoonfuls of salt and a good pinch of Nepaul pepper. Dip the slices of cheese in the egg-crumb, let the coating get dry, then egg and crumb again. Let them stand for a few minutes, and then plunge them into hot fat, and fry until a golden colour. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly. 1911. JPetites Croutes an Frontage.—White or brown bread, clarified fat or butter for f rying, 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 yolk of egg, 1 dessertspoonful cream or milk, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and cayenne. Cut some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some rounds one and a quarter inch in diameter, mark the centre with a smaller cutter, and scoop out the centre to receive the filling. Pre- pare a mixture with the cream, egg-yolk, butter, cheese, and bread- crumbs, season to taste. Fry the hollowed croutes in hot fat a golden colour, drain, and fill with the cheese mixture ; heap up, and smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, put it in the oven for a few minutes, or hold under a hot salamander long enough to brown the top, and serve on a folded napkin. 1912. JDiablotines a la Gruyere.—Line a dozen small dariole moulds with very thin ordinary paste ; boil up a gill of milk in a stewpan, add one ounce of butter, mix with half an ounce of corn- flour, also three ounces of grated Gruyere cheese ; stir well over the fire, and mix with two beaten eggs, season with a little salt and highly with cayenne. Half fill the moulds with this preparation, put a small quantity of anchovy or bloater paste in the centre of each, cover with the remaining mixture, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven a light brown, turn out, and serve quickly on a folded napkin. 1913. Fetites Marquises a la Suisse.—^ lb. puff-paste trimmings, f pint milk, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, 1 bay-leaf, 1 small onion, 1 clove, salt, mignonnette pepper, parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. grated Gruyere cheese, 6 oz. choux paste (No. 36). Peel the onion, stick in the clove ; put this, the milk, bay-leaf, and a sprig of parsley in a small stewpan and boil for a few minutes ; melt the butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, and cook for some minutes without letting the flour take colour ; moisten with the boiled milk ; stir until it boils. Add half an ounce of cheese, season