591 ENTREMETS SAVOZJREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. a pinch of grated nutmeg, fried bread croutons, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Boil the eggs for fifteen minutes, lay them in cold water, take off the shells, cut them in halves crosswise, take out the yolks for garnish. Peel the shallot and chop finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shallot, and fry a golden colour. Add the sauce, let it come to a boil, mix in the cream; when hot put in the whites of egg, add the seasoning. Stir gently, or, better, shake the pan so as not to break the slices, and keep on the fire until hot. Warm up the yolks in a little thin white sauce, dress them in the centre of a dish, put the whites round the yolks as neatly as possible, sprinkle over with some chopped parsley, garnish with a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. 1892. GEufs a la Dreux.—6 eggs, \ lb. lean ham (cooked), 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, \ oz. butter, \ gill cream, salt and pepper., cayenne, six rounds of buttered toast. Butter thickly six deep patty-pans, chop the ham finely and mix with the parsley, sprinkle well the patty-pans with this, so as to com- pletely cover the inside of each pan, break an egg carefully into each pan, season with a pinch of salt, pepper, and cayenne, and divide the cream equally on top of each egg; put also a tiny piece of butter in each. Put the tins in a saute-pan three-parts full of boiling water, place in the oven, and poach until the whites are completely set. Have ready some rounds of buttered toast as nearly as possible the size of the patty-pans, turn out the pans and dress them carefully on the toast, dish up, and serve very hot. 1898. GEufs a la Milanaise.—6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tablespoonful cream, toasted bread, pepper, about \ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 \ oz. butter. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up well with a' tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese and the <$eam, add a pinch of pepper. Divide this into four equal parts. Melt a little butter in an omelet-pan, pour in one part and make into a small omelet, taking care that the omelet is of a nice cushion shape. Proceed thus until four omelets are made. Boll each in Parmesan cheese, put them on an oval shape of buttered toast, sprinkle the surface with more Parmesan, put them on a baking- sheet, and place in a hot oven for two minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, pour round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. 1894. GEufs bvouilles aux JPointes d’Asperges.—6 eggs, 1 gill asparagus tips, 2 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Boil the asparagus tips in salted water until tender, drain well, put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter, and saute over the fire for five minutes. Break the eggs in a basin, add the cream, season with a little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, beat up well, put it in a stewpan with the remaining ounce of butter, stir over the fire for a little while, then add the asparagus, stir again until the eggs begin to set. Dish up on a hot dish,