413 REMOVES AND ROASTS Trim the fillet of beef, pare off the fat and skin, lard the top side with strips of bacon, tie up neatly here and there with strips so as to keep in good shape during the cooking. Prepare and cut up the vegetables and bacon ; place these in a deep braisiere (braising-pan). Add also a good ounce of butter. Place the piece of fillet on top of the vegetables and a bouquet (mirepoix). Season lightly. Put it in a quick oven or over a brisk fire just long enough to slightly brown the surface of the fillet, then moisten with the stock and wine ; cover with buttered paper, braise slowly in the oven or on the side of the stove (with lid on). Baste frequently. When done take up the fillet (as a rule the meat should be but underdone and not cooked through), take off the fat, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook long enough to obtain the desired consistency of the sauce; then strain into a saute-pan, remove the string from the fillet, place the fillet in the pan with the sauce, and keep hot. In the meantime heat up the fonds d’artichauts (artichokes) in a little stock, drain well and coat the interior with liquid meat-glaze, heat up the macedoine, saute them in a little butter (one ounce), add the ham, some chopped parsley, a pinch of sugar and pepper and salt, toss lightly, and keep hot. Dish up the fillet on a crofiton of bread (this is far better for carving than placing it on the dish without a bed), larded side upwards, fill the artichoke-bottoms with the macedoine ; range these neatly on either side of the fillet. Put a teaspoonful of tartare sauce on top of the macedoine, with a tiny pinch of red pepper to finish. Pour a little sauce over the fillet, just enough to moisten, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately in a sauce-boat. If the fillet needs it brush over the larded side with meat-glaze as it leaves the oven. 1197. Filet de Beeuf d la Louis XV.—Procure a piece of fillet (middle cut) about four to five lbs. in weight ; pare off the fat and sinews ; trim neatly ; lard it lengthways with small strips of fat bacon; put it in a baking-tin with one glass of sherry wine, a table- spoonful of dripping, a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip; season with salt and pepper ; roast it in a quick oven from forty to fifty minutes, or longer if you wish it to be well done; baste it well during the time of cooking. Take out the fillet, pour off the fat left in the tin, add to the fond a pint of thin brown sauce and a teaspoonful of extract of meat; let simmer for a few minutes, skim and strain. Have ready a croustade of bread large enough to hold the fillet, fix same on an oblong dish ; glaze the surface of the fillet with dissolved meat-glaze ; stand it in the centre of the croustade ; garnish round the dish with groups of stuffed fried potatoes, and serve the sauce separately with the dish. 1198. Filet de Beeuf d la Metropole.—A piece of fillet of beef, larding-bacon, 1 glass of sherry or Madeira, 1 glass of Chablis or Sauterne, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme, a few sprigs parsley, 1 tablespooonful sioeet oil, 12 peppercorns, salt, 2 truffles, 4 artichoke-bottoms, a few chicken forcemeat