ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) border. Bake in a fairly hot oven ; when done and still hot brush over with liquefied marmalade. Cut into convenient slices when cold. 1770. Souffle a la Par me.— 1 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 gill cream, | pint milk, 1 oz. butter, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, \ oz. gelatine (French leaf), 4 eggs, 6 marrons glaces (chestnuts), 1 oz. crystallised Parma violets, kirsch and maraschino for flavouring. Cut the chestnuts (these must be quite tender) into dice and put them in a pie-dish or plate, pour over enough liquor, kirsch, and maraschino to well soak them. Cover and let stand till required. Mix the corn-flour with a little milk; put it in a stewpan with the sugar, stir in the remainder of milk (hot), add the butter and stir over the fire till it comes to a boil, cook for a few minutes. When cool add the vanilla essence, the yolks of three eggs, and the cream. Whisk this over the fire till the eggs begin to set. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water and strain into the above. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate it with the mixture. Stir over the ice till nearly cold; then add the prepared chestnuts and half the violets, crushed small. Fill a silver souffle dish with the preparation, and place in a charged ice cave. A paper band may be fastened round the dish if found necessary. This must, however, be removed just before the souffle is sent to table. When ready for serving sprinkle the remainder of crystallised violets over * the top. 1771. JBiscotins auoc Peches.—6 stewed peaches, 1 lb. Genoise cake (baked in a flat tin), % pint cream, \ teaspoonful vanilla essence, | gill wine-jelly, 4 oz. ground almonds, 1 tablespoonful kirsch, 1 oz. caster sugar, a few drops of liquid carmine. See that the skins of the peaches are carefully removed before stewing (preserved peaches will do nicely for this dish). Place the halves of peaches on a sieve to drain, bake the ground almonds in a cool oven a pale brown colour, let cool, and mix with a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, a little caster sugar, and the kirsch; work it to a smooth paste, and fill the halves of peaches with this. Stamp out some rounds of Genoise cake with a two-inch paste-cutter, place half a peach on each, filled side downwards. Whip the remainder of cream till stiff and add the jelly, when nearly cool; flavour with vanilla essence and a little more sugar, if needed, colour with a few drops of liquid carmine, and stir on the ice until it commences to set, then cover each peach croute completely with this. Let them set on a wire tray and repeat this operation. Keep on the ice until required for table, then dish up neatly on a round dish and serve. A little chopped wine-jelly can be put round the base of the dish’ if liked; it will add greatly to the appearance of the dish. 1772. Jambou de Ccireme.—This applies to a cold sweet made in the shape of a ham out of Genoise pastry. It is very