389 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME cream, mix thoroughly, season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, colour with a few drops of the carmine, and rub through a sieve. Put the mixture into eight or ten little tongue-moulds, arid set on the ice. Mask a small bombe or some mould with aspic, decorate the sides tastefully with little stars of cooked carrot, turnip, &c. (macedoine), season the remainder of macedoine to taste, and mix with aspic jelly ; put this into the mould when it begins to set, and fill up with aspic. Turn out on to a cold dish when set. Turn out the little moulds, brush over with meat-glaze, previously mixed with a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. Arrange the little tongues round the macedoine, shape points upwards. Decorate neatly with chopped aspic jelly and a few small sprigs of parsley between and round the tongues, and serve. 1140. Cdtelettes de Venn fro ides.—Cut as many cutlets from the neck of a small calf as necessary, trim and pare each neatly, season with salt and pepper, and fry in butter till quite tender. Drain them on a cloth and let them get cold. Cut as many thin slices of cooked ham as there are cutlets, and of the same size as the cutlets, place one on each with a fancifully cut slice of truffle in the centre of the ham. Place them on a wire tray and mask over well with one or two layers of well-reduced aspic jelly into which a glass of Madeira wine has been incorporated. Dish up tastefully, and garnish the centre with a tomato or celery salad. If the cutlets from the neck are found too large, which is frequently the case in .this country, use cushion or leg part known here as fillet, and cut into conveniently cut slices, flatten and shape them, and pound as above directed. 1141. Cdtelettes de Veau en Belle-Vue.—Select eight small veal cutlets of even size, trim, pare, and flatten them a little. Stud each with a few strips of larding bacon and tongue, and place them in a braising-pan containing a bed of slices of onion, carrot, bay-leaf, marjoram, thyme, and parsley. Add one ounce of butter, a few slices of streaky bacon, and moisten with half a pint of white stock and a gill of white wine, Sauterne, or Hock. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Cover the pan and cook in the oven for one hour (baste the cutlets occasionally during the process of cooking). When done take up the cutlets and place them between two boards (weighted) till quite cold. Trim them again, scrape the bones so that they are quite clean, and mask each cutlet with a layer of aspic cream (No. 296) or white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290) ; when this is set repeat the operation. Decorate one side of each cutlet with slices of truffle. Mask them with aspic jelly and put them on the ice. Fix a crouton of bread, column-shape, in the centre of a round dish ; decorate it with green herbs, butter, and arrange the cutlets round it. Garnish with small salad and serve. 1142. Roulade d la JSForvegienne.—1 small breast of veal, 1 lb. lean beef, \ lb. bacon (streaky), 6 oz. soft bread (Vienna or rolls) soaked in milk, \ oz. truffle peelings, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonfid