ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 597 to taste, and let simmer gently for ten minutes ; then strain through a pointed strainer, and add the yolks of eggs, mix well, and let cool. Eoll out the paste, stamp out some rounds, and line six or eight bouchee, cup, or tartlet moulds; prick the bottoms with a fork, put a tablespoonful of the prepared sauce into each, sprinkle with grated cheese ; upon this put a layer of choux paste, forced through a cornet or forcing-bag ; dredge the surface with grated cheese, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Unmould, dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper covered dish, and serve hot. 1914. iBatons Gruyere.—4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, \ pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. Gruyere cheese. Sift the flour. Put about half an ounce of butter and the milk into a stewpan, add salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg to taste. When it boils stir in the flour and work vigorously over the fire until the paste is smooth and leaves the sides and bottom of the pan clean. Let cool a little, then work in one by one the yolks of three eggs and the grated cheese. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and incorporate also, together with the remainder of the butter, previously oiled. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan and sprinkle over with a layer of finely-shredded Gruyere cheese. Bake in a moderately heated oven, cut it into convenient oblong slices (baton shapes), and serve as hot as possible. 1915. Houles au JParmesan.—6 oz. fine bread-crumbs, 6 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. fresh butter, 2 eggs, cayenne, panarette {red bread-crumbs), frying-fat. Mix the fresh bread-crumbs, grated cheese, and butter well together. Add a pinch of cayenne, beat up the eggs and add enough to form a paste. Shape this into balls about the size of walnuts, brush over with beaten egg, roll in red bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a nice colour, drain, dish up, and sprinkle with grated cheese and serve hot. 1916. Quenelles au JParmesan.—4 oz. bread-crumbs, 6 oz. butter, a pint good stock, 8 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 4 eggs, bechamel sauce {No. 202), grated nutmeg. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bread-crumbs, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of stock, and work over the fire until the mixture leaves the bottom and sides of the pan perfectly clean. Add two pinches of grated nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Allow the mixture to cool a little, then stir in nearly all the cheese, two whole and the yolks of two eggs. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and add also. Put the remainder of stock in a stewpan with half as much water, season to taste, and when boiling drop in by means of a table- spoon neat shapes of the mixture, boil for several minutes, then drain and dish up. Pour over some hot bechamel sauce and serve. 1917. Souffles au PapriPa—Make a choux paste (No. 86), incorporate two ounces grated cheese and a sufficiency of paprika pepper to taste, add also the whites of two eggs whisked very stiff.