THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 586 kitchen paper. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle over with grated cheese, and serve quickly. 1870. (Eufs frits au JBeuvre noir.—This is a simple but delightful breakfast dish; the secret of success lies mainly in the correct preparation of the beurre noir, or black butter, as it is called in England. This, by the way, is a misnomer, as butter when cooked till black becomes unpleasant in paste. The above dish is made as follows : —Melt an ounce of butter in an earthenware fireproof pan (casserole) ; when hot break into it gently three to four eggs, have ready three to four rounds of buttered toast a little larger than the eggs, spread them with a little anchovy paste; take up the eggs, one at a time, trim into a neat round shape, and place each on the provided toast, and dish up. Re-heat the butter remaining in the casserole, and let it get a dark nut-brown colour (not black), then add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a good pinch of chopped parsley or chives, reduce a little, and pour over the eggs on the dish; serve hot. 1871. CEufs ala Par mentier (Parmentier Eggs).—8 large potatoes, 6 small eggs, 1 gill white cream sauce (bechamel, No. 202, or supreme, No. 210), 1 oz. grated cheese, % oz. butter, bread- crumbs. Wash and scrub the potatoes, dry them, and bake them in the oven, cut them into halves, and scoop out the mealy parts. Poach the eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with lemon-juice, trim them, put a little sauce in each half of the potatoes, place an egg in each, mix the remainder of sauce with half the cheese, cover with the sauce, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, divide the butter into little bits and place on top; brown in a very hot oven. Dish up, and serze quickly. 1872. CEufs a, V Pearl ate.—6 new-laid eggs, 6 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 1 gill gravy or rich brown stock, 1 small glass sherry or Marsala, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, about 1^ gill supreme sauce (No.. 210). Poach the eggs in boiling water, slightly salted and flavoured with lemon-juice. Cut the slices of tongue into neat shapes, about the size of the egg, when poached. Chop the trimmings of tongue very finely. Put the slices of tongue in a saute-pan with the gravy and wine, and heat up thoroughly. Take up the eggs, drain and trim them; place each upon a slice of tongue and arrange on a hot dish ; season with salt and pepper, sauce over carefully with hot supreme sauce, and serve hot. Put a little chopped tongue in the centre of each egg. 1873. CEufs a la Courtet (Cold).—Cut some even-sized ripe- tomatoes in halves, scoop out carefully the interior, and fill with scrambled egg, nicely seasoned. When cold mask carefully with a stiff mayonnaise and a thin layer of aspic jelly. Dish up in a circle- and garnish with gherkins and pickled beetroot cut into fanciful shapes ; fill the centre of the dish with lettuce and tomatoes cut into-