97 SAUCES AND THEIR COMPOSITION more correct, roasted. The principle of roasting flour is practically the same in every instance, although there are a number of ways of introducing the roast flavour into a brown sauce. To illustrate my meaning, let us take the roasting of coffee as an example, which will give us some idea as to what happens in roasting flour for a sauce. We know that when coffee is properly roasted its aromatic qualities are developed, whereby certain salts and volatile oils are blended, bringing out an excellent aroma, which by mere boiling of the berry could never be attained. The result obtained by roasting is not merely a .change of colour and an access of fragrance, but also the development of qualities which affect the human frame—which exhilarate the nervous system. The process of roasting flour, and the subsequent result in sauces is to a certain extent the same. To roast the flour to a nut- brown colour develops a fragrance of the most exquisite flavour, which will ultimately be incorporated into the sauce or sauces. Time required for Cooking. In preparing this as well as other sauces, which require a process of long cooking, it should be remembered that a sauce must simmer long enough to clear, and have the fat separated and come to the surface, so that it can be skimmed off. The Introduction of Ham, or Lean Bacon, the latter being more often used than ham, into the leading brown sauce is but one out of many other ways of incorporating a smoky or hammy flavour, which makes the espagnole so characteristic, and there is no question as to whether this addition really improves the flavour or not, for I can say with every confidence that the best French cooks put the ham, with due discretion, into practically every first-class brown meat sauce, or brown meat soup. We do not, therefore, need any further conviction as to the usefulness of ham in brown sauces. It is well worth noting that though the addition of ham is excellent for brown preparations, the introduction of anything approaching the flavour of ham into white sauces has just the opposite effect, being entirely opposed to its character. This shows at once that the nature of white sauce is produced by blending and ebullition alone, so as to keep it quite free from any smoky flavour. This brings us back to the starting point of this article, and before proceeding any further, we must come to a clear under- standing as to the actual difference of the brown and white funda- mental sauces, into which all others are, so to speak, divided. Bechamel, White Sauces, Veloutee.—These, as everyone knows, need not always be white, for very often they are found to be of a creamy, yellow, or greenish tint; but the white sauces, the foundation sauces proper, are the result of what has already been explained, viz. a blending of flour and butter, perfected by a certain amount of ebullition, which in the first stage becomes a white coulis, or a H