THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 42 this is, in addition to having the kitchen thoroughly ventilated, to add a little charcoal to the water in which the vegetables are cooked, or fail- ing this, a piece of toasted bread will be found of use. Cabbage water should not be poured down the sink, but should be emptied straight into the drain. To avoid the horrible smell caused from boiling- onions, place a vessel of vinegar on the stove. To prevent objection- able smell from boiling fish add a little vinegar to the water. To remove the smell from burnt milk, sauces, &c., sprinkle some vinegar over the hot stove. Burnt fat causes the worst and most disagreeable smell of all. A good plan to partially remove it is to put a handful of raw potato or slices of onion, or a slice of bread, into the fat, and to sprinkle vinegar on the top of the stove. The windows of a kitchen should be opened as much as possible every day, and especially after the day’s work is done, in order to dispel all unpleasant smells. The first thing to do in the morning is to open both the kitchen door and windows to admit a thorough airing. THE SCULLERY WORK Every kitchen should be provided with a properly equipped scullery. It should be efficiently ventilated and lighted; the floor should be level, smooth and watertight, and in its construction precautions should be taken to ensure proper sanitation. The tanks for washing up should be made of either zinc or teak (iron tanks are not recommended), and they should be provided with a plentiful supply of both hot and cold water. There should be a conveniently placed receptacle into which waste scraps, &c. can be thrown. How to wash Dishes, &c.—The washing and cleaning does not fall to the cook’s lot as a rule, but it should nevertheless be under- stood by all cooks, so as to enable them to direct those under their charge whose duty it is to do the scullery work. Scullery work is by no means, a pleasant occupation, but it has to be done. It need not be dirty, sloppy work, unless it be made so by the carelessness and untidiness of the women or men in charge of this department. The following rules for washing up will be found useful. Have a good supply of boiling water with some soda in it. Remove all scraps from the plates and dishes and pack them neatly together. Wash the spoons, forks, and knives first, placing them ready for cleaning, after the washing up is done. Have a tray or basin on the table so that the things, as they are washed, may be placed on it to drain. As the things are dried they should be put away. The stewpans and saucepans should be washed in a separate tank. Use boiling water with some soda dissolved in it ; thoroughly wash the saucepans inside and out. Have a saucer with a small quantity of silver sand by your side, and after washing the saucepan, soap the dishcloth, dip it in