COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 7.9 reduced to the condition of purees (pulp) ; while in frying they become firm, and ultimately brown on their outside, and if left too long in boiling fat they become black. Fat is incapable of dissolving the internal juices of frying food. When anything becomes dry through long frying, the cause is that the continued heat of the fat drives out all the moisture in the state of vapour. It is not generally known that when burnt fat is eaten in any form it causes great trouble in the stomach, &c.; for soon after it enters the stomach it produces butyric acid, which is the most unwholesome of all acids. When present in the stomach a gas is formed which causes heartburn. It is difficult to cook food in fat, i.e. to fry it, because it ought to be made at least twice as hot as boiling water before it is fit for use. Indeed, some fats make the quicksilver in the thermometer rise to 600° or 700° Fahr. When the dry frying method is employed the frying-pan should be constantly moved about to prevent the articles fried from sticking to the bottom of the pan. Shallow7 and deep frying-pans or kettles should he made of strong- iron with thick bottoms. There are two modes of frying :— 1. Dry frying, which is frying in as little fat as possible, adapted for small pieces of meat, vegetables, &c. 2. Deep or wet frying, which is done in a deep pan containing at least as much fat as will cover whatever is being fried. This method is used for various kinds of fish, meat mixtures, paste mixtures, &c., but whatever is fried in this way must be coated either with flour, batter, eggs, or crumbs : this is done to prevent the heat of the fat from entering into the substance fried. (Fish, eggs, souffles, &c., differ in this respect.) Brillat-Savarin declares that ‘ The beauty of a good fry is in carbonising or browning the surface by sudden immersion—the pro- cess known as the surprise. It forms a sort of vault to enclose all that is valuable, prevents the fat from reaching it, and concentrates the juices so as best to develop the alimentary qualities.’ Beef and mutton suet cut up very small, clarified, and strained, is used in most kitchens for frying purposes, though lard and oil will answer equally well, but in some cases these are not found quite so suitable. The light-coloured dripping obtained from roasting meat, and the clean fat taken off stocks, are in a wray preferable to. any- thing else for ordinary frying. Frying in lard is best adapted for the more bulky articles. Oil is largely used for frying on the Continent, but more especially in France and Italy, and of late years it has come into favour in this country. Oil requires more careful handling than either of the above fats, and needs to be warmed up over a gentle fire to prevent it from rising or boiling over (300°-400°).