THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1 hair sieve and 1 silk sieve 1 glazing pot, for making meat glaze 2 timbale moulds 2 plain Charlotte moulds, for Char- lottes 2 border moulds, for aspics, creams, jellies, and savarins 2 French pie moulds, for raised pies 2 flanc moulds, for open tarts, Genoise, &c. 2 fancy jelly moulds, for creams and jellies 2 fancy tin cake moulds, for savarins, cakes, &c. 2 oblong baking sheets, for baking, &c. 2 square baking sheets. 2 paste brushes 2 fluted flanc rings, for fruit flancs &c. 1 oblong pie mould, for French pates 12 small Dariole moulds, for sweet and savoury creams, &c. 12 small plain timbale moulds 2 sponge-cake moulds, for sponge-cake and fancy gateaux 3 vegetable scoops, oval, round and fluted 1 poker 1 shovel 1 bottle-jack for roasting 1 nutmeg-grater 1 ice-pail 1 ice-spatula 1 jelly bag 2 forcing bags A set of icing pipes 6 enamelled basins 2 wash-up basins 1 offal or cinder box 1 galvanised iron pail Brushes and brooms 1 cafetiere 2 chopping boards, for mincing meat, vegetables, onions, parsley, &c. 1 set of scales and weights 1 saccharometer (syrup -gauge), for testing the correct degrees of syrups, &c. 1 ice-freezer, or ice machine, for freezing ice mixtures, &c. 2 fancy ice moulds and 1 plain parfait mould, for moulding ices i 1 wooden tub, for packing moulded ices 1 palette knife, useful for coating and marking 1 tin-opener, for opening canned goods 1 corkscrew, for opening bottles 1 ice-pick, for breaking ice l 1 set of meat skewers, for meat or game 1 spoon dish, for holding ladles, spoons, &c. 1 square or oblong double oven-pan, for oven roasting 1 meat safe, for keeping cooked meats, &c. 1 refrigerator, for keeping raw meats, fish, &c. 2 tin funnels, 2 wire drainers, used for marking and coating 1 set of measures, 1 quart to 1 gill 1 clock, to enable the cook to regulate the time required for cooking, and promptitude in serving 12 cloths of various sizes and makes, for straining consommes, jel- lies, and aspics, for turning sauces and pastes, for galantines, and for covering puddings whilst cooking 12 plates, 10 common dishes, 6 k. basins, 2 souffle dishes, 6 pudding basins, 3 pie dishes A set of earthenware fireproof casse- roles In addition to the above-mentioned utensils, &c., a well-made hard- wood kitchen table, fitted with drawers, and a properly constructed cooking-stove capable of enabling one to carry out all the various pro- cesses of cooking at one time or independently, are necessary. The list of the various utensils enumerated is as complete as