ENTREMETS FBOIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 568 the lemon-juice into the pulp; put all in a freezer and freeze partially. Beat up the cream a little ; mix this, add 'also the white of egg whisked to a stiff froth, and, lastly, the liqueur, and wine if liked. Finish freezing, mould or serve roughly dressed. A few drops of spinach greening may be added to give the ice a delicate tint of green. If this ice is moulded the bottom of the mould may be decorated with a few grapes and angelica leaves, the pips of the grapes being previously removed. 1781. Glace Plombiere a la Japonaise. — Prepare a custard with one and a half pint of milk, eight yolks of eggs, and one ounce of sugar; stir the custard over the fire to bind the yolks, press through a hair sieve; add three ounces of apricot marmalade, six ounces of ground almonds, one glass of kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt; when cold, mix with half a pint of whipped cream and four ounces of powdered macaroons. Freeze in the usual manner in mould, put a small quantity of apricot marmalade in the centre. Serve with small ratafia biscuits round the dish. 1782. Glace aiix Fraises a la Farisienne.—1 lb. small- size straivberries, £ lb. ripe raspberries, 1 lb. loaf sugar, a good pint of water, 2 lemons, 12 lbs. ice, 4 lbs. freezing salt. Wash and pick the fruit; drain well, rub through a fine hair sieve, and add the juice of two lemons, which should also be passed through the sieve. Put sugar and water into a copper stewpan, heat up until the former is melted, skim and mix with the fruit pulp. Let cool. Break up or pound the ice, mix well with freezing salt, fix the ice pail (sorbetiere) with broken ice and salt in the centre of a wooden tub, and freeze the syrup in the ordinary way. Fill in a suitably shaped mould, close up so that it is hermetically sealed, and bury in a pail of broken ice mixed with salt for about two hours. When required for table, immerse in tepid water ; wipe the mould with a cloth, uncover, and turn out on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, and serve. The quantity of freezing salt required for freezing purposes is about a quarter of a pound to every pound of ice. 1783. Glace a/a 31 clou (Melon Ice).—1 ripe musk melon, 1 lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. Cut the melon in two, remove the seeds, the rind, and green portion of the fruit. Cut it into small slices. Boil the sugar in a pint of water to a syrup ; remove the scum, and boil the melon for about five minutes in this. Take up the fruit and rub it through a fine sieve. Add to it an equal quantity of syrup, the strained juice of two lemons, and the* flavouring essence. Freeze in the usual manner, and serve up in glasses, or mould it into shape. If cream is desired mix about one gill with the above ingredients just before freezing it. 1784. Glace a la Creme de Baaanes {Banana Cream Ice).—