THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 218 pepper and salt. Melt half the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fish (previously floured), and cook over a moderate fire till the fish is done ; the trout must be turned frequently during the process of frying. Take up the fish and dish up. Now add the remainder of butter to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it acquire a nut-brown colour (do not let it get black), then add the anchovy essence, stir well over the fire, and gradually mix in the lemon-juice and the vinegar. Lastly add the chopped parsley, then pour the whole over the prepared fish, and serve the dish very hot. 511. Filets de Truite /rites d, la Milanaise.—2 or 8 small trout, ^ gill olive oil, 1 lemon, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1 egg, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, lard or olive oil for frying, fried parsley for garnish. Steep the fish in boiling water for about a minute, peel off the skin, split each lengthwise and remove the bone. Put the fillets in a pie-dish or other flat dish, season with salt and pepper, moisten with oil, sufficient to cover, add the juice of one lemon, and let it soak thus for about an hour. Beat up the egg, and mix with the chopped parsley. Mix sufficient freshly made bread-crumbs with the grated Parmesan cheese. Drain the fillets, rub them over on each side with a little flour, dip them in the beaten egg, and cover well with the pre- pared crumbs. Have ready some lard or oil in a deep saute-pan ; when hot, put in the fillets and fry a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Sauce Italienne (No. 289). 512. Filets de Truite ala Mirabeau.—Procure a medium- sized trout, remove the scales and wipe the fish with a damp cloth. Take off the fillets and put them skin upwards in a saute-pan contain- ing a quarter of a gill of sweet oil (Provence oil is preferable). Season with pepper and salt, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the fillets, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. When done, remove the skins, take up the fillets with a fish-slice, and place them on a hot dish. Sauce over carefully with Mirabeau sauce (No. 221), and send to table. This recipe may be applied to any fresh-water fish. 513. Escalopes de Turbot d la Dauphin,e.—About 2£ lb. turbot, % gill bechamel sauce {No. 202), butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 egg, sauce ecrevisses {No. 219), 1 glass Sauterne, puree of potatoes, seasoning. Free the fish from skin and bones, cut eight or nine even-sized escallops of turbot, oval or round, pare them neatly and place them in a buttered saute-pan with a small glass of Sauterne wine ; season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Pound the trimmings, previously freed from skin &c., in a mortar till smooth, add the white of an egg, and enough bechamel (well reduced) to form a farce of desirable consistency; add also a little