THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 244 hot oven, long enough to brown ; take them out of the pans, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 594 a. Vol-au-Vent d la Chambord.—Z lb. puff-paste, 6 crayfish tails, 2 truffles, 6 mushrooms, 18 small fish quenelles, and 12 bearded oysters, f of a pint of Genoise sauce (No. 246). Make the puff-paste in the usual way, give it six turns, roll out three-quarters of an inch thick, cut it into the desired size of the vol-au- vent (round or oval), turn the paste over on to a baking-sheet, brush the top over with beaten egg, make a circular incision (to form the lid) about a quarter of an inch deep; this is best done with a large round cutter or a sharp-pointed knife. Put the paste in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked remove the lid, scoop out the soft part of the inside, brush the inside of the crust with egg, and put back into the oven for a few minutes. Prepare the garniture, and warm it up in the sauce ; let it cook slowly for five minutes. Put the vol-au-vent crust on a deep dish, fill with the garniture, cover with the lid, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve hot. 595. llomard d 1’A.mericaine.—1 lobster, 2 shallots, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill white wine (Ghablis), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), and cayenne pepper. Remove the tail from the lobster and cut it into scallops, place them in a circle on a silver dish, or fire-proof china dish. Fry the shallots (previously chopped) in the butter, add the remainder of the lobster meat, moisten with wfine, boil up, and add the two sauces. Take out the meat, and dish up ; reduce the sauce, season with cayenne pepper and a few drops of lemon-juice, pour over the dish, garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve. 596. Cotelettes de llomard.—1 cooked large lobster, 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, peeled and chopped finely, 1 gill well reduced bechamel sauce (No. 203), 4 chopped preserved mushrooms, 1 egg, and 1 yolk of egg, salt, pepper, cayenne, bread-crumbs and frying-fat. Split the lobster in half, take out all the meat and chop finely. Put the butter in a small stewpan, add the shallots and fry them a golden colour, put in the lobster meat, stir well for a few minutes, then add the sauce ;■ when thoroughly hot put in one yolk of egg, and cook for another minute or two, remove the pan from the fire, season the contents with salt and pepper and a pinch of cayenne, and turn on to a buttered dish to cool. Strew some bread-crumbs on a pasteboard, divide the lobster mixture into pieces about the size of a small egg, and give each the shape of a cutlet. Beat up the egg, dip each cutlet into this, cover well with bread-crumbs, shape again, smoothing each cutlet over with the blade of a knife. Place them in a frying-basket, and fry a light- brown colour in plenty of hot fat or lard. Drain on paper or a cloth, insert a small piece of a lobster leg into the small end of each cutlet, dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a hot dish, put a little fried parsley in the centre thereof, and send to table with a boat of hot tomato sauce.