THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK *288 frying separately. Dissolve about an ounce of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the divided onions until of a golden colour; put them in a small stewpan, with sufficient brown sauce to keep moist, and allow to simmer gently for about twenty minutes. Dredge the prepared fillets with a little flour, and fry in butter in a frying-pan. Dip the onion rings into flour, then into white of egg, and again in flour, place them in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour. Dish up the fillets, put a spoonful of stewed onions on the centre of each. Ornament round the fillets with the fried onion rings, sauce over the fillets with demi-glace sauce, sprinkle with a few drops of meat glaze, and serve. 771. Miff nous de Filet de Beeuf auoc Bananes (Small Fillets of Beef with Bananas).—3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 4 bananas, 1 small onion, 1 gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, meat glaze, horseradish, chopped parsley, frying-fat, pepper and salt, flour, bread-crumbs, brown sauce,. Trim the fillet, cut it crossways into six even-sized slices (fillets), pare these into round shapes, season with pepper and salt. Broil both sides of the fillets in butter over a quick fire for about eight minutes, take up, glaze over with meat glaze, and keep hot. Have ready the onion finely chopped, blanch, drain, and fry without browning in the butter in which the fillets were cooked ; add the cream, stir till hot (not boiling), now add the yolks of egg and let bind, rub through a strainer, and keep hot. Peel the bananas, split each in two and divide in halves, crossways, dip in flour, egg and crumb, and fry in hot fat. Dish up the fillets on a hot dish, mix some finely-grated horseradish with the sauce, and put a spoonful of it on top of each fillet, sprinkle over with liquid meat glaze and chopped parsley, garnish with fried bananas, and serve with brown sauce. 772. Filets Mignons d la Beauffremont.—2 lb. fillet of beef, 1 egg, 2 oz. fresh butter, fresh bread-crumbs, \ lb. macaroni, 1 oz. grated cheese, 3 truffles, 2 oz. meat glaze (No. 247), 1 pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Mad'ere saioce (No. 237 a), pepper and salt. Cut about eight small slices from the fillet, trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and crumb them. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot, put in the fillets and bake in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; turn them occasionally. Have ready some macaroni blanched in salted water, let them boil in a little stock until tender, and finish with tomato sauce and grated cheese. Dress the fillets en couronne on a round dish, place the macaroni in the centre. Cut the truffles into thin strips, sprinkle over the macaroni, reduce the remainder of tomato sauce with the Madere sauce and meat glaze, and serve with the dish. 773. Filets Mignons d la Castelaine.-6-8 very small fillets