492 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK naise. Decorate according to fancy with various small groups of shredded smoked salmon, hard-boiled white of egg cut into quarter-inch dice, chopped or shredded beetroot, stoned or stuffed olives, anchovy fillets, capers, or truffles. Serve some mayonnaise sauce separately with this dish. 1527. Salade d la Saint Jacques (St. James's Salad).—Cook six ounces of rice in well seasoned white stock till tender ; when cold add to it two finely chopped truffles, six preserved mushrooms cut into dice or shreds, and two finely chopped shallots. Season with mayonnaise (No. 277) and range neatly in a salad dish. Sprinkle over with grated Parmesan cheese, and garnish with olives, slices of lemon, and slices of hard-boiled egg. 1528. Salade Japonaise (Japanese Salad).—Coat a border- mould with a thin layer of clear aspic jelly, decorate it with stars of truffles or hard-boiled yolks of eggs, previously rubbed through a sieve ; the bottom and side of the mould should be completely covered with this. Trim and wash a firm lettuce, cut it into fine shreds, season it with aspic and mayonnaise in equal proportions, and add to it a handful of cooked green peas or French beans. Fill up the border-mould with this, and pour a layer of aspic over the top. Place it on the ice to set. Prepare the following for the centre of the border :—Cut two hard- boiled whites of eggs into fine strips or shreds ; add to it a handful of cooked asparagus points and a handful of finely-cut cucumber slices. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and mayonnaise sauce, moistened with a couple of tablespoonfuls of whipped double cream. Turn out the mould on to a round dish, fill the centre with the above-named preparation, and coat the whole with a very stiff mayonnaise dressing. Garnish the top with rings cut out of hard-boiled white of egg and cooked beetroot. Sprinkle over with some finely-chopped truffle, and serve at once. 1529. Salade Suedoise (Swedish Salad).—Slice thinly six ounces each of cooked beef (boiled), beetroot, gherkins, and some apples. To this add six boned anchovies, cut into small pieces, and one table- spoonful of capers, season with oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. When mixed add a hard-boiled egg cut into slices, dish up, and garnish with six bearded oysters, six anchovy fillets, and slices of hard-boiled egg. 1580. Uordure de JNoioc et Celeri d la Monaco (Chestnut and Celery with Mayonnaise), a smart supper dish.—1 gill mayon- naise (No. 277), \ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 head white celery, ^ pint shelled walnuts, 1 blade mace, 1 bay-leaf, 1 slice onion, \pint tomato pulp, oz. gelatine (sheet), 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, paprika, 1 French gherkin, a few tarragon leaves, and chillis for garnish. Mark a plain border-mould (pint size) with a thin coating of aspic, decorate the side with fancifully cut chilli and tarragon leaves. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise with enough liquid aspic jelly to make it set,