ENTREES GHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 281 731. Mognons grilles (Grilled Kidneys).—Steep as many sheeps’ kidneys as are required in tepid water, remove the skins and split each in half without quite detaching them. Fasten them on to wooden or iron skewers, season with salt and pepper, brush over with sweet oil, or liquefied butter, place them on a greased gridiron, and broil on both sides from five to eight minutes. Dish up on toasted or buttered bread, and serve with a small quantity of devilled butter placed in the centre of each kidney. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF MUTTON. 732. Carbonades de Mouton a la Chartreuse.—Braised boned loin of mutton, larded, surrounded with small vegetable timbales, groups of green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, and French beans. Sauce: Demi- glace (No. 237). 733. Casserole de Mouton a l’Anglaise. Neck or loin of mutton, boned and freed from fat, cut into small fillets, stewed in an earthen- ware fire-proof pan (use rich gravy) with a suet crust on top. 734. Cotelettes de Mouton a l’Avignonnaise.—Boiled mutton chops or cutlets, drained, dressed in a circle on a baking-dish, masked over with a rich veloutee sauce (No. 206) sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and baked in the oven (gratin style). 735. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Bardoux. -Breaded mutton cutlets, broiled in butter, served with green peas mixed with coarsely chopped fried ham previously tossed in a little butter. 736. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Choiseul.—Mutton cutlets spread over with veal forcemeat, mixed with fine herbs and chopped mush- rooms, wrapped in pigs’ caul or lambs’ leaf-fat, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in fresh bread-crumbs, and fried. Serve with suitable sauce. 737. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Dreux.—Grilled mutton cutlets garnished with coarsely minced fried lean bacon, tongue and gherkins, dished up in a circle with mashed potatoes in centre. Sauce : Demi- glace (No. 237) or other thin brown sauce. 738. Cotelettes de Mouton a l’ltalienne—Mutton cutlets steeped in a mixture of salad oil, lemon-juice, and chopped savoury herbs, crumbed in finely-chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots, lemon-rind, powdered mace and bread-crumbs, fried in clarified butter, and served with Italian sauce (No. 239) (use herbs and spices judiciously). . 739. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Madras.—Mutton cutlets egged and crumbed in fresh bread-crumbs mixed with finely chopped tongue and ham fried in deep fat. Garnished with mixed pickles cut into Julienne shreds, and served with a mild curry sauce. 740. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon.—Mutton cutlets split open, filled with a stuffing of chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallots and chicken forcemeat, slightly broiled and afterwards baked in the