568 THE NEW CENTTJEY COOKERY BOOK tube for this purpose. This must be done very quickly, as it needs to be served immediately. 1802. Charlotte glacee a la Florentine {Iced Charlotte, Florentine Style).—Line a charlotte-mould bottom a,nd sides neatly with finger biscuits, then fill with orange-water ice mixed with a sufficient quantity of whipped cream to make it very light; set to freeze for two hours in a charged souffle case. Serve it on folded napkin. 1808. Charlotte glacee a la Creole.—Line a plain charlotte mould with iced biscuits, finger biscuits, or Genoise slices, covered with different-coloured royal icing (glace royale). See that the icing has got quite hard on the biscuits before they are used for lining the mould. Arrange the biscuits just the same as for * charlotte russe.’ Mix a pint of vanilla-custard ice with a gill of sweetened chestnut puree and a handful of fruit (pine-apple, peaches, &c.) cut into dice, previously soaked in a little, maraschino liqueur. Freeze this mixture, and fill up the prepared mould; this must be done with special care. Keep it in a charged ice-cave or souffle ice- case. When wanted for table unmould the charlotte carefully on a dish covered with lace paper or a folded napkin; garnish to taste and serve immediately. 1804. Tutti-Frutti glace.—5 yolks of eggs, 1 pint milk, 8 oz. sugar, vanilla flavouring {pod or essence), 2 tohites of eggs, £ gill maraschino, | pint double cream, 1 oz. pistachios, 1 oz. glace cherries, | oz. candied peel {mixed), 1 oz. glace apricots. Prepare a custard by boiling the milk and sugar ; add the vanilla- pod or flavouring essence ; pour this over the yolks of eggs previously beaten, return to the stewpan, and stir over the fire till it thickens, strain into a basin, and let cool. Whisk separately the whites of eggs and cream till stiff, and amalgamate both. Cut the pistachios, previously peeled, into thin shreds, cut the other fruit into small dice. Put the custard in a freezer, and commence to freeze; when partly done amalgamate the fruit, and lastly the whipped whites of eggs and cream. When nearly frozen add the maraschino. Mix well, and continue to freeze till set. Mould in the usual way, or serve rough on a dish. Dredge the shape with powdered chocolate, and serve. 1805. La Lame JBlanche.—Line a freezing mould with white paper, and stand it in a charged freezer. Whisk separately one pint of cream and four whites of eggs, add four ounces of caster sugar, flavour with vanilla essence and some kirsch liqueur, amalgamate both eggs and cream, add a handful of finely-shredded blanched almonds, and pour into the prepared mould. Eeplace the mould in the charged freezer, and let it remain thus for five or six hours. To serve, unmould, remove the paper, and cut the ice into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and serve with ice wafers. 1806. Fruits a la Frinciere.—Procure a pint and a half of