THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 588 gus points, preserved lax, salt, paprika pepper, tomato sauce {No. 271), toasted bread. Butter four to six small dariole moulds, sprinkle with grated •cheese and a few pinches of paprika pepper ; break an egg carefully into each mould, and season with pepper and salt. Place the moulds in a saute-pan, containing enough hot water to reach half-way up the mould, and cook on the stove or in the oven until the whites of the eggs are set. Stamp out some rounds or ovals of toasted bread about the size of an egg, butter them well on one side, and lay a slice of lax on each. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season to taste, and put in layers on the buttered toast. Turn out the moulds on top of the asparagus, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat of tomato sauce. 1880. Kish au Parmesan a la Pouard.—Beat up eight yolks of eggs, add a gill and a half of milk or cream, an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, and a tiny pinch of salt. Pour the mixture into small silver or china souffle cases, bake in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. 1881. Petits Pains aux CEufs.—Brioche or choux paste, 4 eggs, 1| oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 tablespoonfuls of meat-glaze, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoonful of cream, pepper and salt. Butter eight oval boat-shaped moulds, fill three-parts full with brioche paste, let stand in a warm place for about an hour, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour. Turn out of the moulds, cut carefully round the edge of the surface, and remove the top. Scoop out the soft part of the inside; melt the meat glaze, and mask the interior of cases and lids with the glaze, and place them, hollow parts downwards, on a sieve to strain. Put the butter, eggs, cream, and grated cheese in a stewpan, beat up well, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; then add the parsley and seasoning. When suffi- ciently set fill up the cases, replace the lids, put in the mouth of the oven for a few seconds, dish up on a hot dish, brush over the surface with meat glaze, and serve. 1882. CEufs garnis it la Volga.—Boil six small eggs till hard; when cooled cut them in halves and carefully remove the yolks. Kub the latter through a sieve, and mix with a gill of remoulade sauce (No. 285). Prepare a salpicon of a quarter jar of Russian caviare, three to four anchovy fillets cut into small dice, twelve prawn-tails cut into small dice. Add sufficient remoulade sauce to bind this mix- ture, and fill the cavities of eggs with this. Place each on oval-shaped croutons of bread fried in butter. Sauce over each carefully with remoulade sauce, dish up, and garnish neatly with prawns and cresses or parsley. Serve as hors-d’oeuvre or side dish. When a large quantity of eggs dressed in this style is needed it is advisable to incorporate a sheet of dissolved gelatine into each gill of remoulade sauce.