441 VEGETABLES .(LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED mignonette pepper, and paprika, moisten with the wine and stock or consomme, cover the pan and place it in the oven for about half an hour ; baste frequently. When all the ingredients are well cooked remove the fat from the top and send to table very hot in the pan in which they were cooked. 1273. Hissolettes d’Artichauts.—6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 3 to 4 table- spoonfuls well reduced Allemande (No. 204), veloutee (No. 206), or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 teaspoonful chopped truffle peelings, seasoning, i lb. flour, 6 oz. beef suet, 1 yolk of egg, piquante sauce (No. 241). ' Mince the artichokes, mushrooms, and tongue rather finely. Mix these with the truffles and put them in a stewpan with the white sauce. Stir over the fire till thoroughly hot and spread on a plate to get cool. Free the suet from skin and pass twice through a mincing machine. Make a smooth paste with this and the flour, adding a pinch of salt and enough water to bind. Roll out the paste and stamp out some twenty rounds by means of a paste-cutter. Wet the edges of half the number of rounds of paste, and place a teaspoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each. Cover each with another round of paste, close up the edges by pressing them down firmly, trim with a fluted paste-cutter a little smaller than the one first used. Range the rissolettes on a baking sheet about an inch apart from each other, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up neatly on a hot dish containing a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of hot piquante sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1274. Artichauts a l’ltalienne.—Stewed artichokes with brown sauce and chopped mushrooms, previously blended in a little Marsala wine. 1275. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Provencale.—Artichoke bottoms stuffed with onion puree (soubise) stewed and served in a rich brown sauce. 1276. Souffle d’Artichauts a la Lyonnaise.—Green artichoke puree, mixed with chicken souffle mixture, the centre being garnished with champignons puree. Cooked (steamed) in artichoke-shaped moulds and served hot with supreme sauce (No. 210). 1277. Topinambours a la Creme.— Jerusalem artichokes stewed in white cream sauce (No. 306 a). 1278. Topinambours a l’Espagnole.—Jerusalem artichokes stewed and served with brown sauce. 1279. Topinambours a la Georgienne.—Boiled Jerusalem artichokes, sliced, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, fried in butter, dished up, and sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs and baked a light brown (gratin style).