339 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) Beat up the eggs, melt the butter, and mix both together, add the chopped parsley and sufficient pepper and salt to taste. Dip the pieces of chicken in this, cover with bread-crumbs ; when set, repeat this operation. Fry in hot lard or butter a golden colour. Drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramid form, •garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). Unless the chicken used be young and tender, and the joints be cut small, this dish will not be a success. Cold pieces of fowl or game can be served in the same way, but should be skinned before being crumbed. 958. Poulet frit a la Villeroi.—1 fowl, a mirepoix, consist- ing of bacon, carrot, onion, bay-leaf’, 2 cloves, and savoury herbs, 1 pint stock, 2 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, 1 glass white wine, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 whole egg, lemon-juice, bread-crumbs, seasoning, frying-fat, parsley. Truss the fowl as for braising, place it on a bed of vegetables and bacon (mirepoix), with an ounce of butter in a stewpan (braisiere), and let the surface of the fowl get nicely browned over a bright fire. Moisten with stock, season with pepper and salt, cover, and place in the oven for about half an hour ; baste occasionally. Take up the fowl, untruss, and cut it into neat joints. Put the carcass into the stewpan in which the fowl has been cooking, remove the fat before- hand ; add the wine, and boil up. Strain or reduce the stock a little. Cook the flour in the remainder of butter (1 ounce), but do not allow it to get brown ; stir in the stock; add the juice of half a lemon, and let reduce to a moderate consistency (the sauce must boil at least for ten minutes). Stir in the egg-yolks and let bind. Dip the pieces of fowl in this sauce after it has cooled, cover each piece completely, and put in a dish. When set brush over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, fry them in hot fat a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 959. Quenelles de Volatile (Chicken Quenelles).—1 fowl, weighing about 1^ lb., 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 1 gill milk or white stock, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, seasoning, white sauce. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little, dilute with the milk or stock, and stir until it becomes a smooth paste, that leaves the sides of the stewpan perfectly clean. Spread this on a plate and let cool. Skin and bone the fowl, pound the meat in a mortar till ‘smooth, work in by degrees the panade, the eggs, and the cream, season with pepper, salt, and a little -grated nutmeg or a pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter a saute-pan, shape some quenelles by means of two spoons, dip one spoon into hot water and fill with forcemeat, smooth its surface with a knife dipped in hot water, and remove the quenelle with the second spoon and place on to the saute-pan. Proceed thus until all the forcemeat is used up. Pour boiling stock or water carefully around the quenelles, and poach them for about fifteen minutes. When