246 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK homard. Eange them in a saute-pan, add sufficient white stock, and steam in the oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready a mixture of rice cooked in stock, and half its quantity of mashed potatoes, season to taste, and form a border. Dress the coquilles on to the border. Garnish with a few heads of button mushrooms. Put a tablespoonful of well ^educed bechamel or veloutee sauce (No. 206) in each coquille, and serve. 600. Souffle de Homard, Sauce Aurora.—Two lien lob- sters, 6 eggs, i pint well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 203), pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Split the lobster, remove the flesh from the shell, and pound in the mortar until very fine. Add the sauce (hot) by degrees, also the yolks of eggs, and the seasoning. Rub all through a sieve and put in a basin, beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix all lightly together,, put it m a well-buttered mould or some ten or twelve small timbale moulds, steam for an hour and a quarter. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Aurora sauce (No. 212 a). 601. bale d la bourgeoisie.—Z lb. skate, bouquet garni (No. 2), 1£ oz. butter, 1 og. flour, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, 1 oniony | pint stock, 1 glass white wine, pepper, and salt. Wash the skate and cut in pieces; take fins and skin, and put into a pan with the stock or water, bring to the boil, and skim ; add the onion sliced and bouquet, simmer half an hour, and strain. Heat butter, stir the flour in it, and let brown ; add stock, lemon-juice, the wine, and pieces of skate; season to taste, simmer about a quarter of an hour, or until skate is cooked. Dish up, reduce sauce and strain over. Garnish with a few croutons of bread, glazed over with extract of meat, and serve hot. 602. bale au beurre JNoir. - Wash, trim, and boil the fish in salted water sufficient to cover, adding a sliced carrot and half an onion, if liked. When done, take up, drain well, and dish up. Heat 1£ oz. butter, when of a nut-brown colour take off the stove, add a teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon-juice, pour quickly over the skate, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Note.—Fish stock and sauces of any kind may be greatly improved by the addition of a small quantity of meat glaze or some Lemco. Half a teaspoonful is the proportion used for every half- pint of sauce or weak stock. 603. Croquettes de boisson (Fish Croquettes).—f lb. cold fish, freed from skin and bones,'a gill of well reduced bechamel sauce (No 203), 1 dessertspoonful anchovy essence, 1 yolk of egg, and 1 whole egg, salt, and pepper, panurette or bread-crumbs, parsleyy frying-fat. Shred the fish as finely as possible, or mince very small, heat up the sauce, add the anchovy essence, season to taste, and stir in the- minced fish. When thoroughly hot stir in one yolk of egg, let it. bind, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Make up into even-