THE NEW CENTURYyCOOKERY BOOK 188 clean and trim the vegetables. Eoast the bones and giblets and chicken with a little butter in a saute-pan over the fire. Remove the fat and put this with the soup, tie up the leeks and cabbage, add these together with the carrots, turnip, onion (stuck with 2 cloves), celery, and parsley to the soup; let it come gently to the boil, skim, season lightly with salt, and add a dozen peppercorns. Let the whole simmer very slowly for about three hours. It is very essential that it should simmer slowly and continuously so as to ensure a clear broth with the needful nourishment, which can only be obtained by a slow process of cooking. Remove the meat and chicken, cut the former in convenient pieces, allowing one slice for each person ; cut the chicken into small joints. Put the pieces in a clean stew- pan, strain the broth through a fine sieve or strainer, and put with the pieces. Cut the cabbage, leek, carrots, and turnip into small pieces or slices, moisten them with broth, and keep hot. Let the soup simmer for another half-hour. Season to taste. Put equal proportions of vegetables, beef, and chicken in little soup-pots (this soup should be served in very small French marmites, sufficiently large to hold enough soup for one person), pour in the broth, sprinkle over each a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve with toasted bread sippets. If a marrow-bone is used saw it into small pieces about an inch long,.wrap up in little pieces of linen or muslin, cook with the soup, and serve as directed. If any pieces of meat are left , over, make them up into a salad, or use up in some other form. 91. Croitte-au-pot.—2 quarts of good first stock, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, cabbage, 2 oz. butter, 1 dinner roll, parsley or chives, pepper and salt, nutmeg. The stock should be made from beef and veal and bones, and the usual stock vegetables. It must be kept well skimmed, in which case it is not necessary to clarify it. Cut the carrot and turnip into round slices, drain the cabbage and cut into small pieces; put all the vegetables in a stewpan with the butter, cover and cook slowly for about ten minutes. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Strain the stock on to the vegetables, and let simmer for about thirty minutes ; skim occasionally. Cut the roll into thin round slices, place them on a baking sheet, bake them on both sides a golden brown in a moderate oven. Put them in a soup tureen, moisten with a little stock, pour the soup over, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley or chives, and serve. 92. Bouillon sur (Eufs (Beef Broth with Eggs).—Prepare a stock with beef, shoulder flank or sticking, allowing 1 lb. of meat and bones to each quart of water. Place it on the fire, adding a little salt, let it come gently to the boil, and remove the scum. Add the soup vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, 3 leeks, previously cleaned and peeled, also a few peppercorns and a couple of bay-leaves. Cook gently from 2^ to 3 hours. Beat up one or two eggs in a soup- tureen, add to it a table-spoonful or less of finely-chopped parsley and