THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve with a boat of Remoulade sauce. Fried eels should always be served with an acid sauce; lemon- juice squeezed over the fish just before serving will improve the flavour. 574. Eperlans an Citron.—The smelt is a most delicious fish. There are but few ways of cooking it, the best is frying in deep fat. They may be crumbed, i.e. dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, or coated with batter (frying-batter.) Fried smelts are excellent cold as well as hot. The following is one of the smartest ways of dressing and serving smelts : — Wipe the smelts with a damp cloth (on no account empty them), then dip them in flour mixed with a pinch of salt—sufficient flour, about two tablespoonfuls, should be put on a plate for this purpose ; shake each fish and brush over with beaten egg and then roll in panurette. This is a special kind of red bread-crumbs (a Continental preparation, which may be obtained at most high-class grocers), or failing this, roll in ordinary bread-crumbs. Have ready some hot fat, drop in the fish when the fat is smoking hot, and fry for a few minutes ; it requires but a very short time to cook them ; they should be of a golden colour. Drain the fish on paper or cloth, dish up on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and slices or quarters of lemon. A plate of thinly-cut brown bread and butter should be handed round when fried smelts are served. 575. Eperlans en Brochettes (Fried Smelts on Skewers).— 1 dozen smelts, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, seasoning, clarihed dripping or lard for frying. Wipe the smelts with a wet cloth, see that they are perfectly fresh, wipe them dry with a clean dry cloth. Dip them in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Curl them up, and fasten each on a small skewer. Put them in a frying-basket and plunge into a pan of very hot fat. Fry the smelts a delicate golden brown. Turn them on a cloth or some kitchen paper and drain well, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon and serve. 576. Eperlans a la Celestine.—1 doz. smelts, | pint pan- cake batter, £ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 1 truffle, G small prawns, 1 oz. butter, remoulade sauce (No. 285). Prepare about 1 oz. very thin pancakes, spread one side of half the pancakes with whiting forcemeat, well seasoned and mixed with a little cream ; cover each with a pancake like a sandwich, press lightly, and cut into triangles or the shapes of half-hearts. Split the smelts longways, take out the bones, leaving the heads, but remove the eyes from them. Mix the remaining forcemeat with some chopped truffle, and fill the inside of the smelts with this. Cover one side of each triangle of pancake with a layer of forcemeat, place on them the smelts rolled up. Stand on a buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan,