607 PATISSERIE, ETC. Pound the almonds to a paste with the sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice ; put this paste into a stewpan, add the butter, and work all together over a slow fire. To this put an equal quantity of creme frangipane (No. 1959). When well mixed put it into a jar to keep for use. 1962. Tourte a la Frangipane.—£ lb. short-crust (No. 1943) or puff-paste trimmings, 3 oz. flour, 4 yolks of eggs, i pint cream or milk, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 inch cinnamon, 1 inch of vanilla-pod (split), 2 oz. ground almonds, a pinch of salt. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Pace a flan or pastry ring, about six inches in diameter, on a baking-tin, butter slightly, and line with paste; notch the edges with the hack of a knife, prick the parts with a fork, and fill with frangipane cream (No. 1959). Bake a golden colour in a moderately heated oven. Dust with caster or icing sugar, and glaze. Serve hot or cold. 1963. Fate a Brioche (Brioche Paste).—1 lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 or 3 eggs, k oz. yeast, £ gill milk, 1 teaspooonful caster sugar, and a pinch of salt. Mix the yeast with a little tepid water ; add sufficient flour to make a sponge paste, and allow to stand for an hour or so. Put the remainder of the flour in a basin, add the salt and sugar, break and beat up the egg. Melt the butter in a little warm milk. Stir this gradually into the yeast and then mix with the flour &c., and work into a dough. Knead well for a good quarter of an hour. Then stand it in a basin and allow to raise for about two or three hours, keeping it in a moderate temperature. Then make up into shapes or mould and bake. 1964. Icing for Gateaux, Petits Fours, and Small Cakes (Fondant for Masking Cakes and Gateaux).—lk lb. lump sugar, a good pinch of cream of tartar, about a gill of boiling water. Put the sugar into a copper stewpan, add the pinch of cream of tartar, pour the water (boiling) over, and let stand on the stove until the sugar is quite dissolved. Set it over a quick fire and allow it to boil up quickly for a few minutes. The best way to find out when the sugar has boiled sufficiently is to try the heat with a thermometer, which should register 230 degrees for fondant sugar. Take it from the fire and rub the syrup with a wooden spoon against the sides for a minute or two. After it has stood to cool for a few minutes sprinkle a few drops of cold water over the top and stir until it becomes a white or creamy substance. It is best to turn it into an earthenware basin as soon as it is done. It can be kept for a long time if covered over with a thick damp.cloth, which should, of course, be changed and redamped from time to time. When required for use a quantity is put into a stewpan or basin and stood in hot water over the fire, and is worked until it is fit for glazing. A little water may be added if not soft enough. In order to know when l