384 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XXII SERVICE FROID (COLD SERVICE). COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 1128. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Danzig.—Best end of a neck of lamb, 2 oz. butter, 1 truffle, hard-boiled white of egg, 1 oz. tongue, 1 tin foie gras, ^ pint white chaud-froid sauce, seasoning, 2 handfuls cooked peas, 1^ gill aspic jelly (No. 38), 2 tomatoes, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1. tablespoonful cream. Seasoning, vegetable macedoine. Trim and pare the neck neatly, cut it into small cutlets, season with pepper and salt, and boil in a saute-pan with butter ; when done put under press until cold. Pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the cream and a little white sauce, moisten with sufficient aspic to make it set; then rub through a fine sieve and mix with a little finely-chopped truffle. Trim the cutlets, cover them completely with the farce just prepared. Allow the farce to set, then mask well with chaud-froid sauce previously mixed with enough green pea puree to give it a greenish tint (a little spinach greening may be added if necessary). Ornament one side of each cutlet with some fancifully cut pieces of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, the garnish to be set with aspic jelly ; when set dip each cutlet in half-set aspic. Have ready a small border mould filled with a macedoine of vegetables neatly set in aspic; dish the cutlets on the border. Prepare a salad seasoned with mayonnaise composed of tomatoes, green peas, and macedoine of vegetables ; fill the centre with this and serve. 1129. Cdtelettes d’Agneau d la Moscovienne.—1 neck of lamb, 1 quart aspic (No. 38), 2 tablespoonfuls chopped green mint, 1 pint macedoine of vegetables, 1 gill of stiff tartare sauce (No. 278), 1 hard-boiled egg, 2 slices of tongue, 1 large truffle, seasoning. Trim the best end of the neck of lamb ; season and braise it in the usual manner. When cold trim neatly and cut into cutlets. Dissolve a pint of aspic, add a pinch of sugar, and pour into a saute- pan. When partly set mix in the chopped mint. Range the cutlets in the pan in a layer about half an inch apart from each other. Allow to set, and cover with the remainder of the aspic jelly. Set on the ice. Mask a border mould with aspic, decorate sides with fancifully cut slices of truffles and tongue, cooked peas, beans, and