451 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED parsley, and a tablespoonful of chopped ham; season to taste; mix well. Fill the mushrooms with this, place them stuffed sides up on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle the surface with soft bread-crumbs and grated cheese, add a few drops of oiled butter, bake for ten minutes in a quick oven, dish up, and serve. 1336. Champignons a la Diable.— Proceed the same as above, adding a tablespoonful of curry paste and a good pinch of cayenne to the mixture above described ; scoop out a portion of the head of each mushroom, fill up with the stuffing, place (stuffing upwards) in a buttered saute-pan or in small buttered earthenware souffle cases, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, dish up, and serve. 1337. Champignons a la Montglas (Mushrooms, Montglas Style).—Prepare some nouille paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, and line the two parts of six or eight mushroom moulds with the paste. The moulds must be well greased and the paste must be well pressed in, or else the paste will not come out perfect. Fill the moulds with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake a light brown colour. Unmould while hot, and place them on a sieve. Peel and wash a basket of cup or button mushrooms, remove the stalks, and chop the mushroom heads finely. Melt down two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, and fry in it two finely chopped shallots. Add the chopped mushroom and fry a little. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with white sauce (bechamel maigre, No. 203), and let cook till reduced to a puree. About ten minutes before serving fill the two halves of mushroom moulds with the prepared puree, join the two parts so as to make them look like mushrooms. Dish up on a folded serviette, garnish with parsley, and serve with a boat of tomato sauce (No. 271), or cucumber sauce (No. 284). 1338. Stewed Mushrooms.—lb. fresh mushrooms, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 gill tomato {No. 271) or brown sauce, dressing. Peel the mushrooms, trim the stalks, and fry them in the butter for five minutes; season with pepper and salt. Add the sauce, and simmer gently for another ten minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, sprinkle over with parsley, and serve hot. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1339. Champignons a la Bordelaise.—-Fresh mushrooms washed and peeled, cooked in butter over a brisk fire, seasoned with cayenne pepper, and finished with demi-glace sauce, mixed with chopped shallots, previously fried in butter, and chopped parsley. 1340. Champignons a la Piemontaise.—Broiled or grilled fresh mushrooms, cut into slices, finished in a sauce composed of melted butter, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley. 1341. Champignons a la Provencale.—Fresh button mushrooms