THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 210 478. A la Montebello.—Well-reduced tomato sauce (No. 271), blended with half the quantity of Bearnaise (No. 225), with 3 or 4 truffles, cut into slices. Sauce and truffles must be heated carefully without boiling. 479. A la JY~op o lit ait le.—Cooked macaroni, with tomato and cheese flavouring, dressed in the centre of dish, or in timbale shapes round the dish. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 480. A la JAivernaise.:—Cooked carrots, turnips, and French beans, all cut into Julienne-shaped strips, dressed in centre or round the dish, served with Supreme Sauce (No. 210), with an extra liaison of yolks of eggs. 481. A la Palmeritaine.—Halves or quarters of aubergines, stuffed with savoury meat stuffing or quenelle meat, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish wdth potato puree in the centre. 482. A la Parisienne.—No special garnish can be quoted for dishes bearing this name; excepting that in the case of fillets of beef, small ball-shaped potatoes fried or baked are served. Dishes richly garnished and highly seasoned are thus specified. 483. A la Paysanne.—Braised celery, olive-shapes of carrots and turnips, also braised together with small kidney potatoes parboiled and fried in butter, dressed in alternate groups. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 484. A la Princesse.—Asparagus points cooked in salted water and drained, finished in butter. Small croquettes of chicken and beef, to represent two colours, a light and a dark; dressed in groups round the dish. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237), or Tomate (No. 271). 485. A la Piemontaise.—Cooked macaroni finished in rich stock, butter, and cheese, well blended and reduced ; filled into small buttered timbale moulds, baked, and served round the dish. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 486. A la Polonaise is generally applied to dishes coated with a thick sauce, sprinkled with brown butter, and finished in the oven. Beetroot introduced in some form, either as garnish or flavour in dishes are also styled a la Polonaise. 487. A la Printaniere.—This, like jardiniere or macedoine, applies to a garnish of mixed vegetables; but there must be a collection and variety of spring or early-grown vegetables. 488. A la Michelieu.—Tomatoes, small, ripe, and firm, centre scooped out, and filled with a mixture of shallots fried in butter, chopped ham, chopped truffles and mushrooms, and bread-crumbs, baked gratin style, dressed round the dish. Sauce, Perigueux (No. 243). 489. A la Pegence.—Chicken or Godiveau quenelles, sliced truffles and mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and slices of cooked sweetbread. Sauce, Allemande (No. 204), well reduced with white wine. If served with fish omit the sweetbread. 490. A la Hobson.—Chicken livers freed from gall, -washed and