535 ENTBEMETS FBOIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) Boil up the milk, add the sugar, wet the corn-flour with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk; stir over the fire until it thickens, and add the yolks of eggs and flavouring essence. Let the eggs bind, and set aside to cool. Peel the bananas, and cut into thin slices, mix with the above, and fill into one or two wetted moulds; put on the ice to set. When ready, immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve with a cold fruit syrup. 1683. Bavaroise aa Caramel.—6 oz. caster sugar, l\ pint milk, % pint cream, 1 oz. French gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 lemon. Peel the lemon finely, chop the rind and put it in a copper sugar- boiler ; add two ounces of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, stir over the fire until it acquires a dark amber colour; add the milk and boil up; then stir in the yolks of eggs two at a time, and the remainder of the sugar. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, and pass through a fine sieve or strainer. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water, and strain it into the above ; let it cool a little, whip the cream and mix. Fill up a mould, stand it on the ice to cool; when set turn out and serve. 1684. Bavaroise aux JPeches (Peach Cream).—Prepare a cream as directed in No. 1680, and add one and a half gill of peach puree, well reduced, before incorporating the gelatine. Decorate the mould tastefully with wine-jelly and peach-kernels and angelica before moulding. 1685. Ba varoise a la Nesselrode.—Prepare a vanilla cream (No. 1680), flavour with cinnamon in addition to the vanilla, and in- corporate two tablespoonfuls of chestnut puree. Decorate a jelly- mould with wine-jelly and glace fruit. When set fill up with the prepared cream and place it on the ice to get firm. 1686. Creme frappee aux Mille Fruits.—Prepare a vanilla cream (No. 1680), and incorporate two firmly whisked whites of eggs, also one ounce of shredded almonds»and some maraschino or curacoa liqueur to flavour. Before the mixture begins to set stir in half a pint of mixed preserved fruits, such as apricots, cherries, pine- apple, angelica, &c. Pour slowly into a coated and decorated mould and place on the ice to set. 1687. Japonais a VOrientale.—5 whites of eggs, 4 oz. ground or else finely chopped hazel-nuts, or, failing this, almonds, 6 oz. caster sugar, Ipint vanilla cream (bavaroise, No. 1680) in a plain charlotte mould, 1 gill double cream, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, a few glace cherries and angelica for garnish. Put the whites of eggs into a clean egg-bowl, add a pinch of salt, and beat them to a very stiff froth. Work in six ounces of sugar very gently, also the nuts or almonds, and put the mixture into a forcing- bag with a plain tube. Force out as many round shapes on to a slightly greased baking-tin as may be required. There should be different sizes, so that a pyramidal shape may be formed with them. Make the shapes thus ^ . Sprinkle over a little caster sugar and