553 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) break the skin (the pulp may be used for some other purpose). Arrange the orange-shells in a tin, place the tin in a basin or tub surrounded with broken ice. Fill the oranges in alternate layers with vanilla cream and jelly, the latter being prepared in two colours, red and green, being flavoured with raspberry and curac^oa or chartreuse. Each layer must be set before the other is poured in. Put on the covers before the top layer is set. When well set and firm, cut the oranges carefully into quarters (this is best done with a knife dipped in hot water), dress them on a dish with a folded napkin or dish-papers, and serve. 1748. Compote de JPom/mes d la Creme.—1 lb. cooking- apples, 2 cloves, lemon-rind, £ lb. loaf sugar, ^ pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. vanilla sugar, 1 glass sherry, 1 glass maraschino, ^ pint whipped cream. Peel and core and stew the apples with the loaf sugar, cloves, lemon-rind, and sufficient water to cover. Strain off the juice and put the apple-stew in a glass dish. Prepare a thick custard by boil- ing the milk, sweetened with vanilla sugar, flavoured with sherry and thickened with the egg-yolks. Let the custard get cold, then pour over the apples. Sweeten the cream slightly before it is whipped, and add the maraschino at the last. Put on a sieve to strain for a short time, then put the cream roughly on the apple and custard ; ornament according to taste, and serve. 1749. Gateau Surpris aux Fraises.—S eggs, 8 oz. caster sugar, 10 oz. sifted flour, 8 oz. ground and sifted almonds, 10 oz. butter, chocolate icing and royal icing, 10 tvafer cornets, about 1 quart strawberry ice cream, 1 oz. chopped pistachio, custard for filling cornets. Break the eggs into a copper bowl or basin, add the sugar, and whip well for a few minutes. Stand it over a stewpan with boiling water and beat vigorously with a whisk for about twenty minutes. Butter and flour a large saute-pan or deep square baking-sheet. When the mixture is sufficiently worked stir in by degrees the sifted flour, the sifted ground almonds, and the butter (melted); mix care- fully but well; pour into the tin and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When cold cut out as many rounds as are required, but they must be cut successively smaller and smaller. Stamp out the centre of each round thus obtained to form rings about an inch or one and a half inch broad, leaving the largest and the smallest ones whole. The largest will form the bottom and the smallest the top of the ‘gateau.’ Have some apricot jam made liquid, place the large round on a dish, spread the tops and bottoms of the rings with apricot jam and fix them together, commencing with the largest, so as to form a pyramid. Allow the gateau to set and coat the outside with chocolate icing. Ornament with royal icing to taste. Do not fasten the top piece. Fill the cornets with a previously prepared custard (creme patissiere), sprinkle the tops with chopped