261 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) Pound in a mortar 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 peeled shallot, 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful each of tarragon, chervil, and fennel leaves, 3 boned Gorgona anchovies, 1 oz. of fresh butter, and half a tablespoonful of spinach puree. When well pounded add a dessertspoonful of cream, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a fine wire sieve, dilute with about half a gill of aspic jelly, and mask the mould as directed. Pound half a pound of cooked whiting freed from bones, add an ounce of anchovy paste, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or a tablespoonful of white sauce, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and a tablespoonful of cream ; when smooth rub through a fine sieve, mix with about half a pint of liquid aspic jelly, season with a dust of cayenne pepper and salt. Take the fillets of a large sole, cut each in two, flatten a little with a cutlet-bat, fold in two, trim the sides, put them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, and cook in a slow oven until tender. When done take them out and put to cool. Line the mould again ■with the whiting puree, set the fillets of sole, after being well drained, in a row in the border, fill up with the remainder of the whiting puree, and put on the ice to set. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a round entree dish, place a suitable Avax or ‘ suif ’ figure in the centre, surround with a bed of salad, lettuce, endive, cucumber, &c. 674. Filets de Soles ala Feg ence.—2 small soles, 1 small loliiting, 3 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 1 anchovy, filleted, 1 oz. marinated tunny fish (Thon marine), seasoning, i lemon, i oz. butter, J gill cream, 1^ gill aspic cream (No. 296), aspic jelly and salad for garnishing. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, and flatten each a little, and trim the edges; put the bones in a stewpan, add white stock or Avater, a small onion and a clove, and boil to produce fish stock. Skin and bone the Avhiting, pound in a mortar, add the hard-boiled egg-yolks, anchovy fillets, and the tunny fish. When quite smooth season to taste with salt, pepper, and a tiny pinch of cayenne, and rub through a fine sieve. Sprinkle the fillets of soles Avith lemon-juice, a little salt, and a little paprika pepper ; spread one side of each fillet with the prepared forcemeat, roll them up, wrap each in a small piece of buttered foolscap paper, put them in a buttered sauts-pan with enough fish-stock to half cover them, and cook slowly in the oven for about twenty minutes. When done, take them up, let cool, and remove the paper bands. Coat each of the prepared fillets Avith a layer of aspic cream; when one layer is set repeat the operation so as to thoroughly mask them. Dish up the fillets in the form of a border. Whisk the cream, season it with a little pepper and salt, put it in a forcing-bag with a small rose pipe, and decorate the centre of each fillet Avith this. Garnish round the fillets with chopped aspic jelly, and fill the centre of the dish with some nice green salad. 675. Filets de Soles en Zephires.—1 large sole, \ small lobster, \ teaspoonful anchovy paste, ^ teaspoonf ul chopped parsley,