THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER I THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY FOOD ELEMENTS AND THE IE COMBINATIONS In such a consideration of foods as we must now undertake, in reference to their preparation for the table, we have certain pre- liminary facts to consider. Man differs from a stone in that, in the case of the stone, the same particles which composed it yesterday will compose it to-morrow, while in the living man this is not so. The very essence of life is intimately connected with change, and particles which are one day part of his food are another day part of the man himself. The food we eat has to perform several functions:— 1. It has to be to the body what the fuel is to the steam engine ; that is to say, it has to provide the energy for the perform- ance of the work of that body, both internal work (the beating of the heart, &c.) and external work (walking, &c.). 2. It has to provide material for replacing those portions of the body which are exhausted by the wear and tear necessitated by the performance of such work. 3. It has to provide the material for new tissues, especially in the • young. 4. It has to maintain by its combustion the bodily temperature. Food, after it has become assimilated as part of the body, undergoes slow combustion, and produces the same amount of heat as if it were burning rapidly in a fireplace. Formerly it was held that these various functions were performed by different kinds of food stuffs, that starches and fats were essentially heat-producing, while albuminous substances were essentially flesh- forming. As a matter of fact all these functions are interdependent, and no classification of food stuffs on this basis is possible. Since, therefore, the main purpose of our food is to build up and repair our bodies, we must evidently first consider of what substances they are composed. We find thn,t they consist of a number of elements, the chief of which are: — Potassium Iron Carbon- Oxygen Chlorine Hydrogen Phosphorus Calcium Nitrogen Sulphur Sodium