THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 174 the cream. Now place the stewpan in a vessel of boiling water, stir with a whisk, and finish off with the grated cheese, butter and meat glaze or half-glaze ; these latter ingredients must be added by degrees, only a little at a time ; work the sauce until it becomes of a creamy appearance. It must on no account be allowed to boil again. When this sauce is required for dressed fish (baked or otherwise),, some essence of fish must be incorporated. 224. Sauce 3Iousseliue (Viande).—^ gill cream, 4 yolks of egg, 3 crushed long peppercorns, 1 oz. butter, salt, nutmeg, lemon- juice. Put cream, egg-yolks, and pepper in a stewpan, place this in a bain-marie half filled with boiling water, beat up with a whisk for a little time, then add one at a time little pieces of butter ; stir all the time, but do not add any more butter until each piece has been thoroughly worked in and is absorbed in the sauce. The sauce when finished will have the appearance of a frothy cream, and should then be passed through a tammy cloth. Just before serving finish off with a few drops of lemon-juice; a pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg should be added during the process of whisking. Served with fillets of veal or fowl, asparagus or artichokes. 225. Sauce Bearnaise.—^ gill tarragon vinegar, 3 shallots finely chopped, & peppercorns, crushed, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, 4 oz. butter, 1 sprig thyme, meat glaze. Put the shallots, peppercorns, and thyme with the vinegar in a stewpan, cover and boil until well reduced, remove the thyme, add the sauce and a little meat glaze when hot. Whisk in the yolks of eggs (care must be taken not to let the sauce boil), remove the stewpan from the fire, and work in the butter in small pieces. Only a little butter must be added at a time, otherwise the sauce will get oily. Strain through a pointed strainer or tammy. A little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil may be added after the sauce is strained. 226. Sauce Albert.—Prepare a Sauce Bearnaise (No. 225), but substitute for the tarragon a few leaves of green mint, and finish with one or two leaves of the same finely chopped. 227. Sauce Creme de Celeri.—1 small head of celery, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, a little cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove the best part of the celery, wash well, blanch it, drain and steep in cold water; cut the celery into small pieces, put in a stewpan with the milk, diluted with a little cold stock, add some salt, boil up, skim, and let simmer until tender. Prepare in the meantime a white roux, i.e. dissolve the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and stir over a slow fire until the latter is cooked without taking colour ; then add gradually the celery and stock, let boil a little longer, pass through a tammy cloth, return to the stewpan, season to taste with