711 GLOSSARY OF TEEMS USED IN COOKE BY Escalope, f. Thin, round steaks of veal called ‘ collops.’ Obsolete, cascalope. Meaning thin slices of any kind of meat, usually egged, crumbed, and fried. Espagnole, /. A rich brown sauce ; the foundation of nearly all brown sauces, classified as the main grande sauce, or sauce mere. Fagot. A small bunch-of parsley and savoury herbs. A combination of culinary herbs. Faire Revenir, /'. A term often used in French cookery books; its meaning is to partly fry, meat or vegetables being slightly browned without actu- ally cooking them. Filet, /. Fillet, e. The under cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, pork, and game. Also the boned breasts of poultry, birds, the boned sides of fish are also called fillets. Flavouring, e. Seasoning. Certain ingredients consisting principally of spices, herbs, and essences, used in cookery to impart taste and flavour to food in order to render it more palatable. Foie Gras, /. Fat goose liver. Fond, f. Strong gravy, meat-stock, - bottom, as in fonds d' articliaut. Fondant, /. Melting, e. A kind of icing; French dessert bon-bons. Fondue, f. A preparation of melted cheese, originally made in Switzer- land. A savoury. Forcemeat, e. From the French. Farce, /., i.e. meat for stuffing. Fran9aise (a la), f. French style, c. Applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as well as for those of the most elaborate finish. Frapper, /. Iced (used when cooling champagne, sauces, and creams). Fricassee, f.. Fricasseed, e. The word comes from the English ‘ freak,’ ‘ brisk,’ ‘ dainty.’ A white stew of chicken or veal. Fritter, e. Beignets, f. Anything dipped in batter, crumbed, or egged, and fried. Garnishing. As a culinary term, it means to decorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Gateau, f. A round, flat cake, gene- rally decorated. Essentially a cake made of a rich, well-beaten butter dough. Gelatine. A manufactured article, used for giving solidity to liquids. (See also Isinglass.) Girofle, f. Clove, e. A very pungent, aromatic spice, vulgarly called ‘ clou de girofle,’ because it has the form of a nail; native of the island of Ternate. Glace, /. Frozen, iced. Glaze, e. Glace de viande, f. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly ; used for glazing meats, &c., to improve their appearance. Well made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Guava. A tropical fruit; native of the East and West Indies. The pre- serves of this fruit are highly esteemed in this country. Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree made from okra and chicken. Hache, /. Minced meat, finely sliced meat (see Hash). Hors-d’oeuvre, /. Appetisers. Small side dishes, dainty relishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. Icing, e. Glasure,/., or glace. A cover- ing for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured to taste. Isinglass. Gelatine. The former is prepared from the sound, or swim- ming, bladder of the sturgeon and other similar fishes. Both isinglass and gelatine are used for giving firm- ness to liquids, but cannot be re- garded as an article of nourishment. Joint, e. Releve, f. The grosse piece or piece de resistance of a dinner. On the Continent the joint is usually served after the fish, whilst in this country it is served after the entrees. Krona pepper. A mild red pepper sea- soning of delicate aroma and coral-red colour, used for all kinds of savoury preparation. Lait, /. Milk, e. A a lait, prepared with milk, or in milk. Larder, /. To lard, e. A culinary term which means to insert with a larding-