ENTREES OF POOL TRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 329 917. Caneton a la Crapaudine.—l duckling, 3 tablespoon- fuls sweet oil, a bouquet garni (parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, and clove), the juice of half a lemon,pepper and salt, 1 fried bread croute. For the sauce : The giblets of the duckling, 1 oz. butter, ^ oz. flour, the juice of half an orange, 1 pint good stock, pepper and salt. Draw and singe the duckling, slit it open by cutting it through the back, cut off the wings, and use with giblets. Eub the duckling all over with oil, sprinkle over with lemon-juice, season lightly with pepper and salt, run a couple of skewers through the - breast of the duckling to keep it flat, and let it lie on a deep dish for an hour or two. Place the bouquet of herbs under the bird, pour over remainder of the oil, and keep covered. Put the whole in a deep saute-pan, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook in a rather quick oven from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. Baste frequently, and dress it on a croute of fried bread when done. Use the same pan in which the duckling was cooked, add the butter, when hot, put in the giblets, neck, liver, and wings, all chopped up small, fry over a quick fire, add the flour and let it brown. Moisten with the stock and orange-juice, stir until it boils. Skim and reduce to about half its original quantity. Season to taste, strain, colour with a few drops of caramel if needed, boil up again, skim carefully, pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce- boat. 918. Filets de Caneton fa eel d la Legumiere.—Remove the backbone from a large-sized duckling, lay it out flat, and take out the other bones; have ready some veal forcemeat (No. 402), spread the stuffing over every hollow place of the interior, lay a few strips of raw ham in between the forcemeat, tie or sew up the duckling with strings. Put a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep saute-pan, together with a small bouquet garni (No. 2) and a few slices of onion; lay the duckling in the pan, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little stock, and put it in a moderate oven for about an hour or more until tender, basting it from time to time; take it up, and keep warm. Take out the bacon and onion from the saute-pan, add half a pint of Madeira sauce (No. 237 a) and a tablespoonful of tomato sauce (No. 271), let all simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth. Cut the duckling into neat slices, dish up in an oblong entree dish, garnish the sides with alternate groups of cooked green peas, young carrots and turnips (scooped out in olive shapes), and a few sippets of bread, sauce over carefully, and serve. This dish is also served as a Remove. 919. Caneton d la Bigarade (Grilled Duckling, Bitter Orange Sauce).—Singe a young duckling, and split it down the back, open it and flatten well. Season with pepper and salt, and place it in a roasting tin with a little butter. Roast it for ten minutes or so in the oven, and finish till quite done over the grill. Cut it into neat joints, dish up, and serve with Bigarade sauce (No. 224).