SAUCES 198 353. Sauce Pavisienne (Parisian Sauce).—A rich brown sauce with chopped shallots, parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze, worked up with a little fresh butter. Served with entrecotes, steaks, or fillets of beef. 354. Sauce JPersil (.Parsley Sauce).—Melted butter or bechamel sauce, with finely chopped parsley. 355. Sauce JPersillade (Persillade Sauce).—A kind of vinai- grette sauce prepared with mustard, sweet oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and chopped savoury herbs, served cold, with fish, vege- tables, or salad. 356. Sauce Polonaise (Polish Sauce).—Veloutee sauce with sour cream, grated horseradish, finely chopped fennel, and lemon- juice. Served with cutlets or steaks. 357. Sauce Pauvrehomme (Poor Man Sauce). — A plain brown sauce, containing some tomato ketchup and anchovy fish essence. Suitable as a fish sauce. 358. Sauce Provenqale (Provence Sauce).—Espagnole sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped and fried onions, sliced mushrooms, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with lemon-juice, garlic, and a little cayenne pepper. 359. Sauce Prince de Galles (Prince of Wales Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with finely chopped yolks of hard-boiled eggs and yolks of raw eggs, salad oil, tarragon vinegar, mixed with finely chopped savoury herbs and prepared French mustard. Served with grilled or fried fish, or grilled meat a la Tartare. 360. Sauce au Pain (Bread Sauce).—Consists of milk in which an onion with clove has been boiled, stale white bread-crumbs, and butter; seasoned with salt and pepper. 361. Sauce aux Pommes (Apple Sauce).—A kind of apple pulp, slightly sweetened, to be served with roast pork, ducks or geese. 362. Sauce Pavigote, chaude (Bavigote Sauce, hot).— A white sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs, reduced with wine vinegar, finished with a liaison of butter and cream and fine herbs ; flavour. 363. Sauce Pavigote, froide (Bavigote Sauce, cold).— Mayonnaise sauce, mixed with finely chopped parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, and shallots, tinted with a little spinach greening. 364. Sauce a la Peine-Marie (Queen Mary Sauce).—A brown sauce, made with rich meat gravy thickened with Espagnole, port wine, chopped shallots, parsley, and popnded anchovies. Served with all kinds of roast meats or boiled fish. 365. Sauce Picardo (Bicardo Sauce).—A brown sauce pre- pared from the carcase of game, with finely-minced fried onions, toasted bread, sherry, finished with a little meat glaze. Served with game dishes, &c. 366. Sauce PicTielieu (Bichelieu Sauce).—A brown game sauce, with Madeira wine, meat extract, and finely-chopped truffles. o