614 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK place on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven. When nearly- done brush over with boiled sugar (same as for transparent icing, No. 1965), place half a glace cherry on each, and finish baking. Serve cold. 1994. N~ids d’Oiseaux (Birds’ Nests).—Whisk up three whites of eggs and mix with four ounces of icing sugar; flavour with a tea- spoonful of ground cinnamon and stir in an ounce of shredded almonds and half an ounce of strips of citron. Shape the mixture into balls and place on a buttered baking-sheet. Press the rolling-pin into the centre of each to form a hollow, to imitate a bird’s nest. Bake in a slack oven and fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with apricot marmalade. Place some small comfits on top to imitate eggs, and decorate with a little green sugar. 1995. Petits Gateaux Pithiviev.—£ lb. almonds {peeled), £ lb. caster sugar, a fete sprigs crystallised orange flower, 1 table- spoonful of cream, £ lb. fresh butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped lemon- peel, 1 whole and 2 whites of eggs, about | lb. puff-paste {No. 1944). Pound the almonds in a mortar together with the orange flower; when quite fine add the cream, lemon-peel, and two whites of eggs. Put the sugar into a basin, cream the butter with the sugar, add the whole egg, and work until thoroughly incorporated ; now add the pounded almonds and work until smooth. Boll out the puff-paste, stamp out some rounds about three and a half inches in diameter: stamp out rings of paste three-quarters of an inch wide and fix on the rounds to form the border ; fill with the mixture ; place a few strips of paste crosswise, bake in a moderate oven, when nearly done dust with sugar and finish baking. 1996. Dartois aux Abricots meringues.—Boll out some puff-paste (No. 1944) about three inches wide, trim off the edges, place it on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes. Spread with warm apricot marmalade ; have ready a meringue mixture, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, put it in the shape of ribbons across the layer of marmalade, so as to form a lattice-work pattern. Dredge with sugar, place halves of glace cherries and small pieces of angelica alternately in the centre of the patterns. Bake in a cool oven for ten minutes, just long enough to dry, cut into convenient finger shapes, and serve cold. 1997. Gateau St. Honore {St. Honore Cake).—Puff-paste or pate d’office {No. 1945), pCite d choux {No. 1951), creme St. Honore, glace fruits for decoration. Boll out some puff-paste or pate d’office about a quarter of an inch thick; cut out a round piece about eight to ten inches wide and place on a baking-sheet; wet the edge, put in a forcing-bag some previously prepared pate a choux, and press out round the wet edge to form a border about an inch and a quarter wide and an inch high. Put also a little choux paste in the centre and spread out, prick the centre, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Make some