THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 290 and scoop out some small marble shapes, blanch, and finish cooking in hot fat or in the oven with a little butter. Blanch and broil the marrow. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the little fillets, fry over a quick fire, slightly browning both sides. Pour off the butter, brush over the fillets with liquid meat glaze, dish up in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes or peas, put a small piece of cooked marrow on top of each fillet. Arrange the potatoes in groups round the dish, sprinkle with some chopped parsley, sauce over the fillets with Genoise sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a bowl or boat. 776. Toumedos a la Quirinal.—8 small fillets of beef (weighing about 5 ounces each), 1 tin foie gras naturel, 2 large truffles, larding bacon, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 2 small carrots (young), 1 glass sherry, 8 champignons, 1 tablespoonful Lemco (Liebig Co.'s extract of beef), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 287), 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, salt and pepper, Parisian potatoes (No. 767). Flatten the fillets slightly, pare and trim them into round, flat shapes. Insert a few strips of larding bacon in each so as to form a star. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire for some minutes ; turn them occasionally so that they acquire a nice brown colour on each side. Take them up, and saute eight neat slices of foie gras in the same butter. Dress the fillets and foie gras escalopes alternately on a round dish in the form of a circle. Have ready a rich sauce prepared as follows:—Cut the carrot (red part only), mushrooms (champignons), and one shallot into small dice. Cook the carrot and one shallot in a little stock, mince finely the other shallot, and fry in butter, add the wine, and the other ingredients (cut in dice), cover and cook for ten minutes, skim, add the sauce and half a tablespoonful of Lemco. Season the sauce with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and flavour with lemon-juice. Cut the truffle into slices, dissolve the remainder of meat extract with a few drops of stock, glaze fhe slices of truffle in this, and place them on top of the fillets. Sauce over the whole carefully, and fill the centre with Parisian potatoes (pommes Parisienne). 777. Coeurs de Filets de Seen/ a la Rossini.—A bout 21 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 6 large chicken livers, 1 truffle, 8 round pieces of fried bread, £ gill Lucca oil, 1 shallot, 2 oz. foie gras, pepper and salt, meat glaze (No. 247), demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Pare the fillet, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly (each slice should weigh from three to three and a half ounces when trimmed). Put a quarter of a gill of oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot, put in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire ; they should be rather underdone unless otherwise ordered ; they will take from five to seven minutes at the most. When done place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with meat glaze.