519 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) rice. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir in gently 5 oz. caster sugar, and cover the whole completely with a thick layer of this ; put the remainder in a paper cornet or forcing-bag, and decorate the surface to taste. Dust well with sugar, and bake a golden colour, which will take about twenty minutes. Cut some diamond shapes of red currant jelly, and garnish the sides of the dish just before serving. Add the liqueur to the syrup, boil up, strain, and serve separately in a sauce-bowl. 1623. Suedoise d’Abricots.—Choose twelve large apricots, halve them, remove stones, and blanch the kernels; make a syrup with ^ lb. loaf sugar and f pint water. Put in the apricots whilst the syrup boils, add a small glass of cura9oa, and allow it to simmer for a few minutes; drain the fruit on a hair sieve ; cut a cork-shaped piece of bread about three inches long, also twenty-four round slices, about the shape of halves of apricots ; fry these in hot butter, drain, sprinkle with a little ground cinnamon and caster sugar; fasten the large crouton on the centre of a round dish with a little marmalade; put each half-apricot on one of the small croutons, range them in rows round the centre piece, finishing with a fruit on the top; stand the dish in the oven to get hot, boil up the syrup, pour over the apricots, put half of a kernel upon each fruit; ornament with a few strips of angelica, and serve. 1624. Flan d’Ananas d la Neige.—Half a preserved pine- apple, 2 oz. caster sugar, about % lb. of short crust, the white of 2 eggs. Boll out the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and line a pastry ring (a flanc ring six inches in diameter) with it, place it on a baking-sheet, fill up with dried peas or rice, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven. Cut sufficient thin slices of pine-apple to fill the paste crust, range the fruit in one layer closely into the baked crust, being careful to previously remove all the rice or peas used during the baking; pour over a thin layer of confectioner’s custard, just enough to cover the fruit, and bake for ten minutes in a fairly warm oven. Meanwhile beat up the whites to a stiff froth, mix with the castor sugar, spread the meringue mixture quickly and smoothly over the surface, dredge with sugar and a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and return to the oven long enough to brown slightly. This dish may be served hot or cold. 1625. Parfait d’Ananas d la Tostini.—1 good-sized pine- apple, fresh or preserved, 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, ^ gill confectioner's custard, flavoured with maraschino syrup, a border- mould of Genoise cake, almonds and pistachios for decoration. If a fresh pine-apple is used peel it thinly. A preserved pine- apple is, however, more suitable for this dish. Cut a small slice off the bottom, to make it stand firmly, and by means of a paste-cutter or sharp knife cut out the centre portion of the pine-apple. Pound the trimmings in a mortar, rub it through a sieve, flavour with a teaspoonful