ENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 319 Blanch, trim, and cook the sweetbread in the stock till tender ; the stock must be rich and well-flavoured with vegetables. When done, take up, cut it into dice shapes and put in a stewpan with the mush- rooms and truffles, cut into small dice or slices; season with a little pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, then add the sauce (hot) and keep hot till required. Line some small round bouchee moulds with puff-paste, prick the bottom of each, to prevent blistering while baking, tfill them with uncooked rice or dried peas, and bake them in a hot oven to a golden colour. When done take out the.rice, unmould •them and fill the croustades with the sweetbread ragout. Sprinkle over the top of each some grated cheese, a few bread-crumbs, and a little melted butter. Just before serving put the croustades in a sharp oven for a few minutes, then serve. 879. Escalopes de Ills de Veau a la Parmentier (Siveet- bread Cutlets with Potato Croquettes).—1 pair of sweetbreads, 1| gill white sauce (No. 209), bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No. 204), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 2 tablespoon/ids finely-chopped cooked lean ham, 1 dessertspoonful finely-chopped truffles, 1 dessert- spoonful finely-chopped preserved mushrooms, 8 eggs, bread-crumbs, lard or butter for frying, 2 lb. mashed potatoes, 1 teaspoonful parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Wash, wipe and blanch the sweetbreads, allow them to remain immersed in cold water for about one hour, then cook in slightly salted water until they are nearly done. Drain them and allow to cool in cold water, remove the skin, &c., and cut them into neat scallops or cutlets. Put the white sauce in a stewpan, add the chopped ham, truffles and mushrooms, also a couple of tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, stir over the fire for a few minutes, season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and spread on a dish to cool. Spread a layer of this mixture over each slice of sweetbread, egg and crumb them twice, and shape them neatly. Fry them in hot lard or clarified butter a golden brown, drain them on a cloth or paper, and dish up in the form of a border. Have the potato croquettes ready, and range them in the centre of the dish, pour the previously heated tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 880. Parmentier Croquettes.—Put the mashed potatoes in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, when hot add the cream and chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, lastly stir in one or two yolks of eggs, and allow to bind. Spread the mixture on a dish, when cold shape into small balls, egg and crumb them, fry in hot fat a light colour, and drain. 881. Mirotou de Ills de Yea a en Cocotte.—1 cooked sioeetbread, 6 champignons, 2 truffles, the breast of a cooked chicken, % pint supreme sauce (No. 210), f pint cooked green peas, 4- oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. . Cut the sweetbread and chicken into small slices, slice the cham- pignons and truffles. Butter eight oblong china souffle cases and fill