394 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK steamed and cold cut the shape into slices about a quarter of an inch thick ; stamp out some cutlets by means of a cutlet cutter. Decorate some cutlet moulds (previously marked -with a thin layer of aspic jelly) with cooked green peas, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg. When the garnish is set place a chicken cutlet in each of the moulds, fill up with aspic jelly, and set them on the ice until required for table. Unmould the cutlets, arrange them neatly on a cold dish in the form of a border ; fill the centre of the dish with cooked mace- doine of vegetables, seasoned with mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), and garnish round with small cress. 1153. Medallions de Volatile d VLmperiale.—Z chickens, larding-bacon, 4 truffles, 1 white of egg, 1 gill cream, a mirepoix for braising, 1 oz. butter, \ pint white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), liquid aspic jelly, and some set for garnish, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a salad of asparagus points for garnish, 8 to 10 rounds of cooked ox-tongue. Eemove the skin from the chickens, raise the fillets and wings, flatten a little, and make up into eight to ten rounds. Lard these carefully with larding-bacon. Remove all the meat from the chickens, free it from gristle, and pound in a mortar until very fine ; then pass through a wire sieve, return to the mortar, and work in the white of egg. Beat up the cream, mix with the forcemeat; add pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, and set on the ice until required. Put the broth in a deep saute-pan or braisiere, spread over the bottom thickly, cover with some mirepoix consisting of carrot, turnip, onion, bay-leaf, and herbs, and a few slices of bacon; range the larded fillets on this, moisten with chicken stock, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about thirty minutes; w'hile basting frequently strain off the liquor. Press the fillets between two baking- sheets. When cold trim neatly into round medaillons, cover one side of each with the prepared forcemeat, put again in the saute-pan with the liquor, cover with buttered paper, and poach in a slack oven for ten minutes. Set to cool, mask with chaud-froid sauce; when the sauce is set ornament the top with fancifully-cut pieces of truffles to form a crown or a rosette. Mask the surface with half-set aspic. Dress on croutes of smoked tongue on a round dish, fill the centre with asparagus salad, garnish round with diamond shapes of set aspic, and serve. 1154. Tartines de Volatile en Surprise.—1 large tender chicken, i lb. ox-tongue (cooked), % lb. chicken forcemeat (No. 403), 1 white of egg, seasoning, 1 gill aspic cream (No. 296), 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), a little butter. Carefully remove the fillets of the chicken, bat them flat and cut into neat squares, a little smaller than sandwich moulds, which will be required for this dish. Slice the tongue, and cut the slices to the same shape as the fillets. Put half the squares of chicken fillet on a buttered baking-tin, season with a little pepper and a pinch of