ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 303 eggs, 6 small preserved mushrooms, 1 gill white sauce, 1 teaspoonful meat glaze (No. 247), salt and pepper. Cut the meat into six equal-sized slices, and of even thickness, pare them neatly into round or oval shapes, and flatten each a little with a cutlet-bat. Melt the butter in a saute or frying pan, when hot put in the fillets, and fry them a light-fawn colour. Take up the fillets, and add to the butter in the pan the shallots, previously peeled and chopped finely, fry these a little without browning, then add the mushrooms, also chopped finely, cook these while stirring for a few seconds, mix the yolks of eggs with the hot sauce, and pour this into the above. Season to taste, stir, then put in the chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon-juice, place the fillets in this, and shake the pan gently over the fire so as to thoroughly heat the meat; the sauce must on no account be allowed to boil, else it will curdle. Dish up the fillets in a row on a thin bed of mashed potatoes (to keep the fillets in a nice position). Sauce over carefully with the sauce, sprinkle over a few drops of liquid meat glaze, and serve. 831. Filets de Veau d la Victoria.—About 3 lb. cushion or kernel of veal, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 1 small bouquet of herbs, 1 oz. butter, i gill white wine, 1 gill white stock, pepper and salt, ^ pint well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), 6 preserved mushrooms, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, clarified butter or dripping for frying, piquante sauce (No. 241). Trim the meat, free it from skin and sinews, line a braising-pan with slices of bacon. Dress the vegetables and cut them into slices, put these with the bouquet of herbs in the pan, place the meat upon it, put the butter on top, fry over a sharp fire, turning the meat fre- quently, until it acquires a nice golden-brown colour, then moisten with the wine and stock, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Baste frequently. When done take up the meat, and let it cool. Cut it into half-inch-thick slices. Chop the mushrooms and mix them with the white sauce. Mask each slice of veal thickly with this sauce; as soon as the sauce has set dip each slice into beaten egg, and cover well with bread-crumbs. Fry the crumbed slices in a saute-pan containing clarified butter or dripping : cook them a light-brown colour. Drain and dish up in a circle on a hot dish, the centre of which may be filled with a ragout of mushrooms and truffles, spinach, or green peas. Pour some hot piquante sauce-round the fillets, and serve. 832. Grenadine de Veau a la Marcliand de Via.—H to 2 lb. fillet of veal, larding-bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 finely-chopped shallots, | gill tomato sauce (No. 271), | gill brown sauce, | glass claret seasoning, mashed potatoes, 3 to 4 slices of lean bacon. Cut the veal into slices of convenient size, flatten each slice a little with a wetted cutlet-bat, trim them into shape and insert a couple of rows of thin strips of bacon by means of a larding-needle in each slice.