SAUCES 179 247. Glace de Viande (Meat Glaze).—Put 8 quarts of good stock, white or brown, into a stewpan, boil up, skim well, and reduce on a moderate fire from 3^ to 4 hours. It will make barely half a pint when done. Put into a jar while hot, cover and keep in a dry place, and use as required. If well made it will keep for a long time. 248. Jus (Brown Stock Gravy).—Put 2 oz. of beef suet or 1 oz. of dripping in a stewpan, add a sliced onion and carrot, fry slightly brown, put in about 2 pounds of beef trimmings or other meat, and any bones of meat or carcase of poultry which you may have by you. Let it bake in the oven for fifteen minutes, take up, pour off the fat and moisten with 2 quarts of water, add 4 head of well-washed celery, 3 cloves, a blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, and a small bouquet of herbs. Let the whole simmer gently for several hours, take off fat and scum, and strain. Season with salt as required. A few drops of caramel may be added if the gravy is not sufficiently brown. 249. Sauce JBordelaise.—f of a pint Espagnole (No. 236), or brown sauce, 1 wineglassful red ivine, 2 finely chopped shallots, % oz. meat glaze (No. 247), 1 teaspoonful chopped herbs (parsley, tarragon, and chervil), a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper. Put the wine and shallots in a stewpan, reduce to half, add the sauce, and cook slowly for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add the chopped herbs and meat glaze. Season with sugar, salt, and pepper. Give it one more boil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. N.B.—In most cases where Bordelaise sauce is used, and especially so with beef, some small round pieces or slices of beef marrow are blanched and put on the meat before it is served, or else warmed up in the sauce. 250. Sauce d la Chateaubriand (sometimes called a la Crapautine).—1 gill Chablis or Sauterne ivine, 2 cloves, 1 sprig of thyme, 2 shallots, 12 peppercorns, about 1^ gill meat glaze (No. 247), the juice of \ lemon, 2 oz. butter, jr teaspoonful chopped tarragon. Peel and chop the shallots, put them with the wine, cloves, thyme, and crushed peppercorns in a small stewpan, cover and reduce to half its quantity, strain into another stewpan, add the lemon-juice. Work in the meat glaze and butter bit by bit (keep the stewpan in the bain- marie), add the tarragon last of all. Whisk well, and serve very hot with fillet steak Chateaubriand &c. 251. Sauce a la Diable (Devilled Sauce).—Fry 2 finely minced shallots in ^ an ounce of butter to a golden colour, add \ pint demi-glace sauce, 1 tablespoonful of mixed mustard, a dessert- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and a good pinch of cayenne. Stir until it boils, skim and pass through a fine strainer, add a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and serve. 252. Sauce Gibier (Game Sauce).—The trimmings, carcases, &c., of any kind of game may be used for this sauce ; those of grouse, or woodcock are preferable. Chop small the trimmings of game, put