VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 455 intended for serving. Place the cauliflower upon this. Sauce over carefully with the remainder of the sauce. Sprinkle over the remainder of the cheese and a few bread-crumbs, place four bits of butter here and there, and brown in the oven. 1357. Beignets de Chou-fleur {Cauliflower Fritters).— Divide a.cooked cold cauliflower into sprigs, dip each floweret into some cold thick white sauce (bechamel or veloutee); see .that the sauce is well seasoned. When the sauce is set dip the pieces of cauliflower into a light frying batter, and drop them one by one into hot fat. Fry a golden colour, then take up, drain, sprinkle with fine salt and a pinch of paprika pepper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve quickly. 1358. Concomhres a la Creme.—2 cucumbers, 1 oz. butter, i gill cream, 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley. Peel the cucumber as thinly as possible, split each in two length- ways and remove the seeds, then cut the pieces in cubes of even size. Cook them in salted water for fifteen minutes, take up, and drain on a sieve. Put the cooked cucumber in a saute-pan with the butter, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, add the sugar and the cream, and bring to the boil; shake the pan well during this process. Dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 1359. Beignets de Concomhres.—Peel thinly a medium-sized cucumber, cut it into |-inch slices, remove the centre portion by means of a column-cutter. Blanch the slices in slightly salted water for ten minutes and drain on a sieve. Place them on a saute-pan or flat dish, and fill the centre with some liver forcemeat or salpicon of ham. This is best done by the use of a large forcing-bag with a plain tube attached. Prepare a nice light frying batter and let it stand till wanted. Dip each cucumber cube into the frying batter ; see that it is completely coated with batter, then fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain carefully, sprinkle with fine salt and a little cayenne or paprika pepper, dish up neatly, and serve hot. 1360. JJarioles de Concomhres a la Mena.—1 medium- sized cucumber, ^ oz. of butter, 2 eggs, 1 gill stock, a few drops spinach dressing, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 small truffle, tomato sauce {No. 271). Peel the cucumber thinly, cut it in half lengthways, remove the seed part, cut up the remainder into pieces and put it into a stewpan with the butter. Stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then add about a gill of stock and a pinch of salt; cook till tender, then rub it through a fine sieve. Beat up the eggs and strain this into the above pulp; colour it with a few drops of spinach greening, to give it a greenish tint; season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt to taste, and mix well. Have ready some buttered dariole moulds, garnish the bottom of each with a star-shaped slice of truffle, fill each mould with the