HOBS D'CEUVBE (APPETISEBS) 127 a pinch of cayenne, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Should the mixture be found too stiff, add a little white sauce (cold) before it is passed through the sieve. Clean the mortar and pound a little lobster coral till smooth, add this to the mayonnaise; failing this, add a few drops of liquid carmine, so as to impart a deep pink colour. Mix the aspic last of' all—this will form the sauce for coating. Spread the prepared puree between the slices of buttered bread, and press them a little. Stamp out as many rounds as possible (about the size of a five-shilling piece). Mask these carefully with the prepared sauce. When nearly set, decorate them tastefully with fancifully cut pieces of hard-boiled white of egg, gherkin, and truffle slices. Dish up in a circle on a folded napkin or lace paper on a dish, put a handful of crisp salad in the centre, and serve. 55. Anchois (Anchovies).—Anchois a I’Jmile.—The best and most suitable anchovies for hors d’ceuvre are the Gorgonas. A very good quality also comes from Nice. Soak the anchovies in cold water for an hour or more, then take out, drain on a cloth, open them, and take out the bone, trim neatly, dry on a cloth, dish up, pour a little sweet oil over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. 56. Anchois a la Norvegicnne.—Prepare some fillets of Nor- wegian anchovies, trim neatly ; have ready three hard-boiled eggs, chop up two coarsely, yolk and white separate ; dish up in hors- d’oeuvre dishes (little glass dishes) ; season with a little chopped chervil, and red pepper; sprinkle with a little oil and vinegar. Place the anchovy fillets over the top in the shape of lattice-work ; ornament with fancy slices of lemon, quarters of hard-boiled egg and parsley. 57. Petites Tranches de Caviar d la Pemoulade (Small Caviare Slices, Pemoulade Style).—Cut twelve thin oblong slices of brown bread, pare them into heart shapes, about an inch and a half long. Butter the slices slightly. Mix two ounces of Russian,caviare carefully with a squeeze of lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread the slices rather thickly with the caviare, but do not use a knife for this purpose, as steel or metal injures the flavour of it. Have ready a teaspoonful of stiff mayon- naise, mix gently with one of cold bechamel sauce, one hard-boiled egg-yolk passed previously through a fine wire sieve, chopped parsley, fennel leaves, tarragon leaves, and shallots, half a teaspoonful of each, also half a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and one of concentrated tomato puree. Work all vigorously, fill in a paper cornet, and orna- ment the caviare slices to taste. Dish up on small round dishes, and stand in a cool place until required. 58. Canapes ail Caviar.—Prepare some slices of toasted bread, spread them well with butter, stamp out some rounds about one and a half inch in diameter, spread these on one side thickly with Russian caviare, place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, put a sprig of parsley or watercress on top of the olives, dish