386 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK masked cutlets on a wire tray on the ice. When quite cold and set dress the cutlets in the form of a crown on. a round or oval dish. Adjust a paper ruffle on each cutlet bone, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely dressed green salad, and serve. 1132. Chaud-froid de Cotelettes d’Agneau.— 1 best end of neck of lamb, \ carrot, ^ turnip, 1 onion, 1 small bunch of herbs (No. 2), \ pint stock, 1 glass sherry, ^ pint aspic, 4 leaves French gelatine, 4 gill cream, 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel sauce (No. 202), gill tomato puree, salt, pepper, salad for centre. Trim and pare. the neck the same as for cutlets, place it in a braisjpg-pan on a bed of sliced carrot, turnip, and onion, and herbs. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with stock and half a glass of sherry. Cook in a quick oven at first and finish in a cooler oven ; baste occasionally. When done take up and put in a cool place. Cut the cooked neck into cutlets, trim and pare neatly and coat with the following sauce : Melt the gelatine and add to the white sauce when the latter is hot; add rather more than half the aspic ; divide this in two lots, mixing one lot with tomato puree and the other with the cream ; season to taste, and pass both separately through a tammy cloth. Coat half the cutlets with the white sauce and the others with the red sauce. Dish up the cutlets when set (en couronne) ; fill up the centre of the dish with dressed salad. 1133. Cotelettes de Mouton d la Vallorbes.—3 lb. best end neck of mutton, \ lb. liver farce (No. 406), 8 leaves French gelatine, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 38), \ pint tomato sauce (No. 271), | pint bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; salad of shredded celery and truffles mingled with tartare sauce (No. 278) for the centre. Trim the neck neatly, cut off the bone ends ; tie up, and braise in the usual way ; when done put to cool. Prepare the liver farce as described in No. 406 ; cut the meat into cutlets, trim them, season with pepper and salt, and cover one side with a thin layer of liver farce. Dissolve the gelatine and incorporate with the sauces, thus allowing four leaves for the tomato sauce and four leaves for the bechamel sauce. When sufficiently cool, coat the covered sides of the cutlets alternately with white sauce and tomato sauce. Place the cutlets, after being well masked, on to a wire tray, and keep on the ice until quite set; then mask with a thin layer of aspic. Dish up in a circle on a thin border of mashed potatoes mixed with an equal quantity of mashed green peas; put the dressed salad in the centre of the dish ; place paper ruffles on the cutlet bones, garnish with chopped aspic jelly, and serve. 1134. Filets de Been/ d la Madrid.—3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 1 small onion,! small'carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 bay* leaf, 6 peppercorns, 1 sprig of thyme, 1 sprig of marjoram, meat- glaze, 3 firm ripe tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful horse-radish mustard,