ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 367 braising-pan. Poach it in the oven from thirty- to forty minutes, and send to table in the marmite a terre (the pan in which it is cooked). 1058. Filets de Becasses d la Talleyrand {Fillets of Woodcock, Talleyrand Style).—2 woodcocks, trussed for roasting, 4 oz. fillet of beef, 4 oz. panade {No. 8), 1 white and 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. fat pork, | glass Sauterne, 4 oval croutes of fried bread, 1 gill white stock, ^ pint sauce Gibier {No. 252), 2 oz. butter, salt, and pepper, mashed potatoes for a small border. Eoast the woodcocks, and baste well with clarified butter. Remove the fillets and put on a plate ; remove the meat from the legs, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar ; pound the beef and pork together till smooth, add the panade, pounded game, and work in two yolks of eggs ; season to taste with a little salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Trim the fillets neatly, cover each completely with the above farce ; when set, dip in beaten white of egg, place in a buttered saute-pan, cover with a gill of white stock and half a glass of Sauterne, and poach in a quick oven for twelve minutes. The croutes should be as nearly as possible of the same shape as the prepared fillets. Spread each with forcemeat (the same as made for fillets) so as to give them a dome-shaped appearance, smooth over with a wet knife, put the croutes thus prepared in a hot oven for ten minutes, just long enough to get thoroughly hot and to colour the top. Drain the fillets on a cloth, dish them up alternately with the croutes on a thin border of mashed p'otatoes, stand the dish in the oven for a few seconds longer. Put the remainder of forcemeat in a stewpan, add a little Gibier sauce, previously well reduced; when hot, add a yolk of egg, stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, dress it in the centre of the dish, piled up high, sauce over quickly with Gibier sauce, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1059. Capissantes de Becasses aux Truffes.—Minced snipes Avith truffles, mixed with game sauce (No. 252). Filled into shells, covered with a rich game sauce and bread-crumbs, and baked in an oven till browned. 1060. Becasses farcies a la Stockholm.—Parboiled boned snipes stuffed with a forcemeat of beef and pork, mixed with chopped shallots, mushrooms, and gherkins. Braised in the oven, and served with a white wine sauce. 1061. Pate de Becasses a l’Anglaise.—Raised pie filled with partially roasted snipes cut into joints with layers of calves’ liver and bacon forcemeat, and ham. When baked, take off the cover and fill up with truffle sauce (No. 243), replace the cover, and serve hot.