486 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1502. Nut Potato Salad.1 This salad is very delicious. Now if you don’t think this is true, Just try it ; ’tis very nutritious ; You’ll find that the recipe’s new. Boil four large potatoes and slice thin, Three bunches of celery cut up, Then mix them together and put in Some walnuts, about half a cup. Part second remains without guessing, The salad is not yet complete ; One large cup of mayonnaise dressing, The same of whipped cream, rich and sweet. ' 1503. Salade d la Reyniere.—Wash and drain two nice French lettuces, tear into small pieces, toast a slice of bread about one-tliird of an inch thick, dip it in salad oil, put it in a salad bowl ; dress the lettuce on this with alternate layers of cooked French beans; garnish with cooked beetroot, hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil, so as to form a nice design ; season with pepper, salt, oil,, and chilli vinegar just before sending to table. 1504. Salade d la Contoise (Contoise Lettuce Salad).— 2 cabbage lettuces, 1 firm tomato, a small handful of fine white dandelion, 2 oz. boiled pickled pork, 1 tablespoonful salad oil, 1 table- spoonful French wine vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Trim, wash, and drain the lettuce and dandelion, tear up the leaves into convenient pieces, drain again in a cloth, cut the tomato into small pieces (dice shapes), cut the pork into small dice, or strips, fry with a little oil in a frying-pan a nice brown, add the vinegar, heat up. Put the salad, all well mixed, in a bowl, season with pepper and salt, mingle in the fried pork and vinegar; while warm add the oil last of all, heap up in the centre, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, clean the sides of the bowl, and serve. 1505. Salade de Laitue (Lettuce Salad).—Wash and trim three heads of cabbage lettuce, cut off the stalks, and break the leaves into convenient pieces, dry them thoroughly in a salad basket; put the salad into the bowl ; then add sufficient pepper and salt to taste in the salad-spoon, fill it with tarragon vinegar, mix it till the salt is dissolved, and pour the contents of the spoon over the salad ; add three saladspoonfuls of oil. The proportion of vinegar to oil should be as one to three. Mix the salad carefully but thoroughly, adding during the process a few sprigs of fresh tarragon not too finely chopped. Place on the top one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Sprinkle over some chopped parsley or chive and serve. 1 By Alye in What to Eat.