THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK 428 boning with twine, to give it its natural shape, and wrap up in a cloth tightly. Boil it for five hours in good stock or water, a pint of Sauterne or Marsala wine, a mirepoix consisting of carrot, herbs, onion, parsley, peppercorns, and blade of mace, and four cloves. When done take out and allow to cool. Untie, when cold, the back of the head; fasten the ears with small wooden skewers in their proper places ; use a little lard to hide the ends of the skewers ; wipe the skin and glaze the head with meat-glaze. 1240. Selle de Venaison rdtie (Roast Saddle of Venison).— Venison to be perfect must be well hung. A small saddle is always preferable to a large one. Remove the skin covering the sirloin, also the sinews, and trim the joint neatly. In removing the skin be very careful, so as not to cut off any flesh (lean). Insert some thin strips of fat bacon (larding-bacon), lard it across the grain of the meat, then tie it firmly with string. Arrange some slices of carrot and onion in the baking or roasting pan in which the joint is to be cooked. Season with salt and pepper, add about one ounce of butter, and place in the joint. Cook it in a brisk oven for the first fifteen minutes, and roast slowly after that till done. Frequent basting is most essential. A saddle weighing from five to six pounds requires from one and a quarter to one and a half hour to roast. When done take up the joint, untie it, put it on a dish and keep hot. Pour off the fat in the roasting-pan, add some good stock or gravy. Season and boil up, skim, and strain around the dish containing the joint. A nice sharp sauce containing some red currant jelly is often served with venison. 1241. Cuissot de Chevreuil, Sa uce (J rose Hies (Leg of Venison, with Red Currant Sauce).—Carefully remove the skin of a leg of venison, lard it neatly (insert rows of strips of larding-bacon), place it in a deep pan, and cover with marinade (No. 29). Allow it to marinade for eight to ten hours, then take up, drain, and roast it in the usual manner. Frequent basting\.during the process of roasting is most essential. When done brush over with meat-glaze, and place it on a hot dish. Pour off all the fat from the roasting-pan, put a little marinade liquor into the pan, also two tablespoonfuls of well reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), a large tablespoonful of red currant jelly, and a small glass of port wine. Season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Boil up and cook for several minutes, skim, and strain, and pour round the base of the dish containing the joint. Insert a hatelet decorated with a fancifully cut lemon and truffle, in the centre of the joint, put a bouquet of watercress at each end of the dish, and serve.