106 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Aromatic Herbs and Plants.—The following are the names of herbs and plants mostly used in the kitchen : — Parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, marjoram, sage, tarragon’ chervil, chives, onions, shallots, garlic, &e. A number of these are used in a dry state, but either dry or fresh they are used in a large variety of preparations. The Bouquet Garni is the mainstay of the French cuisine, and well it may be; it is more delicate and subtle than spices or dried condiments are apt to be. Usually the bouquet garni is composed of sprigs of chervil, chives, thyme, bay-leaves, tarragon, and parsley. Parsley possesses a wonderful property of absorbing or masking the taste of stronger flavouring ingredients, so much so that an over- dose of this herb is likely to nullify the more delicate aromas of seasonings. There is no herb which plays such an important part in cookery as parsley. Not only does it give the finishing touch to many sauces and stews, but it is the favourite for garnishing dishes. The curled leaf parsley is the best and most often used both for flavour and appearance. Parsley is said to be a native of Sardinia, but is largely cultivated in every country in Europe. Powdered parsley is excellent for a number of dishes for imparting a most delicate flavour. The process is simple ; steep some fresh parsley in boiling water for a few seconds; then drain and put it in a hot oven for a few minutes to dry. Put through a sieve and use as required. Tarragon and Chervil.—Tarragon belongs to the same family as wormwood, and is called by botanists Artemisia Dracunculus. It is supposed to be a native of Siberia. The leaves of chervil possess a peculiar flavour, which is much appreciated by many. Of all the pot- herbs these two are the most odoriferous, and are much used in French cookery in entrees and sauces, and sometimes soups. In salads, salad sauces, chaud-froid, &c., they also form an important part. Tarragon leaves are also used for flavouring vinegar, which is very largely used in all kitchens and dining-rooms. Thyme.— Thyme belongs to the same family as mint, the Labiates. The leaves of this plant (Thymus vulgaris) are used fresh or dry for stuffing, soups, &c. It possesses a highly aromatic flavour, and should be used sparingly. The lemon thyme (Thymus citriodorus) is a smaller kind, and has a strong perfume like the rind of lemons, which is very agreeable. Burnet.—The use of this perennial plant has gone somewhat out of fashion. In former times it made one of the principal ingredients in claret cup, its leaves, when slightly bruised, smelling like cucumber. Its modern use is confined to salads, and combined with tarragon, chives, and chervil, burnet forms the French ‘ ravigote.’ Although called pimprenelle in French, it must not be confused with the English pimpernel, which is poisonous. Capsicums.— Of these there are several kinds which are cultivated in the East and West Indies and in America. They yield a fruit which is pungent and stimulating, and in Mexico the pods are called