294 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK sprinkle the top with fresh bread-crumbs, put a small bit of butter on each one, and bake in a moderate oven a golden colour. Time to bake, about half an hour. 786. Tournedos de Beeuf d la Napoleon.—2 to 3 lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. calves’ liver, 2 oz. foie gras, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. fat bacon, 1 shallot finely chopped, 1 egg, 1 oz. meat glaze, stoned olives, 1 oz. panade, salt and pepper, Bordelaise sauce (No. 249), marrow-fat. Trim the piece of fillet, and cut it in very small pieces. Grill or broil them in a little butter for about six minutes (they must not be cooked through), and place them between two boards to press and cool. Cut the liver into slices, and mincq the bacon evenly. Melt a little butter, add the shallbts, and fry a golden colour; then add the bacon and liver, and toss over the fire for about five minutes ; season to taste, put on a plate, and let cool. Pound the above in a mortar, together with the tongue and foie gras, add the panade and egg, mix well, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Spread one side of each fillet thickly with this farce ; stuff as many stoned olives as there are fillets with the same. Cook the fillets for a few minutes in the oven, brush over with meat glaze. Put the olives in a buttered saute-pan in the oven, and cook for six minutes. Blanch the marrow (cut into very small rounds), drain, and warm up in the sauce Bordelaise. Dish up the fillets on a potato border, put again in the oven so as to heat them thoroughly. Put a stuffed olive and a round of marrow on each fillet, sauce over and round with well-reduced Bordelaise sauce, and serve. 787. Cdtelettes Barlsiennes d VJEcarlate.—2 lb. cooked ox-tongue, £ lb. raw chicken meat, 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 3 oz. panade (No. 8), 2 eggs, salt, pepper, and cayenne, 1 gill demi-glace (No. 237), and tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 dessertspoonful meat glaze, 1 oz. butter. Cut the tongue into eight to ten slices, give them the shape of cutlets, prepare a stiff forcemeat mixture with the remnants of tongue, the chicken, ham, suet, panade, and eggs, pound and pass through a sieve ; season with pepper and salt, and the chopped parsley. Butter some small cutlet-moulds, fill them with the forcemeat, and steam them in the oven. Place the tongue cutlets in a well buttered saute1 pan, add a ladleful of gravy or stock, let them get thoroughly warm, glaze them over with dissolved meat glaze, turn the cutlets from the moulds, dish up alternately a cutlet of tongue with a cutlet of force- meat, dress in a circular form ; have ready the demi-glace sauce, well flavoured with tomato sauce, pour the sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve. 788. Porterhouse Steak larded d la Gonffe.—Cut two steaks from the sirloin about one inch in thickness. Each steak should have the undercut left on, and must be cut from the chine- bone portion. Flatten and trim a little, lard one side of each with