DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 241 (about a tablespoonful) and the butter (oiled) to form a smooth paste, beat up well with a wooden spoon, and allow it to stand for a time, whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and add it to the batter ; dip each oyster and bacon into the batter—covering completely— and drop one by one into boiling fat or clarified butter. Fry a golden colour, drain and dish up ; fry some washed and picked parsley and garnish the dish with this. 587. Cromeskies aux Hultres.—H doz. 'sauce oysters, 8 yolks of eggs, 2 dessertspoonfuls creme de riz, 1 oz. butter, 12 thin slices of bacon, 1 tablespoonful of cream, | lemon, white pepper, salt, and mace ; frying-batter. Lard or dripping for frying parsley. Blanch and beard the oysters, preserve the liquor. Mince them coarsely, put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the oysters, season with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of ground mace ; stir in the creme de riz (ground rice) ; add the liquor of the oysters, the cream, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; when hot, stir in the yolks of the eggs, let them bind, and put the mixture on a plate, or dish to cool. Divide into twelve equal portions, shape into little rolls, wrap each in a piece of thinly cut bacon, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 588. Hultres a la Dubarry.— 6 to 8 Dutch potatoes of even size, 18 to 24 small oysters, 2 tablespoonfuls supreme sauce (No. 210), 1 tablespoonful double cream, \ gill Chablis, salt and pepper, 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 yolk of egg. Wash and dry the potatoes, cut off a small portion at each end and place them in a well buttered saute-pan, bake in a hot oven till quite done. Remove a portion of the inside of each potato and rub this through a sieve whilst hot; mix with half an ounce of butter, one yolk of egg, and a little seasoning. Beard the oysters, put them in a stewpan with the liquor and the wine, cover and let them get thoroughly hot without actually boiling, then take up and drain off the liquid, add the supreme sauce, and cream, season to taste and mix care- fully. Place the potatoes in a row on a buttered metal-plated dish, put four oysters and a little sauce in each. Put the prepared potato puree in a forcing-bag, force out a neat border round each potato, cover the top of each with the sauce mixture, and in so doing endeavour to make a neat garnish. Brush over with a little beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes. Serve the dish as soon as it leaves the oven. 589. Huitres a la Salamandre.— Open a dozen large Colchester or Whitstable oysters, take the oysters from the shells and put them in a fire-proof saucepan with their liquor and a few drops of lemon-juice and let them get hot, but not boiling; Remove from the fire and let them get cold, then drain them on a cloth, and remove the beards. Wash the upper shell of each oyster, let dry,, and place them in a baking-tin. Put a teaspoonful of supreme (No. 210)