GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY 713 Ramequin, f. Ramakin, e. A kind of cheese tartlet or ramakin. Relev£, /. The remove, e. A course of a dinner, consisting of large joints of meat, four-footed game, and some- times joints of fish. Relish, e. Gout piquant, /. A pleas- ing taste ; to give an excellent flavour. Remoulade, /. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad dressing, &c. Renaissance, /. A word used for dishes of modern invention. Rissoles, /. A mixture of minced fish or meat enclosed in paste, half-moon shapes, and fried crisp in fat or butter. Roquefort, /. Rochefort, a highly es- teemed French cheese. Roti, f. The roast, e., indicating the course of a meal which is served before the entremets. ’ Roast meat, poultry, and game. Roux, f. A preparation of-'butter and flour, used for thickening soups and sauces. There are three kinds of roux, white, fawn, and brown. Royal. Name of an egg custard used for garnishing clear soups. Also the name applied to an icing (glace royale) made with whites of eggs and icing sugar, and used for coating and decorative purposes. Sabayon, f. Pudding sauce, composed of cream or milk, sugar, white wine, and eggs. Salmi, or Salmis. A compote of game set to finish cooking when half roasted. Salpicon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, &c. Sauter (ee),/, To toss over the fire, in a saute or frying pan, in little butter or fat; anything that requires a sharp fire and quick cooking. Sherbet. A cooling drink consisting of water, lemon-juice, and sugar. The word 1 Sorbet ’ is derived from sherbet. Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into different forms, fried or toasted, served as garnishes with meat entries, or for borders of savoury dishes. Sorbet, /. An iced Turkish drink; also the name of a partly set water-ice, with fruit or liquor flavour; usually i served in goblets. Soubise, /. A smooth onion pulp, served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787), who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field marshal during the reign of Louis XIV. of France. As a sur- name to dishes a la soubise is gene- rally applied when onions enter largely into the composition of the dish ; the term implies a strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souffle, /. Literally 1 puffed up.’ A very light baked or steamed pudding, an omelet. Also applied to light, savoury creams. Souffld Glace, /. A very light, sweet cream mixture, iced and served in cases. ■' Table d’Hote, /. The table at which ' the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests; com- mtJft- table, for-guests ; an. ordinary. Tailler la Soupe, /. A culinary ex- pression. Thin slices or crusts of bread placed in a soup-tureen are called tailler. 1 Tremper la soupe ’ is the French term applied when the broth is poured over the slices. Tamis, f. Tammy, e. Silk or woollen canvas ’cloth which is used for strain- ing soups and sauces. Tartare, /. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, &c., served with fried fish or cold meats; also a salad dressing. Timbale, /. Literally, ‘ kettle drum ’ ; a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Tomber a Glace, /. To reduce a liquid until it has the appearance of a thick syrup. Trifles. A second-course dish of sponge cakes, biscuits, jams, &c., flavoured with cream, custard, and liqueur. Tutti-Frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits, or a mixture of cooked vegetables. Vanille, /. Vanilla, e. The fruit of a fragrant plant from which the most delicate of flavouring is produced. Veloute, /. A rich white sauce. Founda- tion sauce. Vol-au-vent, /. A light, round puff- paste crust, filled with delicately flavoured ragouts of chicken, sweet- bread, &c.