183 SAUCES Julienne strips (shreds.) Add half a gill of water and cook for ten minutes, then strain and return to the stewpan, adding a dessert- spoonful of mixed mustard, i gill of Marsala wine, i gill of port wine,, a pinch of ground ginger, 2 tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly, the juice of a lemon and an orange, and 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, season with pepper and salt, also a pinch of cayenne, boil up, strain and serve cold with any kind of game or ducks. 270. Sauce Cambridge (an excellent Cold Meat Sauce).— Pound in a mortar 4 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, 4 fillets of anchovies, 1 tablespoonful of capers, a sprig of tarragon and chervil; then add 1 dessert-spoonful of French mustard, 1 teaspoonful of English mustard, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and moisten with 2 table- spoonfuls of olive oil and 1 of tarragon vinegar. Rub the whole through a fine tammy or hair sieve, stir in a little more oil and vinegar, and work to the desired consistency ; keep it on the ice till wanted, and add a little chopped parsley or olives just before serving. No salt is needed on account of the anchovies used in making this sauce. 271. Sauce Tomate (Tomato Sauce).—Put into a stewpan 1 oz. of slices of bacon, 1 oz. of butter, and a finely-chopped onion, fry a little, and add about 1 lb. of ripe tomatoes freed from stems and cut into slices, stir over the fire a little longer, then add 1 oz. of flour previously mixed with a little cold stock or gravy. Stir in gradually three parts of a quart of stock, add a few peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs and parsley, allow all to simmer for half an hour. Remove the herbs, rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan, season with salt, a pinch of caster sugar and pepper, finish with a pat of fresh butter, and serve as required. Note.—A tablespoonful of double cream might be used instead of butter, but the sauce should not be allowed to boil again after the butter or cream as a finish has been added. 272. Sauce Creme de Tomate.— Cut up the tomato, put in a stewpan, add a bay-leaf, salt, and peppercorns, reduce to half, add a piece of butter, and when drawn pass through a tammy, return to a small stewpan, and work in remainder of 2 oz. of butter. Do not put, near too hot a place, or else it will go oily. 273. Sauce Pompadour.—2 oz. butter, \ pint veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, 1 shallot, 6preserved mushrooms, 2 yolks of eggs, \ gill cream, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Peel and chop the shallot, and mince finely the mushrooms. Blend the shallot in an ounce of butter, but do not let it take colour; put in the mushrooms and stir over the fire until all moisture is absorbed, then add the sauce, stir until it boils, skim well, and let it cook a few minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and parsley, stir into the sauce, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; finish with the remaining ounce of butter, but do not let it boil again. Keep in the bain-marie until required for serving.