564 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 6 to 8 ripe bananas, 3 lemons, 1 pint custard, \ pint cream, 1 small glass curagoa or cognac brandy, ice, and freezing salt. Peel the bananas, and rub them through a sieve into a basin, add the juice of two lemons and the liqueur; stir the custard into this. Whip the cream and add at the last. Put the mixture in a freezer and freeze in the usual manner. Serve in a pile, or in cups, or mould it, if the latter be preferred. 1785. Custard for Banana Ice Cream.—1 pint milk, 4 oz. lump sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, flavouring. Boil up the milk, add the sugar; when dissolved stir this over the yolks of eggs (previously beaten). Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it thickens ; it must not boil. Pass through a sieve, add the flavour, and use as directed. 1786. Glace an Caramel.—4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 oz. caster sugar, 1 quart milk, H pint cream, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence or 1 tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, ice, and freezing salt. Put the loaf sugar into a copper sugar-boiler or iron frying-pan. Add a few drops of water and stir over the fire until it melts, turns brown, boils, and ultimately smokes. Boil the milk and stir into the burnt sugar, boil up again, strain, and let cool. Add the caster sugar while still hot. Incorporate a pint of cream when cool, and flavour with vanilla. Whip the remainder of cream, and mix with the above. Put into the freezer surrounded with plenty of crushed ice mixed with coarse salt, and freeze in the usual way. Work the mixture well to get it perfectly smooth. When set, pack into one or two moulds, wrap up the moulds in paper, repack in crushed ice and salt. Keep thus for two hours, then unwrap, wipe the moulds, immerse in tepid water, turn out, and dish up. 1787. Glace an Moka.—8 light tablespoonfuls ground coffee, 1 quart water, 6 oz. caster sugar, 1 inch vanilla-pod, | pint milk, k pint cream, ice, and freezing salt. Have ready a hot dry coffee-pot, put the coffee in the filter, pour over little by little the water (boiling), put on the lid; when the water has run through, repeat, pouring it through a second time ; stand it in the bain-marie until required. Put the milk, sugar, and vanilla in a stewpan, heat up, but do not let it boil; add the coffee, let it cool, and stir in the cream. Take out the vanilla and pour into an ice-freezer, previously placed in a tub containing broken ice mixed with coarse salt (freezing salt). Freeze until it resembles a creamy substance ; fill up into little glasses and serve. Coffee thus prepared should be in a liquid state when served. A bowl of caster sugar should be handed round at the same time. 1788. Biscuit glace cmx Braises.—Make a strawberry custard with a gill of milk, two egg-yolks, half an ounce of sugar, and a few pulped strawberries to colour and flavour ; when cold freeze till nearly stiff. Prepare one pint of thick syrup with about twelve ounces of loaf sugar, water, and vanilla-bean for flavouring; while the syrup