543 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 1714. Mousseline de Gelee, Napolitaine.—1 quart wine jelly (No. 1705), 3 ivhites of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful grated orange-rind, 1 dessertspoonful finely chopped pistachios, a few drops of liquid carmine, and spinach greening. Mask a pint mould or a quart-sized jelly-mould, plain or fancy pattern, with a thin layer of jelly, and place it on the ice. Whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, then stir in the remainder of the jelly (previously liquefied but not hot). Whisk this on the ice till it commences to set, then divide quickly into three parts ; flavour the first with vanilla and pour into the jelly-mould ; into the next put the grated orange-rind and colour with a few drops of carmine; this is then poured on the first layer. The last portion is mixed with the pistachios, coloured with a few drops of spinach greening, and poured on the orange mousse. Be careful to see that each layer is set before the next is added. Should the mousse become too firm for working re-heat it gently ; commence whisking again till of the right consistency. 1715. Gelee an Kirsch a la Nansen (Kirsch Jelly, Nansen Style).-—Line a three-pint jelly-mould with a thin layer of clear lemon- jelly flavoured with kirsch, decorate the sides and bottom with fancifully cut glace fruit, and keep on the ice. Add a small glass I of kirschwasser to 1J pint of lemon-jelly, whisk two whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the jelly ; whisk this over the ice until it commences to get stiff, then add a handful of finely cut glace fruit and fill the prepared mould with this mixture. Place the mould on the ice to set. To serve, immerse the mould in warm water for a moment, wipe it, and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. 1716. Ponding Froid d la St. Cloud.—\ pint strong coffee, 4 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, \ gill cream, sponge cahes or Genoise cake, 3 oz. siveet almonds, £ oz. butter, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 2 tablespoonfuls maraschino, angelica, and glace cherries. Blanch the almonds, peel and shred finely, put them on a baking- tin, and bake in a slow oven a fawny colour. Butter a plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the inside with shredded almonds, and fill up with small pieces of sponge cake or Genoise cake-crumbs. Dissolve the sugar in the coffee, let it cool, and add the eggs (previously beaten), the cream, and the maraschino liqueur; mix thoroughly and strain into the mould; put the remainder of shredded almonds on top, cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and stew in a stew- pan containing enough boiling water to half surround the mould in depth. Steam this for about two hours. Let cool until set, then turn out on a cold round dish. Warm up the marmalade with a little water and sugar, strain, and mask the pudding. Ornament the top and sides with little rings of angelica and halves of glace cherries. Keep on the ice until required for table. 1717. Ponding d la Marguerite.—Five eggs, | pint milk, a