DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 217 (white fish stock is best) and put the fish quenelles on top, divide the remainder of the butter and place it likewise on top. Cover with puff-paste the same as for meat pies, brush over with beaten yolk of egg; ornament with fanciful cut leaves of paste, brush over the leaves and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour. Serve hot or cold. 508. Truites a la Cambaceres.—2 small trout, j lb. lean bacon, small bunch of herbs and parsley, 1 gill white wine, ^ pint white stock, ^ oz. butter, 1^ gill well-reduced Espagnole (No. 286), 8 olives, stuffed, 1 large truffle, 8 mushrooms, fleurons. Salt, pepper, lemon-juice. Clean and wash the fish, put a bed of slices of bacon, herbs and parsley in a braising or saute-pan, moisten with wine and stock. Season with pepper and salt, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done lift out the fish carefully and dish up; reduce the liquor, skim and strain, add sauce and reduce again, flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice, finish with half an ounce of fresh butter, warm up the garnish—i.e. the slices of truffles, heads of mushrooms, and stuffed olives—in a little stock or sauce. Garnish the dish tastefully with the above, and sauce over carefully, put a few fleurons round the dish, and serve. 509. JPetites Truites a la THvonnaise.—4 small river trout, 4 £-inch-thick slices of bread, 3 oz. blotter, ^ gill Cliablis or Sauterne, ^ gill fish stock, 18 small button onions, 12 champignons, ■§- oz. mea t glaze, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 2 tablespoonfuls Genoise or other brown fish sauce (No. 246), seasoning. Clean the fish, and trim it. Butter the slices of bread and bake them till light brown in the oven. Place the baked bread in a saute- pan (buttered), upon these place the trout (one on each), season with pepper and salt, and put a few tiny bits of butter on top of each fish. Moisten with the wine and the fish stock, cover with a buttered paper. Bake in a brisk oven till the fish is done. Peel the onions, fry them a golden brown in butter, add some gravy, and cook and glaze them in the oven; use the heads of mushrooms only, heat them up separately in a little stock or gravy. Now take up the trout, range them in an oblong dish, and keep hot. Take two pieces of the bread and the liquor of the fish, and put it in a stewpan, add the remainder of butter, break up the bread, and stir with a whisk, add the sauce and the meat glaze. Stir the whole over the fire, season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Lastly add the anchovy essence, and pass all through a fine sieve or ' strainer. Sauce over the fish with this. Arrange the button onions and mushroom-heads round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 510. Truites a la Meuniere 3 to 4 small trout (4 to 6 oz. each), 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 teaspoonful. chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful vinegar, pepper and salt. Scale the fish, draw it and wipe with a damp cloth. Season with