THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 468 thoroughly dry, and then rub through a sieve. Prepare a choux paste with i pint water, butter, flour, and 1 whole and 2 yolks of eggs ; when ready stir in the potato puree and cheese, and season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Butter a dish, spread the mix- ture on it to get cool. Shape it into croquets on a floured board, egg and crumb in fresh bread-crumbs, place in a frying-basket, fry a golden colour, drain on a paper or cloth, season with a little salt,, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1412. Croquettes de Pomrnes de Terre a la Moderne.— Wash and peel about 2 lbs. of potatoes, cook them in the ordinary way, drain and dry well, and rub through a sieve. Mix with two yolks of eggs a tablespoonful of cream, stir over the fire until set, season with pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and allow to cool. Chop coarsely j lb. lean cooked ham, 2 oz. chicken or veal, and 6 mushrooms ; mix all in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202). Roll out the mashed potatoes about a quarter of an inch thick, cut into square pieces, place a small quantity of the prepared salpicon in the centre, fold and roll to give it the shape of a cork, taking care to close up both ends. Dip in beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat or clarified butter a nice light brown colour. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as a side dish, or with a meat entree. 1413. Pormnes de Terre en Copea ax (Ribbon Potatoes).— Cut some washed and peeled potatoes into half-inch thick slices. Next cut the slices into thin ribbons, strain, and fry in hot fat till a golden colour. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and serve. 1414. Pom rues de Terre farcies.—Select eighteen small but even-sized mealy potatoes, wash and peel them thinly, cut off the ends of each a little, scoop out the centre of each by means of a Column-Cutter, fry in hot fat a golden colour. Put in a small stewpan one ounce of butter ; when quite hot add a small boiled Spanish onion finely chopped, a handful of grated Parmesan cheese, two egg-yolks,, and a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs ; season and fill the potatoes, and bake them for a few minutes in a hot oven. 1415. Potato Flakes or Saratoga Chips.—Wash and peel thinly six large potatoes. Cut them in very thin slices, and put these in plenty of cold water. Let them stand for several hours (over night if possible) on the ice or in a cool place. Pour off the water and drain the potatoes, return to the basin, and cover again with cold water ; add also a large piece of ice. Heat up some frying fat (lard and dripping), strain the potato slices carefully, put about one-third of the quantity in a frying-basket and fry a pale brown colour. Shake the basket several times during the frying process. When done drain thoroughly and turn them on a large dish lined with soft brown paper. Then proceed to fry the remainder of the potatoes in exactly the same manner. To serve, sprinkle over with a little very fine salt. Care must be taken to observe the following essential points, otherwise