THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 326 CHAPTER XX ENTRIES CHAUDES DE VOLAILLE dtc. (ENTREES OF POULTRY dc.—HOT DISHES) (For cold service see Chapter XXII) 910. Filets de Canard d la Castillane.—1 large duck, £ lb. raw rabbit or chicken meat, 2 oz. panade, lb oz. butter, 2 tablespoon- fuls of demi-glace (No. 237) or Espagnole sauce (No. 236), b glass sherry, \ pint well-reduced tomato sauce (No. 271), 2 oz. rice, 24 large Spanish olives (stoned), 2 truffles, pepper and salt. Remove the fillets from the duck, flatten each a little, cut out some rounds, pare neatly, and put in a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with a very small quantity of sherry, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, just in time for serving (do not cook them beforehand). Take off all the meat from the carcass of duck, removing the skin and sinews, and pound this with the rabbit or chicken meat in a mortar until fine; then add the panade, mix thoroughly, and pound till smooth, adding butter and the brown sauce and a little of the tomato sauce if needed to moisten the farce. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Pass through a wire sieve and fill up a small border mould (previously buttered), steam or poach for twenty minutes, stuff the stoned olives with the remainder of the farce, poach them in a little stock and keep hot in the tomato sauce. Blanch the rice, cook in a little stock and tomato sauce, keeping it well moistened until quite cooked, then reduce until fit for moulding. Season the rice, fill up a cylindrical- shaped butter-mould. Have ready the border of forcemeat, turned out on a dish ; put the rice shape in the centre, dress the neatly dried fillets alternately with slices of truffles round the top of the border, arrange the stuffed olives tastefully round the rice shape, sauce over and around well with hot tomato sauce, and serve quickly. A salpicon of cooked duck, truffles, and mushrooms, all cut into small dice, and finished with a little tomato sauce, might be introduced in the centre of the forcemeat. 911. Salmi de Canard (Salmi of Duck).—liar ge tender duck, 4 oz. bacon, 12 stoned French olives, 1 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, f pint stock, 1 small bunch herbs (bouquet garni, No. 2), ^ small onion, and salt and pepper. Singe, draw, and truss the duck, peel and slice the onion, cut.the