395 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME cayenne, moisten the top well with white of egg, place on to each a slice of tongue, brush over with white of egg, spread a thin layer of forcemeat (prepared from part of the chicken trimmings) on this, cover with the remainder of chicken fillets previously dipped in white of egg, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. When done place between two boards and press till cold. Mask as many sandwich moulds as there are sand- wiches with clear aspic ; when partly set ornament with a few cooked green peas and some fancifully-cut slices of tongue, coat the garnish with a layer of partly set aspic cream, place the sandwiches, previously trimmed, carefully into the prepared mould, mix the re- mainder of the jelly and cream together and fill up the moulds, and put on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish, arrange them in a row in the centre, garnish the sides with a little green salad, and serve. 1155. Cremes de Volatile en Tomates.—About £ lb. cooked chicken meat, f lb. ripe tomatoes, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 oz. butter, \ pint aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 gill cream, 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee sauce (No. 206), ^ dessertspoonful meat-glaze (No. 247), 8 tomato- moulds, parsley, salt, and pepper. Wipe the tomatoes, remove the stems, cut into slices, and saute in half an ounce of butter, season with salt and pepper ; when done rub them through a fine sieve, and incorporate three large tablespoonfuls aspic jelly. Remove the skin and sinews from the chicken, put it in a mortar, and pound till smooth; add the ham and pound also, pass all through a sieve, mix with it the veloutee sauce and dissolved meat- glaze and about two tablespoonfuls liquid aspic, or, if preferred, substitute with dissolved gelatine to set the puree ; stir well, add the seasoning, beat up the cream and mix with it. Line each half of the tomato-moulds with aspic jelly; when set, mask thickly with the tomato puree; fill them up with the chicken puree. Press each set of halves together tightly and place them on the ice to set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, dress neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. 1156. Tomates d I’Algerienne.—1 cooked fowl, small; pint of aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 glass sherry, 1^ gill tomato puree (concentrated), 1 gill cream, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, \ oz. chicken glaze, 2 leaves of gelatine, 10 tomato-shaped moulds, spinach greening. Line the tomato-moulds with aspic jelly, put the tomato puree and one gill of aspic in a stewpan, dissolve the French gelatine in the same, boil up, and reduce a little ; add a pinch of sugar, skim, pass through a fine sieve, and cool; then line the moulds with a layer of this preparation. Remove the flesh from the chicken, free it from skin and gristle, pound in a mortar till fine. Boil up together the white sauce, one and a half gill aspic and sherry. Reduce to one- third part, add the chicken glaze, tammy, and mix with the pounded