402 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 2 or 3 slices of cooked tongue, 1 truffle, i pint aspic, ^ gill white stock. Put the white of egg in a basin with a teaspoonful of milk, and pour into a small flat mould ; poach in the oven ; when set let it get cold, turn out, and cut into neat strips, stars, or rounds. Cut also some strips and stars out of the slices of tongue. Put the trimmings of egg and tongue into the mortar with the foie gras, and pound till smooth ; add the sauce, mix well, season with a little pepper and aromatic spice, and rub through a fine sieve or hair sieve. Mask six to eight small timbale moulds with a thin layer of aspic, decorate the inside with tongue, white of egg, and truffle, set the decoration with a little more aspic, and put the moulds in a cool place. Put the prepared puree in a basin. Melt the gelatine in the stock, and strain when almost cold into the puree, mingle well with a whisk. Whisk in the cream and rather more than half the aspic jelly. As soon as the mixture begins to set fill up the little moulds ; put them aside to get firm. Immerse in tepid water, turn them out on to a cold dish, arrange neatly, garnish the centre with crisp salad, celery, and cucumber, decorate with chopped aspic, and serve. 1172. Fetites Mousses de Foie Grasd la Heine.—Procure a terrine or tin of foie gras, size No. 10, take out contents (liver and farce), and remove the lard, cut the liver into slices, place in a buttered saute-pan with a small mirepoix of sliced carrot, onion, and a small sprig of thyme, and a few dice of lean bacon ; cook over a brisk fire for a few minutes, season with a little aromatic spice, moisten with a glass of sherry, and allow to get cold. Mask eight to ten small dariole or fluted timbale moulds with aspic jelly, ornament each with fancifully cut slices of truffles. Put the pre- pared foie gras &c. into a mortar, pound well, and pass through a sieve. Put this in a basin, stir in two tablespoonfuls of dissolved meat-glaze and two tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly, stand the basin on some crushed ice, and work the mixture with a wooden spoon until it commences to thicken, add by degrees a little more aspic jelly or very strong veal stock, last of all work in about half a gill of whipped cream, fill up the masked moulds and stand them on the ice. Dress the mousses in a circle, placing each on a round of aspic jelly, fill the centre with cooked asparagus-points or cooked green peas, well seasoned with a little mayonnaise-aspic jelly, garnish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly and parsley. Keep in a cool place until required for table. 1173. Zephires de Foie Gras.—1 medium-sized tin or terrine of foie gras pate, 1 truffle, i gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), | pint stiff aspic jelly (No. 293), a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 2 sheets of French leaf gelatine. Have ready six to eight small zephire (oval) moulds. Trim the foie gras, cut into slices, and stamp out as many ovals as there are