541 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. {COLD SWEETS, ETC.) Put the water, sugar, the rinds of oranges and lemons, thinly peeled, into a stewpan, and allow it to boil up. Add the juice of the fruit, wine, and coriander seed ; allow the syrup to cool a little. Whisk the whites of eggs and shells, and stir into the syrup; then add the gelatine, which has been already soaked in cold water and well strained, and stir over the fire until it boils ; allow it to simmer until the gelatine is melted, then pass through a jelly-bag or fine cloth (previously rinsed in boiling water). Strain two or three times until quite clear. Pour into moulds and set to cool. When set, immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and serve- 1706. Gelee an Punch {Punch Jelly).—i lb. loaf sugar, 2 lemons, 1^ oz. best French gelatine, a wineglassful of kirsch, a wineglassful of rum, a wineglassful of sherry, ^ inch cinnamon, 1 egg, 20 coriander seeds, 1 gill of cream, \ oz. caster sugar. Put the sugar in a copper stewpan, add a pint of water, and boil to a syrup; add the thinly peeled rind of the lemons, and the gelatine previously soaked ; when the latter is dissolved, put in the liqueur and wine, cinnamon and coriander seeds; also the juice of the lemons. Bring it again to a boil, let it cool a little. Beat up the white and shell of one egg, stir in, bring slowly to a boil; strain through a jelly-bag, and pour in a mould to set. When turned out, fill the centre of the jelly with whipped cream, sweeten with caster sugar, and serve. 1707. Gelee an Fraises (Strawberry Jelly).—Pick half a pound of small red strawberries, pulp them a little, and put them in an earthen pan. Have ready a pint of syrup (made with half a pound of sugar and a pint of water), pour it over the fruit after the first heat is off, cover with strawberry-leaves, and let it stand for an hour. Put two ounces of soaked gelatine into a stewpan; add one pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and the strawberry syrup strained ; clarify with two whites of eggs, strain through a jelly-bag until transparent; mask a mould with a little jelly on the ice, then orna- ment with large ripe strawberries, and fill the mould with jelly when the latter is cold enough to allow the strawberries used for ornament- ing to set. 1708. Gelee an Vin de Champagne {Champagne Jelly).— 1 quart water, 2^ oz. gelatine {French leaf), 1 orange, 2 lemons, 12 oz. lump sugar, \ pint sherry, 2 cloves, 1 inch cinnamon, 1 dessert- spoonful coriander seeds, ^ pint of champagne, 2 rohites of eggs and shells. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the juice of orange and lemons, also half of the peel (cut very thin) ; put this, together with the other ingredients, in a stewpan, whisk the whites of eggs, crush the shell and add also. Put upon a slow fire, stirring frequently. As ■soon as it boils move the pan on the side of the stove, pour in a* tablespoonful of cold water, and let simmer very gently for about ten