466 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them in halves lengthwise, stamp out with a tube-cutter as many round tubes as possible, put them in a stewpan, cover well with warm water, add a pinch of salt, and cook for about twenty minutes, taking care that the potato-shapes do not boil too fast, otherwise they will break and look unsightly. When done strain them and put in a hot dish. In the meantime chop the truffles finely, put them in a small stewpan with the sherry, and cook for five minutes; then add the sauce, let it reduce slowly, season with-pepper and salt if needed. Pour the sauce over the potatoes, and serve. 1404. l*oitunes de Terre d la Paysanne.—8 cold potatoes (boiled), \ pint of bechamel sauce (No. 202), \ gill of cream, 2 oz, of butter, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, ^ teaspoonful chopped chives, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Cut the potatoes into squares, put them in a small stewpan, with a little water, on the fire ; when hot strain off the water ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; put in the sauce and cream ; let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; add the parsley and chives; fry a little, and mingle gently with the potatoes. Pile up on a hot dish, and serve. Note.—The reason why cold boiled potatoes are recommended for this dish is because fresh hot-boiled potatoes are apt to go to pieces and get pulpy during the process of this preparation. 1405. Pommes de Terre aux Tomates d la Savarin.— 8 small even-sized potatoes, 4 firm tomatoes, 1 onion, 1 oz. Parmesan cheese, 2 egg-yolks, \ oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. chopped ham, salt and pepper, 2 slices of toasted bread. Peel the potatoes, cut off the ends of each, scoop out by means of a column-cutter the centre of each potato, fry in hot fat a golden colour, and drain. Put the butter in a small stewpan ; when hot put in the onion, finely chopped, cook just for a minute over the fire, then add the Parmesan cheese, finely grated, and the bread-crumbs, stir for two minutes, remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs and a pinch of salt and pepper. Cut the tomatoes in two crossways, squeeze out gently a little of the juice, chop up the ham finely, sprinkle over the cut halves of tomatoes, fill the centre of the potatoes with the prepared stuffing, place one in the centre of each tomato. Brush over with a little oiled butter, stand them in a buttered baking- tin or saute-pan, cover over with a piece of buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes ; dish up on rounds of freshly toasted bread, and serve. 1406. Pommes de Terre JBoivin.—Cut some peeled potatoes into olive shapes, blanch them, drain and cool ; fry them in butter, and blended shallots, add finely chopped lemon-rind and seasoning, and finish in a hot oven. Dish up and sprinkle over with chopped parsley.