>16 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1612. Poives au lliz a la Marquise.—Obtain a quart tin of preserved Bartlett pears, open the tin, and heat half in a well- tinned stewpan ; strain on a sieve, and reduce the syrup with 2 liqueur glasses of vanilla liqueur or maraschino. Wash J lb. pint) rice, drain, and cook in not quite a pint of milk, with 2 oz. caster sugar, \ oz. butter, and the rind of \ lemon, chopped fine. When done bind with 2 yolks of eggs, butter a flat pudding-mould, fill in the pre- pared rice, turn out on a dish. Dress the pears neatly in a pyramidal form on the top, beat up two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add suffi- cient caster sugar to sweeten, spread the surface and sides thickly with this. Ornament a little, dust with sugar, and bake in a mode- rately heated oven for fifteen minutes. 1613. JPommes en Beurre (Braised Apples).—Peel thinly eight or more even-sized Beinette apples or other small sour cooking apples ; cut out the centre of each (the core) by means of a column- cutter. Arrange the apples in a well-buttered saute-pan, put about a teaspoonful of moist sugar into the cavity of the apple. Pour over each a little oiled butter, and sprinkle with lemon-juice, and bake with the lid on the pan in a moderate oven till done. Care must be taken to keep the apples whole. Arrange them neatly on a round dish, and fill the centre of each with red currant jelly. Have ready a syrup composed of red currant jelly, one pot of butter, and a glass of Madeira, reduce well and coat the apples with it. Place the dish in a very hot oven for a few seconds, so as to glaze them, and serve hot. 1614: JPommes a la Lexington.—6 green cooking apples, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. caster sugar, 1 egg, cake-crumbs, ground cinnamon, pine-apple jam, f rying fat. Peel and core the apples, put them in a steamer or in the oven, and cook till nearly done. When cold mix the flour and sugar with a good pinch of cinnamon, and dip each apple into this, then in beaten egg, and roll in cake-crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden brown, drain, and fill the centre with pine-apple jam or grated pine-apple. Place a round of red currant jelly on top of each, dish up, and serve hot or cold. If served cold chopped wine jelly should be served round the dish. A fruit syrup (pine-apple or apricot) should be handed round with the dish in either case. 1615. Pomines a la Neiye.—6 sour cooking apples, | lemon, 4 to 6 oz. sugar, 1 tfblespoonful cream, \ pint milk, 2 whites and 4 yolks of eggs. Vanilla pod or essence for flavouring. Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them in a stewpan with some lemon-rind, a little water, and two ounces of sugar, and cook till tender ; then rub through a fine sieve. Add the cream and let cool. Boil up the milk, adding the vanilla flavouring and enough sugar to sweeten. Whisk the yolks of eggs in a basin, and stir the boiling milk gently into this ; return to the fire, and allow the eggs to bind, then strain. Butter a pie-dish, put in the apple puree and pour over