THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 464 Take up the pieces of leek, drain on a cloth, dip each piece separately into thick white sauce, so as to completely cover it, and place on a wire rack to set. Beat up the egg, dip each piece into this, and roll in bread-crumbs; when set repeat the crumbing. Drop each piece into very hot fat and fry a golden colour, drain, sprinkle with salt and cayenne pepper, dish up on a hot dish with a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The cooked pieces of leek may, if liked, be dipped into frying batter and be fried thus in lieu of egging and crumbing. 1394. Boiled Potatoes.—Wash and peel thinly the potatoes, put them in a saucepan of cold water, sufficient to well cover them, add a little salt, and boil till they are tender. Pour off the water, and put the saucepan with potatoes back on the fire to dry for about three minutes. Shake the pan frequently, to prevent them from burning. They will take about half an hour to cook.> 1395. Washed Potatoes.—Prepare and boil the potatoes as above described ; when cooked, drained, and dried, mash them with a fork or rub through a sieve. Return to the stewpan and add butter, salt, and pepper, allowing an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes. Beat up well over the fire until thoroughly hot and add a little milk or cream. 1396. Crumbed Potatoes.—Wash and peel thinly a pound or more new potatoes of even size, boil them carefully till tender, but not overdone. Drain them, cut them in halves, and place them on a dish; season with pepper and salt, pour over them some melted butter, and dip each in brown bread-crumbs. Melt some butter in a baking tin (Yorkshire pudding tin) ; when hot place in the potatoes and bake them in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When done dish up in the form of a pyramid on a round dish, and serve hot. 1397. Pommesde Terre Anna (Anna Potatoes).—This mode of cooking potatoes is practically little known in this country. When other vegetables are getting scarce something fresh in this line will make a welcome change. Nearly every one knows how to fry and boil potatoes, but few know how to make Anna potatoes, though the method of preparation is most simple. Procure a cylindrical-shaped timbale mould, or, if this is not convenient to get, use an ordinary timbale mould, and brush the inside wrellwith clarified butter. Wash and peel as many potatoes as may be required to fill the mould, cut them into slices about the thickness of a shilling piece. Range the slices neatly in the form of wreaths in layers in the mould, season each layer lightly with fine salt, and sprinkle over with oiled butter. Continue thus until the mould is full and well packed. Place the mould in a hot oven and bake from fifty to eighty minutes, according to the size and shape of the mould used. When done turn the contents of the mould on a hot dish and serve at once. It is very essential that the potatoes should be baked as soon as the mould is filled ; they are likely to go black if left standing about.