462 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK few minutes. Now add the peas and the parsley, stir or toss carefully for several minutes over a moderate fire, sprinkle over the flour, moisten with a few drops of water, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Ad'd also the sugar. Allow to simmer very gently for ten minutes, remove the parsley, and serve. 1386. Petits Pois au Bear re (Green Peasfor Centre of Cutlets). —Put about a pint of freshly gathered shelled peas in a stewpan with a pint of boiling water, add a sprig of green mint, a teaspoonful of salt, and | teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil till tender. Str’ain the water from the peas, add a couple of pats of fresh butter, a good pinch of caster sugar, and a pinch of pepper; toss over the fire for a few minutes, remove the mint, and serve as directed. 1887. Cornets aux Petits Pois.—Roll out some puff or rough paste one-eighth of an inch thick, cut it into even-sized strips, about an inch wide, and wrap this round as many cornet moulds as may be required. Grease the moulds slightly, and wet the end of the edge of the paste a little, so as to fix it. Place them on a baking- sheet and bake in a fairly hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done remove the cornet-shaped pastry carefully from the moulds and put them on a sieve. Cook some freshly shelled peas in plenty of slightly salted water, containing a very small piece of soda and a sprig of green mint. When done strain them carefully, and put them in a saute-pan or small stewpan with just enough butter to toss them over the fire without burning. Add a table- spoonful or so of white sauce and a pinch of caster sugar. Season with a little more salt, if needed, and a pinch of pepper. Mix with a small quantity of finely minced parsley. Reheat the cornets, fill them carefully with the prepared peas. Sprinkle a little krona or paprika pepper on the open top of each. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. 1388. Petits Pois au Jamb on a la Franqaise.—Rut three pints of peas into a stewpan with a sprig of green onion, one of green mint, and one of parsley, a tablespoonful of fine sugar, a little salt, and a pint of water; cover and let them stew gently over* a slow fire from twenty minutes to half an hour; remove the herbs; if much liquor is left pour off a little, and allow the remainder to boil down. Have ready about half a pound of lean ham, coarsely cut; fry it in an ounce of fresh butter, sprinkle with a dessertspoonful of flour ; add this to the peas. Mix well by tossing the whole over the fire, dish up, and garnish with fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff paste). 1389. Petits Pois de Conserve (How to Prepare Preserved Peas for Table).—Open a quart tin or bottle of preserved peas, put them into a pointed strainer, hold this'under a water-tap and let the cold water run freely over the peas for a few minutes. Shake the strainer so as to thoroughly drain the peas. Have ready a small saucepan three parts full of boiling water, containing a sprig of mint, green