15 THE ART OF COOKERY digestible, it also requires a high,degree of skill in blending colours and condiments. A certain amount of theory from the scientific side is good. We might, however, be able to get along without the latter, but we would get on very badly without the former, the practical part. I am sorely afraid that some of. the students of cookery attach too much import- ance to the science philosophy of cookery at the expense of the practice, for it is that most assuredly which makes the master of the art of cooking. We have just now enough philosophy in cookery and gastronomy to carry on the world’s cookery for the next twenty years, and only enough real practical science to carry on the world’s work from day to day, as it were. Cookery being an exact science, results of which can only be obtained by methodical operation or work, results, good, bad, and indifferent, are sometimes produced by accident. Such results are not, however, satisfactory, and cannot therefore be called uniform, because a knowledge based on mere chance, which produces result without substantial ground or reason, must be regarded as extremely dis- appointing and unsatisfactory, to say the least. It is of course essential that a student of cookery should be well versed in the knowledge of the composition of the different foods and food materials in order to understand the changes produced by cooking. The subject is thus closely allied to the chemistry of food, and it becomes necessary that the physiological action of the products of the digestive system of the human body be als© studied. Cookery as a subject is broad and deep enough for several volumes ; indeed, the methods of cooking, and their effects, would alone fill a handsome volume. I can, however, here only allude briefly to the most important principles that govern its application. Turning to the practical side, the art of cooking consists of the knowledge of the various substances, food materials, and ingredients used as food, and of the best and most economical method of treating them, so as to make them nourishing, palatable, and wholesome. This knowledge consists of three distinct parts : 1. The selection of food and food materials. 2. The preparation and treatment of food. 3. The application of heat for its chemical conversion. The last part is best expressed in the word ‘ Cooking.’ There never was a time when fine skill in cooking was more valued among educated persons than it is now. This is not because the world thinks more of good living than formerly, but because the art of catering is better understood, and, therefore, good cooking is appreciated as it deserves to be.