ENTREMETS FBOIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 539 the same, so as to completely fill the mould. Allow this to set, then pour a little warm water into the tumbler, so as to remove it from the mould. Mix the remainder of wine-jelly with the red currant jelly, and add the port wine. When nearly cold pour into the cavity of the mould (made by removing the tumbler), sprinkle in some finely shredded blanched peeled almonds and a few glace cherries cut into slices; place on the ice until thoroughly set, then unmould on to a, silver entremet dish; decorate with coarsely chopped red wine-jelly, almond strips and glace cherries. 1697. Creme d la Monaco.—4 pint apricot pulp (well reduced), 1 pint cream, f oz. gelatine, \ pint maraschino jelly (No, 1709), | pint milk, 10 drops almond essence, 4 oz. caster sugar, ^ lemon, glace cherries, almonds and maraschino biscuits for garnish. Heat up the apricot pulp and add enough sugar to sweeten, also the thin rind of half the lemon and a teaspoonful of its juice. Dissolve the gelatine and add half its quantity, and strain into a basin. Boil up the milk, add sugar to sweeten and the remainder of gelatine (strained), flavour with almond essence. Whip the cream and stir half into the milk and the other into the apricot preparation. Pour into separate moulds, and put on the ice to set. These creams must be respectively of a nice yellow tint and white tint. A few drops of liquid saffron may be added to the apricot cream if found necessary. Mask two plain charlotte moulds (pint size) with a coating of maraschino jelly, decorate the bottom and sides tastefully with slices of cherries (not too thin) and slices of blanched almonds. Cut out by means of a spoon or knife small pieces, of even shape, of the white and yellow cream ; place a layer of each alternately into the mould and here and there halves of cherries; pour some jelly between each layer, allowing each to set before another is added. Proceed thus until the moulds are filled. Keep on the ice till firm, then unmould, dish up, and garnish with small finger biscuits glazed with pink and white maraschino icing. 1698. Creme a VOrange (Orange Cream).—Mask a jelly- mould with lemon or wine-jelly, decorate it with glace cherries and angelica, prepare a vanilla cream (No. 1680). Add to it the juice and the finely grated rind of an orange, also a little well reduced apricot marmalade. Fill up the mould and place on the ice to set. 1699. Crbme de Grose tile verte (Gooseberry Cream).— Proceed as above, but substitute the orange with half a gill of goose- berry puree and a little lemon-juice. Add a few drops of spinach greening and mould. A little more gelatine (1 or 2 extra leaves) should be added during the hot weather to all creams &c. in which gelatine is used. 1700. Gooseberry Fool.—1 quart unripe gooseberries, \ lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint cream. Remove the stalks from the gooseberries, put the fruit in a clean