436 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XXIV VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) There was a time when it was said of the English that they knew no vegetable-cooking except boiling potatoes; this was probably due to the fact that an Englishman first discovered this useful and much prized vegetable. No country has, however, made such progress in vegetarian diet as Great Britain, and for this reason, if for no other, the above remarks can no longer be regarded as true. The French, Swiss, German, and Italian nations long set a fine example to us in this matter, for they cultivate vegetables most assiduously, and they certainly have many more varied ways of pre- paring and cooking them than are, generally speaking, known in England. These nations, it must be admitted, esteem vegetables as a food much more than we do in this country. The serving of dressed vegetables can, of course, be overdone. At a dinner of several courses it is not desirable to serve more than two dressed vegetables, or plainly cooked as an accompaniment with the releve or roast; but if the dinner only consists of two courses five or even six kinds of vegetable dishes have been known to be introduced. Having touched upon the rudiments of vegetable cooking, it may not be out of place to explain a few of the principal rules, which, when carefully observed, have so much to do with the successful cooking of vegetables treated in the ordinary way. These little things are so often overlooked by the so called artistic cooks, and yet most vegetables must undergo the preliminary stage of cooking before they can be turned into entrees or savouries. First of all, let me urge that all vegetables of very strong flavour should be cooked in a large quantity of water (that is, sufficient to well cover the articles), and the water must, in many cases, be changed during the process of cooking ; this, again, has a tendency to give the cooked article a much more delicate flavour than it would. otherwise have. All root vegetables, such as potatoes, salsify, carrots, turnips, celeriac, beetroots, &c., should be kept with the earth which naturally adheres to them until they are prepared for cooking. It is a mistake to wash vegetables and keep them till required for use, because they are then much more likely to decay, as the air is almost as injurious to them as oversoaking them in water prior to cooking.