ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 531 1670. Creme Zdbajone (Mexican Custard).—8 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. moist sugar or granulated sugar, £ pint Marsala. Beat the egg-yolks and sugar till quite light and creamy. Add the wine and place the vessel containing the mixture over a pan of boiling water. Stir till it thickens, serve hot in small glasses, and sprinkle a pinch of ground cinnamon on the top of each. 1671. Pommes a la Duchesse (Apples, Duchesse Style).— Peel some large sour cooking apples, scoop out in small.rounds by means of a vegetable scoop, cook them in syrup, arrange them neatly on a layer of apple marmalade, spread thickly upon a crouton of fried bread, insert a small piece of angelica in each round of apples. Serve with a well-reduced apple syrup. 1672. JPommes rdties a la Polonaise (Baked Apples, Polish Style).—Pare and core some apples, cut them crosswise in thin slices, range them on a layer of marmalade on a buttered baking- dish, mask over with well-reduced syrup, sprinkle with crushed macaroons, ground cinnamon, and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven and send to table in the baking-dish. 1673. Pom me s a la Portugaise (Apples, Portuguese Style). —Pared and cored apples, rubbed over with lemon-juice, stewed in syrup, flavoured with maraschino liqueur ; fill the cavities of the apples with red currant jelly, and place a glace or a crystallised cherry on top of each. Serve with the syrup. 1674. Croutes au Madere.—Various kinds of compote of fruit may be used for this dish. Dress the fruit tastefully on fried bread or cake croutes or croutons. Garnish with angelica and glace cherries and pour hot fruit syrup flavoured with Madeira, kirsch, or rum over the dish. 1675. Croutes a la JNormande.—Pared, cored, and quartered apples, stewed in syrup, flavoured with butter, lemon-juice, and sherry, dressed on fried croutes (crusts) made from bread or Genoise cake. Coat the whole with dissolved peach or apricot marmalade. Serve with hot fruit syrup. 1676. Ponding souffle a VIndienne.—6 ozs. loaf sugar, 2 oz. shredded almonds, 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. semolina or florador, 1 gill milk\ 1 tablespoonful caster sugar, 4 eggs, a feio drops of vanilla essence. Put the loaf sugar in a copper pan with a few drops of water; when melted place it on the fire and cook till it acquires a light amber colour, then add the shredded almonds, stir quickly over the fire for a few seconds longer, and mask the interior of a plain charlotte mould in the same manner as for a caramel pudding. Boil up the milk and butter, stir in the semolina or florador, and cook for a few minutes over the fire, stirring all the while. Let this cool a little and add the egg-yolks and the caster sugar. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and incorporate this and the vanilla flavouring with the above. Three parts fill the prepared mould. Put it in a saute- 31 M 2