502 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a moderately heated oven for half an hour. Serve very hot. If fresh raspberries are used they must be previously stewed in a little syrup. 1562. Ponding d la Perlinoise.—4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. caster or loaf sugar, 4 oz. almonds, 8 eggs, 3^ gills milk. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds finely, and dry them in a cool oven. Sift the flour into a basin, stir in half of the milk, and beat to a batter. Put the butter and remainder of the milk in a stewpan, let boil, add the sugar, and stir in the prepared batter; keep stirring until it begins to thicken, then pour into a basin and let cool. Work in the yolks of eggs, two at a time, beat well; add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and whisk till stiff ; mis carefully with the above preparation ; fill into one or two well-buttered moulds, cover with a buttered paper, and boil from one and a half to two hours, according to size. Serve with sweet orange or custard sauce. 1563. Poudiftg a la Ca/mbaceres.—i lb. beef suet, 6 oz. caster sugar, 8 eggs, 4 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. stoned raisins, 4 oz. crushed macaroons, 1 oz. angelica (cut into small dice), 1 small glass of rum, \ gill cream. Free the suet from skin, and pound it in a mortar till fine, then rub through a sieve and put it in a basin. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the sugar and work to a light mixture, adding the cream at the last. Choi) the raisins, add these and the almonds, also the maca- roons, angelica, and rum. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; sift the flour and mix both carefully into the above preparation. Have ready one or two well-buttered moulds; three parts fill them with the mixture. Cover with a buttered paper and steam for two and half hours or longer. Serve hot with a sweet sherry sauce or a well-flavoured hot custard sauce. 1564. Ponding a la Cannelle.—J pint milk, 3 oz. sponge biscuits, 4 eggs, \ lb. caster sugar, J lb. ground almonds, an inch of cinnamon or 4 oz. ground cinnamon, 2 oz. butter, grated nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful flour. Put the milk and cinnamon into a stewpan on the fire and bring to the boil; break up the sponge biscuits, put them in a basin, and strain the. milk over when boiling. Cream 1^ oz. butter with the sugar, add the yolks of eggs, one at a time, stir in the almonds and a pinch ’of grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; stir the biscuit mixture into the preparation of eggs &c., adding slowly the whites of egg and a tablespoonful of sifted flour. Butter a pudding-mould, sprinkle well with bread-crumbs, fill three-parts full with the above, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with a hot rasp- berry syrup. 1565. Ponding a la Cresy (Carrot Pudding).—£ lb. young carrots, ^ lb.finefresh bread-crumbs, \ lb. butter, £ lb. glace cherries, £ lb. caster sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonf ul ground cinnamon, a pinch of salt.