THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 250 630. Filets de Merlans frits ci la Toniate.—Fried fillets of whiting and tomato sauce. 631. Merlan frit a la Francaise (Fried Whiting, French Style).—The fish is wiped, and scored along the sides, bones, removed, but not skinned, dipped in milk, well floured, and fried in fat until crisp, served with anchovy or shrimp sauce. 632. Filets de Merlans d l’Orly (Fillets of Whiting, Orly Style).—Filleted whiting, seasoned, dipped in white of egg and flour, fried crisp, and served with tomato sauce. 633. Merlan d l’Italienne (Whiting, Italian Style).— Steamed whiting with brown mushroom sauce. 634. Monies d la Californie (Mussels, California Style).— Stewed mussels with slightly fried sliced tomatoes, finely chopped cooked onions, parsley, and veloutee sauce. 635. Rougets en Fapillotes (Bed Mullets in Papers).—The fish after being prepared for cooking are wrapped up separately in oiled paper, the ends being twisted, they are then broiled, dished up, ' and served with a brown sauce, ‘ aux fines herbes.’ 636. Saumon d Id Goda rd (Salmon, Godard Style).—Braised salmon with a collection of stewed vegetables, dressed round the dish, served with sauce Genoise (No. 246). 637- Saumon d la Victoria (Salmon, Victoria Style).— Grilled salmon, garnished with stewed oysters and crayfish quenelles, and served with Madeira sauce. . 638. Saumon d la Fiemontaise (Salmon, Piedmontese Style).—Fried fillets of salmon, garnished with timbale-shaped rice croustades, and served with tomato sauce. 639. Escalopes de Saumon d la Nantaise.—Slices of salmon, cut from the tail-piece, seasoned and broiled in butter, dished up alternately with thin collops of lobster, garnished with stewed oysters and lobster sauce. 640. Fame de Saumon d VAmiral.—Boiled middle-cut of salmon skinned, dished up, sauced over with a lightly-buttered brown fish sauce, and garnished with fried oysters and lobster collops. 641. Faupiettes de Saumon aux Huitres (Paupiettes of Salmon with Oysters).—Boiled fillets of salmon stuffed with a salpicon of oysters, braised and served with a rich brown sauce. 642. Faupiettes de Saumon a la Regence (Salmon Paupiettes, Regent Style).—Rolled fillet of salmon, stuffed and braised. Served with Perigueux sauce (No. 243). 643. Saumon en Tranches d la Meuniere (Slices of Salmon, Meuniere Style).- Braised slices of salmon breaded and served with a rich brown sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs. 644. Grenadins de Saumon d la Venitienne.—Larded fillets of salmon, seasoned and braised, dressed in a circle alternately with heart-shaped fried bread croutons, sauced over with a well- buttered sauce Venitienne (No. 220).