THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 566 fill the centre with a good vanilla-cream ice and turn out quickly on to a dish. Pour some red fruit syrup round the dish and serve. 1795. Mousse auoc JPoires.— 4 large or 6 small stewing pears, 10 oz. caster sugar, 10 drops vanilla essence, 4 pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Pare and core the pears, cut up into slices, put them in a copper pan with sufficient water to well cover. Add the sugar and cook until tender, or put them in a fireproof stone casserole, add water and sugar, and cook in the oven until done. Rub through a fine hair sieve while hot, add the vanilla essence, and stir on the ice with a wooden spoon until cold. This should produce about a pint of pulp. Line a charlotte mould with white paper, whip the cream until stiff, mix with the pulp and fill into the mould; cover with a round piece of paper and a lid fitting the mould, so as to hermetically seal it. Bury the mould in crushed ice and freezing salt for at least two hours. When required for serving take out the mould, immerse in cold water, wipe it well, remove the cover, turn out on a dish covered with a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, remove the paper lining, and serve quickly. 1796. Mousse cm Curagoa.—3 gills cream, i gill curac-oa, 2 oz. caster sugar. Put the cream into a china bowl, set in a tub surrounded with crushed ice, beat it with a whisk, at first slowly, until it represents a stiff froth, adding the caster sugar and liqueur last of all. Fill some little souffle cases, place them carefully in an ice-box charged with crushed ice and freezing salt, or transfer the bowl with contents to a charged ice-box. After one and a half or two hours it will be set and ready for serving. In this case dress the mousse by means of a spoon in a pyramidal form on a glass dish, and serve quickly. Note.—Various flavours, maraschino, kirsch, or rum liqueurs, may be introduced in place of cura9oa. 1797. Mousse au Marasquin.—4 yolks of eggs, 1 lb. loaf sugar, 1 pint ivater, \ gill maraschino, £ gill kirsclvwasser, about 4 pint cream, ice and freezing salt. Put the sugar and water in a copper pan, boil up slowly, remove the scum, and boil until it becomes a syrup registering 36 degrees by the saccharometer or syrup-scale (pese-sirop). Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir in the hot syrup, add the two liqueurs, stir with a whisk over a stewpan of boiling water for about six minutes, taking care that the eggs do not curdle. Place the basin in a cool place, stirring the contents while cooling. Have ready a plain charlotte mould lined with white paper, add the cream, well whipped, to the mixture when cool, and fill the mould. Cover with a piece of paper, close up with a lid so as to hermetically seal the mould, bury it in a pail of crushed ice and freezing salt. Let it remain thus for at least two hours. When required for serving immerse the mould in cold water, wipe well, remove the lid, turn out on a dish covered with a