352 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK same size as the moulds. Turn out the egg moulds, and place one on each of the forcemeat socles, put a fancifully cut slice of truffle on top of each, dish up, keep in the oven till hot, and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 991. ]Pelites Bonibes a la Milanaise.—lb. veal, rabbit, chicken, or game, 2 oz. panade, 3 yolks and 1 white of egg, 2 table- spoonfuls white or brown sauce, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful sherry or Madeira, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped truffle peelings or truffle trimmings, 2 oz. cooked macaroni, seasoning, Perigord (No. 243) or tomato (No. 271) sauce. Cut up the meat, which- must be freed from skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade, eggs, and sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix in a little butter (about half an ounce), and pass the whole through a fine . wire sieve. Butter some little bombe or timbale moulds, line them all over with short tips of cooked macaroni—these must be cut about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stand the moulds on the ice to set, then fill them with the above prepared farce. Place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about half an hour. Take up, unmould, and « arrange the bombes on a hot entree dish. Pour some hot tomato or Perigord sauce over and serve. 992. JPetites Bouchees a la Heine.—About 1 lb. of feuille- tage paste, \ cooked chicken, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 6 mush- rooms, 2 truffles, 1 gill bechamel (No. 20)2) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, gill cream, 2 yolks of eggs, pepper, salt, nutmeg. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick, let it rest in a cool place for ten minutes, then stamp out, by means of a one-and- three-quarter-inch fluted paste-cutter, eight to ten rounds ; lay them about half an inch apart on a wetted baking-sheet. Brush the surface with beaten egg. Dip a smaller round plain cutter into hot water and mark the surface of each (this will form the lids). Bake in a moderately sharp oven for fifteen or eighteen minutes. Remove lids, and scoop out a portion of the inside while hot. In the mean- time prepare a salpicon by mixing the chicken, ham, mushrooms, and truffles. Put all in a stewpan with the sauce ; when thoroughly hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Keep over the fire to bind the mixture. Fill up the cases, put on the lids, and serve. 993. Creme de Volatile d VArgentenil.— 1 small fowl, 3 oz. panade (No. 8), 2 eggs, h gill cream, 25 heads of green asparagus, a handful of spinach, salt, pepper, nutmeg, ^ oz. of btitter, supreme sauce (No. 210). Bone the fowl, remove skin and sinews, and cut the meat into small shreds, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Return .to the mortar, add the panade, the yolk of egg, and the cream, mix thoroughly and season to taste. Clean the asparagus and spinach ;