390 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK aromatic spice, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley and herbs, 1 gill stoclc, salt, brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 289 or 291), meat-glaze, aspic jelly for garnish. Bone the breast of veal, trim, pare, and flatten. Chop the beef and bacon rather finely, and put both in a basin with the bread well squeezed out; spice, truffles, parsley, and sufficient salt to taste. Mix well, moisten with the stock and egg. Lay the breast, boned side up, flat on a board, season with salt and pepper; spread the above preparation on it, roll up, tie in a pudding-cloth, boil in the stock-pot or salted water for two and a half to three hours. Take up, press lightly till cold. Pare neatly, coat well with brown chaud- froid sauce, well blended with meat glaze. Trim when set, dish up and garnish with aspic. 1143. Supreme de Veau ci VAspic.—About 2| lb. cushion of veal, 13 oz. butter, 1 glass of sherry, 1 pint chaud-froid sauce {white, No. 290), about 4 oz. ravigote butter (No. 398), 8 thin slices of truffles, 2 round socles of rice, 2 slices of fat bacon, aspic jelly for garnish, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a small tvax figure for centre. Trim the meat, remove the skin and sinews, cut into eight heart- shaped slices of even size. Cut the bacon into small strips about an inch long and lard the fillets. Place them in a well-buttered saute - pan, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, moisten with the sherry, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. Drain the fillets, and when cold mask them well with white chaud-froid sauce ; put them on a wire tray to set. Have ready some cooked rice, form a round shape about five inches in diameter and one and a half inch high; also a smaller round about two inches in diameter and two inches high; press both well and place on the ice to set. Place the larger round on a dish, cover with ravigote butter, put the smaller round in the centre of the large socle, cover also with butter, and ornament the sides according to fancy. Coat the fillets with, half-set aspic jelly, and when set dish them in a circle on the socle of rice; place a slice of truffle between the fillets. Place a wax figure, if possible in the shape of a small vase, on top ; fill with chopped aspic, and garnish round the dish with diamond shapes of set aspic jelly. Note.—Fillets of chicken,' pigeons, or pheasant can be prepared in the same way. 1144. Bis de Veau d la {Biarritz.—1 large or 2 medium- sized heart sweetbreads, 3 to 4 slices fat bacon, 1 bouquet of herbs, 1 carrot, 1 onion, \ oz. butter, £ pint well-reduced veal or chicken stock, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), \ pint veloutee sauce (No. 206), \ gill aspic jelly, f gill white wine, ^ oz. gelatine, 1 truffle, 1 or 2 red chillies, 4 oz. best rice for socle, pepper and salt. Blanch the sweetbreads, or, in other words, place them in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover, add a good pinch of salt and let boil; strain off the water, allow cold water to run over freely, wash, pare, or