ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1907. CEufs en Chaud-froid.—6 or more new-laid eggs, 1J gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), ^ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill aspic jelly, £ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 large truffle, slices of cooked ox-tongue or ham, salad and dressing. Poach the eggs carefully in slightly salted water, containing a little lemon-juice ; when set take up and trim and set them on a sieve to cool. Heat up the white sauce ; add to it the gelatine, previously dissolved and strained. Season to taste and mix with a.couple of tablespoonfuls of aspic. When nearly cold mask half the number of poached eggs. This must be done twice, allowing the first coating to set before the second one is added. Now heat up the tomato sauce, and mix in an equal quantity of white sauce and some aspic jelly ; when nearly cold mask the remainder of eggs in the same manner. Cut out as many rounds of tongue or ham as there are eggs ; the slices should be as near as possible the size of the eggs. Place one egg on each slice, mask them over with a thin coating of aspic; decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truffle. Dish up on a cold dish in the form of a border, fill the centre of the dish with a nicely prepared salad, and serve. 1908. JBiscotins an Fromaf/e.—2 ichole eggs, 3 yolks of eggs, gill milk, j gill cream, 2 oz. grated Gruyere cheese, 1 oz. grated Narmesan cheese, \ oz. butter, seasoning, ^ lb. choux paste. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the milk and cream and half an ounce of grated cheese, and season with very little salt, white pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Fill ten to twelve small tartlet moulds (previously buttered) with this mixture, put them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, and cook in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Mix the choux paste with one ounce of grated cheese. Meanwhile roll out the choux paste and stamp out as many rounds as there are tartlets, and of similar size ; put them on a buttered baking-tin and bake a golden colour. Place them on a hot dish, dress the cooked custards on these croutes, sprinkle them freely with grated cheese, hold the dish under a red-hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve at once. 1909. JNiokes au Gratia (Gnocchi).—2 oz. blotter, j pint water, 3 oz. flour or 2 oz. florador, 2 eggs, 3 oz. grated cheese, 3 oz. chopped ham, 1| gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), salt, and paprika pepper. Put the water and butter in the stewpan, add a pinch of salt, stir in when boiling the flour or florador, and work over the fire until it becomes perfectly smooth, like a pate a choux. Bemove the pan from the fire, let the paste cool a little, then add the eggs one at a time, and work in at the same time a handful of grated cheese and the ham roughly chopped. Divide the paste, shape it into little quenelle shapes on a floured board, put these into boiling water, and cook for a few minutes. Drain the quenelles on a sieve, let cool, and arrange them neatly on a buttered gratin dish. Cover with well-reduced