ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 361 of truffle has been inserted. (Each mushroom must be neatly trimmed, and a place the size of the truffle star stamped out, in which the truffle is inserted.) Chop the trimmings of mushrooms and truffle rather finely and mix this with the puree, then fill the border mould. Place it in a saute-pan half-filled with boiling water, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and cook it for about forty minutes over the fire or in the oven, whichever is most convenient. When done take up the mould, turn out the contents on to a hot dish, pour some hot Madere or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and sekve. 1040. Faisanen Coquette.— 1 plump pheasant, 6 preserved artichoke bottoms, 1 tablespoonful port wine, 6 fresh eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill rich brown sauce, seasoning, a gill rich veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce. Truss and partially roast the pheasant in the usual manner. Bemove bones and skin, and pound the meat in a mortar till quite smooth; then add the butter, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Boil the eggs till hard, remove the shells, and cut a piece off the bottoms to make them stand ; cut also a piece off the top, so as to scoop out the yolks ; put the latter with the pheasant farce in the mortar, and mix the whole thoroughly with this and the brown sauce, rub through a fine sieve, and add the wine (the latter may be omitted, if liked). Put the prepared farce in a forcing-bag, and fill the whites of egg-shapes by means of this. Place each on an artichoke bottom (fond d’artichaut), force a thin border of farce round the edge, and range them on a buttered saute-pan. Heat up thoroughly in the oven, previously placing a buttered paper over the top; then dish up and sauce over with hot supreme or veloutee sauce. 1041. Faison en Robe de Cham bre.—1 pheasant ready for trussing, 1 lb. lean pork, ^ lb. calves' liver, ^ lb. lean veal, \ lb. larding bacon or ordinary fat bacon, 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 large or 2 small truffles, a feiv slices of cooked ox-tongue, 3 yolks of eggs (raid). Seasoning, 1 lb. puff-paste. Bone the pheasant, cut up rather small the pork, veal, and bacon and pound in a mortar till smooth. Cut the liver into thin slices, peel and chop the shallots, fry them a light brown in a saute-pan with the butter, then put in the liver and cook for a few minutes over a quick fire ; put this with the pounded meat, continue to pound until all is quite fine, then add the egg-yolks. Season to taste with salt, pepper, aromatic spice, and a little grated nutmeg, and rub through a fine sieve. Lay the boned pheasant out flat on a board, skin downwards, spread the prepared farce evenly over the bird, upon this put the tongue (cut into strips) and the truffles (cut into slices). Boll up carefully, tie up in a cloth as for a galantine, and cook for about forty-five minutes in the stockpot. When done take up, let cool, untie, and wrap the galantine thus obtained in puff-paste ; put it on a baking-sheet; mark the top of the paste artistically, brush over