ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 273 masked with Duxelle sauce (No. 813), egged, crumbed, fried. Dished up on a vegetable border, with a puree of green peas in centre, served with sauce supreme (No. 210). 698. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Maltaise. —Fried lamb cutlets, egged and crumbed, served with Maltaise sauce, composed of veloutee sauce (No. 206), sherry, lemon and orange juice, and finely shred orange-peel. 699. Epaule d’Agneau a la Chevet.—Boned, rolled, and larded shoulder of lamb, braised and glazed. Served with a brown sauce reduced with white wine, mingled with chopped shallots and parsley. 700. Epaule d’Agneau a la Montmorency.—Boned shoulder of lamb, stuffed with forcemeat, larded and braised, served with a garniture of cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, truffles, chicken quenelles, and slices of sweetbread, done in veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande sauce (No. 204). 701. Epaule d’Agneau a la Paysanne.—Boned shoulder of lamb braised, served with a garniture of stewed sliced carrots, turnips, and peeled tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 702. Epaule d’Agneau a la Polonaise.—Boned shoulder of lamb, braised, sliced, dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes ; sauced over with a rich brown sauce, sprinkled over with brown bread-crumbs, egged, and browned in the oven. Served with poached eggs on top of bordure. 703. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Bearnaise.—Small lamb chops, boned, flattened, pared and sauted in butter, when cold immersed in veloutee sauce (No. 206), and dipped in eggs and bread-crumbs. They are then fried in clarified butter or dripping, dished up and served with Bearnaise sauce (No. 225), in the centre of the epigrammes. 704. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Dauphine.—Partly cooked lamb collops or fillets, dipped in a mixture of butter and yolk of eggs, thickly bread-crumbed, and fried in butter. Served with a puree of green peas and suitable sauce. 705. Epigrammes d’Agneau a la Macedoine.—Lamb collops, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with a collection of finely shaped carrots and turnips, French beans, and green peas. Sauce: demi- glace (No. 237). 706. Filet d’Agneau a la Venaison.—Boiled boned loin of lamb, pickled in marinade (No. -29), flavoured with cloves, juniper berries, pepper and savoury herbs. Braised in the usual way and served with brown sauce mixed with a little sour cream. 707. Filets d’Agneau a la Villeroi.—Braised lamb fillets, masked with stiff Allemande sauce (No. 204), egged, crumbed in bread and grated cheese. Baked in a quick oven {au gratin), and served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 708. Poitrine d’Agneau a la Turque. - -Boned breast of lamb, stuffed with sdusage-meat, braised, dressed in a border of stewed rice, slightly flavoured with saffron powder, sauced over with demi-glace (No. 237), or a mild curry sauce. T