130 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet oil over the fish just before sending to table. 67. Croutes aux JEcrevisses a la Tartare (Oroides of Crayfish, Tartare Style).—Procure six to eight small round dinner rolls (usually called farthing rolls); cut these in equal halves, scoop out the crumbs and allow the crusts to dry. In the meantime prepare a mixture of eighteen large prawns picked, one large gherkin, six anchovy fillets, and the white part of a hard-boiled egg, all of which are minced rather fine. Put these into a basin and season with a ladleful of Tartare sauce ; put a little mustard and cress at the bottom of each crust and fill up with the preparation ; stamp out some thin slices of aspic jelly, cover the surface of each with a slice, fasten the heads of prawns in the centre of each with a little lobster butter; ornament the edges with lobster butter. Dish up on small round dishes, garnish with parsley, and serve. 68. Petites Cassolettes a I’Jfpieurienne.— {Little Cases, Epicurean Style).— 2 oz. preserved lax, 2 oz. cooked ox tongue, 6 French olives, H oz. fresh butter, 2 French gherkins, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, i teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, i tablespoonful of wine vinegar, 1 tablespoonful of sweet oil, j- stick celery, about ^ lb. cassolette paste. Prepare the cassolette paste as directed below, roll out very thin ; line ten or twelve little round fluted moulds, place a round of buttered paper in each, fill up with rice, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderately heated oven. Take out rice and papers,-replace them on a baking sheet in the oven, so that they become quite crisp, then put on sieve to cool. Cut the lax, tongue, and gherkins into little strips ; season lightly with oil, vinegar, and chopped herbs ; fill the little cases carefully with this ; stone the olives, and place one in the centre of each. Cream the butter, put it in a forcing bag or paper cornet with a fancy piping tube, and ornament the edges and surface to taste. Keep in a cool place until required for table, then dish up on little round glass saucers, and garnish with tiny bunches of ~ shredded celery and sprigs of parsley. 69. Cassolette Paste.—\ lb. flour, lfoz. butter, i an egg, a little ivater, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt and rub in the butter until quite smooth ; then moisten with the egg, the lemon-juice, and a very little water, mix the whole thoroughly, and work into a smooth but stiff paste. Use as directed. 70. Rosettes aux Anehois.—6 filleted anchovies, 8. small mushrooms, 1 oz. anchovy paste, ^ oz. butter, 1 hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, green butter for garnish, bread for croutes, clarified butter for frying. Cut the bread into slices about an eighth of an inch thick; stamp out some rounds about 2% inches in diameter ; mix the butter and .anchovy paste; rub the yolk of egg through a sieve, and chop the