560 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK popular in France during Lent. Several layers of genoise are fixed together with apricot marmalade and whipped cream between some layers. The whole is then cut to resemble a ham and coated over with chocolate icing; the bone is imitated with almond paste or marzipan. The dish is garnished with wine-jelly, chopped up, or cut into fanciful shapes. 1773. Cotelettes en Surprise.—Roll and stamp out on a floured board twelve thin heart-shapes of feuilletage paste, put a teaspoonful of apricot marmalade on one side of each, and about half a tea- spoonful of soft almond paste on top; wet the edges, fold over, press down the edges well, and give them the shape of cutlets as near as possible ; put them on a baking-sheet and bake ; when cold paste the cakes with dissolved apricot marmalade, and roll them in crushed macaroons; have ready some short pieces of baked almond paste, insert one in the small end of each to imitate bones; make a skewer red hot to imitate the gridiron marks. Dish up the cakes in a circular form on a thin layer of apricot marmalade; pour some melted red currant jelly when nearly cold in the centre, and serve. This is a very effective dish, but needs some practice in the shaping of cutlets. 1774. Napolitaitries a la Suisse.—\ lb. caster sugar, 4 eggs,. 1 lb. butter, 1 gill of milk, pinch of carbonate of soda, a little pounded nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful chopped lemon-rind, 10 oz. best flour,. 2 oz. sweet almonds, puff-paste trimmings, macaroon or almond paste, greengage and apricot jam, 1 tablespoonful ground chocolate, a few drops of liquid carmine. Cream the butter and sugar well, add the eggs one at a time; when nicely creamed, add the^nutmeg, lemon-rind, carbonate, and flour; mix the whole well. Divide the mixture into three portions, and colour two portions respectively one pink with carmine and the other brown with the ground chocolate. Spread the three lots- separately on a paper-lined baking-sheet, about half an inch in thickness, and bake in a slow oven, without letting it take colour; when done, turn out and let cool. Roll out into a square strip about half a pound of puff-paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, place on a baking-sheet, prick it here and there to prevent it from blistering, and bake in a hot oven ; when done cut it in half, and spread over with dissolved apricot jam. Cut the previously baked mixture into- strips the width of the puff-paste; lay them alternately across one- half of the puff-paste until the whole of the jam is covered. Roll out some, almond paste, and put a thin layer over the strips, spread over with greengage jam, repeat the layers of strips as before, taking care- that the strips laid over are of a different colour to those first placed, so 4;hat if the first is pink the next should be brown, and if yellow, the next should be pink or brown, and so on. Cover over with a thin layer of apricot jam, and, last of all, another layer of almond paste; now put the other half of puff-paste on top, so as to cover the whole.