THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 12Q 31. To Whip Cream.—Pour the cream into a clean, cool basin ; whip (at first gently) until light and frothy. When required for sweet dishes, mix lightly a little plain caster or vanilla-flavoured sugar. When whipped sufficiently, put the cream on to a hair sieve, and stand in a cool place, or on the ice, until required. Always whip cream and whites of eggs in a cool place, or on the ice in warm weather. Use an ordinary wire whisk, but make sure it is perfectly clean and dry before using it. , 32. To Whisk Whites of Eggs.—In separating the whites from the yolks of eggs, the greatest care must be taken not to let the least portion of the yolks get into the whites, otherwise it will become im- possible to whisk the whites firm. Put the whites of’ eggs in an egg bowl or shallow basin, first making sure that it is perfectly clean, dry, and cool. Keep the. whites of eggs in a cool place until wanted. Add a pinch of salt and commence whisking with an ordinary wire whisk, which must be thoroughly clean and perfectly dry. Continue to whisk, increasing the pace, until it forms a firm and substantial mossy froth. 33. To Peel Almonds and Pistachios.—Pour sufficient boiling water over the almonds or pistachios to well cover them ; let them soak for several minutes, then strain and put in a basin of cold water to cool. Drain and spread them on a cloth. To remove the skin press each between the thumb and fingers. This done, put them on a sieve to dry. To Pound Almonds.—Allow the peeled almonds to dry thoroughly in a slack oven for about ten minutes. Clean and dry the mortar ; put in the almonds and pound with the pestle ; stir well and con- tinually for about ten minutes, else they are apt to get oily. When pounded put them on a cold dish and use as required. 34. Egging and Crumbing.—To crumb successfully, use the following proportions of egging: 1 egg well beaten, 1 teaspooonful of sweet oil, 1 dessertspoonful of milk, a pinch of salt, and half a pinch of pepper (a little chopped parsley is sometimes added). Dip the article required to be crumbed in this mixture, or brush over well and cover with soft or dry bread-crumbs. Soft or fresh crumbs are made by rubbing the soft portion of stale bread through a wire sieve. The crusts of bread are placed in a baking sheet in a cool oven, and baked to a bright golden colour. They are then crushed with a rolling-pin or pounded in a mortar and passed through a sieve. These are called dry crumbs or raspings,, and are sometimes used in place of fresh crumbs. 35. Frying Patter (Pate a Frire).—Sift 4 oz. of flour into a basin; add \ oz. of oiled butter, a pinch of salt, 1 yolk of egg, and 1 tablespoonful of cream ; mix this well with a wooden spoon, and dilute gradually with about half a gill of lukewarm water, work it well