237 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) ’With, parsley, and send to table with a boat of tartare sauce or vert-pre sauce. In place of crumbing the fillets, they may be dipped in a frying- batter. Fillets of soles or whiting done in this fashion are also very nice. 571. Mougets d la Venitienne.—Clean and wash five nice red mullets, wipe them dry ; put into a saute-pan one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, one of chopped onions, one of chopped mush- rooms, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and a small glass of sherry, lay in the mullets, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a little white stock, cover them over with a buttered paper, and set them in a moderate oven for about half an hour. When done, remove paper, dish up the fish and keep warm, take off the oily substance from the pan, put it on the fire with two ladlefuls of brown sauce (No. 236), one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, and a pinch of sugar; let it boil for a few minutes, and pass through a sieve ; garnish the mullets with large Spanish olives, stuffed with fish forcemeat and mushroom- heads, each of which has a small slice of truffle inserted ; put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to get thoroughly hot; sauce round the dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. The remainder of the sauce can be served separately in a boat. 572. Anguille a VFspagnole.—1 or 2 eels {skinned), 2 table- spoonfuls flour, | gill sweet oil, 12 sweet almonds, 1 clove of garlic, § peppercorns, a pinch of saffron, salt, 1 glass port wine, small fried bread croiites for garnish, chopped parsley, lemon-juice. Clean the fish well, cut off the heads and tails, divide into neat pieces, wash and dry thoroughly. Put the flour on a plate, mix with one teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Dip the pieces of fish into the flour and fry a nice colour in hot oil. Take out, strain, and put in a stewpan, add the garlic previously fried in oil, also the saffron and peppercorns, moisten with the wine, boil up, add sufficient fish stock or water to well cover the fish. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred coarsely, bake a light colour in the oven, add these to the stew, and let it simmer slowly till tender. Dish up neatly, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, squeeze over a little lemon- juice, garnish with croutes, and serve. 573. Fritot d’Anguilles, Sauce Femoulade {Fried Eel, Bemoulade Sauce).—1 good-sized eel, 3 yolks ,of egg, 1 teaspoonful oiled butter, bread-crumbs, a few sprigs of parsley, | teaspoonful sweet herbs, pepper, salt, fat for frying, ^ lemon, Bemoulade sauce {No. 285). Wash and clean the eel, remove tail and head, split open and take out the bone, cut into neat pieces about H inch long, dry well on a cloth and dip in a little flour, previously mixed with sufficient salt and pepper to season. Beat the yolks of eggs, add the oiled butter, savoury herbs, and parsley finely chopped. Coat the pieces well with this, then roll in bread-crumbs. Fry in hot fat a golden colour, drain well, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin, garnish with