COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 77 impart their flavours. The process of cooking a braise is thus spoken of by Jules Gouffe in his ‘ Livre de Cuisine.’ The chief operation is one of slow simmering, for, he says, if the meat be exposed to sudden heat the gravy is insipid, colourless, and weak, as it too often is when prepared by careless or ignorant cooks. The gravy should be highly nutritious, of a rich high colour and flavour, and of gelatinous consistency. ‘I advise,’ he says, ‘that for braising the quantity of meat should be large rather than small, as a long process of cooking is most effective, and you at once obtain two admirable dishes instead of one, for when the braise is cold it is equally good, and affords a pleasant change.’ Poeler.—The idea which this word conveys in cookery is practically unknown in English kitchens. No English word has been found to describe its meaning. I am unable to fill up the gap by finding an appropriate English word. Poele means a deep frying-pan, or a fireproof earthenware pan, wherein a bed of vegetables, bacon, &c., or, in other words, a kind of mirepoix with its seasoning &c. is put; upon this poultry, fowl, pullet, pigeons, &c. are placed. The bird is trussed and prepared as though for an entree, the breast is covered with slices of fat bacon, and when moistened with stock, the pan is placed upon burning embers or coals, and cooked gently till tender. Only a little liquid is used, frequent basting is necessary, but the liquid must be replenished as it reduces, so that the same quantity always remains. Etuver.—This is another French word of the cuisine the mean- ing of which is not clearly understood in this country. Smothering is the only English substitute which can convey the culinary meaning. To etuver or smother meat is to cook it slowly in a little stock without evaporation taking place, so that it cooks entirely and retains its natural flavour. This mode of cooking is always per- formed in the oven, and meat cooked in this style must always be thoroughly well done. Grilling.—This is one of the crudest and the most primitive of all forms of cooking, it is indeed, sometimes described as the savage mode of cooking, when slices of raw meat were strung on sticks, and were held over or close to a fire. ‘ Broiling ’ is the ancient word for grilling; though both words are still used they really signify the same thing. Broiling is derived from the French word ‘ brtiler ’—to burn. On the Continent grilling has become very popular. A charcoal furnace is considered the best heat for grilling or broiling purposes. Although one of the simplest forms of cookery, it is seldom wTell carried out. The process is similar to that of roasting, with the difference that only small pieces or slices of meat are used. Broiling or grilling is always done before, or over, a fire (a clear bright fire). It is a process which is always quickly performed. By broiling meats evaporation is prevented by the sudden closing of the fibres, so the