549 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) •centre and put in a crystallised strawberry or cherry. Trim the ends and sides of as many biscuits as may be required to line the sides of the mould; place the biscuits close together in an upright position. Bring the pulp to the boil, sweeten with sugar, and dissolve the •gelatine in the pulp. Bub through a hair sieve, and let cool a little ; whip the cream, sweeten with sugar, and mix with the pulp. Fill up the lined mould with this, but not until it commences to set, and put the mould on the ice. When thoroughly set turn out on to a folded napkin and serve. 1733. Charlotte de Gaufrettes.—1 large box cigarette icafers (Swiss gaufres), icing sugar (glace royale), 1 gill milk, l^r gill cream, ^ oz. caster sugar, ^ oz. gelatine, ^ teaspoonful cavona or vanilla essence, glac'e cherries. For crust : ^ lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, ^ egg, \ oz. ground almonds. . Line the sides of a plain charlotte mould with the gaufres, fit them close to each other by means of a little royal icing. Heat up the milk, add the gelatine and let dissolve, whip the cream ; add the sugar, Jr oz., and the flavouring essence. Strain the milk and gelatine, and add it to the cream ; stir it until it begins to cool and thicken, then pour it into the mould. Great care must be taken, so as not to disturb the wafer biscuits. Put the mould in a cool place to set. Prepare a paste with the flour, butter, 2 oz. sugar, egg, and almonds. Boll out, and stamp out a round the size of the charlotte mould in use ; bake this in a moderate oven, and let cool. Place this crust on a dish, unmould the charlotte on to the paste crust, decorate with glace or crystallised cherries. A little whipped cream may be arranged ■on the top if liked. 1734. Cha rlotte de Groseilles vertes (Gooseberry Charlotte). —Line a plain charlotte mould with finger-biscuits or slices of genoise; when the bottom of the mould and the sides are carefully lined fill the mould with a well prepared half-set gooseberry cream made as directed in No. 1699. Place the mould on the ice till set, turn out, and serve when required. 1735. Charlotte Hollandaise.—- Proceed to line a plain charlotte mould with biscuits the same as for an ordinary charlotte russe. Fill the mould with a well-prepared rich chocolate or cocoa cream or bavaroise (No. 1681). 1736. Charlotte Basse d la JPlombiere.—14 to 18 finger - biscuits, 1 gill of milk, 1 oz. ground almonds, ^ gill cream, 1 small glass maraschino liqueur, 1 dessertspoonful caster sugar, % oz. ■gela tine. Trim the edges of the biscuits, cut off the tips, and line the bottom and sides of a plain charlotte mould with these, so that they fit closely to each other. The bottom of mould should be arranged to form a rosette of biscuits ; these must be cut accordingly. Boil up the milk and pour it on to the ground almonds, add the maraschino liqueur and the sugar, and stir well. Melt the gelatine with a few drops of water