103 SEASONING AND FLAVOURING associating insipidness with acids, by combining certain forms of starch with sugar, as well as by the characteristic instinctive longing with which nature animates both man and animal for salt and for the flavour and piquancy of aromatic herbs and spices. While a fine and discriminating taste is natural to a few only, it may be cultivated in some degree by all. It is the fortune of the cook who possesses it; if not, he or she may, through plenty of experience, acquire a very fair semblance of it. The most important articles used for seasoning and flavouring are salt, sugar, pepper, spices, aromatic herbs, vinegar, vegetables, mustard, butter and other fats, oil, &c. The principal functions which these adjuncts have to perform is, as explained in the foregoing pages, to render food more palatable, more appetising, and more digestible. Salt is the chief and most important seasoning used ; it is not merely a seasoning, but a necessary of life, for it removes the insipid flavour from all eatables, such as meat, vegetables, &c. ; it acts as an appetiser, and promotes digestion. The average quantity of salt required by each person being, according to medical authority, from £ to ^ an ounce per day, it becomes a necessary adjunct for the preservation of health. When added to food it excites the supply of two important agents in the processes of digestion and nutrition, viz. the gastric juice and the constituents of the bile. Salt, like all seasonings, must be used with judgment, for if used in excess it is apt to spoil the dishes, and often renders them uneatable. When added to boiling water, it raises the boiling point and liberates the oxygen. Salt acts further as a great preserving agent for meat, vegetables, and other substances. Spices, such as white and black pepper, cayenne, cloves, nutmeg, paprika (Hungarian pepper), coriander, cinnamon, mace, &c., cannot be considered to have any nutritive properties. They are used for the purpose of imparting certain flavours to improve the taste of various food substances. In adding the seasoning and flavouring to dishes, it is of the greatest importance for a cook to remember that the exquisite sensibility of a cook’s palate can best be judged and admired by his or her cooking. Allspice.—This well-known and useful spice is the berry of the Eugenia Pimenta, a small tree growing in the West Indies. The fruit is gathered when green and unripe, and put to dry in the sun, when it turns black. Large quantities of it are employed in the manufacture of the sauces sold in shops. The berries combine the flavour of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, hence the name allspice. It is also called Pimento or Jamaica pepper. Gloves. —Cloves belong to the order of myrtles. They are the unopened flower-buds of a plant called the Caryophyllus aromaticus, a native of the Moluccas. Owing to their resemblance to a nail they derive their name from the French word clou. They form a well- known spice, and are much used in cookery both in sweet and savoury