VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 475 Have ready a light frying batter ; dip each salsify in this batter and drop into boiling fat; fry a golden colour. Take up and drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley. N.B.—Salsify cooked, i.e. boiled, as above directed, can be finished in a parsley sauce—that is, bechamel (No. 202) and chopped parsley flavoured with lemon-juice—and cooked for ten minutes. This is called a la Poulette. 1464. Tomates a I’Americaine.—This is another novelty recently introduced; it is exceedingly appetising and cooling. The combination is new as well as perfect in flavour, and can only be appreciated if tasted. Here is the recipe :— Choose six to eight even-sized ripe but firm tomatoes, hollow out as much as possible of the soft centre portion of the tomatoes. Remove the seeds and mix the pulp with an equal quantity of stiff mayonnaise (No. 277). To this add finely chopped celery and ripe pine- apple in equal parts. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture and place them in the ice-box for at least two hours. To serve put each tomato on a lettuce-leaf, dress neatly on a silver-plated entree dish or glass dish, and garnish with watercresses and radishes; the latter should be so arranged as to form a wreath round the dish with the tomatoes in the centre. 1465. Tomates a la Bouquetiere.—8 medium-sized tomatoes, 1 tablespoonful salad oil, 1 gill cooked, macedoine vegetables, 1 truffle, 2 oz. cooked tongue, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, 1 dessert- spoonful chopped parsley, ^ lemon, 1 oz. French capers, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Steep the tomatoes in boiling water for a few seconds, peel them carefully, and scoop out the centre; cut the tongue, chicken, and truffle into fine shreds or dice, put these with the macedoine in a basin, season with oil, lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, mix with the capers and chopped parsley. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, dish up on a glass dish, and serve. 1466. Tomates a la Napolitaine {Baked Tomatoes and Eggs).—Cut four large ripe but firm tomatoes in halves, remove the seeds, and place them, cut side upwards, in a saute-pan containing an ounce of oiled butter or an equal quantity of best olive oil. Season the tomatoes with salt and pepper, and bake in a hot oven for six minutes. Break carefully a fresh egg on each half of the tomatoes, return the pan to the oven, and bake for another six minutes, long enough to set the egg. Dress them neatly on a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley in the centre of each egg, pour some hot demi- glace (No. 237) or tomato (No. 271) sauce, well seasoned, round the base of the dish, and serve at once. 1467. Tomates a la Iientiere.—Plunge some firm tomatoes into boiling water, skin them, scoop out the centre and fill the cavity of each with pounded ox-tongue, cream, picked shrimps, and mayonnaise cream (mixed with a little aspic) ; mask each tomato thus