THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 362 with egg-wash, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Dish up and serve hot or cold. If the former, send a boat of gravy or demi-glace sauce (No. 237) to be handed round. If served cold, garnish with plenty of aspic jelly. 1042. Fpigrammes de Faisan d la Jardiniere.—1 large pheasant, 2 oz. butter, \ pint Allemande sauce (No. 204), salt, pepper, nutmeg, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-lard or butter, veal forcemeat (No. 402), demi-glace sauce (No. 237), jardiniere of vegetables for centre, panurette. Remove the fillets from the pheasant, flatten each, and cut into heart-shaped pieces. Trim neatly, season with pepper and salt, fry lightly in some butter, press between two boards. When cold immerse well in almost cold Allemande sauce (repeat this twice to coat thoroughly), set to cool, then egg and crumb. Coat a well- greased border-mould with the panurette, fill with the prepared forcemeat, cook in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water, and finish in the oven. When done turn out on a hot dish. Fry the epigrammes, drain, dish up on the border, fill the centre with prepared Jardiniere, sauce round with demi-glace, and serve hot. 1043. Filets de Faisan aux Epinards.—A young pheasant, ± lb. raw or cooked rabbit meat, % lb. beef tongue cut into strips, 4 preserved mushrooms, £ lb. sliced ham, 1 large truffle, sliced, 1 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 cooked chicken-livers, a little cream or ivhite sauce, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, onion, carrot, bouguet garni, Ac., 1^ gill ivhite wine, 1 pint stock, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), seasoning, potato puree, panurette, spinach puree. Pick, singe, and bone the pheasant in the same manner as a fowl is boned for galantine. Prepare a nice farce by pounding the rabbit meat, chicken-livers, and the ham; when fine add the yolks of eggs (these may be hard-boiled, if liked), white sauce, or cream sufficient to form the necessary consistency of the farce. Season with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice, mingle well, and rub through a wire sieve ; put it into a basin, work in the mushrooms and truffle. Lay out the boned pheasant on to a board, skin downwards, spread the forcemeat evenly on the meat, put the strips of tongue evenly divided on the farce &c., roll up carefully, and sew up the ends and sides. Chop the carcase of the bird rather coarsely and put in a sautoir with the butter, fry a little over a quick fire, then add the mirepoix, and stir a few minutes longer over the fire, so as to blend the whole to a nice light colour; lay the stuffed pheasant on this, allow the surface to take colour, moisten with the stock and wine, cover with buttered paper, and let it braise gently in a moderate oven for about an hour; when done untie, glaze over the top with meat glaze, and keep hot. Remove the fat from the mirepoix and liquor, add the tomato sauce, boil for a few minutes, then strain and reduce to a nice consistency. Butter a border mould, sprinkle with panurette, and fill up with potato puree