330 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 920. Canetons a la Duclair.—Roast ducklings stuffed with the hearts and livers, finely chopped shallots, parsley and seasoning. Cut into joints, dish up, and serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237), well reduced with claret, orange-juice, and chopped chives. 921. Canetons a la Saint-Monde. —Braised ducklings, finished in Madere sauce (No. 237 a), garnished with thick slices of cooked cucumber, slightly fried in butter, and fried bread croutons. 922. Salmis de Canetons d la Verjus.—Ducklings stewed in a thin brown sauce. A well flavoured Espagnole sauce (No. 236), blanched green grapes, and a little red currant jelly, are added as a garnish. The sauce is finished with a little fresh butter just before the grapes are added. 923. Hissolettes deFoie Gras d la Pompadour.—1 small terrine of foie gras, 6 preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooJced tongue, 2 tablespoonfuls veloutee or bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 lb. puff-paste, frying-fat, parsley for garnish. Prepare a salpicon with the foie gras, mushrooms, and tongue, put it in a stewpan and moisten with sufficient sauce to obtain the right consistency for a salpicon, heat up and put on a dish to cool. Have ready some good puff-paste (six turns), roll out about one- eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out some rounds with a plain cutter. Put about a teaspoonful of the salpicon mixture in the centre of each round of paste, slightly wet the border thereof, fold over so as to produce half-moon shapes, press down lightly so as to close the ends. Fry in smoking hot fat, drain, and serve on a dish with folded napkin. Garnish the dish with sprigs of freshly picked parsley, plain or fried. The fat must be very hot, but not burning. Take special care not to touch the edges of the paste, otherwise the dish will not be a success, because the paste will not rise. 924. Zepi tires de Foie Gras aux Truffes, Sauce Supreme.—Make sufficient forcemeat of fowl to line eight zephire moulds (oval-shaped fluted moulds), butter the moulds well, ornament the bottom of each with truffles, put them on the ice to set firm, line bottoms and sides with forcemeat (No. 403), in which a quantity of foie gras puree has been incorporated. Place a nice piece of foie gras naturel in the centre, season with a little savoury spice (aromatic seasoning), spread over with forcemeat until full, set them on the fire in a sautoir half filled with water. As soon as it boils cover with buttered paper, and allow them to finish poaching in the oven, which will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. Dress them in the form of a star on a round entree dish, sauce over with a light supreme sauce (No. 210), sprinkle with a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and serve. 925. Ole braisee, Sauce en Celeri (Braised Goose with Celery Sauce).—Truss a goose in the same manner as for roasting, place it on a bed of vegetables (carrot, onion, celery, bay-leaf, beets, and slices of bacon) in a large braising-pan, season with salt and