THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 88 * When the broth cools, all the fat, which will be found to set on the- surface, can be easily removed. In following this rule much labour may be saved and better results obtained. Stock loses nothing if kept two days, provided it is kept in clean and dry vessels, though in hot weather the stock should be boiled up once a day. Tap in Stock-pot.—The simple contrivance of a tap in the stock- pot enables one to draw off stock without any grease, all the fat rising to the top of the stock-pot. This is very convenient, and abolishes to some extent the necessity of drawing off the stock to be kept over night. Clarification of Stock.—If due care is taken, a bouillon, suffi- ciently reduced, may be converted into consomme without clarification. There is really nothing which resembles consomme more than clari- fied bouillon, although as regards its quality it does not entirely take its place ; still it is often used in its stead. Ingredients for Clarifying or Clearing.—Lean meats, beef and veal, and the needful proportion of vegetables, with or without whites of eggs, are used for the purpose of clarification. The usual quantity taken is for, say, four quarts of stock or broth: one pound lean beef,, half a pound veal, both minced very finely, the meat being previously freed from skin and sinews, the whites of two eggs and the shell of one, half a pint cold stock, bouquet garni if liked, a small onion, half a carrot, celery, leek, &c., cut up small. These ingredients are put in a large well-tinned copper stew-pan,, beaten up well with a whisk, and the stock added. Allow it to come> to the boil—that is, it must reach the boiling point without actually boiling. It must be continually stirred until it has reached that degree. Keep it in that temperature for at least half an hour. A large quantity will require an hour or more. Skim off the fat, not the scum, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little caster sugar. Then remove and strain through a wet cloth, stretched over and fastened to the four legs of a kitchen chair, or else strain through a silk sieve. The consomme is then reheated, and served with whatever garnishing is required. If any colouring is needed, use a little caramel. A consomme must be perfectly clear, its colour must be that of sherry (pale) or straw. They are usually named after the garniture added. Purees and Thick Soups.—These are divided into two kinds, the white and the brown. Vegetable purees take the colour of the vegetable used. For white soups white stock is used, veal stock (blond de veau), chicken stock, &c. &c. Besides the meat and vegetables used, soups are thickened with flour usually cooked in butter or fat without browning (roux blanc), which forms the liaison, whilst for brown soups the flour is blended with fat to a dark or pale brown colour according to the kind of soup prepared. A mirepoix is- often prepared in connection with the thickening process of either white or brown soups.