525 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) mixture. Melt the butter in two large omelet pans, pour into each half the mixture ; let it set over the fire and then put them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes to finish cooking. Heat the apple marmalade, spread a thick layer over each omelet, roll them lightly, and dust with sugar, and serve. 1642. Omelette a la Celestine.—10 eggs, 3 oz. crushed macaroons, 2 tablespoonfuls caster sugar, 3 kinds of jam, a little cream, 1 oz. butter, a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and cream, beat them up well, and mix with the sugar and macaroons. Make five or six omelets of equal size with the mixture, insert one kind of jam in the centre of each (about a tablespoonful), roll up, dust them over with sugar, and glaze with the salamander or a hot iron. Cut each in two ; dish up in a circle, and serve quickly. 1643. Omelette soufflee.—6 yolks of eggs, 10 whites of eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, \ oz. febula, flavouring. Put the yolks and sugar into a basin and work them well with a wooden spatula ; add the flavouring and fecula. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the yolks. Have ready a buttered plated baking-dish ; dress the mixture on it, pile up as high as pos- sible, shape the sides with the blade of a knife, and make a deep insertion in the centre.. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Dust with sugar, and serve. 1644. Omelette soufflee en Surprise.—A thin piece of Genoise pastry for foundation, the whites of 3 eggs, 1 yolk of egg, 2 oz. fine caster sugar, vanilla flavour, 1 pint cream or ivater ice. Trim the Genoise pastry to an oval or round shape, according to the shape of dish to be used. Scoop out the centre and fix it on the dish. Cream the yolk of egg with one and a half ounce of sugar; add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and whisk them in an egg- bowl till quite stiff. Add the flavouring essence or vanilla sugar to the creamed egg-yolk, and work in gradually the stiff whites of eggs. The ice must be well frozen and placed in the cavity of the genoise. Cover completely with the above preparation, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife, garnish with angelica strips and glace cherries, dredge with sugar, and bake in a fierce oven for four to five minutes. Serve at once. Much of the success of this dish depends upon the swiftness of the operator. 1645. Omelette soufflee au Chocolat—Proceed the same as directed in the recipe No. 1643, omitting the fecula, and add in its place a tablet of grated chocolate (unsweetened preferred). Bake as directed, and serve as soon as it leaves the oven. 1646. Omelette au Mhum.—6 eggs, 2 oz. butter, small glass rum, 1 tablespoonful of caster sugar and 1 of cream, a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the salt and sugar, beat up well together with the cream and a little rum. Melt the butter in