DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 245 Lobster croquettes are made in the same manner, but shaped into corks or balls, and should be somewhat smaller than cutlets. 597. Howard farci au Gratin.—Procure a good-sized boiled lobster and cut it in two (lengthwise). Remove the meat and scrape the shells clean. Reserve the spawn, if there is any, to make a sauce (au beurre d’ecrevisse). Break also the claws, &c., and remove the meat. Cut the nicest pieces into neat slices, and mince the rest rather finely. Have two or three chopped shallots, fry them a golden colour in 1^ oz. butter ; add the lobster meat, also a good tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 203), and one of cream; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add also one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, two sprigs of chopped tarragon, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then add a well-beaten egg, and stir long enough until the eggs begin to bind. Fill up the shells, sprinkle with fried bread-crumbs, put a few drops of melted butter over the surface, and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up, place a hand- ful of fried parsley in the centre, stick a few lobster sprays here and there, and serve with a small boat of sauce Danoise (No. 213), or any other similar sauce. 598. Coguilles de Howard d la Gauloise.—1 hen lobster (boiled), 1 whiting, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz.panade, 2 whole eggs and 1 yolk, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 1 truffle, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne. Cardinal sauce (No. 218). Break the lobster shell, remove the meat, reserve coral and spawn, cut the tail into neat scallops; pound the coral and spawn with a little butter, and put in a stewpan with the scallops, let it get thoroughly hot, and put on one side. Skin and bone the whiting, put the fillets with the remainder of the lobster meat in a mortar, and pound till smooth ; add the panade, remainder of the butter, and eggs one by one, and the anchovy paste. Season with a pinch of salt, half a pinch each of cayenne pepper and nutmeg, mix thoroughly, and rub through a fine sieve. Butter some small coquille moulds, decorate them with thin strips of truffle, line the moulds with some of the forcemeat, place a nice scallop of lobster in the centre of each, and fill up with lobster forcemeat. Cook in a saute-pan half filled with water for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn out on a hot dish, sauce round with hot cardinal sauce, and serve. Note.—The lobster butter in which the scallops were cooked should b6 utilised for the sauce. 599. Filets de Sole a la Salisbury.—Choose two or three very small lobsters, open them half-way, remove the tails and claws, and clean the interior of the body well. Prepare a light force- meat with the meat obtained from the claws and tails, put a little of the farce at the bottom of each carcase, on top of which place two neatly trimmed and folded fillets of sole. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice, cover each completely with the remaining farce de