COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY,,..AND GAME 405 shallots ; fry all these in a saute-pan with the butter ; add the bouquet of herbs, season with pepper, and let cook over a quick fire for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, put the remainder in a mortar,, and pound till smooth, add the foie gras (freed from fat and cut into small pieces), pound all together and rub through a sieve. (The truffles in the foie gras should be removed, chopped rather coarsely, and mixed with the farce when finished.) Stuff the quails with this, shape each bird neatly, and place them in a braising-pan on a bed of mirepoix ; moisten with a little of the wine, cover. with buttered paper, and braise in the oven ; when half done add the sauce and the remainder of the wine. As soon as the quails are done take them up and let cool. Strain the sauce (liquor from the braising-pan) into a small stewpan, remove the fat, and reduce to the consistency of glaze ; .coat the quails with this. Mix a little aspic with the meat-glaze, and let dissolve over the fire. Cut the quails in halves and place them (cut sides down) on a wire tray. Glaze each with meat-glaze and aspic. Season the green peas with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of mayonnaise ; half fill the quail cases with peas and place the quails on top; garnish with chopped aspic or rows of green peas round the edge of the cases. Dish up and serve. 1178. Cailles en Caisses a VAspic (Quails in Cases tvith Savoury Jelly).—2 or 3 quails, \ lb. liver farce (No. 406), aspic jelly (No. 293), a mirepoix (No. 10), 1 glass sherry, 2 tablespoonfuls .meat-glaze (No. 247), souffle cases. Bone the quails, leaving the legs and first joints on each bird, stuff with liver farce, wrap up each bird securely and neatly in a piece of muslin, and tie each end with string. Put the mirepoix (consisting of half a carrot, one turnip, one onion, one bay-leaf, six peppercorns, bouquet garni, six ounces bacon, all cut up in small squares) in a saute-pan, with sufficient brown stock to cover the vegetables, put in the quails, add the sherry, and braise gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Set to cool, remove the muslin, cut each bird in two length- ways. Have ready at hand some oval souffle cases ; line each with a little dressed salad. Mask the surface of 'each bird with dissolved meat-glaze, and when set coat over with a thin coat of aspic jelly. Place each half (cut side down) on to the paper case. Garnish round the sides with chopped aspic jelly and serve. 1179. JTaisan en Aspic.—Take the remains of a roast pheasant, and cut the meat into neat slices, freed from skin and sinew. Put a layer of aspic jelly in the bottom of a timbale mould ; decorate it with stars or crescent shapes of slices of truffle and white of egg, leaves of chervil, and stars of red chillies or slices of ox-tongue. When the garnishing has set arrange the slices of cold pheasant in layers and mask each layer with aspic jelly. The last layer should, of course, be of aspic. Place the mould on the ice to set. When firm turn out on to a cold dish, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve.