THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK stale bread to advantage. All crusts and small pieces of bread should be collected each day and be dried slowly in a warm oven. When they are perfectly dry, but not actually brown, they should be pounded in a mortar or crushed on a board with a rolling pin, sifted and put into jars. Bread crumbs thus made will keep good for a long time, and can be used for crumbing or breading, moulding cutlets, fish, rissoles, croquettes, &c. Another way of using stale bread is to tear the soft part of the loaf into bits, and bake the pieces a golden hue in an oven; these are served with cheese, &c., and when baked crisp and of nice colour are exceedingly good. Stale bread can also be cut into thin slices and baked in the oven till crisp and brown: these small slices are served with soup, used as sippets, or served with coffee. Sweet and savoury fritters can be made with stale bread ; slices are cut and spread with jam or cheese and sandwiched together, after which they are dipped in batter and fried in hot fat. There are also a good many puddings (baked or boiled), tartlets, &c., in which breadcrumbs form part of the ingredients. Gold potatoes can be used in numerous ways. They can be fried, tossed, or sauted, though boiled potatoes will never do to be re- heated and served again as boiled ; for in that guise they have a very peculiar warmed-up flavour, which would tell the tale at once. Cold potatoes when rubbed through a sieve are useful for making fish cakes, meat croquettes, cold meat pies. Sliced they make an excellent salad, if properly and liberally seasoned with salad dressing. A delicious pie is made with minced meat, moistened with a nicely flavoured sauce and put in a pie dish, covered with a good layer of mashed potatoes and baked in the oven. Mashed up with left- over cold fish, moistened with the remainder of the white sauce and a little butter, a good material for a pie or croquette is available. Potato-balls and croquettes are also made from cold potatoes. Cold vegetables are used for salads, either separately or mixed with cold meat and dressing. Cold green vegetables, such as green peas, French beans, globe artichokes, asparagus, &c., make very good salads if seasoned with an ordinary vinaigrette sauce : this latter is a mixture of three parts of salad oil and one part of vinegar, salt, pppper, and chopped parsley. Igain, many vegetables, especially peas, beans, sprigs of cauliflower, and artichokes, come in handy as garnitures for meat dishes and certain soups. Bones and scraps of meat, if insufficient for a special dish, and gravy left over from roast meat, should be put into the stock-pot. In order to assist the cook in exercising economy, I have in- troduced a number of recipes for dishes in the preparation of which cold meat, &c., may be employed.