ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 547 syrup, eggs, and maraschino in a copper bowl, and whisk over a saucepan of boiling water. Dissolve the gelatine, previously soaked in water, and strain into the pulp &c. ; keep stirring over the hot water until the mixture binds ; then take off, beat a little longer over some crushed ice. When sufficiently cool fill up the moulds and leave on the ice until quite set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water, turn out neatly on a dish, garnish with chopped wine jelly and some glace cherries, and serve. 1726. Bananes farcies aux Fraises.—8 to 10 bananas (not over ripe), % lb. best scarlet or forest straioberries or a gill of preserved strawberry pulp, 1 oz. sugar (caster), 1 glass curaqoa, ^ lemon. Choose bananas of a good colour, wipe them with a cloth, cut off the stems, and split them in halves lengthways. Scoop out carefully the soft portion and put it in a basin; add to it the strawberries or pulp, which should in each case be well reduced, without being burnt; mash the fruit until quite smooth, rub through a hair sieve, incorpo- rate the liqueur and a few drops of lemon-juice; add a little caster sugar if necessary. Fill the banana shells, place two halves together, tie up with string, and put on the ice. When required for serving remove the string and tie each with a piece of narrow ribbon. 1727. Tivoli aux Fraises.—Mask a fancy jelly-mould with a thin layer of maraschino jelly (No. 1709), then fill up with a rich strawberry cream (mousse de fraises); pour some more jelly on top to completely fill the mould. Set it on the ice till quite firm. Dish up, and garnish with fresh strawberries. 1728. Pains d’Abricots ail Marasquin. — Preserved apricots mixed with a little maraschino liqueur, lemon-juice, powdered sugar, and some gelatine dissolved in very little water; pass through a fine sieve, set on ice until it thickens, and then pour into moulds. This sweet is served the same as ordinary jellies. 1729. Bordure Pierre le Grand.—^ lb. almonds, % lb. caster sugar, 12 eggs, 3 oz.fecula (potato or rice-flour), 4 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful orange-floiver wetter, £ gill cream, 3 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 1 oz. pistachios, compote of fruit, and custard sauce. Blanch and peel the almonds, dry them in front of the fire and pound them in a mortar, adding about two tablespoonfuls of water and the juice of a lemon. When quite fine put this into a basin, and incorporate the yolks of twelve eggs. Whisk the whites of ten eggs to a very stiff froth. Melt the butter and mix the whites of eggs, butter and fecula carefully with the above, add also the orange-flower water. Three parts fill two savarin border-moulds previously buttered and floured, and bake in a moderate oven to a nice golden brown. Unmould and let cool; cut them in half and fill the centre with whipped cream suitably flavoured. Place them together in the original shape and mask each with dissolved apricot marmalade. Sprinkle over with chopped pistachios nuts and dish up. Fill the