SOUPS (POTAGES) 139 chives, and pour into it some of the strained stock, which is known as broth or bouillon; season to taste with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and serve. Allow one egg to every quart of broth. 93. Bouillon en Tusses (Broth in Gups).—To produce a good cup of bouillion, it requires only a rich and well-flavoured beef-stock, or pot-au-feu. broth. Put one yolk of egg into each cup, add a tiny grate of nutmeg and stir up, pour in slowly some strained hot beef- broth, sprinkle a little chopped parsley or chives on the top, and serve. The egg-yolk may, if liked, be omitted. 94. Consommes in GeneralClarification.—1 gallon of stock, lib. lean beef, 1 onion, 1 carrot, | leek, 2 cloves, ^ bay-leaf, i head celery, a few sprigs parsley, 1 sprig thyme and marjoram, 12 peppercorns, 2 sprigs tarragon and chervil, 3 whites of egg and shell, 1 glass sherry, 1 of brandy, ^ lemon or 1 dessertspoonful French vinegar, salt, sugar. The stock should be cold for clarifying. Remove all the fat. Prepare the vegetables, wash and cut into small slices, put it together with the herbs, cloves, bay-leaves, and peppercorns in a well-tinned siewpan. Pass the meat through a mincing machine several times, or chop finely. Whisk the whites of egg a little and put with the meat, moisten with a tablespoonful of cold water ; put this, with the shells, along with the stock, into the stewpan containing the vegetables. Stir over the fire until it commences to boil, then add the wine and brandy, and let simmer gently for about fifteen minutes. Season to- taste with salt and a pinch of caster sugar. Strain through a cloth ; it is then ready for use. 95. Royal pour Consommes (Savoury Custard for. Clear Soup).—2 whole eggs, 2 yolks of egg, 1 gill white stock, 1 tablespoon- ful cream, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Break the eggs and put into a basin, add the stock and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, strain and fill into a well-buttered plain mould. Cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a stewpan or saute-pan three-parts filled with hot water. Cook gently on the stove or in the oven until set, take out, let cool, turn on to a plate, cut into diamonds, lozenge-shapes, rounds, or small dice. Serve in clear soups or purees as directed. 96. Consomme de Volatile (Clear Chicken Broth).—1 fowl, li lbs. lean veal, 2 lbs. lean beef, 1 onion, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 stick of celery, 2 leeks, 3 cloves, 1 parsley root, 2 gallons of water, salt. Truss the fowl the same as for boiling, preserve the giblets, clean and wash and put them with the fowl, beef, and veal in a stock-pot, add two tablespoonfuls of salt and the water. Put it on the fire, when nearly boiling take off the scum. Skin the onion, stick in the cloves, scrape the carrots, peel the turnip, clean the celery, leeks, and parsley, and tie together in a bunch. When the stock is well skimmed and boiling, put in the vegetables, and let the whole simmer gently for five hours. The fowl may be taken out when done, and be used up