ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 289 of beef, lh oz. fresh butter, 2 finely chopped shallots, 1 dessert- spoonful chopped parsley, 1 glass Chablis, 8 to 10 neat slices lobster (meat), pepper and salt, sauce Pompadour (No. 273), meat glaze (No. 247) for garnish, small fish quenelles (No. 561), stuffed olives (olives farcies), and slices of truffles, glazed. Flatten the fillets a little, then pare and trim them into neat round shapes, season them to taste. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the fillets, and fry quickly over a brisk fire to brown slightly both sides of the fillets. Boil the shallots in the wine for five minutes, add this with the parsley to the fillets, cover the pan, and cook quickly for about five minutes. Press the fillets on a dish, warm the slices of lobster in the liquor left from the fillets, and place a slice between the fillets (keep hot). Pour the sauce into the pan containing the liquor, re-heat, skim off the fat, and pour over the fillets. Garnish with slices of truffles, stuffed olives, heated up in liquefied meat glaze, also a few very small fish quenelles, poached in fish stock ; sprinkle a little meat glaze over the latter, and serve. 774. Filets MUjnons a la Dauphine.—-2^ lb. fillet of beef, 1 small onion, 1 small carrot, 1 bouquet of herbs, 1 glass Gliablis, | gill oil, 1-J- oz. butter, pepper and salt, larding bacon, ^ lb. potato puree, 2 oz. cooked chicken meat, 1 truffle, a handful cooked spinach,, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 6 potato croquettes (A la Dauphine), 1 glass sherry, a handful cooked rice, 6 small artichoke bottoms. Trim the fillet and cut into eight neatly-shaped pieces, flatten a little with the cutlet-bat, insert in each a few strips of larding bacon, season with pepper and salt. Lay them on a bed of vegetables (carrot and onion sliced), and the herbs, moisten with Chablis and oil, let remain to soak for about one hour or more. Cook the rice in a little stock, season and keep till wanted ; prepare the potato croquettes, egg, crumb, and fry (keep hot). Drain the fillets on a cloth, fry in butter over a quick fire for about six minutes (they must be underdone, unless specially desired well done). Take up the fillets, keep hot, pour off the butter from the pan, add the sherry and reduce to half, then add* the tomato sauce and cook a few minutes. Chop the chicken meat and truffle, moisten with a little sauce, season to taste, and fill the artichoke bottoms with this mixture. Cover the surface well with cooked spinach, previously rubbed through a sieve, and seasoned ; place a tiny piece of butter on each, and put in the oven for about ten minutes to get hot through. Dress the rice and bed on a dish; dish up the fillets on this. Garnish the sides alternately with a stuffed artichoke and a potato croquette, pour a little sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 775. Filets Mignons a la Genoise.—2| lb. fillet of beef, beef marrow, 3 to 4 large potatoes, 2 oz. butter, meat glaze (No. 247), Genoise sauce (No. 245). Cut the fillets into eight to nine very small rounds, about a quarter of an inch thick, flatten, pare, and season. Peel the potatoes U