COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 81 The object of sauteing is partly to stir the contents of the pan and to prevent it from burning. This must, however, not be performed with a fork or spoon, but by moving the pan frequently backward and forward over a quick fire. A quick and clear fire is needed, because the article to be tossed must be cooked rapidly and equally throughout. We saute potatoes, beans, &c. Liver, kidneys, chicken, fillets, &c. are sauted either in butter, oil, or lard. If cut in small, thin pieces a quick fire is best; if in larger pieces, a more moderate but well regu- lated fire is advisable. Twice Cooking-.—Although this term is not used now, it is nevertheless largely practised. Very tough meat and some fish, also some kinds of game, are said to become improved in flavour by twice cooking, with an interval of one day. Indeed, when cooking is performed on a very large scale, most of the dishes served are in a manner twice cooked. We have two examples to quote, viz. biscuits and toast, where this method is employed. The biscuit is perhaps the oldest example, for ‘ bis ’ means twice, and ‘ cuit ’ means baked or cooked, though this word is now but seldom used in the literal sense. Toast, however, serves as a good example of twice-cooking, so does pulled bread, and rusks; the latter are known as Zicieback in German (which means twice-baked). In these articles the change to dextrine is more com- plete than in once-baked bread or biscuits, and therefore the food becomes more soluble. Smoking.—This hardly comes under the heading of cooking, but as smoked meat and fish are consumed in many parts without again being cooked, we can justly look upon the process of smoking as a crude method of cooking, Cured and smoked meats, as well as fish, are highly esteemed articles of food. By smoking a piece of meat it can be preserved for a long period. The preservative effect of smoke was, no doubt discovered by accident; just like the first method of cooking, or the application of heat for the purpose of cooking, such as Charles Lamb describes in his tale of the origin of roast pig. Wheli meat is hung at some distance above a smoky wood fire, it becomes dry by smoke, the aromatic juices of the wood impart a new and a highly appreciated flavour to the articles thus exposed to smoke for a certain time. The average loss in weight by cooking meat, &c., works out as follows. Grilling . . . . . about 10 per cent. Frying „ 15 „ Steaming . „ 15 „ Boiling „ 20 ., Baking ,, 25 „ Stewing Roasting . 17 to 20 „ . about 30 ,, G