160 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK occasionally. Add the stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; boil gently until the vegetables are tender, take off the scum, and rub through a fine sieve; return to the stewpan, stir in the cream, keep hot, but not boiling. Heat up the Brussels sprouts and jardiniere of vegetables in a little stock, strain, and put in a soup-tureen, pour over the puree, and serve. 176. dotage veloute au Hits.—1 chicken, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 2 quarts veal stock, 3 oz. rice, 1 bouquet garni, 1 small onion, 2 cloves, 1 bay-leaf, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Pick, singe, and draw the chicken, and cut into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan ; put in the pieces of chicken and fry a golden colour, stir in the flour and cook for a few minutes with- out browning. Dilute with the stock and about a quart of water. Now add the bouquet, i.e. a small bunch of savoury herbs (parsley, celery, leek, thyme, tarragon, chervil, &c.), the onion, and cloves. Bring it to the boil and cook very gently till the chicken is tender. Take out the best pieces of chicken, remove skin and bone, cut the meat into small dice, and put them in a soup-tureen. Blanch the rice and put it with the soup. Continue to cook for another 30 minutes. Pass through a fine sieve, return to a clean stewpan, season to taste, add a little cream if liked, re-heat and pour over the chicken dice in the soup-tureen, and serve. 177. Potage Madeleine.—2 oz. butter, 1 onion, 6 small tomatoes, 1 pint haricot beans, 1 leek, 1 large carrot-, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil, 2^ quarts consomme or double stock, seasoning. Cook the haricot beans in salted water till tender. Peel and mince the onion and fry for a few minutes in butter, but do not allow them to get brown. Add the tomatoes, previously cut into dice, the haricot beans and the stock. Cook together for twenty minutes, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Clean and trim the leek and carrot, cut them into Julienne-shaped strips and toss in a little butter ; add about a pint of consomme, and cook till the vegetables are tender ; mince finely a few tarragon and chervil leaves and add them to the sOup. Mix both soups together, season to taste with pepper, Salt and nutmeg, boil up, skim and serve. 178. Creme de Volailfe d la Franqaise.—2 qiiarts chicken stock, % roast or boiled chicken, 2 oz. rice, 1 yolk of egg, ^ gill cream, 2 oz. fresh butter, 1 oz. flour, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Wash and pick the rice, blanch it and cook till tender in the chicken stock; strain off enough rice to fill a teacup and keep it till required. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and fry a little without browning; dilute with half a pint of water and the chicken stock, adding also the remainder of rice. Cook gently for about half an hour, rub the soup through a sieve, and return to the stewpan. Bernove the skin from the chicken and cut the meat into neat dice, put these into the soup, and cook for another 10 minutes. Mix the egg-yolk with