ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 601 1929. Biscuits de From age d la Creme.—3 oz. Vienna flour, 1 oz. Paisley flour, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. Parmesan cheese {grated), i lemon, 2 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, salt, and cayenne pepper. Put the flour into a basin, mix it with about a quarter of a tea- spoonful of salt and a pinch of caypnne. Rub in the butter until quite smooth, then mix three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; add the juice of half a lemon, the two yolks of eggs, and work into a stiff paste. If too short for rolling add a few drops of milk, but the less the better. Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some round shapes, place them on a baking-sheet, prick them with a fork, and bake for ten minutes in a cool oven. Whip the cream, add the remaining ounce of cheese and a pinch of cayenne, put a little pyramid in the centre of each biscuit by means of a forcing-bag or cornet, and serve cold on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 1930. Amandes salees {Salted Almonds).—Planch and peel some whole almonds, spread them on a paper-covered board or baking-sheet, and bake to a golden colour. Dissolve a little gum arabic in some water, just enough to thicken—about half a gill of water. Sprinkle the almonds while hot with this, shake well, and dust over with fine salt by means of a salt-dredger. Shake up the almonds from time to time until they are cool; they will then be ready for serving. Salted almonds, the same as pistachios, filberts, or hazel nuts, which can be done in the same way, are dished up in fancy paper cases, and are handed round with the dessert. They should remain on the table during the whole of the dinner. 1931. Amandes d la JDiable.-—^ lb. almonds, 1 oz. butter, ^ gill sweet oil, salt, cayenne pepper. Scald and peel the almonds, place them on a baking-tin, and dry in a cool oven. Clarify the butter, add the oil, and, when hot, put in the almonds ; keep stirring gently until they are equally slightly browned. Put them in a frying-basket, drain and shake well; then put them on a cloth, sprinkle liberally with fine salt and cayenne pepper, fold the cloth, and shake them a few seconds. Dish up and serve hot. 1932. CEufs d la Matelote {Eggs, Seaman’s Waij).—Poach some eggs in a rich meat stock, trim them and dress them on rounds of buttered toast, sauce over with a rich brown sauce flavoured with savoury herb and onion. Garnish with strips of fillets of anchovies. 1933. Fyramide d’CEufs d la Be forme {Egg Pyramid, Reform Style).—These are stuffed halves of hard-boiled eggs, dished up in a pyramidal form, sprinkled over with finely shredded ham and truffles. Sauce over with a rich brown sauce, and bake in a quick oven. 1934. CEufs d la Garfield {Eggs, Garfield Style).—These are very similar to Scotch eggs. Take some hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells, and cover them with a layer of force or sausage meat, egg and crumb them with crushed vermicelli, fry in deep fat or clarified butter, and serve with piquante sauce.