145 SOUP8 {POTAGES) Wash and peel thinly the carrot and turnip (if very small use two of each), cut into slices and stamp out some star shapes, a quarter of an inch in diameter, by means of a vegetable-cutter; blanch separately in salted water, and cook until tender in some consomme. Each lot must be cooked separately. Mix the forcemeat with a few drops of spinach greening, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain tube ; make some small rings on to a buttered saute-pan, poach these in boiling consomme, strain and put in a soup-tureen with the other garnish, pour in two quarts of hot consomme, and serve. 116. Consomme Colbert.—The garniture for this soup consists of poached eggs neatly trimmed (reckoning one for each person), a handful of cooked ball shapes of turnips and carrots, and a few cooked green peas. Choose the eggs very small, poach them in salted water containing a dash of tarragon vinegar. 117. Consomme a la Royal.—For 2 quarts of consomme-. The breast of a cooked chicken, 1 whole egg and 3 yolks of eggs, \ gill of cream, 1 gill stock, pepper and salt. 1 Remove the skin from the chicken’s breast and cut into small dice. Mix well the eggs, cream, and stock, season to taste, and pass through a fine sieve; fill into a buttered mould, put it in a stewpan half filled with hot water. Cook in a slow oven till firm. Let cool a little, then turn out, cut into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, cut into dice or stamp out with a column cutter. Put these and the chicken into a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. 118. Consomme a I’Andalouse.—For 2 quarts of consomme: j> gill tomato sauce, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 small cucumber, chicken forcemeat for quenelles. Beat the egg in a basin and mix with it the tomato sauce (cold) and the cream, season with pepper and salt, strain and fill into a buttered timbale mould; stand the mould in a saucepan half filled with boiling water, and poach in a slow oven till firm. Let it cool a little, turn out, and cut into fanciful shapes ; put these in a small stewpan, moisten with a little clear soup and keep hot until required. Peel the cucumber, scoop out with a vegetable scoop some little bell shapes ; cook tender in salted water, and strain. Have ready some chicken forcemeat, put in forcing-bag ; form some little quenelle shapes in a buttered saute-pan, pour in a little hot clear soup, and poach. Put the garniture in a soup-tureen, pour in the consomme, and serve. 119. Consomme Julienne.—To 2 quarts of consomme : 2 small carrots, \ turnip, 1 leek, i onion, £ stick celery, 1 oz. butter, | small cabbage, a pinch of sugar, pepper and salt. Pare and wash the vegetables, slice them thinly and cut into very fine long shreds, put them in a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire to blend well and cook a little, season with a pinch of sugar, a, little salt and pepper. Add the clear soup, cook gently for thirty minutes or so ; skim off the fat and serve. A tablespoonful of cooked n