THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 372 cut into quarters, remove the stalks, cook for ten minutes in salted water, and drain. Have ready a large stewpan, put in some slices of pork or bacon, the carrot and onion cut into slices, cloves, and bouquet; lay the partridges on this, and put the cabbage on top, then some more bacon or pork, add the wine and stock, season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, cover and cook slowly for thirty to forty-five minutes. Dress the cabbages on a dish to form a bed, place the partridges on this (whole or cut up), garnish with slices of carrot, and bacon or pork. Skim and strain the broth, add the sauce, boil up,, and sauce all over. 1076. Cdtelettes de Perdreaux d la Financiere.—2 par- tridges trussed for roasting, 1 liard-boiled ivhite of egg, 3 truffles,. 18 preserved mushrooms, 1 small bottle financiere, % oz. butter,, l .egg, 1 oz.panade (No. 8), £ gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 gill sauce Madere (No. 237 a), meat glaze (No. 247), salt and pepper, a crouton of fried bread, a small quantity of mashed potatoes. Eoast one of the partridges, bone the other, and pound the meat,, freed from sinews and skin, till smooth ; add the raw egg, panade, and veloutee. sauce. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Bone the cooked partridge when cold, and cut into thin slices. Stamp out some rounds for garnish and eight to ten cutlet shapes ; stamp out some little rounds of white of egg (hard-boiled), of truffle, and of mushroom ; butter eight to ten cutlet moulds, decorate them with the little rounds just referred to, put them on the ice to set, work up the farce, and put a thin layer in each mould ; lay a thin slice of cooked partridge on top, fill up with farce, smooth over with a wet knife (press down well), put them in a saute-pan containing a little hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. Heat up the financiere ragout in the sauce Madere, add the remaining mushrooms and truffles, left whole or cut in dice, and simmer for a few minutes. Fix the croute of fried bread in the centre of a hot dish, around which put a thin border of mashed potatoes. Turn out the cutlets, dress them neatly on the border of mashed potatoes. Arrange the financiere as a garniture artistically on the croute, pour the sauce round, sprinkle with a little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. 1077. Partridge Sodge-Podgel—1 brace of partridges, % lb., streaky bacon, 2 sheep's kidneys, 6 to 8 sauce oysters (bearded), 1 shallot, 4 potatoes, 1 gill stock, 1 oz. butter, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Procure the partridges ready trimmed for roasting, bone them, and cut the birds into neat pieces. Cut the bacon into slices, skin the kidneys and slice them, peel and chop the shallot, wash, peel, and cut the potatoes into round slices about one eighth of an inch thick. Take a fire-proof tureen, or, failing this, use a large pie dish, butter it well, and fill up with alternate layers of partridge, bacon, kidneys, and oysters; put at least one layer of potato slices in the centre.