VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED 467 1407. Cassolettes a la Parmentier.—lb.potatoes, peeled, boiled, and rubbed through a sieve, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 whole egg, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, frying fat, savoury ragout for filling. Heat the butter in a stewpan, put in the potato puree, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot; add the cream, but if the potatoes are watery or very moist use less cream or omit it altogether ; add the parsley, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, stir until the eggs are set to bind the puree. Allow the mixture to get cold, then make up into balls, then shape them somewhat flat, egg and crumb them, and fry them in hot fat. Cut out a bit by means of a paste-cutter, lift it off, scoop out some of the soft part of the potato, fill with a ragout or savoury mince of fish, chicken, or game, put the lids on, dish up, set in the oven for a few seconds, and serve. 1408. Pommes1 Chateau.—Peel twelve medium-sized potatoes, cut them into quarters, round off the sharp edges, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put 2 oz. clarified butter in a saute-pan; when hot place in the potatoes, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. When finished they should be crisp and of a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and salt, dish up in a pile, and serve hot. 1409. Pom mes Pailles.—Peel six medium-sized potatoes, cut them into thin slices, cut these into fine shreds about 1^ in. long. Wash well and drain on a cloth. Have ready some hot fat, sufficient to well cover the quantity of potatoes, put the potatoes into the fat when very hot, and fry for about six minutes. Take out, drain well, sprinkle with a little fine salt, shake them lightly, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. 1410. Pommes de Terre Crapaudine (Baked Potatoes French Style).— 8 to 10 potatoes (large), 3 oz. butter, 4 oz. Gruyere cheese, salt, paprika pepper, panurette. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut each in half lengthwise and slice thinly (crosswise), cut the Gruyere cheese into thin slices. Butter a border mould, sprinkle the inside with ‘ panurette.’ Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan, fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of potatoes and slices of cheese, season each layer with a tiny pinch of salt and a pinch of paprika pepper, and pour over each layer a little melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould into a hot dish and serve hot. 1411. Croquettes de Pommes d la Dauphine.—10 floury potatoes, 5 yolks of eggs, 2 ivhites, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, bread-crumbs, and f rying fat. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut into quarters, put them in a stew- pan with cold water, add a little salt, and cook until tender; drain and put on a sieve; next place them on a dish in the oven to get 1 Abbreviation for Pommes de lerre.