342 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK and turn out on a hot dish. Chop the mushrooms finely, put with the chicken, add a few drops of lemon-juice, cook a few minutes longer. Dish up the chicken in the centre of the rice, slip a little cutlet frill on each end of the legs before the sauce and garnish are added, and serve. 964. JPoulet saute a la Duroc.—Joint the chicken in the usual manner for sauteing, season and fry in oil, drain and cook till tender in a rich tomato sauce (No. 271). Dish up and garnish slices of mushrooms, stuffed olives, sauted chicken livers, and fried bread croutons. 965. JPoulet saute a la Marengo.—1 good-sized chicken, 1 gill best salad oil, 1 gill brown sauce (Espagnole, No. 236), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 shallot, 1 glass Marsala, 8 preserved mushrooms, 1 truffle, salt and pepper, 3 eggs, and puff-paste, and fleurons for garnish. Cut the chicken into eight neatly trimmed joints, and put them in a stewpan or saute-pan with the oil, fry quickly to slightly brown the outside of the chicken, now add the shallot finely chopped. Pour off the oil into a smaller stewpan ; then add the two kinds of sauce, the mushrooms, the truffle, both being cut into slices. Cover the pan, season with pepper and salt, and set it in the oven to stew for about forty minutes. Fry the eggs in the oil; they must be shaped just like poached eggs (not flat); arrange the pieces of chicken neatly on a silver dish, dispose of the mushrooms and truffle; place them tastefully around the chicken. Strain over the sauce previously freed from fat, garnish with fleurons, i.e. half-moon or crescent shapes of baked puff-paste, and serve. 966. JPoulet saute a la iPlombiere.—Cut up into neat joints two tender chickens; cut into small dice a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, add the bacon, and fry a little ; now add the pieces of chicken, together with two finely-chopped shallots. Allow the chicken to fry over a brisk fire for about five minutes, until they have acquired a nice light-brown colour on both sides. Mix a tablespoonful of flour, a tablespoonful of mild curry powder, and a dessertspoonful of finely- desiccated unsweetened cocoanut. Sprinkle this over the pieces of chicken, stir well over the fire, moisten with a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brandy, and rather more than a pint of white stock or water; add also a small bunch of parsley and half a bay-leaf. Bring it gently to the boil, season with pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg, add also a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly and the juice of half a sour orange. Let it simmer slowly for about thirty to forty minutes. Skim off the fat, remove the herbs, and if too thick add a little more stock or water. Have ready sufficient plain boiled rice to make a border. Dress the pieces of chicken neatly in the centre of the border, together with the garniture and sauce. Have ready the thin rind of half an orange finely shred, and warmed;