THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 190 white wine, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with cayenne pepper, and very little red currant jelly. 310. Sauce au Celeri (Celery Sauce).—A white sauce with cooked minced celery, served with boiled poultry. 311. Sauce Chevveuil (Venison Sauce).—A brown sauce, with claret, port wine, and thinly sliced gherkins; seasoned with red pepper. 312. Sauce Cornichons (Gherkin Sauce).—Poivradeor brown pepper sauce mixed with finely chopped gherkins. 313. Sauce Duxelle {Duxelle Sauce).—A brown sauce, with finely chopped truffles, mushrooms, cooked ham, parsley and shallots, thickened with egg-yolks, and flavoured with lemon-juice. 314. Sauce a la Ducliesse (Duchesse Sauce).—A white sauce, with finely chopped white mushrooms, cooked ox-tongue, and fresh butter as liaison. 315. Sauce Diplomate (Diplomatic Sauce).—A fish sauce, consisting of bechamel sauce, lobster coral, fresh butter, and anchovy essence. 316. Sauce JEchalote (Shallot Sauce).—A brown gravy or demi- glace sauce with finely minced shallots (blended in butter), lemon- juice, and chopped parsley. 316 a. Sauce a l’Essence de Gibier.—A brown sauce with essence of game, carefully blended and well-reduced. 317. Sauce Epicure (Epicurean Sauce).—A white fish sauce, consisting of a rich white sauce, mixed with a little essence of cray- fish, chopped truffles, chilli vinegar, and cayenne pepper. 318. Sauce d VEstpagon (Tarragon Sauce).—A thin brown sauce flavoured with tarragon-leaves. Served with poultry or quenelles. 319. Sauce aux Ecrevisses (Crayfish Sauce).—Bechamel sauce with crayfish tails, finished with a little crayfish butter as liaison. 320. Sauce Fermiere (Farmhouse Sauce).—A French sauce, consisting of Espagnole sauce with finely chopped ham, parsley, and capers. Usually served with game. 321. Sauce a la Flamande (Flemish Sauce).—Sauce for fish, made with melted butter sauce, thickened with yolks of eggs and flavoured with prepared mustard. 322. Sauce Fleurette (Fleurette Sauce).—A white sauce, served with fish or vegetables, made from flour, butter, and fleurette (which is the name applied to the first skimming of milk, which is very sweet); the sauce is seasoned with salt and pepper. 323. Sauce Financiere (Financiere Sauce).—Avery rich brown sauce, well reduced with sherry, meat extract, and mushroom liquor. The garniture of truffles, small mushrooms, cocks’-combs, &c., is added when the sauce is ready for serving. 324. Sauce Fenouil (Fennel Sauce).—A white sauce mixed with finely chopped fennel. Served with boiled fish.