400 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK mayonnaise sauce to the remainder of aspic while it is still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie gras and pound till smooth; season to taste, dissolve the two leaves of gelatine in the bechamel sauce, and add this to the pounded foie gras. Pass it through a fine sieve. Coat each of the oval pieces of foie gras with this mixture, and set it in the moulds, fill up with the puree, smooth over with a knife, and place the moulds on the ice to set. When ready for serving, immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, and dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. 1167. Foie Gras glace a la Hongroise.—l fresh goose's liver, 1 small Spanish onion, 2 bay-leaves, paprika pepper, 2 slices bacon, 1 oz. butter, 1 pint aspic jelly (No. 293), aromatic seasoning. Wipe the liver with a damp cloth, and pare it; peel and slice thinly the onion, and put it in a saute-pan or fire-proof earthenware casserole containing the butter (melted), add the bay-leaves and fry a little ; dredge with paprika, using about a teaspoonful. Put the liver on this and cover with some of the onions and the bacon, season with aromatic spice (epice culinaire), and let cook in a fairly hot oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When the foie gras is sufficiently cooked take it up and put it in an oval tureen or souffle dish. Strain the liquor from the pan over the liver (foie gras) and place it in the cool. When cold fill the tureen or dish with half-set aspic jelly, and put it on the ice to set. When wanted for table decorate the top smartly with truffle-slices, white of egg, &c. 1168. Fains de Foie Gras a la Georges Sand.—1 tin or terrine foie gras (size No. 9 or No. 10), 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce, 1 pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles (large), 1 hard- boiled egg, 2 slices of cooked tongue, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Fill six to eight small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre, a ring of truffle, and a ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly-cut lozenge-shapes of truffles, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each timbale with a thin layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie gras, take out the truffles and chop finely, pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well and rub through a sieve. Work in about half a pint of aspic jelly and the chopped truffles; fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set. Turn out and serve. 1169. Petites Bombes d VAlsacienne.—1 tin or terrine foie gras pate, 1 gill cream, 2 eggs, 1 gill well-reduced veloutee sauce (No. 206), \ gill chicken stock, ^ oz. gelatine, 2 oz. cooked ham (lean), 1 gill aspic (No. 293), k endive, aromatic seasoning. Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs, mix each lot separately with a tablespoonful of cream; season with a pinch of salt. Pour separately in a well-greased mould, cover with paper and stand in a