473 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED 1440. Pommes de Terre a la Hongroise.—Plain boiled or steamed small potatoes, dished up, seasoned, sauced over with oiled butter and a few drops of lemon-juice. 1441. Pommes de Terre a lTmperatrice. — Small walnut shapes, cut out of peeled raw potatoes, parboiled, drained, mixed with sliced truffles and mushrooms, and cooked in butter until quite done. 1442. Pommes'de Terre a ITtalienne.—Sliced raw potatoes, placed in layers in a well-buttered flat mould with alternate slices of salami sausage and a thick white sauce consisting of cream, chopped hard- boiled yolks of eggs, grated Parmesan cheese, chopped cooked ham, and finely cut fillets of anchovies, the last layer of the mould being anchovies. Bake in the mould in a hot oven and serve. 1443. Pommes de Terre a la Julienne.—Peeled raw potatoes, sliced thinly and cut into very fine strips or shreds ; fry till crisp in hot fat, drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve on a folded napkin, or use as a garnish. 1444. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel. Thick slices of raw potatoes, blanched, drained, and stewed in white sauce and chopped parsley. Season and serve. 1445. Pommes de Terre a la Milanaise.—Baw potatoes cut into dice, parboiled, drained, and seasoned, stewed in white sauce with squares or dice of cooked ham and grated Parmesan cheese. Thicken with yolks of eggs, and place on a dish to cool. Shape into croquets, then egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat, trim, season with salt, and serve. 1446. Pommes de Terre a la Navarraise.—Peeled potatoes cut into half-inch squares, fried in sweet oil, drained, sprinkled with salt, and served on a folded napkin. 1447. Pommes de Terre a la Suedoise.—Slices of raw potatoes blanched, and stewed in a rich meat gravy. A few thin slices of fried onion are added at the last with the seasoning. 1448. Pommes de Terre a la Turque.—Potato puree prepared as for croquettes, made into small half-moon shapes filled with anchovy paste, egged, crumbed, and baked in clarified butter. 1449. Pommes de Terre a la Vaudoise.—Sliced peeled raw potatoes, ranged in layers on a buttered baking-dish; season each layer with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated Gruyere cheese. Sprinkle grated cheese, bread-crumbs, and a few drops of oiled butter over the top and bake in a hot oven. 1450. Pommes de Terre a la Viennoise.—Raw potatoes cut into fairly large dice, parboiled, drained and stewed in seasoned beef broth, flavoured with onions and cloves. Dish up and sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley. 1451. Pommes de Terre a la Villageoise.—Finely chopped cold potatoes seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, stewed in a little stock, some cream, and a little fresh butter. 1452. Pommes de Terre a la Worlitz.—Potato puree prepared as for croquettes, shaped into oblongs or squares, egged, crumbed in grated