417 REMOVES AND BOASTS the pan and place in the oven. It will take from two and a half to three hours to cook; the meat must be well basted at least once every half-hour. When the haricots are tender drain off the liquor, add the butter, and season to taste, toss them over the fire for a few minutes, and moisten with a little demi-glace sauce. Add the remainder of sauce to the meat about twenty minutes before it has finished cooking. Dish up the leg of mutton. Skim the sauce and strain it over the meat. Surround with groups of haricot beans and serve the remainder in a vegetable dish, to be handed round with the meat. 1206. Gigot de Mouton roti.—In France this dish is not prepared in the same way as in this country, at any rate not in the provinces. The following is the mode of preparation recommended : Choose a small leg of fat mutton ; trim and bone it, i.e. remove the hip and thigh bones. Season with salt and pepper, finely chopped parsley, one finely chopped shallot, and a bruised clove of garlic (garlic introduced into raw meat loses its objectionable acidity and odour ; it renders ths meat more appetising and imparts a very fine flavour). Tie up the meat, and place it in a baking-tin with a few slices of carrot, one sliced onion, and two ounces of butter. Bake it in a hot oven for twenty minutes, baste frequently, and finish baking or roasting in a slacker oven until tender. The usual time allowed for boned and rolled joints is twenty minutes to every pound, and twenty minutes over. When done dish up, pour away the fat from the tin, and add some thin brown sauce or stock for the purpose of making the gravy. Season it and pour round the meat. 1207. Ballotine d’Agneau anx Petits Pols.—1 shoulder of lamb, 6 oz. veal, 4 oz. pork, 3 oz. cooked ham, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 2 truffles, larding-bacon, 3 slices of streaky bacon, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 1 bay-leaf, parsley, 1 pint green peas {cooked), 1 pint stock, 1 pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), salt and pepper. Bone the shoulder of lamb, but let the end bone remain for a handle. Prepare a stuffing with the veal, pork, ham, and parsley, all finely chopped and seasoned to taste. Remove all sinews and I part of the fat from the shoulder, and fill with the above, laying in between the stuffing the truffles (sliced). Close up and shape neatly; sew up the opening with a needle. Put the shoulder in the stockpot for about five minutes to harden the surface; let cool and lard the top with larding-bacon. Clean and cut the carrot and onion into slices. Line a braisiere or deep saute-pan with the bacon, put in the carrot, onion, bay-leaf, and a small bunch of parsley, place the shoulder on this, and brown slightly over a brisk fire. Moisten with the stock and the sauce, cover, and cook in the oven until tender ; it will take from forty to forty-five minutes. Take up the shoulder, skim the sauce, strain it and reduce a little, put the cooked peas into the sauce, add a pinch of sugar, and some salt and pepper if needed ; cook for two minutes, and serve with the meat. If required as a releve E E