23 MARKETING boiling, roasting, braising or stewing : as many advantages and dis- advantages are thereby gained or lost. The following characteristics must be looked for in good beef and mutton:— A. It is neither of a pale pink colour, nor of a deep purple tint; for the former is generally considered as a sign of disease, whilst the latter indicates that the animal has not been slaughtered, but has died with the blood in it, or has suffered from acute fever. B. It has a marbled appearance from the ramifications of the little veins of fat among the muscles. C. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and scarcely moisten the fingers — bad meat being wet and soddened and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet parchment. D. It should have little or no odour, and the odour should not be disagreeable ; diseased meat has a sickly cadaverous smell, and sometimes a smell of physic. Good meat will neither shrink nor waste much in- cooking. Beef (that is ox-beef), when young and tender, should have a fine open grain, and be of a deep red. It should be- elastic to the touch ; that is, if pressed with the fingers, the flesh should rise again and leave no mark. When the meat is clammy or flabby, and has a faint smell, it is a sign that it is stale and unfit for use. The fat must .fie white, and firm to the touch, and in some parts' as .if it were matted in the flesh. An ox, when killed and skinned, is generally divided into about twenty parts or joints. The manner of cutting up beef and other meat varies. The diagram given shows the most profitable method. The fore-rib, mid-rib and sirloin are best adapted for roasting whole; when cut into slices they are very good for grilling or broiling. Entrecotes (sirloin steaks), contre-filets (rib-steaks) and Porterhouse steaks are cut from the sirloin and mid-rib (see Figs. 1 and 2 in diagram). Sirloin and rib of beef, when boned, are frequently braised and served as Beleve (remove). These, together with the fillet and the rump, are the most expensive joints of an ox. Sirloins and ribs of beef are the best, but rather expensive joints, owing to the weight of bone. The roasting side of the round part of the buttock, and the part called the ‘ topside,’ are the most profitable. The mouse buttock is used for stewing ; shin is used for soup or stewing. The rump and fillet are the tenderest and most succulent parts; they are usually braised, or else cut into steaks and grilled. In some parts of England (particularly in Devonshire and Cornwall) the rump is cut larger than in other parts, and, when salted and boiled, forms one of the standard joints ; but as much of the albumen and nourishment of this part of meat is lost in the brine, salting is not recommended in this case. When the fat of beef appears hard and skinny, and a kind of horny texture runs through the rib part of the meat, it is old and of