161 SOUPS (POTAGES) the cream and stir into the soup. Add the rice (put aside) and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. 179. Potage Demidojf.—1 hen, 1 oz. dripping, 2 quarts Espagnole sauce, a mirepoix, 1 pint stock, 1 glass Madeira wine, 12 very small braised button onions, 1 small carrot cut into Juli- enne strips, 6 mushrooms (preserved), 2 truffles, seasoning. Prepare the hen as for boiling, and cut it into joints. Have ready a mirepoix, consisting of onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bacon, and bouquet garni, fry this in a deep saute-pan for a few minutes, then add the dripping and put in the pieces of fowl. Fry quickly to brown the latter, cover and cook in the oven till the meat is done. Take up the pieces of fowl, remove the skin and bones, and pound the meat in a mortar till fine. Pojir the fat off the mirepoix, and put this with the fowl puree in a stewpan containing the Espagnole. Cook for 30 minutes, adding about half the stock or more if needed. Tammy the soup, return to the stewpan, season to taste, add the wine and re-heat. Cook the carrot strips in stock ; strain and put with the soup, add also the truffles and champignons, previously cut into cubes, or Julienne shapes (strips). Boil up, skim and serve with the braised onions previously placed into the soup-tureen. 180. Potage de Perdreau d In Grand Due (Partridge Soup).—1 partridge or any other small bird, 4 oz. oatmeal, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. panade, 4-6 fresh mushrooms, 3 eggs, 2 quarts white stock, seasoning, ^ gill cream. Remove the fillets from the partridge, cut up the remainder and roast it with a little dripping for about twenty minutes. Make a roux, i.e. blend the oatmeal and butter to a nice colour ; then add the roasted carcase, &c., fry for a few minutes'longer, and moisten with sufficient stock to produce the consistency of a puree. Allow to cook gently for 1^ hour, then season and pass through a fine sieve. Meanwhile pound the fillets of partridge, add the panade and a little white of egg, season to taste and rub through a sieve. Make some little quenelles about the size of small marbles with this, and poach them. Prepare a Royal, which consists of fresh mushrooms, cooked in stock and passed through a sieve, mix this with the eggs, and put in a buttered mould, poach, turn out and cut into small rounds. Put these and the quenelles into the prepared puree, add the cream, let the soup get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, then serve. 181. Potage dla Uuchesse—2 quarts chicken stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 4 oz. cooked chicken meat, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked sorrel puree, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, 2 truffles, pepper, and salt, nutmeg. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir for a few minutes over the fire without allowing it to brown ; add gradually the stock, boil up, and cook gently for half an hour. Stir in the sorrel puree, and rub the whole through a fine sieve or tammy. Return to the stewpan, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Beat up the egg-