357 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. {HOT DISHES) 1026. Linde a la Reyniere.—Boast turkey dished up, surrounded with small fried sausages and large chestnuts, cooked whole in chicken broth. Served with a rich brown sauce, in which the liver, previously braised in turkey fat, and chopped finely, has been incorporated. 1027. Blanquette de Linde aux Morilies.—Stewed turkey in white sauce with morels (a species of mushroom). Select a young turkey for this dish, truss it as for boiling, and cut up when parboiled, then stew like fricassee. 1028. Cuisses de Linde Farcies a la Garibaldi. -Legs of turkey boned, stuffed with chicken and veal forcemeat, truffles, ham and tongue, all finely minced. Braised slowly with little gravy. Served with a garniture of stewed macaroni flavoured with tomato puree and small rice timbales. 1029. Linde grillee a la Liable.—Cold roast turkey cut into neat joints, covered with beurre diable (devilled butter) (No. 388). Grilled over a slow fire, served with a piquante or other sauce. A little curry- paste or curry-powder should also be used for flavouring this sauce. ENTREES OF RABBIT, ETC. 1030. Gibelotte de Lapin.—1 or 2 Ostend rabbits {skinned), J lb. fat bacon, bouquet garni {No. 2), 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 18 button onions, 1 glass Chablis or Sauterne, f of a pint of stock, salt, pepper. Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat joints not too large. Cut the bacon into slices, put the butter and bacon in a saute-pan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Take out the bacon, and put on a plate. Peel the onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter, and put with the bacon. Let the butter get thoroughly hot, and put in the rabbit. Let each piece become of a nice brown colour, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle in the flour, let it get nicely brown, moisten with the stock ; add the wine and bouquet garni, which should consist of two sprigs of parsley, a sprig ■of marjoram, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, all tied up neatly with a piece of white cotton or thin string. Let it come slowly to a boil, skim, put in the onions, and let the whole simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter. The saute-pan should be kept well covered when once the contents commence to simmer, so as to prevent as much as possible the steam from escaping. About ten minutes before the above-stated time put in the liver, well washed, and cut into four. Before dishing up take out the pieces of rabbit, onion, and liver, and put in another saute-pan ; add the bacon. Take off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the rabbit. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the pieces of rabbit neatly on it, and put the garnish over and round it. Boil up the sauce, and pour over the meat.