THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK sauces and gravies known at this moment. An ingenious cook will have as little trouble to form that number of sauces in different varieties, as a musician with his seven notes, or a painter with his palette and colours ; nor is it too much to assert that there is no other branch of cookery which offers better opportunities to display the ability of a cook than this. The art of sauce-making consists of extracting and combining certain flavours which are incorporated with the liquids. For this the gift of a good palate is essential, and the experience and skill of the most accomplished cook, as well as a thorough knowledge of the taste of those for whom he or she is cooking. Difference between Sauces and Gravies.—As there are many people who do not know the difference between sauces and gravies, it is necessary to devote a few words to this subject, so as to make the point quite clear. A gravy is simply the juices of meat (roasted or braised meat) seasoned but without being thickened, whilst a sauce may be defined, using the most general term, as a liquid seasoning containing some kind of liaison which is employed in the presentation of food. According to the standard dictionaries, a gravy may be called a sauce, although a sauce is not always a gravy. Many of the ‘ grande ’ sauces contain gravies for their foundation, which are used in a concentrated form to enrich the flavour of such sauces. It is therefore more distinctive to call liquids pure and simple ‘ gravies,’ and liquids thickened with flour or other ingredients ‘ sauces.’ Liaisons.—Thickenings or bindings. The various processes of thickening sauces as well as soups are called liaisons. There are six distinct methods known for thickening sauces, 1. Liaison with roux. 2. Liaison with eggs. 3. Liaison with butter and cream. 4. Liaison with butter and flour kneaded. 5. Liaison with blood. 6. Liaison with cornflower, arrowroot, or fecule. ROUX The most popular and most generally adopted thickening is effected by means of roux. It is therefore necessary to first give a few details to define the word * roux ’ in regard to its culinary meaning. Literally, the word means russet, but in the culinary sense it is a mixture of flour and butter cooked or blended to certain degrees, to white, brown, or fawn colours. The quantity of flour and butter employed is used in equal proportions. If made beforehand in large or small quantities, it should be kept in covered jars, when it will keep good for months. A tablespoonful is usually found sufficient to thicken a pint of liquid. Stock-roux must always be kept in jars well covered, in a cool place, ready at hand.