VEGETABLES {LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 489 • on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle; mask the whole with . aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. 1268. Artichauts de Jerusalem d la Creole.—1\ lb. good- sized Jerusalem artichokes, 2 oz. butter, \ gill rich stock, \ lb. . cooked game puree, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, demi-glace sauce {No. 237) or rich brown sauce. Wash, scrape, and peel thinly the artichokes; drop each as finished into a basin of water (cold) containing a little salt and the juice of a lemon. Put them in a stewpan with enough of the water in which they were soaked to well cover them, and cook for about twenty minutes. Drain them, and scoop out the centre of each by means of a vegetable or column cutter. Fill the cavities with a well flavoured game puree seasoned with aromatics &c. Place the stuffed artichokes in a buttered saute-pan, add the stock, put a little sauce (brown) on top of each. Bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, arranging them in a row or border shape. Pour a little hot demi-glace or other other good brown sauce over and round them, and serve. 1269. Artichauts entiers d la Chasseur.—3 medium-sized ■ artichokes, \ small onion, 1 shallot, 1^ oz. butter, b lb. fresh button mushrooms, ^ gill Espagnole sauce {No. 236), 1 dessertspoonful ■ chopped parsley, about 6 thin slices of fat bacon, \ gill of white wine, b gill of good stock or gravy, b gill rich tomato sauce {No. 271), 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg, a bouquet garni {No. 2), a few slices of carrot and turnip. Cut off the stalks of the artichokes, trim off the under leaves, cut off the tops of the leaves, pare the bottoms, remove the leaves, wash well and drain. Choose three of the largest mushrooms, and pare and trim neatly ; trim, wash, and chop the remainder. Peel and chop finely the onion and shallot, and fry in butter a golden colour ; add the chopped mushrooms, stir over the fire until the moisture of the mushrooms is sufficiently reduced, then add the bread-crumbs and parsley, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg, moisten with enough sauce to well bind the mixture. Fill the centres of the artichokes, place a trimmed button mushroom on the top of each, cover with slices of bacon, tie each with a piece of string to keep in shape. Line a saute-pan with a few pieces of bacon, a bouquet garni, a few ; slices of carrot and turnip, add the wine and stock, put the artichokes neatly in the pan, cover with a buttered paper, and braise in the oven until tender ; it will take from forty-five to sixty minutes ; baste occa- sionally. Untruss the artichokes and dress them on a hot dish. Strain the liquor into a saucepan, remove the fat, add tomato sauce, and a little Espagnole sauce if needed, reduce to half-glaze, finish with a small piece of fresh butter, season to taste, and pour round the dish. Serve hot. 1270. Fonds d’Artichauts d la Aloruay.—6 to 8 artichoke ■ bottoms, 1 small tin or terrine foie gras, about a gill Mornay sauce