SAUCES 187 salted water, strain and rub through a fine hair sieve. When cold, stir this puree gradually into the mayonnaise sauce, add the cream, aspic, anchovy essence, the vinegar, and chutney (the latter should previously be rubbed through a sieve) ; season with pepper and salt and a small pinch of caster sugar; add the chopped gherkins and a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. 287. Creme de JRaifort, fvoide (.Horseradish Cream, cold).— 1^ oz. grated horseradish, 1 gill thick cream, 1 tablespoonful white- wine vinegar, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, £ teaspoonful powdered mustard, ^ saltspoonful salt, a pinch of cayenne. Put the horseradish in a basin, add the sugar, mustard, salt, and cayenne; moisten with the vinegar. Stir in gradually the cream, and whisk gently for a few minutes. Serve in a sauce-boat with cold roast beef, &c. 288. Sauce Haifort, frappee (Iced Horseradish Sauce).— 1 stick horseradish, 1 gill cream or milk, 1 teaspoonful mixed mustard, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Grate the horseradish as finely as possible, put it in a basin, stir in the cream or milk, the vinegar, mustard, and the sugar. Stir well and pour into a sauce-boat. When milk is used a tablespoonful of condensed Swiss milk should be mixed with the fresh milk, and the sugar should then be omitted. Freeze till a semi-liquid consistency, and hand round with grilled fish, meat, or poultry. 289. Sauce Cliaud-froid, blonde (Fawn-coloured Chaud- froid Sauce).—\ pint aspic jelly, 1 gill Allemande sauce (No. 204), j; gill cream, 1 tablespoonful Espagnole sauce (No. 236), i oz. French leaf gelatine, a glass of Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Melt the aspic jelly in a stewpan ; add the wine, Espagnole and Allemande sauce ; let it come to a boil, and skim. Soak the gelatine in cold water, squeeze it well, and put with the sauce ; when dissolved, stir in the cream, pass through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, and use as directed. 290. Sauce Cliaud-froid, blanche (White Chaud-froid Sauce).—J pint bechamel or supreme sauce, 1 gill aspic, 5 or 6 leaves French gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoonful chilli vinegar or lemon- juice. Dissolve the gelatine along with the aspic jelly, warm up the sauce, and mix the two together. Stir over the fire until it boils, put in vinegar or lemon-juice, and cook for a few minutes. Strain or tammy; add the cream when cooling, and use as required. 291. Sauce Cliaud-froid, brune (Brown Chaud-froid Sauce).—| pint Espagnole (No. 336) or salmi (No. 240) sauce, 1 glass Madeira or sherry, ^ pint aspic, 4 leaves French gelatine, cream. Boil up the sauce. Dissolve the gelatine with the aspic, mix both together ; add the wine; let simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth ; add a little cream, and flavour to taste.