HOBS D'CETJVBE (.APPETISERS) 131 -white finely. Fry the rounds of bread a golden colour in clarified butter, drain, and cool. Spread thick on one side with anchovy butter ; cut the anchovy fillets into little strips and arrange on the croutes in the form of rosettes ; cut the stems of 8 small preserved mushrooms, and put the heads in the centre of each; garnish with the hard-boiled white and yolk of egg and the chopped parsley, decorated by means of a paper cornet with green butter ; dish up on little glass dishes and serve. 71. Canapes a la Turque.—A\ oz. butter, 4 yolks of hard- boiled egg, 4 Gorgona anchovies (boned), 3 oz. cooked lean ham, 1 oz. blanched parsley, spinach greening, 1 tablespoonful brown sauce, bread for croutes, and clarified butter. Cut some bread into slices about two inches long and half an inch wide ; fry these in clarified butter a golden colour and drain. Let cool. Pound the ham till fine, add a little sauce to produce a smooth paste, also | oz. butter and 1 yolk of hard-boiled egg. Spread thickly one side of the prepared bread croutes. Make three different kinds of butter : yellow, by pounding 2 yolks of egg and 2 oz. of butter ; the red, by pounding 3 boned anchovies with 1 oz. butter and a little brown sauce; and the green, by pounding the blanched parsley with 1 oz. butter, 1 anchovy, and 1 yolk of egg. Season the butters to taste, and rub separately through a fine sieve. By means of a forcing bag with a rose pipe or a paper cornet, force out the prepared butter alternately in the shape of crossbars on the croutes, dish up and serve cold. 72. Appetissants (Maconnaise).—3 hard-boiled eggs, 1 truffle, 2 gherkins, 3 red chillies, 6 Gorgona anchovies, 4 gill well-reduced bechamel (No. 202), 2 blanched mussels or sauce oysters, \ oz. butter, a pinch pepper, bread for toast. Cut some slices of bread about ( inch thick, toast it slightly, stamp out 8 to 10 rounds about 1^ inches in diameter ; hollow out the centre portion of each sufficiently to receive the puree named below. Cut the eggs into slices about 4 inch thick, take out the yolk and put in a mortar with 4 filleted anchovies, mussels, or oysters, and the butter ; pound till smooth, season with a pinch of pepper, add the bechamel sauce, mix well and rub through a fine sieve. Fill the hollow part of the rounds of toast with this, garnish the surface of each with little strips of truffles, gherkins, chillies, and anchovies. These will look best if put on in the form of lattice-work. Put the remainder of the savoury puree in a paper cornet or forcing bag with a fancy tube, decorate the edges artistically. Dish up on little glass dishes and serve. 73. Canapes a la Turbigo.—4 small rolls (farthing rolls), 10 prawns or 6 crayfish tails, 1 small head of celery, a feiv mixed pickles, a little aspic jelly, hard-boiled ivhites of eggs, 2 small truffles, a spoonful tomato juice, capers, and parsley, remoulade sauce (No. 285). K 2