ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 271 repeated until the sauce is quite set. Dip each piece in beaten egg and roll in bread-crumbs, then fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain well, and dress the pieces on a dish in the form of a circle. Put the soubise sauce in the centre, and serve hot. 691. Filet d’Agneau d la Spadacini.—1 neck of lamb (best end), \ lb. cooked savoury.rice flavoured with saffron, 1 small bread croute (cork-shape), 1 artichoke bottom, 1 truffle, 1 egg, 2 oz. clarified butter, flour, seasoning, Spadacini sauce (No. 276), demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Cut the meat from the bones of the neck, trim the superfluous fat and pare neatly ; then cut into eight pieces, flatten each, and shape into round fillets. Fix a cork-shaped fried bread crouton on the centre of a round entree dish. Arrange the cooked rice round it as neatly as possible, insert a silver skewer (hatelet) with the fond d’artichaut and truffle previously fixed on. Keep the dish in a warm place. Dip the prepared fillets in beaten egg, then in seasoned flour, and fry a golden colour in clarified butter. Dress them neatly round the hatelet on the dish, put a tablespoonful of Spadacini sauce on each fillet, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 692. Navarin d’Agneau en Casserole.—1 lorn of lamb, 1 spring cabbage (blanched), 12 button onions, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. butter, 1 pint rich brown sauce, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small chops, trim off the skin and superfluous fat. Melt the butter in an earthenware fireproof casserole, put in the lamb chops, and fry lightly on each side. Take them up and place on a plate. Peel the onions and fry them a nice golden colour in the butter. Divide the cabbage (previously washed, trimmed and blanched) into eight portions, and wrap each into a thin slice of bacon. Pour the butter off the onions, and place the lamb chops, cabbage, bacon, and onions in alternate layers in the earthenware pan. Season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg, moisten with the sauce, cover the pan with its lid, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Just before serving, skim off the fat from the surface, and send the dish (casserole) to table placed on a dish with a folded napkin. 693. Noisettes d’Agneau d V Union.—1 loin of lamb, 8 fonds of artichoke, 2 oz. butter, 18 to 20 small fresh button mush- rooms, 1 tablespoonful meat glaze, or 1 teaspoonful of Lemco (Liebig Company's Extract of Meat), 1 gill stock, 1 teaspoonful finely chopped parsleyteaspoonful chopped chervil, \ teaspoonful chopped chive, a few leaves of chopped tarragon, ^ lemon, salt and pepper, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Remove the meat from the loin and trim into a meat fillet, paring off the superfluous fat. Cut the meat into about eight noisettes (fillets), shape each nicely. Melt an ounce of butter in a saute pan, and cook the noisettes over a quick fire till done (great care must be taken not to over-cook them), season the noisettes before or after cooking them.