129 HOBS D'CETJVRE (APPETISERS) and a few drops of caramel, pass through a fine strainer; when cooling, mask thickly one side of each sandwich with this sauce. Dissolve a gill of aspic jelly and mix two tablespoonfuls of double cream and a few drops of lemon-juice, let it cool a little, and mask the other sides of the sandwiches. When set run a little half-set aspic jelly over the surface of each, and put them on the ice to set. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish, dress the sandwiches in a circle round the toast, alternately one white and one brown ; put a handful of dressed salad, such as lettuce, endive, cress,, and radishes in the centre, put the remainder of the caviare neatly on the top, keep on the ice until required for table. 63. Jfrissolettes tie Caviar. — Procure four or six very small1 farthing rolls, c'ut them in halves, and trim the edge to make them1 stand firmly, scoop out the crumbs and stand in a cool oven to dry.. Have ready some stiff mayonnaise sauce, add to it enough liquid aspic jelly to stiffen the sauce, line the inside of the rolls when cold with this, and let set. Put a dessertspoonful of Russian caviare in the centre of each roll, place a little chopped aspic jelly on the top of each,, or fill up with a layer of half-set aspic. Ornament the surface with small strips of filleted anchovies, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve when quite set. Ij If unable to get the rolls small enough, stamp out sdme rounds of bread, half an inch thick, scoop out some of the crumbs, fry in butter,, let cool, and proceed as above. 64. Caviar en Salade.—Put two tablespoonfuls of best-olive oil in a salad bowl, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, stir in with a wooden fork or spoon the contents of a small pot of Russian caviare. Slice one hard-boiled egg and two ripe tomatoes, mix carefully with the above, adding a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a little salt if needed. Dish up neatly on little glass dishes, sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley. Ornament the dishes with some slices of hard-boiled egg and tomato, and serve. 65. Croutons al’JEspagnole.—Cut eighteen round slices of bread about an inch and a half in diameter and one-eighth of an inch thick, fry in butter, drain. Stone as many large Spanish olives with a sharp tube cutter; fill with some stiff Tartare sauce (No. 278); place one in the centre of each crouton, curl an anchovy fillet round it; garnish with finely-chopped hard-boiled egg, lobster coral, and sprigs of parsley. Dish up on small hors d’ceuvre dishes, and serve. 66. Thon Marine (Tunny Fish).—The tunny is a kind of fish which resembles the cod ; it is preserved or marinated in oil. The flesh is very firm, has a delicate flavour, and looks very much like cooked veal ; it makes a highly esteemed hors d’oeuvre, but is hardly ever served otherwise. To serve it, cut some thin slices, arrange them on oblong or round glass dishes in rows overlapping one another. Ornament the sides alternately with little heaps of chopped capers K