476 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK prepared with a tomato cream, and garnish with truffle slices. Dish up and decorate with macedoine salad &c. 1468. Tomates aux Champignons.—8 medium-sized ripe, but firm tomatoes, 10 to 12 preserved mushrooms, or 6 large fresh cup mushrooms, 2 oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 2 tablespoonfuls white bread-crumbs, ^ teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 tablespoonfuls rich demi-glace (No. 237) or Madeira (No. 237 a) sauce, 8 rounds of fried bread (croutons), seasoning. Kemove the stalks from the tomatoes; wipe them with a cloth. Scoop out carefully the pips and a portion of the pulp, taking great care not to break the sides of the tomatoes ; chop the mushrooms finely ; when fresh ones are used wash and dry them first. Peel and chop the shallots, fry them a golden colour in an ounce of butter, then add the chopped mushrooms, bread-crumbs, and parsley; mix well and moisten with the sauce, beat up, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Fill up the cavities of the tomatoes with this, put a tiny bit of butter on top of the stuffing of each tomato. Eange them in a well-buttered saute-pan, and cook in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dress them on the prepared bread croutons, which must be cut to the size of the tomatoes. Dish up, and garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. Serve hot. 1469. Beignets de Tomates (Tomato Fritters.)—4 ripe but firm tomatoes (small), 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful salad-oil, lemon, pepper and salt, frying batter and fat. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, wipe them, and cut cross- ways into thick slices (each tomato should make about three nice slices); put these in a deep dish. Season lightly with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the parsley, oil, and lemon-juice. Prepare a batter with four ounces of flour, one tablespoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, one egg, and a little tepid water. Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth and add last of all. Allow the batter to stand a while. Drop each piece of tomato into the batter, so as to coat it completely. Take out with a skewer or fork, drop into the hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain on paper or cloth, dish up, and serve hot. 1470. Tomates en Surprise (a Cold, Rich Dish).—Line some tomato moulds with aspic cream, fill them with a mixture com- posed of cooked asparagus points, bechamel sauce (No. 202), Tartare sauce (No. 278), and aspic jelly (No. 293), seasoned with nutmeg, salt, pepper, and mace. Place the moulds on the ice to set. To serve, unmould, dish up, and garnish with a small mixed salad and sprigs of parsley &c. 1471. Tomates farcies a la Flamande (Stuffed Tomatoes, cold, Dutch fityle).-—6 even-sized ripe and firm tomatoes, about 1 pint aspic (No. 293), 4 Gorgona anchovies, filleted, 1 dessertspoonful capers, 1 hard-boiled yolk of egg, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), parsley, 2 lettuces. Wipe the tomatoes, carefully scoop out the centre by means of a