THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 302 butter, and place in a hot oven for about ten minutes. If preserved cepes are used, strain them well, saute them in a little butter, season with salt and pepper, add the demi-glace sauce, and cook for ten minutes. Dish up the scallops in a circle on a hot round dish, and put the ragout of cepes in the centre. 828. Filets de Veau a la Colbert.— Cut about two pounds of lean fillet of veal into eight slices, flatten, trim and season with pepper and salt. Put two ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil into a saute-pan, when hot place in the fillets, fry them over a quick fire on both sides, drain the fillets and put them on a plate. Pour off most of the fat in the saute-pan, add three finely- chopped shallots, fry a little, dilute with a small glass of sherry and rather more than a gill of Madere sauce (No. 237 a), boil for a few minutes, add a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, stir well, and work in an ounce and a half of fresh butter. Return the fillets and mix well with the same, but do not let it boil again. Dish the fillets in a circular row, place a heart-shaped slice of fried bread between the fillets. Fill the centre with small round potatoes (pommes de terre a la Parisienne, No. 767), sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, pour the remainder of the sauce over the fillets, and serve. 829. Filets de Vea u a la Hongroise.—1| to 2 lb. fillets of veal (knuckle or cushion part will do), 6 new potatoes, 6 anchovy fillets, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 fresh egg, 1 tablespoonfid capers, gherkins, 1 lemon, 1 teaspoonful lemon-fuice, ( gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 2 oz. butter, salt and pepper, paprika, bread- crumbs. Free the meat from skin and sinews, cut it into thin slices across the grain of the meat, beat each slice with the blade of a chopping-knife or cutlet-bat, and chop lightly so as to thin them. Pare them neatly, season with salt, pepper, and paprika, roll them in flour, dip in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Clarify the butter, then put it in a saute-pan, and when hot put in the fillets and cook them a nice golden brown. Dress them flat in a circle on a hot dish ; on each fillet place a slice of hard-boiled egg, and on these arrange symmetrically some fillets of anchovies and capers. Fill the centre of the dish with cubes of potatoes cooked as follows:—Scrape and wash the new potatoes, cut them into neat cubes, blend in salted water, drain and fry in clarified butter a golden colour, take up, drain, and season with white pepper and paprika. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on top, surround the border of the dish with thin slices of gherkins and slices of lemon, the peel of which has been notched. Send to table with Espagnole sauce flavoured up with a few drops of lemon-juice. 830. Filets de Vea u a la Talleyrand (Fillets of Veal, Talley- rand Style).—1 lb. lean veal (fillet or cushion part), 1 f oz. butter, 2 small shallots, 1 dessertspoonfid chopped parsley, (lemon, 2 yolks of