41 THE KITCHEN a day will remove the grease and other particles adhering to the pipes. There are many good rules for perfect management of a kitchen, but the most essential are the following: 1. Maintain scrupulous cleanliness. 2. Methodical order and exactitude. 3. Wise economy and discipline. 4. Sobriety and honesty. It is needless to say that upon the strict observance of these rules much of the success of a culinary establishment depends. Some cooks never seem to have finished their work ; they are always in a muddle and have scarcely room enough to work, a state of affairs which is merely the result of untidiness. With proper management a cook hardly knows what a muddle is. An untidy kitchen is a disgrace to the culinary profession. The kitchen ought to be the very last place of an establishment where dirt and untidyness prevail. If we aim at being successful in our cooking, we must remember the importance of keeping everything connected with a kitchen, and especially the utensils, perfectly clean. It is simply wonderful how much labour and trouble can be saved by method. Order and Forethought in a Kitchen.—The great secret of success in this direction is unquestionably cleanliness. Clean and clear up as you go. Keep everything in its proper place. Never put off to the last what can be done beforehand. Do everything at its proper time. These are maxims which every cook should carefully adhere to; for by so doing they study their own as well as their masters’ interest. BADLY VENTILATED KITCHENS The steam and heat from a badly ventilated kitchen disseminates a disagreeable, unhealthy odour throughout the house. The ventilation of the kitchen should, therefore, be so perfect as to thoroughly remove all gases, smells and odours caused by the various cooking processes. When the kitchen is built on the top of the house this evil is to a large extent overcome. A ventilator placed just above the cooking stove lessens greatly the discomfort from heat, for it carries off much of the superfluous heat, and helps to remove the smoke, steam, and smell from cooking. Where a so-called ventilating shaft is provided, ventilation is all the more effective, for a much stronger draught is then obtained. The odour which arises when boiling green vegetables, such as cabbages, &c., and cauliflowers, is most unpleasant—in fact, bad enough at times to take away one’s appetite for the meal of which such vegetable is to form a part. A simple and effective remedy for