424 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK from the tin, add about half a pint of stock or gravy, season with pepper and salt, and boil up. Strain the gravy thus prepared over the duckling, garnish with some picked and washed watercresses, and serve. Apple sauce is sometimes served with this roast, but it is not essential. 1227. Caneton a la Jfouennaise (.Braised Duckling, Bouenese Style).—1 good-sized Bouen duckling (see Note), B oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful of chopped shallots, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 tablespoonfuls fresh bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, ( liqueur glass of cognac, 1 gill claret, % pint stock, ( lemon, salt, pepper, and a little spice, 1 small onion, 1 dessertspoonful flour. In drawing the duckling save the heart and liver, remove the gall, wash and chop all fine ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of ground spice. Peel and boil the onion in stock or water, chop finely. Put the chopped onion, liver, &c., in a basin, add the cognac, chopped parsley, and bread-crumbs, melt an ounce of butter, mix this well with the stuffing, adding sufficient stock to moisten, and put in the interior of the ducklings. Fasten both ends with string and truss them. Melt 2 ounces of butter in a braising-pan, fry the shallots a little, put in the duckling, and cook over the fire long enough to take colour, take it out, put in the flour and brown a little, pour in the claret and stock, let it come to a boil. Replace the duckling, add the bouquet garni and a few drops of lemon - juice. Cover with a lid or buttered paper, and braise in the oven until tender. Take out theX dugkling, joint it, but keep in shape, and dish up on a hot dish.. Strain the sauce. Reduce a little, strain through a napkin or pointed strainer, sauce over and round the duckling. This dish may be served as remove or entree. Note.—As a roast, ducks can be served in the same manner by stuffing them with a mixture of bread-crumbs, chopped livers and hearts, herb seasoning, chopped parsley and shallots, egg, and fresh butter. 1228. Pintade rdtie an Cresson (Boast Guinea-Fowl with- er esses).—Singe, draw, and wipe two guinea-fowls, place a piece of fat bacon inside each, and truss for roasting. Wrap up each fowl in a piece of buttered paper and roast in front of a brisk fire for half an hour or a little longer ; baste well with butter or dripping while roast- ing. When done take up, untruss, dish up, surround with freshly picked and washed watercress, seasoned with salt, pepper, a little vinegar, and oil (two tablespoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar). Serve with fried bread-crumbs (No. 1237), bread sauce (No. 235), and gravy. 1229. Poularde rdtie.—Singe, draw, and truss a large poularde, which is a large spring chicken which has been fattened up. Baste well with butter or dripping, roast in front of a brisk fire or bake in a hot oven. Baste well with fat and turn frequently during the