THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 588 cream must be nearly cold when the whipped cream is added), mingle well with a wooden spoon, and pour into a mould ; stand it on the ice; when set, turn out, garnish with some preserved fruit or com- pote, and serve. 1694. Creme a la Diplomats,—£ pint milk, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. macaroons, 4 to 6 Savoy biscuits, \ oz. gelatine, about ^ pint wine jelly, a few glace cherries and angelica for garnish. Make a custard with the milk, egg-yolks, and sugar, crush up the macaroons, and pour the hot custard over same. Add the cream and gelatine previously melted, and allow it to get cool a little. Meanwhile decorate a plain charlotte mould, previously lined with jelly, with cherries, angelica, and savoy fingers ; put in another layer of jelly, so as to set the decoration. Whisk the remainder of jelly until frothy, and line the decorated mould with this. Fill the centre with the prepared custard ; set the mould on the ice, and serve when required. 1695. Creme a l’ Imperatrice.—1\ pint milk, ± pint cream, 3 oz. ground rice, 2 oz. caster sugar, \ oz. French leaf gelatine, vanilla essence, glace cherries, angelica, pistachio nuts, and jelly for garnish. Boil the milk, stir in the ground rice, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Soak the gelatine in a little milk or water, dissolve it, and strain it into the rice ; stir in the sugar and half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence ; let cool a little, then add a few glace cherries (cut into small dice) and a tablespoonful of blanched, peeled, and coarsely chopped pistachios. Whip the cream and stir gently into the above. Have ready a fancy border or jelly-mould, masked with jelly and decorated tastefully with glace cherries, pistachios, and angelica, pour in the prepared mixture, and put the mould in a cool place to set. To serve immerse the mould in tepid water, turn the contents on a cold dish, decorate with coarsely chopped jelly and some fruit compote. 1696. Creme de Mirabelles en Surprise.—4 pint mira- belle puree (this is obtained by heating up a bottle of preserved mirabelles and rubbing the fruit through a fine sieve), % pint cream, f oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 gill wine jelly, 1 tablespoonful mara- schino, 1J oz. caster sugar, 1J wineglassful port icine, \ gill red currant jelly, a few shredded almonds and glace cherries for garnish. Mask a bombe-mould with a thin layer of clear wine-jelly. Heat the fruit pulp (puree) up slowly, add to it the sugar and the mara- schino. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and strain into this. Stir until it commences to cool, then stir in the cream, previously whipped. Stand the prepared mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice, and pour in a little of the prepared puree. When set place in a narrow glass tumbler, and pour some more cream round