282 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK oven. Dressed alternately with heart shapes of tongue and ham, and served with Italian sauce (No. 239). 741. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise.—Grilled mutton cutlets dressed in the centre of a rice border, the rice being stewed with tomato puree and flavoured with Parmesan cheese. Demi-glace sauce (No. 237) is served round the cutlets. 742. Coteletes de Mouton a la Nelson.—Par-broiled mutton cutlets, covered when cold and pressed with chicken forcemeat, onion puree, and grated cheese, baked in the oven, served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 743. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soyer.—Par-broiled mutton cutlets, or small chops neatly trimmed and seasoned, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, shallots, and savoury herbs. They are then fried in butter, dished up and served with maitre d’hotel butter (No. 394), flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. 744. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Vicomtesse. —Mutton cutlets, grilled and pressed, then immersed in a well-reduced Madere sauce (No. 237a), egged, crumbed and fried. Dished up in a circle with a mixture of spring vegetables in centre and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 745. Epaule de Mouton a la Saiute-Menehould.—Shoulder of mutton braised with carrots, turnips, bacon and savoury herbs, when done cut into slices, dished up, covered with brown sauce, sprinkled over with bread-crumbs, and small pieces of butter, browned in a hot oven or under a salamander. 746. Escalopes de Mouton a la Chipolata. Fried crumbed mutton fillets or collops, cut from the chump ends of loins of mutton, gar- nished with braised chestnuts, carrots, turnips, and small onions, pieces of fried sausages, and fried potato croquettes. 747. Filet de Mouton a la Gascogne.—Boned piece of lean mutton (loin or neck) larded with anchovy fillets, braised and served with a brown sauce, flavoured with a suspicion of garlic. 748. Hachis de Mouton a l’Ecossaise.--Hashed mutton laid in a pie- dish, covered with bechamel sauce (No. 202), a thin layer of mashed potatoes, and bread-crumbs. Baked in a hot oven. 749. Hachis de Mouton a la Portugaise.—Thinly sliced roast leg of mutton browned slightly in butter with thin slices of ham, carrots, chopped shallots, a little garlic and chopped parsley. Braised in Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Served in a deep entree dish. 750. Langues de Mouton a la Dreux.—Boiled sheeps’ tongues, skinned and split open, ranged on a dish, spread over with a mixture of bread soaked in milk, chopped parsley or mushrooms, egg-yolks, and seasoning, sauced over with Duxelle sauce (No. 313), sprinkled over with bread-crumbs, and baked in the oven. 751. Langues de Mouton panees.—Blanch some sheeps’ tongues, trim them or cook them till tender in seasoned stock. Bemove the skins and split them lengthways, season with salt and pepper, and dip them in oiled butter, cover well with bread-crumbs. Dry-fry them in butter in a saute-pan until they acquire a golden colour.