252 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK French gherkins, a small handful of capers, one large or two small lettuces, a fete slices of pickled beetroot, mayonnaise (No. 277). Cut the lobster lengthways, take out all the meat; if there is any coral chop it fine and reserve to ornament the surface ; break the claws, take out the meat intact if possible, as it will come in for ornamenting the dish. Cut the remainder of the meat into neat pieces. Wash and trim the lettuce, tear the good leaves into convenient pieces. Put the cut lobster meat and salad into a basin, add sufficient mayonnaise sauce to season, mingle gently, and place in a heap in the centre of a round dish ; shape it in the form of a dome, mask it with very stiff mayonnaise sauce, surround it with the pieces of claws, alternately with quarters of hard-boiled egg, garnish systematically according to taste and fancy with long strips of fillets of anchovy, capers, fancifully-cut pieces of beetroot, chopped coral, stoned olives, slices of gherkins. Keep on the ice until required, and serve as cool as possible. 653. (Petites Dormes de Honmrd a la Creme.—£ hen lobster (small), 1 gill aspic jelly, 1 gill cream, 1 gill tomato pulp, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 2 sheets French gelatine, salt, pepper, a few sprigs of tarragon and red chillies for garnish. For pastry 2 oz. flour, H oz. butter, 2 oz. grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere), egg, cayenne. Line some very small square fluted patty or tartlet moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, and deedrate tastefully with tarragon-leaves and thin strips of chilli pods. Cut the meat of the lobster into very small pieces, dissolve the gelatine in the tomato pulp, then strain and add to it the remainder of aspic jelly, whip the cream till stiff and mingle with the above. Add to this the mayonnaise sauce and the lobster, season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill the little moulds with this mixture and place them on the ice to set. Meanwhile prepare a fairly stiff paste with the flour, grated cheese, butter and egg, rub the butter into the flour, then add the cheese and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Moisten with half an egg well beaten up, and mix into a paste; roll out to about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut out some squares a trifle larger than the moulds, place the squares of paste on to a greased baking-tin, prick the bottom of the paste with a fork, and bake in a very moderate oven for about ten minutes. Take up, and when cool turn out the moulds, and place each cream on to one of the paste crusts. Dish up on a dish lined with lace paper, and serve. 654. J5ordure de TTomard d I’Indienne.—1 hen lobster, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 6 boned anchovies, \ lemon, 1 tablespoonful Madeira, 1 dessertspoonful chutney, 1 pint aspic, 1 small truffle, 2 oz. best Patua rice, \ pint cream, salt, pepper, paprika. Wash the rice, blanch it, then drain and cook in boiling water, slightly salted, till tender, strain off the water, drain the rice and let it cool. Split the lobster, remove the meat, cut it into small pieces