75 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS cooks’ ovens. Some of the bakers’ ovens are built with bricks, which look like deep recesses in the walls, wherein the fuel is burned, and when the oven has attained the required heat, the fuel is re- moved, and the dough is put in to be baked. Ovens heated by hot air (steam), and gas ovens are now greatly used for baking purposes, when such is required on a large scale. These ovens are far cleaner and more healthy to use than the old-fashioned ovens which are heated by burning fuel. In some parts abroad there is still in vogue a very quaint way of baking bread and cakes. The oven in which the baking is conducted is an iron pot with a lid, which is hung by a hook over a fire. The fire is usually made up with logs of wood or charcoal, or both ; burn- ing embers are placed on top of the lid, whereby the bread or cake contained in the pot is being baked at the top and bottom at the same time. Baking is one of the oldest modes of cooking on record, for bread has been baked from time immemorial, and according to the Scriptures, baking was known more than 3,600 years ago. We read in the Scriptures of Sarah cooking her cakes upon the hearth, and again of Lot baking unleavened bread. Pharaoh had his baker, and in the ceremonial law given by Moses to the ancient Jews, they were distinctly directed to bring cakes * baken in the oven.’ Stewing-.—It is generally defined as a gradual process of simmering in a small quantity of liquor. The advantage which Stewing can claim over boiling or simmering is that the more nourishing and soluble elements are not separated from, but served up with the meat &c., the full flavour of which is thereby better preserved. Stewing is unquestionably one of the most economical methods of •cooking meat. The coarser and cheaper parts of meat, which cannot well be used for roasting or boiling, can by slow continuous stewing be made tender, palatable, and nutritious. The meat selected for stewing should be lean, or with but little fat. Stewing entails little loss ; all the juices coming out of the meat amalgamate with the gravy or sauce which is served with the meat. Yery little fuel and attention is needed to cook a stew after it has been set off stewing. The heating must be slow and gradual, never reaching the actual boiling point, and the scum must be removed occasionally. Some meats and fruits and certain vegetables are usually subjected to stewing. Only enough liquid is used to cover the meat, &c., to prevent evaporation. The following are the reasons for claiming this mode of cooking as the most economical:— 1. Tough meat (coarse and cheap), unsuitable for either roasting or boiling, can be made tender and palatable by stewing. 2. There is practically no waste in nutriment, for solids and liquids are both served up.