REMOVES AND BOASTS 421 1217. Jamb on a la Gelee {Ham icith Aspic Jelly).—Cut some thin slices of cooked cold ham, and arrange them neatly on a dish. Garnish the sides with coarsely chopped set aspic or savoury jelly, French gherkins, and parsley. Instead of chopping the aspic cut it into neatly-shaped cubes, lozenge or heart shapes. It may be added that the characteristic of this dish depends largely on the way in which it is dished and garnished. 1218. Jambon a la Marguerite.—1 small York liam, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bouquet garni {No. 2), peppercorns, 2 shallots, 2 glasses champagne, 1 oz. butter, 1 quart stock, 1 lb:pork sausages, 1 pint demi-glace sauce {No. 237). Soak the ham in tepid water for twelve hours, take out the hip- bone, and place in a deep braising-pan with the carrot, onion, and bouquet garni (previously prepared). Cover with water and cook slowly from three to four hours, according to size of ham. Lift out the ham and pour off the water. Chop the shallots finely, fry in butter a golden colour, dilute with champagne and stock; lay in the hani, previously trimmed and pared, and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes with the vegetables and peppercorns. Add the sauce. Par- boil the sausages, »cut them into pieces about an inch long, egg, crumb, and fry in hot fat. Take out the ham, cut slices, and dish up ; reduce the sauce, skim and strain; garnish the dish with fried sausages, and serve with the sauce. 1219. Jambon braise au Champagne {Braised Ham with Champagne Sauce).—A small ham, J pint Marsala or sherry, 1 quart stock, 1 glass champagne, 1| gill demi-glace {No. 237) or Espagnole {No. 236) sauce. Steep the ham in cold water for twenty-four hours, saw off the knuckle-bone; then place it in a braising-pan with enough water to well cover, and cook it very gently till done. Take up the ham, trim it, and put it in another stewpan with the Marsala wine and stock, cover, and let simmer for half an hour or so. Take the ham out, skim the liquor and free it from fat, and reduce it to a half-glaze. Now add the champagne and the brown sauce, boil up, put in the ham, and simmer for a short time longer. Dish up the ham, glaze the surface, insert one or two silver skewers, skim and strain the sauce ; pour a little round the ham and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 1220. Roast Chicken.—Pick, draw, singe, and truss a chicken ; roast it before a clear fire or in the oven. Put a little butter or dripping over the chicken and into the tin, to enable you to baste it frequently during the process of cooking. A quick heat is required for the first ten minutes and a slower heat after that. A small chicken will take about forty minutes and a large one about an hour. When done remove the skewers and string ; place it on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and pour a little gravy, made in the same manner as directed for roast meat, round the dish, and serve with a boat of bread-sauce (No. 235).