364 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK strain the sauce over this. Allow to simmer gently for twenty minutes. Fix the bread-croute (a suitably-shaped oblong or round piece of bread fried in hot fat) by means of a little frying-batter or white of egg on an entree dish. Dress the pieces of grouse on this with the garniture (olives and mushrooms), pour over the sauce carefully, and serve at once. 1050. Spatchcock of Grouse.—This is an excellent English dish that can be served for dinner, but it is equally suitable for breakfast or lunch. Pick, draw, and singe the bird; place it on a board, and split it down the back, and cut through the bone. Wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth, cut off the feet at the first joints ; remove the neck (close to the body of the bird), flatten it, and season with salt and pepper. Brush over the inside with sweet oil, and sprinkle over with finely-chopped shallots and parsley. Dredge with a little flour. Skewer it into a flat shape by means of two steel skewers ; place it between a well-greased gridiron, brush over with oiled butter or sweet oil, and cook before or over a clear fire (charcoal fire in prefer- ence to a coal fire). Cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, turn the gridiron occasionally, and baste freely from time to time with oiled butter. When done, take the bird from the grill, remove the skewers, dish up, and serve with a wrell-prepared tomato sauce (No. 278). Pigeons, chickens, pheasants, and partridges are equally good prepared in this way. 1051. Grices bardees a la Chasseur.—Roast fieldfares, barded, served with mushroom sauce (No. 267), garnished with minced game and fried sausages. 1052. Pate chaud de Mauviettes.—Prepare a paste for crust with the following ingredients : \ lb. flour, 1 oz. chopped beef suet, H oz. butter, £ gill water, a pinch of salt. Work it the same as ordinary short paste. Line an oval raised-pie mould, about three inches high and six inches long ; then take twelve to eighteen larks, bone and stuff them with forcemeat (No. 404 or 406), and shape neatly. Prepare a thin sauce with the bones, half a pint brown sauce, two glasses sherry, and half a pint consomme or gravy, and reduce well. Roll a slice of bacon round each stuffed lark ; line the bottom of the mould with thin slices of bacon (streaky), then place in a layer of the birds, and here and there the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and proceed thus until the mould is full. When filled, cover the mould with paste, ornament tastefully, brush over with yolk of egg, and bake for about two hours in a moderate oven. Pluck and clean a few of the heads of birds, and fry them in a little butter (to be set in at the edge of the pie just before serving). When baked, remove the cover carefully, and having reduced the sauce sufficiently pour over the interior, replace the cover, ornament with the birds’ heads, and serve.