545 ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) plum, and arrange them on top of the border of rice, or in the centre of the dish ; garnish with a few halves of glace cherries. Ornament the top and sides with whipped cream, using a forcing-bag with a plain or fancy pipe for this purpose. 1720. Jtiz a VImperatrice.—2 ok. Carolina rice, 1 pint milk, 6 oz. sugar, \ pod vanilla, 5 yolks of eggs, 1 gill cream, 3 sheets French leaf gelatine, 6 oz. glace fruits, apricots, cherries, die., 1 glass kirschwasser, and a pinch of salt. Wash the rice in several courses of water and drain well. Boil up the milk with the vanilla-pod, stir in the rice, add a pinch of salt, and let it cook very gently for forty-five minutes. Take out the vanilla, wipe it well, and put away for further use. Soak the gelatine in tepid water for a few minutes, and put with the rice. Stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar ; keep stirring over the fire until the eggs begin to set; remove quickly from the fire and let cool a little. Cut the fruit into dice; whip the cream. Mix the fruit, cream, and kirschwasser with the rice ; fill up one large or several small moulds. Put some crushed ice in a flat tin or large basin, stand the mould or moulds in this, and keep them in a cool place for at least two hours. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cold dish. Garnish with a few fancifully cut pieces of crystallised fruit, and serve. 1721. fiommes meringues a la Creme.—10 small sour cooking apples, 10 oz. loaf sugar, k lemon, 1 inch cinnamon, 2 cloves, \ pint cream, 3 whites of eggs, 6 oz. caster sugar, 10 crystallised cherries, angelica. Peel the apples thinly, core them carefully without breaking. Put the loaf sugar, half-pint of water, cinnamon, cloves, and lemon-juice in a copper stewpan, and reduce to a syrup. Skim well and strain into a saute-pan. Kange the apples neatly in the syrup, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven until tender. Lift out the apples, strain carefully, and place them on a buttered baking-sheet. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; mix with the caster sugar. Put the meringue mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain piping tube ; cover each apple completely with the mixture, dust with sugar, and bake in a cool oven for fifteen minutes. The meringue crust should be quite dry, and of a fawny colour when taken out of the oven. Put them on the ice to cool. Whip the cream, add a dessertspoonful of caster sugar ; when the apples are cold, fill the centre of each with some of the whipped cream. Dish up on little heaps of whipped cream in a cold dish. Put a crystallised cherry and two or three lozenge-shaped slices of angelica on the top of each. Put the remainder of the cream in the centre of the dish, and serve. 1722. Omelette a la Meringue.—4 ichites of eggs, 3 oz, caster sugar, vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful maraschino liqueur, | gill cream, pistachios and almonds for garnish, a tablespoonful red currant jelly. N N