ENTREES CHAUDES.DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 299 Cold poultry or game can be prepared in exactly the same manner. 818. Hacliis de Banif a la Bourgeoise (Beef Hash, Bour- geoise Style).—1 lb. cold beef (roast sirloin, rib, or top side), 4 oz. preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked, ham, 2 finely-chopped shallots, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), i gill tomato puree, seasoning, 4 potatoes scooped out in marble-shapes, parboiled and fried in butter. Cut the meat into neat square slices about an inch in size ; cut the mushrooms into thin slices, and the ham into dice. Fry the shallots in the butter without browning, then add the ham and allow to fry a little, then the mushrooms, lastly add the meat, and stir the whole carefully over the fire for a few seconds ; moisten with the brown sauce and tomato puree, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, cook slowly for half an hour, without letting it boil. Arrange the hash in the centre of a hot dish, surround it with the fried potatoes, and serve. 819. Scotch Collops.—1 lb. lean beef (steak), 1^ oz. butter, jz small onion (finely minced), 1 teaspoonful flour, salt and pepper, 1 gill stock. Mince or shred finely the meat, free from fat or skin. Melt the butter, fry the onion a nice colour, stir in the flour and cook a little longer, then add the minced meat, and lastly the stock. Season lightly with pepper and salt, simmer gently for about forty minutes. Dish up, surround the dish with toasted bread sippets, or bread croutons, and serve hot. 820. Bate d la JKirliton (Mirliton Pie).— f lb. cold meat free from bone and gristle,N f lb. mashed potatoes, ^ medium-sized onion, i gill stock, 1 oz. butter or dripping, 1 tablespoonful currants, 1 egg, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Mince the meat rather finely, or chop it coarsely, peel and mince finely the onion, fry it in the butter or dripping a golden colour ; put in the meat, season to taste with salt, pepper it, fry for a few minutes, then add about half the stock, and the currants previously cleaned. Beat up the egg, and mix three parts of it with the mashed potatoes, season the latter, and line a greased pie-dish with it, reserving some of the puree to cover the pie. Fill up with the prepared mince ; add the remainder of the stock, and cover with about an inch layer of potato puree. Smooth over the surface neatly. Brush over with egg kept for this purpose, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty- five minutes. 821. Homan Bie.—Line a large pie-dish, previously buttered, with boiled macaroni, have ready some cooked cold meat, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, tongue, ham, or cold game-; cut it up rather small, and place in layers in the pie-dish, pour a little white or brown sauce over each layer, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; when the dish is full, sauce over with a good