THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 562 part of shredded almonds. This preparation is then rolled out on an oiled marble slab and shaped by means of oiled moulds into desired shapes, which are subsequently filled with whipped and sweetened cream, ice, or custard. Croquants are made by boiling sugar to the crack, and dipping fruit, such as skin of oranges, nectarines, peaches, &c., into the sugar ; they are then placed in rows inside buttered moulds, with glace or candied cherries in between the fruits used, so as to obtain a perfect shape. The top may be finished with a sheet of boiled sugar or marzipan, while the centre is filled with ice or whipped cream. Spun or pulled sugar is used for garnishing in accordance to taste and fancy. 1778. Glace Napolitaine.—\ pint of strawberry or raspberry pulp, 1 oz. chocolate, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 3 pints milk, 1 pint cream, 6 oz. caster sugar, cochineal, crushed ice, and freezing salt. Work the yolks of eggs with half the quantity of sugar until smooth. Boil up the milk, add the remainder of the sugar, and pour on to the egg mixture, stirring vigorously. Return to the stewpan and stir over a slow fire until the liaison is formed (this will take three or four minutes). Strain into a basin. Grate the chocolate, put it in a small stewpan with a tablespoonful of water; when dissolved, mix about one-third of the prepared cream, work well, and let cool. Mix the fruit pulp with half the remainder of prepared cream, colour with a few drops of cochineal if necessary. Add the vanilla essence with the other half. Divide the fresh cream into equal proportions with the three kinds of preparations ; freeze each lot separately. Pack in layers in a mould. Cover closely and pack in ice and salt for about two hours. Unmould, cut into convenient pieces, and serve. 1779. Glace au Marasquin.—1 pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 6 yolks of eggs, {pint cream, 2 glasses maraschino, ice, and freezing salt. Boil the milk and add the sugar. Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, mix thoroughly, and stir in the hot milk. Return to the pan in which the milk was boiled, and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken (on no account let it boil). Strain through a fine hair sieve and let it cool. Beat the cream to a froth, and mix with the above, together with'the maraschino liqueur. Freeze the preparation in the usual manner. Fill up a mould, cover hermetically, and bury in crushed ice and coarse salt for about two hours. Immerse in cold water, wipe the mould, turn out quickly, and serve on a folded napkin. 1780. Glace a la Grappe de Muscat.—6 oz. muscatel grapes, 2 oz. sugar {caster), f pint cream, the juice of a lemon, 1 white of egg, 1 liqueitr-glass chartreuse, 1 glass sherry {if liked), 1 gill syrup. Put the grapes in a basin, mash up with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and rub through a fine hair sieve, using the syrup. Strain