ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 573 minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 1821. Hnitres a la Wellington.—Open the required number of oysters, remove the beards, and put a teaspoonful of seasoned caviare on the lower shell, place the oysters upon these, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and dish up. Ornament the dish with slices of lemon. 1822. Houchees an Caviar.—Prepare six very small puff-paste patty-cases (houchees). They must be very small. Remove the lid, scoop out carefully the centre portion, and keep hot. Peel and chop a shallot very finely and put it in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter, stir over the fire long enough to slightly warm the shallot, put in the contents of a small pot of ‘ hygienic caviar,’ stir gently with a wooden spoon, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce (well reduced) and a few drops of lemon-juice, let it get thoroughly hot. Fill up the cases with this, place them on a dish, put on the little lids, garnish with little heaps of fried parsley, and serve hot. 1823. Caviar a VAndalouse.—Select eight even-sized small onions, peel them and cook for ten minutes in salted water, drain them, and when cool cut or scoop out the centre portion of each. Fill the openings with a mixture of hygienic or Astrachan caviare mixed with a yolk of egg, a tablespoonful of soft bread-crumbs, a small piece of butter, and a pinch of black pepper. Put the stuffed onions on a buttered baking tin or pan, and bake for fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven. Have handy eight rounds of fried croutons, spread with anchovy butter, and put a baked onion on each. Range them neatly on a dish, and garnish with fancifully-cut slices of lemon and parsley. 1824. Caviar ala Di able (.Devilled Caviare).—3 oz. 1 hygienic caviare,’ 1 oz. sweet almonds, blanched and peeled, 1 lemon, bread for croutes, cayenne or Nepaul pepper, \ oz. butter. Cut the bread into slices about 4 inch thick, stamp out some rounds of an inch in diameter, scoop out the centre, and fry in clarified butter or lard a golden colour. Shred the almonds, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake a fawny colour. Mix the caviare with the juice of half a lemon (using a wooden fork or spoon), add the almonds and a pinch of cayenne. Mix the butter with a little red pepper to give it a bright colour, spread on a plate and put on the ice. Fill the croiites with the prepared caviare, stamp out some little stars and place one in each croute. When required for table put in a hot oven for six minutes to get hot through ; dish up, garnish with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve. 1825. Crepes an Caviar (Caviare Pancakes).—Prepare some caviare as in the foregoing recipe, spread over some freshly fried thin pancake (savoury) with a thin layer of anchovy butter and a layer of caviare. Roll up and cut into neat pieces, bake in a quick oven for a few seconds. Dish up, and serve with quarters of lemon.