327 ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) bacon into dice. Cook the latter in a baking tin ; when crisp take out half the quantity and put it on a plate, put the onion in the baking tin with the remainder of bacon and fat, set the duck on this, add the bunch of herbs, and put a little butter on top of the duck, season with pepper and salt, and cook in moderate oven for about twenty minutes, so as to half cook the duck. Take up, untruss, and cut it into neat joints. Fry the flour in the remainder of butter (one and a half ounce) to a nice brown colour, dilute with the stock, boil up, skim, and add to this the gravy from the tin in which the duck was cooked, pouring off every particle of fat beforehand. Stir the sauce until it boils a second time, (a small glass of claret may be added at this stage if liked). Put the pieces of duck, the olives, and the dice of bacon into a clean stewpan, strain the sauce over this and add the bouquet of herbs. Simmer very gently for another twenty-five or thirty minutes, season to taste, skim off the fat, and remove the herbs. Dress the duck in the centre of a hot dish, surround with the olives and bacon. See that the sauce is of the desired consistency, adding a little gravy if found too thick, or reducing it if it is too liquid ; then pour over the duck and serve. 912. Canard a la JPortugaise.—1 large fat duck, 4 small tomatoes, 1 pint brown stock, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 oz. butter, \ pint JEspagnole sauce (No. 236), 4 pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 3 thin slices of ox-tongue, 1 truffle, 6 to 8 musliroom-heads, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, mashed potatoes for dressing, 1 glass sherry. Singe, draw, and wipe the duck, joint it neatly, and put the carcass in a saute-pan, sprinkle with salt, place the pieces of wing, legs, and breast on top, spread on each a small piece of butter, and put in a hot oven for ten minutes. Take out the pieces of duck, put the carcass in a stewpan with the stock, bouquet of herbs, and stew for half an hour; then add the sauces, remove the fat, add the sherry, and reduce a little. Slice the tomatoes rather coarsely, fry them a little in butter. Cut the tongue in Julienne strips, slice the truffles. Eub the sauce through a tammy cloth, put the pieces of duck in a stewpan with the sauce, truffles, and mushrooms, and let stew gently for about half an hour. Toss the tongue in a little butter over a quick fire, just long enough to warm through. Season the salmi with a pinch of pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Dish up on a round or oval dish on to a pyramid of mashed potatoes, place the garnish of tomatoes, tongue, and mushrooms in small groups round the dish, sauce over well with the salmi sauce, and serve very hot. 913. Hahnl de Canard d la Montreull.— 2 small ducks (trussed), 1 oz. butter, \ pint stock, 1 small bouquet of herbs (No. 2), 1 glass sherry, 1 gill Espagnole (No. 236), ^ pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 2 oz. smoked cooked ox-tongue, 6 preserved mushrooms, 3 large truffles, i onion, 1 small carrot, pepper, salt, nutmeg, fleurons or croiltons of bread.