546 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs and beat up in an egg-bowl till quite firm; add a few drops of vanilla essence and 2 oz. of caster sugar. Arrange the mixture on a buttered baking- sheet in the shape of an omelet (half-moon or cushion shape), dredge over with caster sugar, and bake in a very slow oven for about forty minutes. Be sure the oven is not too hot, else the meringue will become too brown; it should be of a delicate golden brown when finished. When done remove the meringue-shape and let cool. Whip the cream till stiff and sweeten with sugar, add the maraschino and put it in the centre of an oblong silver-plated dish ; press in the bottom of the meringue, and place it on top of the cream. Insert some strips of almonds and pistachios, previously bleached and dried, into the meringue crust, and serve. Apple puree, pear puree, or thick custard may, if liked, be used in place of the whipped cream. 1723. Ananas meringue (Frosted Pine-apple).—Scoop out the centre portion of a preserved pine-apple without breaking the shape, place it on a plated dish, and fill the cavity with a macedoine of fruit flavoured with liqueur. Mask the whole with a meringue mixture (stiffly whisked whites of egg and sugar) ; dredge with caster sugar. Bake slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve hot or cold. 1724. Tetites Jionibes de Fraises a la Moderne.—\ lb. small ripe but firm strawberries, 1 pint toine jelly, 1 glass mara- schino, 1 gill double cream, liquid carmine, angelica. Line a number of bomb-shaped moulds with jelly previously coloured with a few drops of carmine. Cut some of the smallest strawberries into slices ; put a small piece of angelica in the end of each half to form the stalks. Place them neatly around the sides of the’mould, so as to line them completely, and put on the ice to set. Cut the remainder of fruit into dice or slices. Boil remainder of jelly, slightly coloured, for a few minutes, to reduce its quantity. Pour into a' basin, stir over the ice to cool, then add the cream, liqueur, and fruit. Mix all carefully over the ice ; fill the centre of the mould. Keep on the ice till required for serving. Unmould, dish up, garnish with a few nice strawberries and chopped jelly, and serve. 1725. Fetits Pains de Fraises (.Little Strawberry Moulds).— 1 punnet of strawberries, 1 pint wine jelly, £ glass maraschino, £ oz. French leaf gelatine, 2 eggs, 1 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, angelica. Dissolve some of the jelly, pick about a dozen of the best straw- berries. Mask some fancy dariole moulds with jelly; when partly set garnish the surface with strawberries and angelica leaves; coat the garnish with half-set jelly, and put on the ice to get firm. Beat up the eggs; pick the remainder of the strawberries, put them in a basin, crush with a wooden spoon, and rub through a fine hair sieve. Make a syrup (about 1 gill) with the loaf sugar; put the fruit pulp,