485 CHAPTER XXV SALADES (SALADS) The word salad is generally defined as a dish of raw herbs or plants (salad plants) eaten with salt, or dressed with vinegar and oil, eaten with other dishes as a relish or an accompaniment. But few people are content to eat salad with salt alone; the majority prefer it dressed in some tasty mixture known as salad dressing. When, we come to the dressing of salads we usually discover a weakness, or some lack of knowledge how to please the palate. The reason is that salad-making or salad-mixing is an art, if not a gift, which is granted to but few. Most people can with study and a certain amount of judgment achieve success in this branch of the culinary art. Salads are prepared in such a variety of ways, and form such a large number of materials, that the subject is broad enough to fill a separate volume. Nearly all succulent vegetables can be brought into requisition in compounding salads. No matter what a salad is composed of, it should always look cool, inviting, and dainty. Almost anything under the sun in the way of eatables can be converted into a salad. The variety of salads is therefore almost endless—raw products, acetarious plants or succulent plants, hot and cold cooked vegetables, fish and meat, are indifferently mixed or blended together. In a typical plain salad the lettuce is generally the foundation, whilst the Russian salad—salade russe—is regarded as the most recherche of dressed salads or fancy salads. So called French salads take the lead in popularity, and these are served to be eaten with the roast or separately. -A true French salad is dressed with vinaigrette and the fourniture d’herbes ; the mixing of this salad could be tabulated in at least fifty ways, the one rule being that a typical French salad should, in addition to the herbs used, consist but, of one kind of vegetable, i.e. of lettuce, endive, batavia, tomato, or escarole. This is frequently disregarded in this country. A French cook or housekeeper will on no account mix any two of these plants together for a salad, because it is claimed that their delicate flavours become thereby impaired, if not entirely destroyed.