ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC: (HOT DISHES) 349 on a dish with a folded napkin and serve hot. This dish can also be made with any other poultry, with garni or with veal. A boat of hot bechamel sauce (No. 202) is often served as an accompaniment with this dish. 983. Souffle de Volatile.—Proceed in exactly the same manner as indicated in recipe for Yeal Souffle (No. 842), using the same quantity of chicken instead of veal, or if desired the weight can be made up wTith a small quantity of veal. The carcase and trimmings of the chicken should be used for stock to make the white sauce. 984. Attriotes de Volatile d la Vaudoise.- 10 slices of coojted ox-tongue, ^ cooked fowl, 8 mushrooms, 2 truffles, 1 glass sherry wine, \ lb. raiv chicken or game, 3 oz. fresh pork, 2 shallots, 1 whole and 2 yolks of eggs,parsley, ^ lemon, £ gill cream, meat-glaze (No. 247), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill Allemande sauce (No. 204), 2 oz. butter, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, pig's caul. Mashed potatoes for border. Cut the tongue slices in even-sized rounds or ovals, put the trimmings in a mortar, add the raw chicken or game, freed from skin and bone, and pound till smooth. Cut the pork into slices, and pound likewise ; mix both together, add a finely-chopped shallot, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, mix well, and work in the cream and yolks of eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice. Put through a fine sieve, and put in a basin. Kemove the skin and bones from the cooked chicken, cut it into small dice, chop the mush- rooms and truffles coarsely, and mix with the forcemeat. Cover the round slices of tongue completely with this mixture, and wrap each in a small piece of cleansed pig’s caul; dip them in beaten white of egg. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan, place in the attriotes, fry over the fire for a few minutes, and finish cooking in the oven for another ten to fifteen minutes. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes ; ornament the sides prettily with a forcing-bag and a fancy pipe or tube. Brush over with yolk of egg, and put in the oven to brown a little. Dress the attriotes on the border, brush over with meat glaze, and serve the following sauce in the centre and round the dish : Chop the remaining shallot finely, fry in the pan in which the attriotes were cooked, pour off the fat, moisten with the tomato and Allemande sauce and the sherry; let it reduce a little, add a tea- spoonful of meat glaze and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, season to taste, strain, and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The sauce is then ready for serving. 985. (Boudins de Volaille d la (Richelieu.—Prepare a chicken forcemeat (No. 403), line with it about eight small well buttered boudin or quenelle moulds. Fill the centre with a salpicon made as follows : — Cut a cooked sweetbread into dice, mix with it six champignons, one large truffle, and a slice of tongue, all cut into small dice ; moisten with a little supreme sauce (No. 210), and season to taste. Cover