SOUPS (POTAGES) 141 Season the soup to taste, add a pinch of fine sugar and the vegetables, pour into the soup-tureen and serve. This soup, if properly done, should be quite transparent, and of a rich golden colour, without being coloured or clarified. 100. Consomme de Volatile a la Chiffonade (Chicken Broth, Chiffonade Style).—A small fowl, 3 quarts of white stock, 2 leeks, 3 oz. butter, a bouquet garni,parsley, 1 long lettuce, 1 handful of sorrel, ^ handful of chervil, salt and pepper. Cut the fowl into small joints. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, season with salt and pepper, and fry slightly brown ; add the stock, boil up and skim. Now add a bunch of parsley, the bouquet garni, and the leeks (pre- viously cleaned). Simmer gently _for two hours. Wash the sorrel, chervil, and lettuce (use the tender leaves of the latter only) ; cut all into very fine strips, put them together with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir gently over the fire for ten minutes, moisten with some of the broth, skim, and cook for fifteen minutes, strain the remainder of the broth into this, and season to taste. Cut some neat pieces of chicken and put in a tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 101. Consomme de Volatile f nappe (Clear Chicken Broth, Iced).—Put into a stock-pot one large fowl, two pounds of knuckle of veal, two pounds of shin of beef, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and about one and a half gallons of water ; place on the fire and bring it slowly to the boil; skim well; add a bouquet, two carrots, one turnip, a few peppercorns, one onion stuck with two cloves, one stick of celery, two leeks, one bay-leaf, and some parsley-root; let all boil gently for about five hours. Take out the fowl when done, so that it can be made further use of. Remove the fatty substance from the top, strain through a wet napkin, or a fine hair sieve; clarify in the usual manner. When strained the second time, allow it to cool, and set on the ice until required. Before sending to the table season to taste, and add one glass of sherry and half a glass of brandy. 102. Consomme Deslif/nae.—For 2 quarts of chicken or game consomme : 3 eggs, ^ gill cream, 4 gill stock {game), \ gill asparagus points, \ gill cooked green peas, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg. Break the eggs into a basin, beat a little and add the cream and stock, season to taste, mix well, strain, and put into a well-buttered plain mould; place it in a stewpan half filled with water, and cook over a slow fire for about half an hour; take out, let cool, and cut into neat square pieces. Put these, together with the cooked aspa- ragus points and green peas, in a soup tureen, pour in the clear chicken or game consomme, and serve. 103. Consomme Sevigne.—2 quarts of chicken consomme, ^ cooked chicken, oz. rice, 1 gill veloutee sauce, 2 whole eggs and 4 yolks, ^ gill cream, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, 1 gill cooked peas, a few cooked French beans. Free the chicken from bones, skin, and sinews ; cut the meat into'