THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 412 groups of slices of braised sweetbread, small glazed button onions, and mushroom-heads; sauce the whole with part of the prepared sauce, and serve the rest separately. Pieces of braised calves’ brains can be served with this dish as a garnishing when desired. 1195. Filet de JBceuf d la Cyrano.—3 lbs. sirloin of beef (boned), 1 plover or snipe, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. bacon, 2 oz. cooked ham, ^ lb. calves’ or chicken liver, i small onion, 1 shallot, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, 1 egg, 1 terrine foie gras, salt and pepper, 1 gill sherry, larding-bacon, 12 stuffed olives, 1| gill stock, meat-glaze for the olives, 12 very small cases of puff-paste, 1 mirepoix of vegetables <£c., sauce gibier (No. 252). Bone the plover or snipe, chop the carcass very small, mince the meat of the bird finely and put it on a plate. Slice the liver. Melt about half the butter in a stewpan or saute-pan, add the bacon (cut into dice), fry a little, then add the liver, fry quickly, and add the onion, cut into thin slices,, shallot, garlic, and bay-leaf ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; lastly add a small glass of sherry or Madeira wine, cover the pan with a lid, and let contents simmer over a quick fire. Kemove the slices of onion and bay-leaf, and put the remainder in a mortar, pound till quite smooth ; bind or moisten with the yolk of an egg and a little brown sauce or cream if needed and rub through a fine sieve. Trim the piece of beef, remove the skin and fat; cut it open lengthways, so that it forms one large slice, of even thickness ; beat out a little with a cutlet-bat, spread over with a layer of farce as above prepared. Put one row of foie gras pate down the centre of the farce, and insert the fillets of snipe, previously skinned, and roll up carefully, so that the foie gras shall be in the centre. Fasten and tie up with string ; then lard the surface with several rows of fine strips of larding-bacon. Put the carcass of the bird, clove of garlic, and mirepoix of vegetables, &c., with some pieces of bacon in a braising-pan ; upon this place the prepared fillet, moisten with about a gill of stock, and braise in a sharp oven for the first ten minutes ; baste well and finish braising in a slightly reduced heat for about one hour. Add the meat-glaze at the last and baste the whole with the liquor well reduced. Take up the fillet, untruss it, and let it get cold. Dress it on an oblong entree or releve dish ; glaze it again with the reduced liquor, freed from fat, garnish the dish with stuffed French or Spanish olives, each being placed in a little crust of puff-paste. Insert one or two hatelets (garnished) and serve. This dish can also be served hot with a nice sauce gibier or Keforme. 1196. Filet de Been/d la Henri IV.—About 4 lbs. fillet of beef (a nice piece), larding-bacon, bouquet garni, 1 carrot, 1 onion, \ gill claret, £ lb. streaky bacon, 1 pint good stock, sauce tartare (No. 278), ^ pint well reduced demi-glace sauce (No. 237), meat-glaze, 6 to 8 artichoke-bottoms, ^ pint macedoine of vegetables, 2 oz. butter, chopped parsley, 1 oz. coarsely chopped lean ham.