THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 54 wherefrom it is diverted into an upright flue on top of the range, or into a flue which comes out on the side and is connected with the flues of the building. In either case a circulating boiler can be placed at the back or at the side of the fireplace, ready for connection with a circulating tank which will supply hot water all over the house. It may be a high- pressure or a low-pressure boiler. The former are generally used as being cheaper, because the length of water piping required is not so great (this is the chief expense in hot-water fitting), but the latter are much safer, especially in cold countries, where the water is liable to get frozen in the pipes. A few years ago ranges were built so as to get two or more ovens heated by the same fireplace, for economy’s sake. But it is a mistake where first-ciass cuisine is required, and our motto is :—One fireplace for each oven. THE MANAGEMENT AND CAEE OF STOVES Every method of cooking depends solely upon the manner and facility with which the heat is applied. It is an easy matter to regulate the heat of the hot-plate or oven where gas, oil, or electricity is used; for here one is able to secure and maintain any and every degree of heat without trouble. In the case of a wood or coal stove, however, special care and management are necessary. Much food as well as time is often wasted by persons who do not understand how to manage the heat of a cooking stove, and many do not even know how to light the fire, far less how to regulate the heat of an oven or clean the oven flues. Laying the Fire.—The first thing to master is the laying of a fire, or the building and care of fires. To do this successfully the grate must be cleared from cinders and ashes ; the cinders on being freed from the ashes should be utilised again. All flues must be cleared, and the underneath part of the flues (under the ovens) must be cleaned out at least once a month. To make a fire, open all draughts, lay enough cinders on the bars at the bottom of the grate (made for the purpose of letting the air in), so as to protect the metal and temper heat; crumple up some paper and place it upon the cinders in the grate; on this lay some thin pieces of wood (kindling wood) crossways so as to make a current of air ; upon this place a layer of coals, then another layer of wood sticks, and some more coal. Now set light to the paper, and you will find that the fire will burn up brightly ; when the wood &c. ignite, add some more coal, close the smoke damper, and keep the draught damper at the bottom of the grate open till the fire looks red, then close the draught doors or dampers. Draughts are slides or small doors attached below the fire-box, they are provided to allow a current of cold air to pass over the fire so as to retard combustion.