THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 584 Fry some very thin pancakes, stamp out some rounds about two inches in diameter. Prepare a salpicon as follows : cut the foie gras (with truffles), mushrooms, and sweetbread into very small dice, put this in a saute-pan with the sauce ; when thoroughly hot add the yolk of an egg ; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nut- meg. Put it on a plate and let cool. Then shape into little balls, place these in the centre of the rounds of pancake. Put a little raw chicken forcemeat round the edge of each, and fold over the same as rissoles. Brush over with egg, dip in bread-crumbs, and fry a golden colour. Dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. 1862. Jamb on a la Weige.— 5 oz. of lean liam, 4 eggs, £ gill milk or cream, i teaspoonful powdered sweet herbs, ^ oz. butter, a pinch of aromatic spice, and a pinch of dry mustard. Chop the ham very fine, mix it with the savoury herbs, spice, and mustard, beat up two whole eggs and two yolks of eggs. When well beaten add the milk or cream and all but a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, melt the butter, grease a deep round plated dish with same, and put the remainder with the mixture. Sprinkle the buttered part of the dish with a few brown bread-crumbs; put the mixture in the dish, and place in a moderate oven for ten minutes (leave long enough to set). Beat up the two remaining whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in a dessertspoonful of chopped ham, pile it on the dish, cover it over, and bake for another five minutes. 1863. Beignets de Cervelles.—Thoroughly wash some calf’s or pig’s brains, removing the blood and skin. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, a dessertspoonful of French vinegar, a few peppercorns, half an onion, and a bouquet garni (No. 2). Boil for five minutes, then take out the brains, place in cold water, and drain. Cut them into neat pieces, put in a plate, season with pepper, salt, one tablespoonful of oil, and a few drops of chilli vinegar. Sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready some frying-batter, dip each piece into this, and drop into hot fat; fry a golden colour, drain, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with piquante sauce (No. 241). 1864. Beignets d la Venitienne (Savoury Fritters).— Prepare a choux paste (No. 36) and incorporate one slice of ox- tongue, one slice of ham, four mushrooms (champignons), and one ounce of cooked chicken meat, all cut into small dice. Season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, also a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Have ready a sufficient quantity of hot fat. Spread the mixture on a dish and cut out some even-sized rounds by means of a paste-cutter or spoon, drop them into the fat and fry, slowly at first, till a nice golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot—accompanied with a boat of suitable sauce, i.e. piquante (No. 241), tomato (No. 271), or poivrade (No. 263) sauce. 1865. Rissoles d la Reine.—Prepare a salpicon of finely