VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED 461 top. Bake for ten to fifteen minutes in a hot oven and serve very- hot. 1382. Petits Paniers a la Jardiniere£ lb. short paste, ^ pint of macedoine of vegetables, oil and vinegar, % lemon, 1 table- spoonful aspic jelly, 1 small truffle, pepper and salt. Line eight small patty pans with the paste, shape some twisted slips of paste, bake them and fasten each end crossways with some yolk of egg and flour mixed to the sides of the patty pan. Fill up the interior of the patty pans with raw rice, bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn out the rice, and set them to cool. Have ready some cooked macedoine of vegetables, drain well on a cloth, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, moisten with a table- spoonful of aspic, fill the baked crust with the moisture. Mask the surface of each with aspic, ornament with fancy shapes of lemon-rind or truffles, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley. Dish up and serve. The remnants of truffle can be mixed with the macedoine. 1383. Petits Pols (Green Peas).—Shell the peas, put them into a saucepan with boiling water to which salt and a small quantity of moist sugar has been added ; there should only be just enough water to well cover the peas. Let them boil quickly ; the stewpan should not be covered ; when done drain on a colander or sieve, put them on a hot vegetable dish, place a few small pieces of butter on top, and serve. A few sprigs of green mint added to the water will improve the flavour of the peas. 1384. Petits Pols d la Basquaise (Green Peas Basque Style).—1 quart green peas, 2 tender cabbage lettuces, 1 small onion, 1 small bunch parsley, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, salt, sugar, and pepper. Trim and wash the lettuces, cut them into fine shreds, and put them into a saucepan with the peas, onion, and parsley, add sufficient salt to flavour, also a lump of loaf sugar. Add enough cold water to well cover the contents of the pan. Cover it and cook for about twenty-five minutes over a good fire. (A small piece of soda may be added,' if liked, to retain the green colour of the peas, but is not essential.) Remove the parsley and onion. Mix the butter with the flour and knead it. Add this to the peas, cook for another ten minutes, season with a pinch of pepper and more salt if needed, dish up, and serve. A few fleurons of puff pastry may be placed round the dish if liked. 1385. Petits Pols a la Bomaine (Green Peas with Lettuce).—■ 1 pint cooked green peas, 1 button onion, 1 small cabbage lettuce, 1 oz. butter, a feio sprigs parsley tied in a bunch, a saltspoonful caster sugar, \ teaspoonful flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Peel and blanch the onions, drain them, and chop very finely. Wash and trim the lettuce, and cut the white leaves into very fine shreds. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onions, and fry a pale golden colour, then add the shredded lettuce and fry with the onions for a