443 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DBESSED •quettes of even size, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Take up, drain, dish up, and serve hot. 1288. Asperges a la Alilanaise.— Dress the cooked asparagus, after being well drained, on toasted bread, on a dish. Arrange them so that all the heads are at one end. Cover the head portions with grated Parmesan cheese mixed with an equal quantity of Gruyere. Melt some fresh butter, season it with salt and pepper, pour this over the cheese-covered part of the asparagus. Place the dish in the oven for a few seconds to take colour, and serve at once. 1289. jPelites Vouchees a la Princesse.—Boil a pint of green asparagus points in salted water ; when done drain on a sieve. Dissolve half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a little grated lemon rind, stir in the asparagus points, season with nutmeg and pepper, also a pinch of sugar, and moisten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202). Simmer for ten minutes ; just before serving bind the mixture with a yolk of egg previously mixed with a little cream. Stir gently until it sets, but do not let it boil. Fill some small puff-paste bouchee cases with the mixture. Put them in the oven for a few minutes to get hot, then dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. 1290. Petits Pains aux Asperges.—8 small farthing rolls or little dinner rolls, j pint asparagus points, 1 gill bechamel sauce, (No. 202), 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 yolk of egg, salt and pepper, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cut the tops off the rolls, scoop out the soft part of the crumb, and place them in the oven to get dry and crisp. Boil the asparagus points in salted water until tender, drain, heat up the sauce, and put in the asparagus; season with pepper and a grate of nutmeg, beat up the yolk with a little cream, and add to the above. Stir gently over the fire, long enough to bind the yolk; lastly, add just a drop or two of lemon-juice, fill up the rolls with this, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve hot. 1291. Pointes cV Asperges a la Roy ale.—Cooked asparagus tips, re-heated in a rich Allemande sauce (No. 204) mixed with cooked smoked ox-tongue cut into Julienne shapes (very fine strips) dished up and sprinkled with finely chopped truffles. 1292. Ragout aux Pointes (VAsperges (Steived Asparagus Points).—Cutoff the tops (green part only) of about eighteen sticks of asparagus previously cleaned, boil them in salted water for about twenty minutes, and strain. Put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the tops, toss a little over the fire, moisten with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202) and one' of cream, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, shake continually over the fire until quite hot, and serve.