THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 142 small pieces and pound in a mortar ; cook the rice in rich stock, and when done strain off and pound with the chicken ; add the sauce, mix well, and put in a basin ; work in the eggs and cream, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pass this through a fine sieve. Fill eight or ten very small well buttered timbale or dariole moulds with the mixture. Stand them in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water. Cook slowly for half an hour. Turn out on a dish or wet cloth. Cut the shapes crossways into three or four equal pieces, put them into a hot soup-tureen, with the peas and beans—the latter cut into small dice—pour over the consomme, and serve. The garniture for this soup is sometimes served separately in a deep round dish, and is handed round as the consomme is served. 104. Consomme d la LiUenne.— Shred finely 1 oz. peeled almonds, and bake a pale brown in the oven, cut 2 large truffles and six preserved mushrooms into fine shreds (Julienne fashion); put these in a soup-tureen with a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves, pour over about 2 quarts of hot rich consomme, and serve. 105. Consom m e aux Petits Choux farcis {Clear Soup with Stuffed Cabbage). — 3 pints to 2 quarts of clear soup {consomme) for choux; 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 1 egg, a pinch of salt, about 2 oz. chicken or veal forcemeat. Put the butter in a medium-sized stewpan; add about a gill of water and a pinch of salt; let this come to the boil, then stir in the flour and work vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire until a smooth paste is obtained (the sides and bottom of the stewpan must be left perfectly clean by this time). Allow to cool a little, then stir in the egg. Put the mixture in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and press out some even-sized heaps on to a greased baking-tin about an inch apart. Bake these in a fairly quick oven. Cut out a small portion of the bottom of each chon and scoop out some of the inside ; fill the cavities with forcemeat, replace the crust removed for the purpose of filling, and place the choux in a buttered saute-pan; cover them with a greased paper, and place in the oven for about twelve minutes, in order to cook the farce. To serve the soup, put the choux in a soup-tureen, and pour the consomme (previously heated) into the tureen. These little choux may be filled with almost any kind of farce. Fish, game, or vegetable purees make a nice change. 106. Consomme Choron a la Richelieu.—2 quarts game consomme, 2 small fillets of cooked game, 2 carrots {small), 1 oz. tapioca de Bresil, 1 gill Royal custard {No. 95) cut into cubes, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fillets of cooked game, and cut the meat into fine shreds or Julienne strips. Scoop out some little ball shapes from the carrots and cook them in salted water till tender. Cook the tapioca in boiling Avater or consomme for about fifteen minutes, then add it to the consomme of game. Next add the cooked