SAUCES 181 or Allemande sauce, and allow to cook gently for ten minutes. Remove the herbs, and add a tablespoonful of finely grated horseradish, season with cayenne and nutmeg, and pass through a sieve or tammy cloth. Re-heat, stir in a pat of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of meat glaze or meat extract. This sauce is excellent with grilled fish or fillets of beef. 257 a. Marinade cuite, or Marinade Sauce.—Melt 1 oz. of butter in a stewpan, add a small sliced carrot, 3 sliced shallots, a sprig of thyme, 1 clove, and allow to fry a little; then add a few sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, some chives, and a tablespoonful of flour. Stir over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with a gill of vinegar and half a pint of stock, season with pepper and salt. Allow to simmer for half an hour, strain or pass through a tammy cloth, and serve as required for releves, roast or braised game, etc. 258. Sauce d VOrange.—Chop two shallots and put them into a small stewpan with the rind of an orange, quite free from the white or pith, and a little chopped lean of raw ham and cayenne pepper ; moisten with two glasses of port wine, and a little strong gravy ; set the essence to simmer gently on, the fire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon-juice, and pass it through a silk sieve. 259. Sauce au Jus d’Orange.—Peel an orange thinly, and cut the peel into strips (Julienne fashion), put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to cover, boil for five minutes, and drain on a sieve. Put in a stewpan ahalf-pint of Espagnole sauce, a half-pint rich stock or roast meat gravy, and half the juice of the orange. Allow all to reduce to half its quantity, strain, and add the orange-peel, a tea- spoonful of lemon-juice, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, season with pepper and salt, boil up again, and serve with roast wild duck, wild boar, or other game. 260. Sauce Bigarcide.—Proceed the same as before, but .substitute a Seville orange for the sweet one. Use only half the peel, and boil for ten minutes at least. Omit red currant jelly, and add a glass of port wine instead. 261. Sauce Indienne.—1^ oz. butter, * oz. flour, ^ small onion, 1 tablespoonful curry-poioder, f pint good fish stock, salt, 1 tomato, a feiv savoury herbs, ^ glass Marsala wine. Melt the butter, add the onion, finely chopped ; when of a nice light brown stir in the flour and curry-powder, blend well, and cook for five minutes; pour in gradually the fish stock, add the tomato, cut into slices, and the herbs ; bring it to the boil while stirring, then add the wine, season to taste, cook for twenty minutes, strain and serve. • 262. Champagne Sauce.—Put two cloves, half a dozen peppercorns, a bay-leaf, and three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 236) into a stewpan on the fire ; let it reduce a little, add a glass of champagne, and the essence remaining from the braised