THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 608 the fonclant is fit for use it should be just warm enough to bear the finger in it. Any flavouring can be added when melted ; use always the best quality. Chocolate flavour is added by grating a small quantity of unsweetened chocolate or cocoa powder, both of which should be previously melted before being added. For coffee flavour use extract or essence of coffee. 1965. Water Icing or Transparent Icing.—Put a pound of loaf sugar into a clean and dry stewpan or copper sugar boiler; add half a gill of warm water, stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved; then place it over the fire and boil for about five minutes, or until it is reduced to a thick syrup. It should register 230 degrees Fahr. on the saccharometer. Pour it into a basin and stir till almost cold. Use it for coating or covering cakes and pastry. This icing must be used before it is quite cold, otherwise the covering will not be successful. 1966. Glace fondante an Cafe (Coffee Icing).—Put a pound of best icing sugar or very fine caster sugar in a copper pan, add about a gill of water and boil it to the small ball degree; turn out into a basin, and work with a spatula until it becomes creamy; flavour with a dessertspoonful of best coffee essence. Dip in the surface of the gateaux and finish as directed. It is necessary to remember that if fondant icing is used too warm it will lose its brilliancy, and that it should be stirred until it has reached the desired consistency for icing —in other words, the icing point. 1967. lieurre au Cafe (Hoka) (Coffee Butter for decorating Pastry and Cakes).—£ lb. fresh butter, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 yolk of egg, essence of coffee. Cream the sugar and yolk of egg for about ten minutes ; add a few drops of coffee essence or very strong freshly-made coffee, so as to impart a flavour of coffee. Work in by degrees the butter, previously put in a warm place to make it soft. When sufficiently worked put it on the ice for a few minutes, stir again, and use for garnish by means of a forcing-bag and fancy tube or a paper cornet, point cut according to requirement. 1968. Glace royale (Royal Icing).—Put half a pound of icing sugar in a clean and dry basin, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice ; work these to a creamy substance with the white of one egg. Beat it with a wooden spoon until the mixture is a white, shiny, and fairly con- sistent paste. 1969. Chocolate Icing.—Break three ounces of Van Houten’s chocolate into small pieces, put it in a clean and dry stewpan with half a gill of water, place it on the fire and stir with a wooden spoon until melted; then stir in half a pound of icing sugar. When well dissolved remove from the fire and use while warm as required. 1970. Vanilla Sugar.— Split some vanilla-pod, cut it up into small pieces, and pound in a mortar with a quantity of caster sugar