18 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK the breath and excreta necessitates, of course, the consumption of a considerable quantity of water to replace the loss. Salts are of extreme importance, e.g. salts of lime are necessary for the formation of bones and teeth. They also have other more obscure functions which have not as yet been accurately determined. Extractives.—This is the term given to the group of chemical substances which we can dissolve out of any substance by water or other solvent. Soups, extracts of meat, glaze and similar pre- parations mainly consist of these substances. Finally there is a large group of more or less desirable accessories to food, such as spices and condiments, wines, tea, coffee, and cocoa, and so on. Having thus considered very briefly these ‘ proximate principles,’ let us see how a few of the more ordinary articles of diet supply us with them. 1. Milk.--This naturally comes first, inasmuch as it is the most complete of any of the natural food stuffs. It contains : — A. Proteids, mainly a proteid called caseinogen.—This is dissolved in the milk, but unlike most proteids does not coagulate in boiling. When, however, a little rennet is added to the milk, it becomes converted into casein, and entangling with it the fatty globules of the milk, forms the well-known curd. This forms the principal constituent of cheese. If milk be allowed to boil for some time, certain changes occur, the exact nature of which has not been discovered. They are of great practical importance from the fact that children fed upon milk prepared in this way frequently do not thrive. Milk should therefore be removed from the fire immediately it begins to boil, especially if it is to be used for feeding very young children. B. Fats.— If a drop of milk be examined under the microscope, it is seen to consist of numerous globules of fat which, when shaken together, form butter, one of the most valuable of all the fats from a physiological standpoint. C. Carbohydrates.—Milk contains a special form of sugar lactose, or milk sugar. D. Water, Salts and Extractives. Human milk differs from cow’s milk in that it contains more sugar and less proteid matter. In round numbers the relative quantities are : — ^ — Human Milk Cow’S-Milk Proteid (per cent.) . • • ' . .! 2 4 Fat (per cent.) . . i 4 4 Carbohydrate (per cent.) . ' 4