ENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 265 success, whether it be a simple or a more elaborate entree. The garnishing or decoration of dishes being dealt with in a separate chapter, I will confine myself only to the subject ‘ Entrees,’ their character, and the service thereof. The name entree oan be given to any made dish : that is, to a dish composed and served with more than one ingredient, these being dis- tinguishable from joints (releves), because they are never served whole—there are exceptions, but very few indeed. In bygone days entrees appeared on the table with the joint as side dishes, while now and for a long time past they form a course by themselves. The translation of ‘ entree ’ is ‘ entrance.’ No one has as yet been able to account for this title, which probably originated in conse- quence of these dishes being handed round as soon as they were brought into the dining-room, in place of being put at the head of the table at the beginning of the meal, as was and still is the case with other dishes. Entrees of every kind afford an immense scope for the cook’s talents, because by this mode of dressing and cooking almost every food material may be rendered delicious, tasty, and attractive. If we want to understand the correct signification of the entree course, it is necessary to study for a moment Careme’s excellent arrangement of a complete French dinner. This system, though written many years ago, with a slight alteration holds good to-day. It is the ancient French dinner service remodelled by Careme, and is undoubtedly the best devised plan, being adapted on Brillat Savarin’s principles, whose motto commends one to proceed from the light to the more solid, and from the plain to the more elaborately prepared. He divides his dinner into two courses, the first consists of the entree course, and the second of the entremet course : the second course being commenced with a roast. By the first course, the releve or remove is included in the entrees ; this comprises small and large, or light and solid dishes—in fact an entree is the name of any preparation which we associate with a made dish of some sort. After the hors d’ceuvre a dinner begins with its first course, audit includes the small and large entrees. It is here where one is apt to get confused. Large entrees are frequently substituted for a remove or releve, so called, because it takes the place of the soup-tureen, being served immediately after the soup. The remove must not have the character of an entree, for it may mean either a fish or a joint of meat, and we should never think of calling either of these an entree; for, as I said before, entree is a name which we associate with made dishes. To make this quite clear, and be the other name whatever it may, if people will have a joint of meat or fish (remove or piece de resistance), then the proper place according to the French idea is that it must be served immediately after the soup, that is at the beginning