THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK 526 an omelet pan; when hot pour in the eggs &c. Stir, cook, roll, and brown the omelet to a light colour ; turn carefully on to a dish, dust with sugar, pour the rum round the omelet, light it, and serve quickly. 1647. Savarin d VAnanas—Prepare and bake a border- shaped savarin (No. 1627), place it on a sieve, and soak it well with maraschino syrup. Cook sufficient slices of pine-apple to fill the centre of the border, in the same kind of syrup. Dish up the savarin and fill the centre tastefully with pine-apple slices, decorate with glace cherries; sauce over the whole with a fairly thick syrup, flavoured with maraschino and apricot marmalade. The dish is then ready for serving, and should be sent to table hot, but when preferred it can be served cold. Apricots or peaches are frequently served in a savarin border, the mode of preparation being the same as for pine-apple savarin. 1648. Omelette aux Fraises—Prepare an omelet with the desired number of eggs in the usual manner; just before folding it arrange a layer of compote of strawberries (previously drained) in the centre of the omelet. Fold it and allow it to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish. Sprinkle over with caster sugar and mark the surface with a red-hot skewer, pour some strawberry syrup, flavoured with a little maraschino liqueur, round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. 1649. Rissoles de Cerises (Cherry Rissoles).—Stone some cook- ing cherries, and cook them in a little syrup till done. Poll out some puff-paste, stamp out the required number of rounds, and put a dessert- spoonful of cherry compote in the centre of each; wet the edge of the paste and fold over, like ordinary rissoles. Bake in a fairly hot oven, roll in caster sugar previously mixed with powdered cinnamon and vanilla sugar. Dish up and serve. 1650. Croquettes de Cerises.—f lb. cooking cherries (sour), 1£ lb. cake-crumbs (crushed finger biscuits or Genoise), 4 oz. sugar, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, 1 egg, crushed rusks, fat for frying, 2 glasses noyeau. Stone the cherries, put them in a stewpan with the sugar and a little water ; cook until tender, strain off a little of the juice, and add the cake-crumbs and liqueur, grated lemon-rind, and cinnamon ; spread the mixture on a dish and let cool. Make up into cork shapes, beat up the egg, brush over the croquets with egg, roll in the crushed rusks or baked and crushed slices of Genoise cake ; when set egg and crumb again. Fry in clarified butter or fat to a golden colour, strain on a cloth or paper, dust with sugar, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve; garnish top of each with a glace cherry or angelica. 1651. Croquettes de Riz.—^ lb. Carolina rice, 1^ pint milk, 1 oz. butter, 3 yolks of eggs, 1 whole egg, 4 oz. caster 'sugar, lemon- rind, bread-crumbs, f rying fat, angelica.