504 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK butter, previously warmed. Fill into a buttered pudding-mould, bake in a quick oven for about half an hour, cut off the top carefully, scoop out some of the centre. It is best to do this after the cake has stood for some time on a sieve, so that the steam may well escape. Next fill up the opening with some stewed but well-drained fruit. Sprinkle over with a glass of maraschino; dress up the top with the fruit, to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Have ready a meringue preparation made with three whites of eggs and one and a half ounce of fine sugar. Spread over the top gently, but evenly ; ornament a little with the cornet, garnish with some crystallised cherries and angelica, put it in the oven just long enough to get hot through and to set the egg-whites, and serve. 1569. Ponding d la JKinnte {.Hartz pudding).—2 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, f teaspoonful of essence of vanilla or other flavouring, 2 oz. of flour {sifted), i teaspoonful of baking powder, 1 heaped up tablespoonful of jam {raspberry, straicberry, or apricot). Break the eggs into a basin, add the sugar, and beat up quickly. Mix the flour with the baking-powder and stir the eggs &c. into this. Beat up to a light batter, add the flavouring essence, and pour half the mixture into a flat buttered cake tin. Dissolve the jam and pour it over the mixture, then add the remainder. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, turn out on to a warm dish, dredge with sugar, and serve at once. 1570. Ponding d la Moelle {Baked Marrow Pudding).— 6 oz. beef-marrow, 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 4 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. candied peel (lemon and orange), £ gill brandy, f gill sherry, 2 oz. crystallised cherries. Chop the marrow very finely, put into a basin and mix with the bread-crumbs. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, cream the yolks with the sugar, adding one at a time. Shred the peel very finely, cut up the cherries into small pieces ; add this to the yolks and sugar, stir in the marrow and crumbs and mix in the brandy and sherry. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully with the mixture. Fill up a well-buttered cylindrical- shaped cake-mould with this, stand on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour. Turn out on a hot dish, dredge with sugar, and serve hot with German or jam sauce. 1571. Ponding d la Wormande.—6 medium-sized sour cooking-apples, 3 oz. butter, 6 oz. sugar, 4 oz. fried bread-crumbs, 1 gill claret, 3 eggs, vanilla essence, 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. For sauce : 1 tdblespoonful apricot jam, 1 tablespoonful red-currant jelly, 1 glass claret. Peel the apples, cut them into quarters, and core. Put them in a saute-pan with the butter and about two ounces of caster sugar, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven till tender. Put the fried crumbs into a basin, moisten with the wine, cream the remainder of