SOUPS, (POTAGES) 137 Stock made from veal makes the best meat glaze; but any kind of meat, poultry, or game stock can be reduced for glaze. 89. JPot-au-feu (Family Soup).—The pot-au-feu is what would here be termed the stock-pot. It figures as ‘ a standing dish ’ in every household in France, Germany, and Switzerland, as well as in other foreign countries where thrift is, so to speak, ingrained in the national character, and where cooking as an art is not monopolised by the rich alone. The pot-au-feu is on the simmer from the early morn until dinner-time, and many loose unconsidered trifles and scraps find their way to the stock-pot, or pot-au-feu. The art of culinary blending, however, produces a highly wholesome soup, which is at the same time nutritive and savoury. The following is a recipe which will produce a first-class soup with meat and vegetables, the same as is served on the Continent: —4 lbs. brisket of beef, 1 large onion, 2 carrots, 4 cloves, 2 leeks, % cabbage, a small bunch of soup herbs, 12 peppercorns, salt, ^ lb. French bread, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 1^ gallons cold water. Wash the meat thoroughly in cold water (shin of beef may be sub- stituted for brisket, but it will not be so useful for serving), cover it with the water, place it on the fire and let it come gently to a boil. Be careful to skim off all the scum which rises} on top as the stock begins to boil. Wash and clean the vegetables, stick the cloves in the onion, tie up the leeks and cabbage, and put all in with the meat. Season with a table-spoonful of salt, add the peppercorns, and let the whole simmer gently for four hours. Take out the meat; strain the broth into a tureen, cut the carrots, turnips, and leeks into round pieces, and put with the broth; cut the bread into thin slices, and put it in the tureen, sprinkle the chopped parsley on top, and serve. Before straining the broth it should be tasted, and more seasoning added according to requirement and taste. The meat can with ad- vantage be served, but as a separate course, or it may be used up in some form for another meal. 90. JPetites Mar mites a la JParisienne.—This is a high- class pot-au-feu soup, served in small earthenware soup pots, which hold about half a pint of soup. Each guest is served with a small marmite, which should be handed round on hot soup-plates covered with a folded napkin. It is usual to serve at the same time small sippets of toasted and buttered bread. If marrow-bones are used for this soup, they should be sawn into inch pieces. These are likewise handed round with the soup. 4 lbs. buttock steak, 1^ lb. beef-bones, lb. knuckle of veal, some chicken giblets if handy, 2 sticks of leek, 2 cloves, % chicken, ^ celery root, 1 small onion, 2 small carrots, 1 turnip, | cabbage, 12 pepper- corns, salt, parsley (a marrow-bone). Use an enamelled soup-pot or a French stone marmite. Tie up the meat with string, put it in the soup-pot with 6 to 7 quarts of cold water or stock ; bring it slowly to a boil, take off the scum. Wash