THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 208 458. A la St. George.—Prepare small quenelles of veal or Godiveau (No. 401), poach, cook in demi-glace, dress in groups alternately with .mushroom heads. 459. A la Georgienne.—Stewed rice, cooked in rich stock, and finished with a rich tomato puree, shaped into quenelles or small dumplings by means of a liaison of eggs, bake the quenelles in a buttered saute-pan in a hot oven, and serve round the dish. Sauce, Tomate (No. 271). 460. A la St. Germain.—This garniture is of the same character as that a la Clamart (puree of green peas), either as a border or in the centre of a dish. Sauce, according to dish, usually Madere, (No. 237 a), or Allemande (No. 204). 461. A la Gitana.—Spanish onions, boiled and braised, cut into slices, breaded and served over with tomato sauce well reduced, baked and dressed round or in the centre of the dish. Sauce, Tomate, (No. 271), and Madere, reduced and seasoned with sweet red Spanish pepper. 462. A la Grecque (for Boast, Braised, or Boiled Meats).— Quarters of aubergines, or egg-plants, parboiled in salted water, drained and fried in butter. Dressed in groups round the dish or in the centre. Sauce, Madere (No. 237 a), andBearnaise (No. 225), care- fully blended. 463. A la Godard (Godiveau Quenelles).—Slices of cooked sweetbread, cocks’ combs, mushroom heads, and quarters of artichoke bottoms, finished separately in sauce champignon (No. 267), with a glass of Marsala wine added. Dressed in alternate groups. 464. A la Gouffe.—Small round or oval-shaped bread croutons, toasted or fried, buttered and spread over with parboiled slices of beef marrow, glazed over with meat glaze. Sauce, Espagnole (No. 236). 465. A la Glengarry.—Small round black truffles and heads of preserved mushrooms, finished in a rich meat or chicken glaze, flavoured with game (fumet). Sauce, Chasseur (No. 242). 466. A la Gourmet.—Artichoke bottoms (preserved), cut into quarters, dice shapes of mushrooms, truffles, and cooked ox-palate, boiled down in a glass of Marsala wine. Served mixed or in groups with Madere sauce (No. 237 a). 467. A la Gudewife.—Peeled and blanched onions, cooked in white stock till tender, chopped very finely, re-cooked with a little bechamel sauce, and flavoured with mango chutney. Served in the centre of the dish. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 468. A la St. Hubert.—Braised cabbage lettuces, shaped into balls, braised button onions, and demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Served with roast or braised beef and mutton. 469. A VIrlandaise,—This name is applied to dishes which contain potatoes in the form of puree or otherwise. For instance, Irish stew is known as'Ragout a l’lrlandaise. 470. A Vltalienne.—This name is applied to dishes