221 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 519. Filets de Turbot d la Salamandre.—Procure a piece of turbot (tail end) weighing about 2£ lb. Remove the dark skin, and fillet, trim, flatten, and pare into heart-shaped slices, range them neatly in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over two finely chopped shallots, and add about half an ounce of butter divided into little bits ; moisten with half a gill of white wine and a tablespoonful of stock. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes, pour off the liquor and put it in a saucepan with about a gill of white sauce (veloutee or bechamel) (Nos. 202 or 206), heat up, stir in one or two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of cream, and cook until it binds. Dish up the cooked fillets in a row on a buttered dish. Strain the sauce over the fish so as to well coat it. Sprinkle the top with grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere) and a few bread-crumbs, brown in a very hot oven, or under a hot salamander, and serve. 520. Turbot JBouilll a la Victoria.—About 3 to 4 lb. of turbot, 1 small onion stuck with a clove, a small bunch of parsley, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, 10 small lobster croquets, 6 prawns, salt, Victoria sauce (No. 230). Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, place it in the fish-kettle, cover well with water, put in the onion and clove, also the parsley, vinegar, and sufficient salt to taste ; let it come to the boil quickly, and simmer until the fish is done, which will take about twenty minutes, more or less, according to the thickness of the fish. When done, drain it and slide on a hot dish. Have ready some small ball-shaped lobster croquets; also the prawns; garnish the dish with the croquets, prawns, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve with a boat of Victoria sauce. 521. Tvmandes d la Janin (Flounders, Janin Style).— 2 large flounders, % lb. fish quenelle forcemeat (No. 400), 1 oz. butter, \ gill white wine, 1| gill Espagnole sauce, 12 crayfish or prawn tails, 2 truffles, 12 sauce oysters, seasoning. Cut the fillets from the flounders, remove the black skin, trim and pare the fillets, spread one side of each with a layer of fish quenelle forcemeat. Fold each in two, or roll them if convenient. Place them in a well buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, add half the wine, cover with a buttered paper and cook in the oven till done. Take up the fish and range them in the form of a circle on a dish; keep hot. Put the sauce and remainder of wine in the saute- pan with the fish liquor ; cook for ten minutes, season to taste, and strain through a tammy. Slice the truffles, beard the oysters, and cut them in halves. Heat these with the crayfish or prawn tails in a little stock, or toss them in butter. Place them in the centre of the dish and pour the sauce carefully over the whole. 522. TAmandes en Souchet (Souchet of Flounders).—4 to 6 flounders, 2 small onions, 1 botoquet garni (No. 2), | carrot,