CLASSICAL BILL OF FABE QUOTATIONS &c. 695 Classical Bill of Fare Quotations and Mottoes for Menus. For some years past it has become the fashion for English and American hostesses to enliven their informal Dinners by having incorporated appropriate mottoes or quotations with the Menu. Those who wish to adopt the modern fad will find the following quotations of great help when compiling Menus for special occasions:— Introducton to Dinners, &c. “ Well, I promised you a dinner,” (Merry Wives of Windsor) saitli; “ Which shall have due course,” continues (Winter’s Tale) in frosty breath. “ Our most mutual entertainment ’ ’ (Measure for A Measure) lends “Pleasant jest and courtesy” (Labour Lost to Love) extends. Then “ draw nigh and take your places,” Urges (Titus Andronicus); And, bow low ! (All’s Well that Ends Well), “ Pray God’s blessing,” soft reminds us. See “ the white rose and the red ’’.rose. Blend, as (Richard III.) contrives ; “ Violets dim—but sweeter ’ ’ vying— (Winter’s Tale) for summer strives.—M. F. Brown. “ God sendeth and giveth both mouth and the meat.”—Tusser. “ Tell me whom you live with, and I will tell you what you are.”—Spanish Proverb. “ Cheerful looks make every dish a feast.”—Massinger. “ There may be the same vitiated taste in the choice of friends as of food.”—Bacon. “ You are welcome, worthy sir, as I have, words to bid you and you shall find it so in all that I can do.”—Shakespeare. “ Sit down and feed, welcome to our table.”—As You Like It, ii. 8. “ Now, good digestion wait on appetite, and health on both.”—Macbeth, iii. 4. “ Let’s see your list of the larder, then; I ask it as a favour. I always match my appetite to my bill of fare.”—She Stoops to Conquer. “ The landlord told him that his palate should be suited, for whatever the air, earth, and sea produced of birds, beasts, or fish, the hotel was abundantly supplied with.”—Bon Quixote. “ To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast fits a dull fighter but a keen .guest.”—Henri/ IV. iv. 2. “ Come, let’s to dinner.”—Henry IV. iv. 2. “ If you have a loitering servant, send him of thy errand just before his dinner.”—Fuller. “ Coquetry whets the appetite; Flirtation depraves it.”—Ik Marvel. “ And there, merrily seated in a ring, Partook a choice repast.”—Massinger. “ A table richly spread, in regal modes, With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort And savour.”—Milton. “ Let him have food and wine ; he has ridden hard, And lacks refreshment.”—Sir Henry Taylor. “ As he sat at his meal the musick play’d sweet, With the choicest of singing his joys to compleat.”—Percy Peliques. “ Man, Nature’s guest by invitation sweet, Receives from her both appetite and treat; But, if he play the glutton, and exceed, His benefactress blushes at the deed.”—Cowper. “ Tempus erat dapibus sodales; ” or “ Ede ut vivas,” “ Medio tutissimus ibis.”