498 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1550. Salade a la Polonaise (Polish Salad).- This is prepared with lettuce, endives, celery, sliced potatoes, apples, smoked salmon, and fillets of anchovies. Seasoned with the usual salad dressing, and garnished with minced cooked ham and hard-boiled eggs. 1551. Salade a la Heine (Queen Salad).- -White celery stalks, hard- boiled whites of eggs, both cut into fine shreds, seasoned with Tartare sauce (No. 278), finely chopped truffles and parsley, and garnished with slices of Brunswick sausage and yolks of hard-boiled eggs, dropped or rubbed through a sieve. 1552. Salade d’Ete (Summer• Salad). — This is a kind of lettuce salad, a mixture of lettuce, sliced cucumber, and artichoke bottoms, cut into thin slices; the whole is highly seasoned with a nice salad dressing, and should be garnished with radishes and pickled red cabbage. 1553. Salade Beige.—For this salad use well-bleached Belgian endive or Batavia, or equal quantities of each. Trim and wash thoroughly, and break up the leaves into convenient-sized pieces. Season with salt, pepper, and oil and vinegar in the usual propor- tions, and as directed in other plain salad recipes. Mix with this some preserved red pimentos, dish up, and serve. 1554. French Salad Dressing.—Mix in a basin 1 teaspoonful of French mustard, | teaspoonful of salt, 1 saltspoonful white pepper ; add 1 tablespoonful of French wine vinegar (vinaigre d’Orleans) and about 3 tablespoonfuls best salad oil (huile de Provence), beat up with a wooden fork or wooden spoon ; lastly add a heaped-up tea- spoonful of finely-minced olives, or else parsley; the former is, how- ever, much more satisfactory. Pour this over the prepared lettuce or other salad. The above quantity is sufficient for a salad for four or five persons. 1555. Salade de Cerises.—1 lb. sour cooking cherries (fresh or preserved), 1 tablespoonful salad oil, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, a few drops tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoonful cognac or ^ table- spoonful kirschwasser, a few tarragon and chervil leaves chopped finely, a teaspoonful caster sugar. If fresh cherries are used remove the stalks and stones, crack the latter and take out the kernels, put them with the cherries in a bowl. Mix the remainder of the ingredients above given in a small basin, and mingle with the cherries. Serve'in a small salad dish or glass side dishes. This is an excellent accompaniment for roast game or duck. 1556. Fruit Salad.—This delicious and ever welcome dish is made by slicing various kinds of fruit, fresh or preserved, such as peaches, apricots, bananas, pine-apple, oranges, &c. xirrange the fruit in layers in a salad-bowl or deep glass dish ; sprinkle each layer of fruit with caster sugar, and pour over \ to ^ a pint of sherry or Madeira, according to the quantity of fruit used, also a small