THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 450 1330. Celeri frit a la Tomate.—Boiled celery (cut into four-inch lengths) drained and seasoned. Dipped in frying batter and fried in hot fat. Dish up and serve with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1331. Puree de Celeri aux Croutons.—Mashed celery, passed through a sieve, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little sugar, mixed with a liaison of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202) and fresh butter, and served with triangular-shaped slices of fried bread (croutons). 1332. Cepes farcis au Jus.—Stuffed cepes (a species of mushroom) moistened with gravy and cooked in the oven. Dished up and served with its own gravy, seasoned and freed from grease. 1333. Cepes d la Jiordelaise.—Cepes, or ceps, are a kind of edible mushroom of a yellowish colour; they are largely cultivated in the province and district of Bordeaux, and are imported to this country in a preserved state, generally in oil or in water (au natuel). 1333 a. Cepes d VHaile.—Cepes have a most agreeable and nutty flavour, and make an excellent vegetable. Side dish or savoury. To prepare a dish of ‘ cepes a la Bordelaise ’ mince very finely two small cloves of garlic, fry this in a saute-pan with a couple of tablespoonfuls of sweet oil (huile de Provence) a pale colour, then pour off the oil and add about an ounce of butter ; when hot pour in a pint can of preserved cepes (previously drained), sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, season with pepper and salt, and toss quickly the pan over a brisk fire for about ten minutes; squeeze over a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with some hot Bordelaise sauce (No. 249), and serve hot. 1334. Champignons d la lie charnel.— 5 medium-sized xohite cup mushrooms, 5 eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 gill milk, toasted bread, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Wash, peel, and trim the mushrooms, put them in a saute-pan with sufficient water, boil up and drain on a cloth, mix the butter and flour together, put it in the saute-pan with the milk ; when hot lay in the mushrooms, heads downwards, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and allow to simmer for about ten minutes. Have ready the five eggs, boiled hard, peel them, cut round the lower part of the white, and remove the upper part, so as to show the yolks; stamp out five rounds of toasted bread, a little larger than the mush- rooms, butter each round, and place the mushrooms upon them ; put one egg-yolk in the centre of each, strain the sauce, and pour carefully round the eggs; serve hot. If the sauce is found too thick add a tablespoonful of white stock or cream. 1335. Champignons farcis.—Peel a dozen large button or small cup mushrooms (fresh), remove the stalks. Prepare a stuffing con- sisting of ten preserved mushrooms, chopped fine, fried in two ounces of butter; add two shallots, chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of chopped