202 THE NEW CENTUBY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER XYII GABNISHINGS AND' GABNITUBES The main object of garnishing a dish is to make it effective, for in cooking it is quite as essential to please the eye as to charm the palate. The garniture of a dish forms its decoration, which should be composed of edible materials, and as such must be of ornamental as well as appropriate appearance. In serving up fish or meat, entrees and releves for table, the garnishing forms invariably an important, if not the most important, part of a dish. The principal objects of garnishing are thus twofold, one being to accompany a dish with an appropriate or suitable adjunct, and the other is to arrange.it so as to please the eye and satisfy the palate. A dish may be prepared and cooked ever so carefully, and taste delicious, but if its appearance or its garnish and dressing is not as it should be—not pleasing and not inviting—its success is very often marred. A dish is often not enjoyed because its appearance is against it. Everything connected with the garniture of any dish depends to. a very large extent on the good taste and judgment of a cook, as well as on the materials a cook may have at command, but the cook must know how to effect an artistic combination without overloading the dishes with garnish. This is often overlooked, much t.o the detriment of otherwise smart dishes. The principal garnishes used for both hot and cold dishes , consist of vegetables, of which almost every kind may be adapted— either sliced, cut into shreds or fancy shapes, buds or whole (small vegetables). Besides these, forcemeat made up into various forms, quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, financieres, lambs’ or calves’ sweetbreads, cocks’ combs,'&c. &c., a,re very often employed for garnishing hot meat dishes ; while for fish i dishes and releves, crayfish, prawns, oysters, cockles, scallops, fried smelts, &c., are also used for that purpose. - In addition to this, sauces are likewise used in garnitures, and in some cases, such as lobster, oyster, crayfish, or shrimp sauces, they form the only garnish of a dish. Simple garnishings, such as fried parsley, croutes . and croutons, sippets, fresh parsley, cress and cresses, cucumber, beetroot, eggs, (hard-boiled, fried, and poached), olives, capers, gherkins, beetroot,