589* ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1888. Omelette a la Bonne-femme.—6 eggs, 1 oz. bacon, a boiled potato, a breakfast roll, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, \ tea- spoonful chopped chives, salt and pepper. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up for five minutes; add the parsley and chives, also a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Cut the bacon into small squares, likewise the thin crust of the roll; melt the butter in a frying or omelet pan, fry the bacon slightly brown, then add the bread-crust and the potato cut in squares, toss over the fire for a few minutes, pour in the egg mixture, stir with a fork gently over a bright fire for two minutes. Then fold up in the shape of a cushion, towards the side opposite to the handle of the pan, hold it in a slanting position for a minute also over the fire, to colour it lightly : take a hot dish in your left hand, holding up the pan with your right, bring the centre of the dish towards the edge of the pan with the omelet, and then turn the pan over quickly, so that the omelet will come right in the centre of the dish. Serve hot with two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce poured round the dish. 1884. Omelette aux Fines Herbes a la Frangaise.—6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 dessertspoonfuls chopped parsley, in- cluding a leaf or ttoo of green tarragon and a sprig of chervil, a pinch of szveet herbs, 1 oz. butter, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, and beat up well; add the chopped herbs and seasoning. Cut the clove of garlic and wipe the inside of the omelet-pan with the cut side. Melt the butter in this pan, clarify, and when hot pour in the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire with a fork until the eggs begin to set, then roll towards the side of the pan opposite the handle, and give it the ^ shape of an oval cushion. Allow it, to take colour (a golden brown). Turn out on an oval dish (hot), and serve. Tarragon and sweet herbs, or the flavour of garlic, may be omitted. A small chopped shallot may be added to the butter and fried a little, if liked. 1885. Omelette a la Charentiere.—Beat up six eggs in a basin, add the necessary seasoning (pepper, salt, and nutmeg), a table- spoonful of milk or cream, and a heaped-up teaspoonful of French mustard. Cut two or three ounces of lean bacon into small dice, and fry in an omelet-pan an ounce of butter for a few minutes. Add two finely minced shallots and fry likewise, but do not allow them to get quite brown. Pour in the egg-mixture, and stir over a brisk fire till it commences to set, then shape quickly into the form of an oval cushion, allow it to take colour, and turn out on a hot dish. 1886. Omelette d la Bernoise.—Proceed as above, omitting the bacon and adding about two ounces of Gruyere cheese, cut into small dice. Fry the shallots in an ounce and a half of butter, .pour in the mixture with the cheese, and finish cooking in the usual manner.