THE NEW CENTUBY COOKEBY BOOK (No. 223), some chicken or veal forcemeat (No. 402 or 403), 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, sherry, i oz. butter,bread-crumbs. Turn out the foie gras, take out the pieces of truffles contained in the pate, and chop these rather finely. Put the foie gras in a mortar and pound, add the forcemeat (enough to make a sufficient quantity of filling for the artichoke bottoms) ; when well pounded take out and rub through a wire sieve, put into a basin and mix with the chopped truffles, and a tablespoonful of sherry or Madeira wine. Pill the bottoms with this, smooth the surface, and coat with a thick layer of Mornay sauce. Spread over with grated cheese and a few fried bread-crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter here and there, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes, or place under a hot salamander, to brown the top, and serve. 1271. Fonds d’Articliauts d la Heine.—6 to 8 artichoke bottoms, 1 small onion, 1 small bouquet garni (a small bunch of herbs), 3 to 4 thin slices of lemon, 1 oz. beef suet, peppercorns, 4 oz. cooked rabbit or veal, 2 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 1 small truffle, a small lamb's <sweetbread (cooked), bechamel sauce (No. 202), bread- crumbs or panurette, pepper and salt, frying fat, 2 eggs, parsley. Trim and wash the artichoke bottoms, put them in a stewpan with sufficient water to well cover them, add the onion, peeled and cut into thin slices, the bouquet of herbs, the slices of lemon, the beef suet, a pinch of salt, and a few peppercorns. Cook till they are tender, then drain the artichokes and place them on a sieve to cool. Mince finely all the cooked meats, chop finely the truffle, and put all in a small stewpan with sufficient bechamel sauce (white sauce) to moisten the mixture, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add one yolk of egg, season to taste with pepper and salt, and continue stirring until the liaison of egg is formed. Fill the artichoke bottoms with the mixture thus prepared, and shape each as neatly as possible. When quite cold brush over with beaten egg, and crumb in fresh bread-crumbs or panurette ; the latter is a special kind of bread-crumbs (a Continental preparation). It is well to perform the egging and crumbing operation twice. Fry in very hot fat a golden brown colour, drain on a cloth or paper. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve as a savoury vegetable or breakfast dish. 1272. Fonds d’Artichants en Cocotte.—10 to 12 artichoke bottoms (preserved or fresh), 4 potatoes, 1 oz. butter, 4 oz. streaky bacon, 1 glass white ivine, Gliablis or Sauterne, 1 gill veal stock or consomme, .seasoning. Pare the artichokes neatly with a small knife, cut the edges in the form of flutes, wash and peel the potatoes, scoop out as many rounds (ball shapes) as possible; this is done by means of a round vegetable-cutter. Cut the bacon into dice, having previously removed the rind, and blanch them. Drain the bacon, melt the butter in a fire- proof earthenware casserole, or so called cocotte pan, place in the artichokes, potatoes, and bacon in alternate layers, season with salt*.