540 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK stewpan with the sugar and about half a pint of water, and let the fruit boil gently for half an hour. Bub through a fine sieve and keep the pulp obtained on the ice. Add a little more sugar if needed. Whip the cream and mix with the fruit pulp a few minutes before serving. Fill up some little ice glasses, or serve in a glass or silver dish ; hand some fancy biscuits or sponge fingers at the same time. If liked, the mixture can be partly frozen. 1701. Canary Cream.—H pint milk, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 1 lemon, f oz. leaf gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs. Boil the milk, add the sugar and the thin rind of the lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in a little warm milk, and add it to the above. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the strained juice of half the lemon. Stir into the stewpan containing the milk &c., put it on the fire and stir until it becomes thick (it must not boil). Strain into a wetted mould. Place it on the ice or in a very cool place to set. Turn out when set and serve with fruit compote or jam. 1702. Chocolate Mould.—8 oz. of chocolate, 8 oz. patent corn- flour, 1 quart of milk, 2 oz. sugar, vanilla. Melt the chocolate in one pint of milk, mix the corn-flour smoothly in the other pint of milk ; add the melted chocolate and sugar, and boil for ten minutes, always stirring. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. Rinse mould with cold water, and pour in the mixture. Turn out when set, and decorate the dish with whipped cream. 1703. Coboury Trifle.—Cut half a dozen sponge cakes into slices, spread them with raspberry or apricot jam, and place them together like sandwiches. Arrange them neatly in a glass dish, pour over one glass of good sherry or Marsala, and let them soak for about ten minutes. Cover the whole with macaroons, which should be arranged in the form of a pyramid ; pour over a gill of rich custard, and garnish with halves of glace cherries. Whisk half a pint of cream till stiff, and cover the whole with it by means of a forcing-bag, decorate tastefully with peeled and shredded sweet almonds, angelica, and cherries. The dish is then ready for serving. 1704. JBanana Hlanc-Manye.—1 quart milk, 2 oz. corn- flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 bananas, -g teaspoonful vanilla essence, 2 yolks of eggs. _ ‘ Boil up the milk, add the sugar, wet the corn-flour with a little cold milk, and stir into the boiling milk. Stir over the fire until it thickens, and add the yolks of egg and flavouring essence. Let the eggs bind and set aside to cool. Peel the bananas and cut them into thin slices; mix with the above, and fill into one or two wetted moulds ; put on the ice to set. When ready immerse the mould in tepid water, turn on to a dish, and serve with a cold fruit syrup. 1705. Gelee au Yin (Wine Jelly).—2 quarts water, f pint -white wine or sherry, 6 oz. best gelatine, 2 oranges, 3 lemons, 1 oz. coriander seed, i lb. loaf sugar, 2 whites of eggs.