379 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) brown sauce, season to taste, rub the whole through a fine sieve. Fill up a well-buttered border mould, steam for one and a quarter hour, turn out oil a hot dish, dress the fillets on the border and brush over with meat glaze, put the chestnut puree in the centre of the dish, and upon this dress neatly the potato croquettes. The demi- glace .sauce is put with the mirepoix in which the fillets were cooked ; allow to boil for some minutes, skim well and strain, reduce again, add a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. 1105. jBordure de Lie ere d la Her g ere.—1 small hare, | lb. fresh pork, £ lb. bacon, 2 truffles, 2 oz. butter, 6 oz. panade (No. 8), 3 eggs, 3 shallots, 1 glass Madeira, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), 1 hard-boiled egg, seasoning. Eemove the breasts and the fleshy parts of legs of the hare, cut it into small slices, slice likewise the pork and bacon. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallots, finely chopped, brown a little, put in the sliced meat (the liver of hare may also be added if liked), season with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, saute over the fire until of a nice brown, moisten with Madeira, and put in a basin to cool. Then pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the panade and the eggs one by one. Cut the truffles into slices, stamp out some fanciful shapes and keep for garnish ; chop finely the trimmings, and mix with the farce. Bub the whole through a wire sieve, fill up a well-buttered border-mould, put in a saute or braising pan containing boiling water, to reach half-way up the mould. Cover with buttered paper and cook in a moderately heated oven for about .one and a quarter hour. When done stand on the ice till cool; turn on to a cold dish. Mask over carefully with half-set aspic jelly, ornament the top of the border with truffle shapes and fancifully cut slices of hard-boiled white of egg. Coat the garnish with a little aspic, put a few sprigs of fresh parsley here and there, and serve. The remainder of the hare will be found very useful for hare soup, game sauce for stock, &c. 1106. Civet de Lievre d la Bordelaise.—1 tender hare, 1 onion, 2 cloves, thyme, 2 bay-leaves, 12 small button onions (glazed), 2 oz. bacon, 1 oz. butter,, % glass white and \ glass red wine, ^ pint stock, ^ oz. flour, seasoning, 8 croutons, and 8 godiveau quenelles. Skin and neatly draw the hare (if there is any blood left preserve it, mixed with a little vinegar). Preserve the liver carefully, removing the gall. Cut the hare into twelve to fourteen neat joints, place in a deep dish or jar, season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sliced onion, two cloves, one sprig thyme, and bay-leaves. Add the wine and let it thus soak well mixed for five or six hours. Lift out the pieces, drain on a cloth. Fry them lightly in a saute-pan with the butter, dredge with the flour, and stir over a brisk fire until of a light brown colour, moisten with stock, red wine, and liquor, fry the bacon, previously cut into dice, and put with the civet, when the latter boils. Simmer for about one hour. Put the small onions, previously braised,