166 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK stock (strained). Cook gently for half an hour. Fry the flour in the remainder of the butter, and for frying the vegetables let it get a golden brown, then add the cream and a ladleful of the soup, pour all into the stewpan containing the soup, boil up and simmer for ten minutes longer. Season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Hand round a plateful of small galettes, or failing this small fried choux paste balls, seasoned with Parmesan cheese and cayenne. 194. Cocleie LeeTcie.—One small fowl, 2 oz. butter, 1 bunch leeks, parsley, 1 bay-leaf, and a few aromatic herbs, tied together in a bunch, 2 quarts of first stock, salt and pepper. Boiled rice for garnish. Singe and draw the fowl, wipe it inside and out with a damp cloth, and cut it into small joints. Melt the butter in a large stewpan ; when hot put in the pieces of fowl and fry them a nice brown colour. Pour off the butter, and add the stock, using beef broth or first stock, which must not be cloudy. Add also a pint of water, season with a little salt and peppercorns, and set to boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises to the surface. Trim, wash and clean the leeks, cut the white parts into convenient-sized lengths, blanch and parboil in salted water, take up and strain. Eemove the pieces of fowl from the soup, cut off the meat and shape in dice or half-inch lengths ; put these in another stewpan, strain the broth over it, add the leeks and the bunch of parsley and herbs, cover and let simmer gently for about an hour. Take out the parsley and herbs, skim off the fat, and season to taste with salt and pepper. The soup is then ready for serving. Served with a handful of plainly boiled rice, and sometimes with stewed stoned prunes. 195. Mutton Broth.—2 lbs. mutton (scrag end of neck), 2 quarts water, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, salt and pepper, 1 oz. barley or crushed tapioca. Trim off the fat as much as possible from the meat, cut into small neat pieces, put in saucepan, cover with cold water, add a little salt, and allow it to come to the boil, then skim well. Prepare all the vegetables, cut into small dice and add to the broth; allow all to cook gently until the meat is tender. Eemove the bones from the meat, cut into dice. Add this and the barley or tapioca to the broth, season to taste with salt and pepper, and continue to cook for another 30 to 40 minutes. Serve hot. 196. Haricot Bean Puree.—\pint haricot beans, f lb. onions, 4 oz. butter, 2 quarts stock, % gill cream, 1 oz. crushed tapioca, pepper and salt. Soak the beans in water for several hours. Peel and slice finely the onions, fry them very slowly in the butter—they must when finished be of a pale brown colour ; strain the beans, put them with the onions, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes. Add the stock, boil up, skim, and cook gently until the haricot beans are quite