THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 520 of maraschino, and keep till wanted. Cut the hollowed out pine-apple into half-inch slices (crossways), and fix them together in the original shape by spreading some confectioner’s custard between the slices. Place this in the centre of a Genoise border cake, either on a baking- sheet or better into a round silver dish. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and cover the outside of the pine-apple with it. Mix the remainder of beaten egg with the first puree, and with this fill up the centre of the pine-apple. Bake in a hot oven till nicely browned and hot through. Decorate the dish tastefully with strips of blanched and peeled almonds and pistachios. Serve hot with pine-apple syrup well flavoured with maraschino and previously heated. 1626. Bordure de Fruits a la Rationale.—Prepare some peaches, apricots, grapes, strawberries, and slices of pine-apple, blanch them in syrup, peel the apricots and peaches, drain on a hair sieve. Have ready a border of Savarin cake, dish up, dress the fruit in the centre ; ornament with fancy-cut pieces of angelica, crystallised cherries, and citron peel. Reduce the syrup until thick with a glass of maraschino, and pour over the fruit. This dish can be- served hot ©r cold as desired. 1627. Bordure Savarin.—Sift 2 oz. flour in a small basin ; form a hole in the centre, dilute \ oz. German yeast with lukewarm milk, add this to the flour, aud make a light dough ; set it aside to rise in a warm place. Next sift 6 oz. flour into a large basin, add 2 oz. sugar, 3 oz. warm butter, a little milk, and four eggs (two at a time) ; beat up well for about ten minutes, then add the prepared yeast, together with a tablespoonful of sweet cream. Work it again for a few7 minutes, and fill an appropriate-sized border-mould rather more than half full. The mould must be well buttered, and the interior sprinkled with fine sugar and ground rice or finely shredded almonds or cocoanut. Cover the mould, and let stand in a warm place, to rise from one to two hours, by which time the contents should have risen to fill the mould. Bake in a hot oven. 1628. Bonding a la Bardalouse.—4 oz. flour, 8 to 10 chestnuts, \ glass sherry, 1 gill milk, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam, ± glass kirsch, \ oz. German yeast, 8 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, \ lemon, 2 inches vanilla-pod, fruit forflecoration. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put the yeast (previously diluted with a little tepid water) in the centre, mix with a little of the flour to form a sponge, and allow it to rise. When the sponge is risen work in about one gill of tepid milk, i oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, and two yolks of eggs. Work the whole (flour and liquid) for about twenty minutes, then put it in a warm place to rise. As soon as the paste is sufficiently risen fill a well buttered and floured border-mould three parts full, allow to rise again, and bake in a moderate oven. In the meantime prepare a syrup by boil- ing the loaf sugar with I gill of water, the juice of half a lemon, one