304 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallots and fry a little without browning. Drain off the butter and put the shallots in a small stewpan. Return the butter to the saute-pan, put in the grenadins, and fry them a nice golden colour on each side. Add the claret to the shallots, cover the stewpan and let it reduce to about a third the quantity ; now add the two sauces and the parsley, season with pepper and salt, and reduce to about half the original quantity. Pour off the butter from the grenadins, add the sauce, cover the saute-pan with a lid, and allow contents to cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Take up the grenadins, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish on a thin border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with strips of lean bacon, previously fried in a little butter, pour the sauce over the grenadins, and serve. 833. Grenadins de Veau a la Jardiniere. — Trim a piece of cushion of veal, cut it into twelve slices, flatten them, trim and give them the shape of hearts as near as possible ; lard them rather closely with strips of fat bacon. Next prepare a layer of sliced vegetables and bacon in a buttered sautoir, range the meat on this, season with salt and pepper, moisten with a glass of white wine and some white stock, cover with a buttered paper, and set to braise in the oven for about an hour, during which time care should be taken to baste from time to time. In the meantime have ready some veal forcemeat, and fill up a flat border mould (well buttered), which steam in a stewpan ; turn out on a dish and. keep warm. When the grenadins are done, range them in circular form on the border of forcemeat; fill the centre with a preparation of jardiniere of vege- tables (No. 471), with a little demi-glace. Sauce over the grenadins with their own stock well reduced. 834. Quenelles de Veau a la Marengo.—f lb. veal, freed from skin, fat, and sinews, £ lb. soft bread, 4 oz. butter, 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs, ^ gill white sauce or veloutee (No. 206), 1 oz. small preserved mushrooms, \ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), £ gill stock, \ gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 glass sherry, 6 small eggs fried in oil for garnish, salt, white and red pepper, and, nutmeg. Soak the bread in cold water or milk for about ten minutes, press out the moisture, and put it in a stewpan with two ounces of butter. Stir over the fire until it resembles a smooth paste, and leaves the sides of the pan clean. Then add the yolks of four eggs, stir a little longer, to cook the eggs, and spread on a plate ; cover'with a buttered paper and let cool. Chop the veal small, and pound in a mortar till smooth. Rub the pounded meat through a sieve, and return to the mortar. Mix in the prepared bread panade. Add the remainder of the butter, which should be quite cold (having been kept on the ice), work in the white sauce and two whole eggs, one at a time, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, put it on a plate or dish and keep on the ice till wanted. Shape the forcemeat into quenelles by means of two dessertspoons previously dipped in boiling water, and place each