143 SOUPS (POTAGES) carrots, and let the consomme simmer gently for about ten minutes. Skim and season_to taste. Put the prepared and cut cubes of custard in a soup-tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. 107. Consom me a la Nemours—2 quarts good stock (clari- fied), 1 oz. crushed tapioca, 2 carrots, % gill bechamel sauce, 3 eggs, i oz. butter, seasoning. Clarify the stock in the usual manner, and strain, it carefully. Add the tapioca (previously soaked in water) when boiling, and cook gently for fifteen minutes, and season to taste. Wash the carrots and scrape finely the red part into a stewpan containing the butter. Cook it while stirring for five minutes, add the white sauce (bechamel), and a little stock, and simmer till tender, then rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate the eggs well beaten, season to taste, strain into a buttered mould, and poach till firm. Unmould, cut into neat cubes or diamond shapes, and put into the prepared consomme. Ee-heat and serve. 108. Consomme a la Dubarry—Prepare a Eoyal custard by mixing the whole of 2 yolks of eggs with a gill of good stock. Strain into a basin, add a few Jordan almonds, blanched and cut into fine shreds; season with salt and pepper, and pour into a plain mould (well buttered), cover with a piece of buttered paper, and stand it in a saucepan of boiling water. Steam gently for 20 minutes. When set, let cool, turn out on a board, and cut it into small cubes. Cook a handful of very small buds of cauliflower in salted water, and strain when done. Wash, blanch, and cook \ ounce of best rice; drain also. Put all these in a soup-tureen and pour bver 3 pints to 2 quarts of rich chicken consomme. 109. Consomme a la Mambouie.—d pints consomme, ± lb. chicken forcemeat, 1 gill cooked green peas, 2 yolks of eggs. Mix the chicken forcemeat with the yolks of eggs, season with nutmeg and a pinch of aromatic spice, and a little salt if found necessary. Spread this in a well-buttered tin, cover with a buttered paper, and poach in the oven for about 15 minutes. When cool cut or stamp out some small rounds, by means of a column cutter. Put these and the peas, previously heated and drained, in a soup-tureen, pour over , the hot consomme, and serve. 110. Consomme a la Diplomats.—2 quarts clear soup, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 small cucumber, 18 small white button onions, 6 yolks of eggs (rate). Wash and peel the carrot and turnip, peel the1 cucumber, scoop out, by means of a vegetable scoop, some neat shapes, blanch and cook separately in salted water, or clear stock. Peel the onions, blanch and cook likewise. Carefully poach the yolks of eggs in slightly salted boiling water. Place the yolks into a soup-tureen together with the vegetables previously strained, pour over the consomme (hot),- season with pepper and salt, if required, and serve.