111 ELEMENTARY METHODS 1 saltspoonful 1 teaspoonful 1 dessertspoonful 1 tablespoonful 1 gravyspoonful 1 wineglassful • (port size) 1 teacupful 1 breakfastcupful (large) A pinch of pepper (cayenne) A dash of pepper A pinch of salt A grate of nutmeg . The juice of a lemon The weight of an egg in butter is equal to | teaspoonful. „ ,, | dessertspoonful. ,, 4 tablespoonful. „ ,, i gravyspoonful. „ „ 1 wineglassful. „ „ \ teacupful or \ gill. „ ,, ^ breakfastcupful or 1 gill. „ ,, i pint or 2 gills. „ „ \ saltspoonful. „ „ J saltspoonful. „ ,, 1 teaspoonful. „ i) i saltspoonful. „ ,, 1 tablespoonful. „ ,, about 1^- oz. A stone of butcher’s meat . equals . . . . 14 lb. A firkin of butter ... „ . 56 lb. A firkin of fresh butter . ,, . . . . 70 lb. A sack of flour ... 280 lb. A peck or stone of flour . ,, 14 lb. A gallon of flour ... 7 lb. A quartern of flour1 . ,,.... 3^ lb. A sack of potatoes . . ,, 168 lb. or 8 bushels of 56 lb. each. 2. Ho liquet garni.—This term has been used in several of the foregoing recipes: it is often called a bunch of herbs, or a fagot of sweet herbs, and is much used in all kinds of meat cookery where a savoury flavour is desired. Many people praise the flavour of French soups and sauces, the delicious aromatic flavour of which is generally due to the use of a bouquet of herbs or a bouquet garni, which enters largely into the composition of many of' the French preparations, soups, ragouts, and sauces. To make a bouquet garni, lay upon the left hand a few branches of fresh parsley well washed, and place upon this a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, a bay leaf, a sprig of basil, a celery leaf, and a small piece of cinnamon stick, also a clove of garlic if liked, together with a small blade of mace and a pepper pod {long pepper). Fold the parsley round the other herbs &c. and tie with string into a neat bundle (bouquet) and use as directed. Excessive use of strong-smelling herbs or spices must in all cases be avoided. 3. fi'rie^ Parsley (Persil frit) Fried parsley is mostly used to garnish fried dishes. Remove the leaves from some fresh curly parsley, wash well in cold water, drain, fold in a cloth and press gently to extract all the water ; then put in a wire frying-basket, have some fat quite hot, fry the parsley for about two minutes (long enough to stiffen), then drain on a cloth and use as required. 1 Calculated as sufficient to make a 4-lb. loat of bread.