DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 227 fish quenelles (poached). • Serve with a sauce composed of rich Espagnole (No. 236), fish liquor, and finely chopped truffles. 537. Filets de Soles d la Gastronome.—2 medium-sized soles, £ lb, whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 2 oz. crayfish butter (beurre d’ecrevisses) (No. 389), 1 egg, panurette or white bread- crumbs, 8 champignons, salt and pepper, frying-fat. Sauce vin blanc (No. 216). Fleurons for garnish (half-moons of puff-paste baked). Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little and spread with forcemeat, mixed with half the quantity of crayfish butter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and fold each fillet. Trim the edges with a sharp knife ; egg well and crumb with either panurette or white bread- crumbs. Have ready a well reduced white-wine sauce (sauce au vin blanc), incorporate the remainder of crayfish butter and the champignons (mushrooms), finely chopped. Fry the fillets a delicate brown in hot fat. Drain them carefully and dish up. Pour the sauce round the dish, not over the fillets; garnish with fleurons and serve. 538. Filets de Soles d la Grand-Due.—Skin two or three soles, remove the fillets, season them with salt and pepper, fold them and place them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a little mushroom liquor (cuisson de champignons), cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Prepare a sauce Mornay (No. 223). Dress the fillets on an oval dish, with alternate slices of truffles and crayfish or prawn tails between the fillets. Mask the whole with the sauce Mornay, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and a few drops of oiled butter. Brown the surface under a salamander or in a very sharp oven. Garnish with cooked asparagus points — these may be placed in the centre or on each side of the dish. The dish is then ready for serving. 539. Filets de Soles d VFmdienne.—2 soles, lobster puree (No. 540), 1 egg, bread-crumbs, seasoning, 6 mushrooms, 2 gherkins, 2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli, \ gill mild curry or Madeira sauce, frying-fat, plain boiled rice. Skin and fillet the soles, flatten each fillet a little, and spread one side with lobster puree, fold them over in half, and pare the sides neatly ; season the fillets with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. If liked, this operation may be performed twice. Cut the piccalilli, gherkins, and mushrooms into fine shreds (like Julienne strips), put them in a small stewpan with the sauce, and heat up carefully. Fry the fillets a golden colour in clari- fied dripping or butter, drain them, and dish up in a circle on a hot dish. Put the garniture in the centre with a little sauce, and serve with a small dish of boiled rice, the same as for a curry. 540. Lobster Puree for Fillets of Soles d VLndienne.— Take the meat of half a lobster, chop it finely. Melt half an ounce of butter in a small stewpan, stir in half an ounce of flour, and cook over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add about a table- spoonful of cream, and the same quantity of milk or stock. Mix