196 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ■sugar, 3 parts of a pint of water, 1 oz.fecule or cr'eme de riz, 1 tea- spoonful vanilla essence, 1 tablespoonful of brandy. Put the chocolate, sugar, and water in a saucepan; stir over the fire until it boils. Mix the fec^ule or creme de riz with an extra gill of cold water, add it to the chocolate, bring it again to the boil, and let simmer for five minutes. Pass through a tammy or napkin, return to the saucepan, add the brandy and vanilla essence, and keep hot until required. 385. Sauce Mousseline, douce.—3 yolks of eggs, 2 whites of eggs, ^ gill of cream, 1^- oz. caster sugar, 1 ivineglassful maraschino. Put all the above ingredients into a small stewpan, beat it with a whisk, stand the pan in a bain-marie or a large vessel three parts full of boiling water. Stir until it becomes creamy, but do not allow it to boil. Serve with hot sweet puddings, &c. 386. Sauce Citron (Lemon Sauce).—Put 2 yolks of eggs in a small saucepan, beat up well, and add 2 oz. of caster sugar, ^ oz. of cornflour, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix thoroughly, and work in slowly half a pint of boiling milk. Stir with a whisk over the fire until the sauce acquires the desired consistency, strain and serve as directed. 386 a. Sauce Caramel.—Put an ounce of loaf sugar into a copper pan and cook it to a light brown colour ; pour in quickly half a pint of syrup, flavour with vanilla pod or essence and reduce a little. About five minutes before serving incorporate a dessertspoon- ful of arrowroot, previously mixed with a little cold milk or cream. Boil while stirring for a few minutes, then strain and serve. 386 b. Sauce an Cafe.—Boast 2 ounces of raw coffee berries in a pan over a quick fire till of a chestnut brown colour. Then pound them in a mortar. Boil half a pint of water and pour over the coffee. Cover, and let it infuse for some minutes. Now strain and sweeten with plain sprup. Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot or cornflour with a small glass of brandy or Kirsch. Add this to the coffee. Let simmer five minutes and serve.