EN TREES CHAV BE S HE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 313 spoonful lemon-juice, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, £ gill brown stock, 1 glass of Chablis, a few half-moons of puff- pastry {fleurons). Wipe the liver with a clamp cloth, cut it in very fine short slices, season with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a frying-pan, add the chopped shallots, and fry a light colour; put in the liver, and toss over a quick fire for about five minutes ; sprinkle the flour over, toss again, add the chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and wine, also the brown stock. Let it simmer whilst stirring for another five minutes. Pile up on a hot dish, garnish with half-moons of puff-paste, and serve. 861. JPieds de Yean d I’Horly.—1 pair of calf’s feet, 1 carrot, 1 onion, oz. flour, % gill vinegar, peppercorns, salt, oil, parsley, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, fat for frying, tomato sauce {No. 271). Wash and scald the calf’s feet, bone the upper part and remove the shank-bone, slit them in two, and steep in cold water for one or two hours. Blanch them in salted water. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water or stock to well cover. Add the carrot and onion sliced, and a few peppercorns. Cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove the hoof-bones, place the meat under press, and let cool. Cut into convenient strips. Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, and chopped parsley ; pour this over the pieces and let them soak for an hour. Mix the flour with a little pepper and salt, dip each piece in this, then egg and crumb in the usual way, fry in hot fat a golden colour, strain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. 862. Queues deVeau ci I’Alsacienne.—3 to 4 calves’ tails, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. bacon or ham trimmings, celery-root, 1 small onion sliced, 1 small bouquet garni, 1 small glass cognac, stock, demi-glace sauce {No. 237), small smoked and boiled sausages for garnish, seasoning. Cut the calves’ tails into joints two ancla half to three inches long. Soak them in lukewarm water for an hour, take up, drain, and fry carefully in a braising-pan containing the butter, bacon, root, onion, and herbs. When well blended, add the brandy (cognac), season with salt, pepper, and cook well covered with stock, in the oven for about half an hour. Bemove the fat from the surface, strain off the liquor, and reduce it with the sauce. Add it to the calf’s tail and finish cooking in the sauce till quite tender. Dish up on a hot dish, piled up high, pour the sauce carefully over the pieces, garnish with fried . sausages and grated horseradish, and serve. Ox-tails can be treated in the same manner. 863. To Blanch Sweetbreads.—After having soaked the sweetbreads in cold water from two to three hours, put them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover. Let the whole come quickly to the boil, then plunge them quickly into cold water, let them remain for half an hour, and then drain them.