529 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 1661. JBeignets a la Torrijos.—2 French dinner-rolls, \ pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. loaf sugar, 1 glass maraschino, ground cinnamon or nutmeg, clarified butter for frying. Rasp the crust from the rolls and cut them into round slices, about quarter-inch thick, and put in a dish. Beat up the yolks of eggs, add the milk and liqueur, and about half an ounce of sugar. Stir and pour over the slices of bread and let soak for about fifteen minutes. Drain the pieces and fry a golden colour in the clarified butter. Drain well on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with caster sugar previously mixed with enough ground cinnamon or nutmeg to flavour. Dish up, and serve-hot. 1662. JBeignets au JMoka (Coffee Fritters).—Cut two or three milk rolls into slices, place them in a large pie-dish, and pour over enough strongly made coffee to soak them. Make a light frying- batter, allow it to stand for at least one hour. Beat up two yolks of eggs, mix them with a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, pour this over the slices of milk rolls. Dip each slice into the frying-batter and fry a golden colour in very hot fat or lard. Take up and drain the fritters. Dredge them with caster or icing sugar and dish up. Serve hot with a sauce-boat full of cherry syrup or sauce to be handed round along with the dish. 1663. JBeignets a la Tyrolienne —Prepare a choux-paste mixture (No. 1951), put it in a forcing-bag with a star tube or pipe, and force out some round or oblong shapes on to an oiled baking- sheet. Drop these into hot fat and fry a golden colour. Drain, brush over with apricot marmalade, and roll in caster sugar mixed with a little cinnamon powder. Dish up and serve with a hot or cold vanilla sauce. 1664. JBeignets Souffles a la Vanille.—Prepare some choux-paste (No. 1951), add a teaspoonful of caster sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. Have ready some hot lard or clarified butter, drop in the paste with a dessert or tea spoon, fry (rather slowly at first) until a nice golden colour is obtained. Drain well, dredge with caster or icing sugar, and serve hot. 1665. JBeignets de Crepes (Pancake Fritters).—2 oz. flour, | gill milk, 1 egg, 1 lemon, a pinch of salt, vanilla sugar, 4 oz. butter or lard for frying. Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, and stir the milk in gradually, beat up well and stir in the yolk of an egg. Grate half the rind of the lemon, and add it together with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and mix gently: with the above. Heat up the butter (clarified) or lard in a frying or omelet pan, when quite hot drop in the mixture by means of a dessertspoon and fry a golden colour. Too many must not be fried at one time. As soon as they are fried strain on a cloth or paper, dredge well with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve hot with a lemon- sauce, or sauce citron. M M