THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 322 the wine, the bouquet garni, and the small onions, previously peeled. Cover and cook gently for about an hour. Pour off the stock and remove the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, but do not let it get brown, moisten with a pint of stock, boil up, skim, and add the mush- rooms, cut it in halves or slices, cook for ten minutes, then add the cream and egg-yolks, strain over the cooked veal, re-heat, without letting it actually boil, season to taste, dish up, garnish with fleurons, and serve hot. 887. Tete de Veau en Tortile.—Wash half a calf’s head well, and rub with a coarse cloth. Bone carefully ; start cutting from the centre of the head down to the nostrils. Wash and blanch the flesh ; put in a stewpan an ounce of flour, stir in a quart of water and a teaspoonful of vinegar; add an onion, three cloves, a bunch of herbs, one carrot, and a bay-leaf. Cut the meat of the head into convenient pieces, remove the centre of the ears, put them into the stewpan, add two or three quarts of stock, and boil slowly till tender. Skim occasionally. When done take up as many pieces as may be required (the re- mainder will keep if put with the stock into an earthenware pan), put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, cover and boil five minutes, season to taste, and add Garnishing a la Tortue (No. 493). Cook for fifteen minutes longer, dish up, garnish with fried bread croutons glazed over, and fried parsley, and serve. Note.—The brain should be removed, washed, and kept in water till wanted. The tongue can be cooked at the same time, or may be served as a separate dish. 888. Tete de Veau d t« Foulette.—Cook half a calf’s head as in the foregoing recipe. Add about one pint of poulette sauce (No. 207), omitting the sherry and Tortue garnishing. Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, dish up and serve. If found that the sauce is too thick add a little milk or cream. 888 a. Tete de Veau d la Vinaigrette.—Wash, blanch, and cook as before, drain well, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a boat of vinaigrette sauce, consisting of one gill of best oil, rather more than half a gill of vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped chervil, parsley, olives, and one small shallot. 889. Tete de Veau d la ('aroar—Proceed as before; finish cooking in tomato sauce (No. 271), adding garnishing a la Cavour (No. 431). Dish up, garnish neatly, and serve. 890. Filets de Fore d la Ferigueux—-Bone a small neck of pork, trim off all the fat, and lard one side with strips of fat bacon. Place it in a deep saute-pan, on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and bouquet garni, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of brown stock. Let it come to the boil, and finish cooking in a moderate oven; baste well from time to time. When done, take up, skim the liquor and strain into a small stewpan add