491 SALABES (SALADS) 1524. Salade Mignonne.—2 medium-sized potatoes boiled in tlieir jackets, 1 stick celery, £ pint preserved small button mush- rooms (those preserved in white vinegar are best adapted), % pint cooked green peas, £ pint pickled button onions, 2 small cabbage lettuces, a few sprigs of chrysanthemum bloom and blossoms {shredded very finely), about a gill of stiff mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), salt and pepper. Peel the potatoes, cut them into even-sized small dice ; select the celery as white as possible, trim and wash well, and cut the white part into fine shreds, pare the stalks from the mushrooms (cham- pignons) and cut them in halves, leaving out a few for garnish, halve the pickled onions, trim and wash the lettuces, reserve the hearts for garnish, and tear the remainder into small pieces, put these, together with the potatoes, celery, onions, mushrooms, and green peas, in a basin, season with salt and pepper according to taste, and mix with sufficient mayonnaise sauce to flavour the salad. Dress neatly in a salad bowl, pile up high or in the form of a pyramid, pour over a little mayonnaise dressing, so as to thinly cover the surface, garnish with the lettuce hearts, sprinkle over with shredded chrysanthemum, and serve. 1525. Salade d la Haehel.—1 head celery, 2 truffles, 2 hard- boiled eggs, 2 French gherkins, ^ gill mayonnaise {No. 277) sauce, a few slices of cooked beetroot, salt, pepper. Wash and clean the celery, cut all the white part into very fine shreds (like julienne roots) ; slice the truffles, and cut them into shreds likewise. Mix both together and season with pepper and salt, dress with mayonnaise sauce, and put in the centre of a glass bowl or china salad dish. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and arrange into a border round the celery and truffle salad, decorate prettily with finely shredded gherkins and beetroot cooked and pickled. Instead of ordinary eggs plover’s or pheasant’s eggs may be used for a change. 1526. Salade Musse, aw Maigre {Russian Salad).— pint mayonnaise {No. 277), 1 gill cooked green peas, 1^ cauli- flower, 3 new potatoes, 2 tomatoes, 1 truffle, 1 gill mixed vegetables {carrot, turnip, and French beans), 2 gherkins, and garnishing. Cook separately in slightly salted water the various vegetables, previously prepared, the carrot, turnip cut into dice or stars (the mixed vegetables may be used preserved), the cauliflower divided into sprigs or buds. The potatoes are cooked and cut afterwards into neat short strips. The tomatoes are cut up in slices raw. Put a piece of butter into the water in which the vegetables are boiled. When all are cooked, drain well, and put in layers in a large basin or salad bowl. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar; arrange the whole of the ingredients, including the gherkins and truffles, which are cut into fine shreds, in several distinct sections or layers. Cover each layer with mayonnaise sauce. Smooth over neatly with mayon-