454 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK parsley, pepper, salt, die., 1 quart of stock, 1 gill brown sauce, No. 236). Remove the loose leaves from the cabbages, trim and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and a small piece of soda or moist sugar, parboil it for fifteen minutes, strain and cool in fresh water, press them gently, cut in twos lengthways, remove the stalky parts, and put the cabbages on a cloth. Prepare a stuffing with the sausage-meat, the mushrooms finely chopped, the bread-crumbs, about a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg-yolks ; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix also an ounce of butter with this preparation, and fill the centre part of the cabbages with this. Shape them neatly, enfold them in thinly cut slices of fat bacon, tie carefully with string, place them in a stewpan or deep saute-pan, add the stock, a small onion stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter * set it in the oven, and let braise gently for about an hour and a half ; baste from time to time. Drain the cabbages, remove the fat, and dish up. Take the fat off the gravy, add the brown sauce, and reduce to half-glaze; strain over the cabbages, and serve. 1353. Choux-Itaves a la Menagere. — Peel some kohl-rabis (a species of turnip), cut each in quarters and pare neatly (olive shapes), blanch and drain. Cook them in nut-brown butter and finish stewing in a light brown sauce ; season and serve. 1354. Choux de Bruxelles sautes an Jieuvre (Brussels Sprouts).—Trim and wash one pound of Brussels sprouts ; boil them in salted water in the usual manner. When done take up, drain, and let them get cool. Melt an ounce and a half of fresh butter in a saute or frying pan; put in the sprouts, season with pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, toss the sprouts in the pan over a bright fire for about ten minutes, dish up, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley,, and serve. 1355. Chou-fleur a, la Polonaise.—Trim, wash, and drain a nice rigid cauliflower, divide it into separate and even-sized buds or flowerets, pare the stalks, rinse them again. Cook in salted water till they are about three parts done. Pour off the water, add an ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and finish in the oven. Dish up as neatly as possible on a hot vegetable- dish (round dish in preference), give the buds a kind of dome shape in dressing them, sprinkle over some nicely fried brown bread-crumbs, and serve. 1356. Chou-fleur an Gratia.—I cauliflower, H oz. butter, 5 oz. corn flour, i pint milk, 1^ oz. grated cheese, salt, pepper, nut- meg, bread-crumbs. Trim and wash the cauliflower, cook it till tender in slightly salted water, drain it well, and let cool. Melt one ounce’of butter in a small stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with the milk, and let boil for ten minutes; season to taste, add one ounce grated cheese. Press the cauliflower into shape. Put a teaspoonful of the sauce on the dish