ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 341 tomato sauce (No. 271), about £ lb. short crust paste, £ oz. grated cheese, 4 oz. cooked game or beef, 1 oz. ham, 4 oz. butter, 1 table- spoonful well-reduced bechamel (No. 202), 2 yolks of eggs, 1 hard- boiled egg, salt, pepper, 1 truffle, a croute of fried bread. Draw, wipe, and singe the chicken, cut it into neat joints (it should make twelve nice pieces), melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the pieces, season with pepper and salt, and fry a golden colour over a brisk fire. Add the shallot, finely chopped, at the last moment, so as to blend a little; now add the sherry, cover and reduce a little, then add tomato and Espagnole sauce, put on the lid, and let simmer gently for about forty minutes. Roll out the paste, butter six or more little dariole moulds and line them with the paste ; line the inside with greased paper, fill them up with raw rice or dried peas, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for fifteen minutes, or until they are of a nice golden colour. Turn out the rice, remove the paper, and fill with the following mixture: Cut the ham and game or beef into small pieces, and pound in a mortar till smooth; add the bechamel sauce, butter, and hard-boiled yolk of egg, pound well, work in the two raw yolks, season with pepper and salt, and rub through a wire sieve. Cut the truffle into slices and stamp out as many rounds as you have cases ; chop the trimmings finely and mix with the above. The filling must be done very carefully, and is best performed with a forcing-bag. Sprinkle the surface with grated cheese and bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Dish up the chicken on a croute of fried bread, fixed on a hot dish by means of a little batter or white of egg. Skim off the fat from the sauce, and strain over the chicken. Cut some slices of hard-boiled white of egg, stamp out neatly some triangle or heart shapes, cut out the centre so as to receive the slices of truffle previously prepared ; place these tastefully on the baked cases, and dress them round the croute. Garnish with a few sprigs of parsley and serve. Note.—These croutades or timbales make a very pretty second course or savoury dish, served by themselves or as a garnish. 963. Poulet saute a la Chasseur.—1 fat chicken or fowl, \ oz. butter, £ gill salad oil, 1 glass sherry, 1 small onion, 2 oz. raio ham, 6 oz. rice, 1 gill salmi or game sauce (No. 240), £ pint Espa- gnole sauce (No. 236), 10 preserved mushrooms, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Draw, singe, and cut the fowl into neat joints. Put the oil and butter in a saute-pan; when hot, put in the pieces of chicken, season with pepper and salt, and fry a light brown over a quick fire ; add the onion, finely chopped, and the ham, cut into slices or squares. Fry a few minutes longer, drain off the fat, add the sherry and Espagnole sauce, and let simmer slowly for about half an hour. Wash the rice, blanch it in slightly salted water, drain and cook till tender with a little stock and the game sauce ; season with pepper and salt. Put the rice in a buttered plain-border mould, pack tightly,