THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 572 and a few drops of lemon-juice. Put a teaspoonful of this into each oyster-shell and place an oyster upon it. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley, dish up, and keep on the ice till wanted for table. Hand a plate of thinly cut brown bread and butter along with this dish when serving it. 1815. Huitres en Caisses a la T)table.—Prepare a ragout of oysters, using the oysters whole (bearded), and add a well flavoured white wine sauce, or veloute (No. 206), incorporate cayenne, lobster butter, and Parmesan cheese to taste, fill a number of small souffle cases, cover each with panurette or fresh bread-crumbs, cheese, and oiled butter, and bake for a few minutes in a very hot oven. 1816. Croquettes aux Huitres (Oyster Croquets).—Make a salpicon of minced oysters, bechamel sauce (No. 202), mushrooms, and cooked white fish, well seasoned and mixed with egg-yolks. Shape into croquettes, egg, crumb, and fry in deep fat. Drain and dish up. 1817. Bonnes Bouches aux Huitres (Oyster Titbits).— Wrap each oyster into a thin slice of streaky bacon, fasten on skewers, and broil them. Place each on a small round of fried bread (crouton). Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. 1818- Macaroni aux Huitres (Macaroni with Oysters).— Cook a quarter of a pound of spaghetti (macaroni) in stock or salted water, drain, and finish with tomato sauce, grated cheese, and the needed seasoning. Fry some blanched oysters, eight to ten, in a little butter, and mix with the above. Dish up and bake in gratin style. 1819. Huitres au Gratin (Baked Oysters, Gratin Style).— Blanch 18 to 24 oysters of medium size, drain them (preserving the liquor), and remove the beards. Have ready half a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 202), reduce it well, and work in a tablespoonful of double cream, one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a pinch of krona pepper, and a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Put the oysters into this and re-heat without bringing it actually to the boil. Season with salt and incorporate a little of the oyster liquor. Pour the prepared mixture on a buttered gratin dish or into several buttered shells (oyster shells may of course be used, if liked). Sprinkle some fine bread-crumbs over the top, also some grated Parmesan cheese and a little oiled butter. Bake in a very hot oven just long enough to brown the surface, and serve at once. 1820. Huitres sur Canapes (Oysters on Toast).—Toast some slices of white or brown bread, cut some thin slices of cooked ham, stamp out some rounds of toasted bread and ham, about H to 2 inches in diameter; cover each round of toast with ham, and place upon them the same number of oysters as there are rounds of toast; the oysters should be drained from the liquor and bearded ; put a tiny piece of fresh butter on top of each oyster, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, then bake in a hot oven for about three