THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 292 about four inches long by one and a half to two inches wide. Prepare the following stuffing: Put the bread-crumbs, suet, ham, parsley, herbs, lemon-rind, and spice into a basin, mix well, and moisten with a well-beaten egg. Season the slices of meat with a little salt and pepper, and lay them out flat. Spread a layer of the prepared stuffing on each slice of meat, roll up neatly, and tie each with a piece of string. Have the sauce heated in a stew- or saute-pan, lay in the prepared rolls, cover and stew gently from forty to forty-five minutes. Remove the strings from the rolls and dish them upon a bed of mashed potatoes. Pour over some of the sauce, and garnish the sides of the dish with spinach or groups of braised button onions. Serve hot. 780. Gullasch (Gulids-hus), an Austro-Hungarian Dish.— 1 lb. lean beef (sirloin or rib), 4 onion, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful caraway seeds, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, 1 gill brown stock {No. 87), 2 small potatoes, 4 oz. bacon, \ wineglassful of Madeira, 4 tea- spoonful of salt, a pinch of paprika pepper. Remove the skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small dice, wash and peel the potatoes, cut them likewise in dice, together with the bacon ; tie the caraway seeds in a piece of muslin cloth. Melt half the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, add the onion finely chopped, and fry a little, just enough to slightly colour them ; add the meat, season with salt and pepper, and let it cook in a hot oven or over a bright fire for about ten minutes. Sprinkle with the flour, moisten with the wine and stock, add the tied-up caraway seed, and let it simmer slowly. Melt the remainder of the butter in a frying- pan, add the bacon, and fry a little ; now add the potatoes and cook them slowly over the fire until of a nice golden colour ; pour off the superfluous fat, mix with the meat, cover over and allow to simmer gently until the meat and potatoes are quite done. Stir from time to time, using a fork for this purpose so as not to break the potato dice, remove the caraway seeds, dish up on a hot dish, and serve, very hot. Veal can be treated in the same way. Coarsely-minced apples are sometimes added, and cooked with the meat. 781. Tournedos d I’Aixoise.—Saute or toss some neatly-cut tournedos (fillets of beef cut small) in sufficient butter, dress them on croquettes made of fresh cepes. Garnish the dish with halves of fried tomatoes, green peas, or small rounds of new potatoes, fried. Serve with demi-glace (No. 237) or moelle (No. 340) sauce. 782. Tournedos d la Seymour.—Cut some thin slices of fillet of beef, trim them and saute them in butter. Season to taste, and place each on an artichoke bottom previously heated and seasoned, dish up in a circle, cover each with a well-flavoured Bear- naise sauce (No. 225), place a slice of truffle on each, and fill the centre with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace (No. 237) and serve.