SAUCES 189 slice the onion, put the butter or lard in a stewpan ; when hot, add the carcase and ham cut into small pieces, fry a few minutes, then add the vegetables and herbs, fry again, moisten with the wine, cover and steam a few minutes, add the stock, cook for twenty minutes. Skim, strain, and use as directed. 299 a. Essence de Volatile {Chicken Essence).—Reduce 1 quart of chicken consomme (No. 178) over a slow fire to about half a pint. Skim, strain into a white pot, and use as required. 300. Vinaigrette.—Mix 4 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 2 of tarragon vinegar, \ teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley and shallots, and one of gherkins, season with pepper and salt, mix well and serve. 301. Mint Sauce.—2 tablespoonfuls finely choppedmint {green), 1 dessertspoonful brown sugar, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Put the mint into a basin, add the sugar and pour over a little warm water, sufficient to dissolve the sugar, cover and let cool, then add the vinegar, stir well and pour into a sauce-boat^ ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER SAUCES. 302. Sauce d VAmiral {Admiral Sauce).—A white sauce (veloutee or Allemande), with chopped capers, parsley, lemon-rind and juice, and anchovy essence to flavour. 303. Sauce Allemande {German Sauce).—A white sauce, made from veal stock thickened with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon-juice. 304. Sauce Avignonnaise {Avignonese Sauce).—Consists of bechamel sauce, yolks of eggs, grated Parmesan, and chopped parsley ; flavoured with shallots, and garlic. 305. Sauce Bohemienne {Bohemian Sauce).—A white sauce made with fresh bread-crumbs, milk-white stock, butter, and grated horseradish ; seasoned with pepper and salt. 305 a. Sauce Bretonne {Brittany Sauce).—A brown onion sauce, thickened with a little haricot puree. 306. Sauce Bourguignonne {Burgundy Sauce).—A brown sauce, composed of Espagnole sauce, finely minced onions, and parsley reduced in Burgundy wine; flavoured with thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace. 306 a. Sauced la Creme {Cream Sauce).—Bechamel or supreme sauce finished with fresh cream as liaison. 307. Sauce aux Cdpres brune {Brown Caper Sauce).—A brown sauce, with coarsely chopped capers, seasoned .with nutmeg and black pepper. 308. Sauce Casanova {Casanova Sauce).—A cold fish or salad sauce, composed of mayonnaise sauce, with finely shred truffles, whites of hard-boiled eggs, flavoured with garlic. 309. Sauce Chateaubriand {Chateaubriand Sauce).—A rich brown sauce made with Espagnole sauce, meat glaze, fresh butter,