THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 224 Reduce the sauce until you obtain the desired consistency. Remove the herbs, add the yolks of eggs, work in the butter, and pass through a cloth. Return to a smaller stewpan, add the anchovy paste, chopped parsley, and capers; stir a few minutes over the fire, and pour over the fish. 528. Mousseline de Cabillaud.—12 ounces cod-fish, free from shin and bones, 8 eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill cream, 2 oz. flour, 1 gill fish stock. Seasoning : Cardinal sauce (No. 218). Pound the fish in a mortar and rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, and mix over the fire for several minutes without letting the flour get brown. Moisten with the fish stock and continue to stir until the mixture becomes a smooth paste. Return the pounded fish into the mortar, add the above pre- paration, mix thoroughly and work in the eggs one by one, also gradually the cream, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cayenne or paprika. Put this into a well-buttered souffle tin, cover with a greased paper, and steam or bake for about forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with cardinal sauce. This may be poured .over the shape or round the base of the dish. 529. Cabillaud recrepi bo a illi (Crimped Cod, boiled).— Procure about 2j lb. of crimped cod (middle cut), wipe it with a cloth, place in a fish-kettle, cover completely with cold water, season with a small handful of salt, add a medium-sized sliced onion, one clove, a few peppercorns, and half a wineglassful of French wine vinegar. Let it come to the boil quickly, and allow it to simmer very gently for about five minutes, when the fish will be sufficiently cooked. Drain it well, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve on a hot dish with a suitable sauce. 530. Filets de Maquereaux d la Maitre d’Hotel (Fillets of Mackerel, Maitre d'Hotel).—2 mackerel, 1\ oz. butter, \ oz. flour, 1 small shallot, 2 tablespoonfuls mushroom liquor or fish stock, ^ lemon, 1 large teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 gill milk, stock, pepper and salt. Wipe the fish and remove the fillets. Butter a baking-tin or saute-pan, strew over the shallot peeled and finely chopped, range the fillets on this, skin upwards, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over a few drops of lemon-juice. Moisten with mushroom liquor or fish stock, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, melt an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan, stir in the flour, cook a few seconds, pour in the milk, a little at a time, and add a little stock (white), stir until it boils, and let simmer for ten minutes. Take up the fish, remove the skin and dress on a hot dish, put the liquor of the fish with shallots into the. sauce, boil up and strain, then add the parsley, a few drops of lemon-juice, season to taste, and pour over the fillets. 531. Filets de Soles aux Aubergines.—2 good-sized soles, 3 aubergines (egg plants), 1 oz. butter, J pint olive oil and