399 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME layer of aspic. Remove the lard from the foie gras, take out the truffles, and chop finely. Pound the foie gras in a mortar, add the yolk of egg and the sauce, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Work in about half a pint of aspic jelly and the chopped truffles. Fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set. Keep the moulds on the ice until set, turn out, and serve. 1164. Darioles de Foie Gras d la Vatel.—1 tin or terrine of foie gras (No. 10 size), 1 hard-boiled white of egg, 1 truffle, 1 pint aspic (No. 293). Open the tin or terrine of foie gras, remove all the lard on top, and turn out on a plate. Mask a number of small plain or fluted dariole moulds with aspic jelly, and decorate the bottom and sides with fancifully cut slices of truffle and white of egg. Stamp or cut out some convenient shapes of foie gras, trim off any particles of fat or lard, and put one in each of the dariole moulds ; fill up with half- set aspic, and stand on the ice until set. Immerse in tepid water, turn out on a cloth, and dish up on a silver or glass dish. Garnish with chopped aspic and serve. 1165. Fes de Foie Gras d la Strasbourgeoise.—1 terrine foie gras (size No. 10 or No. 12), 1 large truffle, 2 oz. cooked lean ham, ^ gill stiffly made mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1 leaf French leaf gelatine, £ gill well-reduced Mad'ere or brown sauce (No. 237 a), 1 tablespoonful double cream, ^ pint aspic jelly, celery salad for centre. Procure ten to twelve so called domino or des moulds, line them with a very thin coating of aspic jelly, stamp out some slices of truffles to the desired shapes of the dominos. Mix sufficient mayonnaise with a little cream and aspic to ensure its setting firmly, put a layer of this into each mould. Cut the foie gras to the size and shape required and set in the moulds ; chop the ham, the remains of truffles, and foie gras very finely, mix them with the sauce, warm up carefully, add the gelatine, previously dissolved, and enough aspic to form a nice consistency, then fill the moulds completely with this and place them on the ice to set. Prepare a salad with finely shredded white celery, dress with mayonnaise and aspic and set up on a round dish (pile up high). Unmould the dominos and place them neatly round the dressed salad. 1166. Fleurettes dr Foie Gras (Foie Gras with Mayon- naise).—1 medium-sized tin or terrine of foie gras pate, 1 truffle, 1 gill of mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), i, a gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202), £ a pint of stiff aspic jelly, a few sprays of tarragon and chervil, 2 leaves of French leaf gelatine. Have ready six to eight small flat oval moulds (any pattern). Trim the foie gras, cut it into slices, and stamp out as many ovals aS there are moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Melt the aspic and coat the moulds thinly with it; decorate them with strips of truffle and tarragon and chervil-leaves. Stir the