THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 272 Heat the artichoke foncls in the broth, chop the mushrooms, previously washed and peeled, saute them in butter, then add the lemon-juice, meat glaze or extract, and the chopped herbs. Season to taste, and cook for a few minutes. Fill the artichokes with this. Dress the noisettes on a hot dish, place an artichoke fond on top of each, garnish with fleurons or croutons of bread, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 694. Queues d’Agneau a la Musse.—4 or 5 lambs’ tails, 1 glass Ghablis, 1^ pint stock, 1 clove of garlic, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig of thyme and 1 of basil, 2 cloves, 1 small bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, frying-batter and frying-fat. Wipe the tails with a damp cloth, cut them into small joints, blanch and drain. Cook until tender in the stock and a little water, adding the wine, savoury herbs, parsley, &c. Season to taste, allow them to cool in the stock. Chop a little parsley and mix with the frying- batter, drain the pieces of tail in a cloth, dip them in the prepared batter, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. Drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with hot tomato sauce (No. 271). 695. Mis d9Agneau H la Volta ire.—8 lambs’ breads of good size, 8 cooked artichoke bottoms (fonds d’artichauts) 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 3 to 4 slices of bacon, 1 bouguet garni (No. 2), ^ pint rich stock, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel so.uce (No. 202), 3 egg-yolks, v ason- ing, 1 oz. Parmesan cheese (grated), 1 oz. butter. Trim the breads, blanch, drain and pare them neatly. Prepare a mirepoix with the onion, carrot, bacon, and bouquet, put this in a saute-pan, and place the lambs’ breads upon it; moisten with stock, season with salt and pepper, cover with a piece of buttered paper, and braise in the oven- from thirty to forty minutes, baste occasionally. When done, take up the breads and glaze them. Strain the stock and reduce it a little, remove all fat and add a liaison of egg-yplks with two tablespoonfuls of, bechamel sauce. As soon as it begins to thicken, pass it through a fine sieve and keep hot. Place the arti- choke bottoms on a buttered saute-pan, into each put a teaspoonful of the prepared sauce, put the lambs’ breads upon this, and sauce over well with the above sauce, sprinkle well with grated Parmesan cheese, as well as with oiled butter (use remainder of butter for this). Bake in a very hot oven for six minutes, then dish up, and serve with a suitable sauce. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES OF LAMB. 696. Chartreuse d’Agneau a la Gastronome.—Boned breasts of lamb, rolled, stewed in rich white stock, cut into strips, ranged in a cylindrical mould, alternately in rows with braised green lettuce-stalks cooked ‘au bain-marie,’ and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 697. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Duchesse. -Braised lamb cutlets,