ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 587 julienne strips, suitably seasoned with an oil and vinegar dressing. Serve cold. 1874. (Eufs frits a la Fermiere.—Grill or broil eight thin slices of lean bacon or ham, fry the same number of eggs in a little butter or bacon fat, trim each neatly and place on a slice of bacon or ham. Range these in the form of a border round a dish, fill the centre with a mixture of vegetables (macedoine de legumes) heated and mixed with a little white sauce. Garnish the centre with Parisian potatoes (marble-shaped potatoes, blanched, drained, and baked in the oven, or fried). The dish is then ready for serving. 1875. (Eufs poches a la To mate (Poached Eggs in Tomato Sauce).—Boil up a pint of tomato sauce (No. 271) in a saute-pan, skim it if necessary, and drop in carefully three or four eggs, cook them till the white is firm to the touch, basting the eggs well with the sauce during this process. Lift them carefully with a slice or skimmer, trim them, dish upon a piece of toasted bread. Pour over the sauce, which must be suitably seasoned with salt and pepper, and serve hot. 1876. (Eufs poches au Vin blane (Poached' Eggs with tvliite Wine).—Poach carefully six to eight eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with white wine and a few drops of lemon-juice. Have ready as many fried bread croutons as there are poached eggs. Take up the eggs, trim them neatly, and place them on the croutons, then dish up. Have ready a sauce prepared with one gill of reduced white wine, an ounce and a half of meat glaze, and one ounce of butter; the latter must be whisked in in very small quantities, and must not boil. Season with a good pinch of cayenne or krona pepper. Mask the eggs with the sauce, which must be thick enough to coat them nicely, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over each egg, and serve. 1877. (Eufs aux Nouilles a la Carola.—Prepare some nouille paste (No. 1946), cut it into very thin strips, and blanch in salted water for three minutes; drain and toss in butter. Season with nutmeg and pepper, and put some on a buttered fire-proof dish. Dredge well with grated cheese. Upon this range a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of nouilles, and lastly a layer of fresh mushrooms, seasoned and tossed in butter. Cover with a well- reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), strew with grated cheese and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. 1878. (Eufs a la Suzette—Cut some baked potatoes in halves lengthwise ; scoop out the mealy part and mix with bechamel sauce (No. 202), grated cheese, and seasoning. Line the potato crusts with this and put in each a poached egg (neatly trimmed). Spread some of the mixture over each and sprinkle with cheese and bread-crumbs and oiled butter. Bake in a sharp oven and serve hot. 1879. (Eufs a la JPrincesse (Egg Darioles).—4 to 6 eggs, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 oz. butter, a handful coohed aspara-