398 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1161. Aspic de Foie Gras d la Fiplomate.—Pound half a pound of cooked fowl freed from skin and bone, pass through a sieve, and mix while hot with a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce (No. 202) ; incorporate about one-third part with liquid aspic (No. 293). Work the whole well together. In the meantime have ready some ox-tongue, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and black truffles. I)lace a round or oval mould upon some crushed ice, pour in about two tablespoonfuls of clear aspic jelly to mask the bottom and sides well as soon as it has set. Ornament the bottom with tongue, white of egg, and truffles, cut in leaves, crescents, &c., so as to form a neat design. Mask the sides the same as the bottom when set. Ornament likewise with truffles, tongue, and egg-white ; but cut these so as to form dice to cover the whole of the sides (mosaic style). For decorating it is necessary to dip each piece of garniture in a little liquid aspic jelly, so as to make it adhere to the mould. As soon as the decoration is finished and well set, put one or two layers of the prepared chicken puree at the bottom of the mould, place an appropriate-sized pate de foie gras, freed from crust and fat, in the centre, and fill up side and top with the remainder of the puree ; the last layer should be aspic. Put the mould on the ice until set. When ready for serving, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, withdraw it quickly, wipe round the mould with a cloth, and turn it on a dish with folded napkin or on a socle of rice. If there be time to prepare the latter, the dish will look much more attractive. 1162. Chaud-froid de Foie Gras en Caisses.—1 tin foie gras pate (No. 8 or No. 9 size), % gill sherry, £ pint light brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 289), a little small salad, aspic jelly for garnish, 6 to 8 souffle cases. Remove the foie gras from the tin, trim off all the fat, with a sharp knife cut the foie gras into slices, about the size of the souffle cases. Have ready some chaud-froid sauce, reduced with the wine, let it cool, and mark the slices of foie gras before the sauce actually sets. Mark each with a thin coating of aspic. Prepare a small quantity of salad (cut very small), put a little of it in each of the cases, place the foie gras on the bed of salad, garnish with finely chopped set aspic, dish up, and serve. 1163. Darioles de Foie Gras en Belle - Vue.—1 tin or terrine foie gras (size No. 9 or No. 10), 1 pint aspic jelly, 1 hard- boiled egg, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, 1 gill veloutee (No. 206) or supreme (No. 210) sauce, 2 large truffles, 2 slices of cooked tongue. Line six to eight small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly. Decorate the bottom of each with a round of tongue in the centre, a ring of truffle, and a ring of hard-boiled white of egg. Ornament the sides alternately with thinly cut lozenge-shapes of truffle, white of egg, and tongue, and mask the inside of each timbale with a thin