312 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 854. Escalopes de Veau d la Savoisienne.—Broiled veal collops or thin slices of fillet of veal dressed in the centre of a border of small rice timbales. Sauce : Demi-glace (No. 237), blended with Tomate (No. 271). 855. jEscalopes de Veau d la Viennoise.—Veal fillets or collops egged, crumbed, and fried, served with a thin brown sauce, garnished with gherkins, olives, capers, fillets of anchovies, and hard- boiled eggs. 856. Fricandeau de Veau d la Regence.—Larded cushion of veal, braised and glazed with its own gravy reduced, dished up with a garniture of veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles. Sauce : Madere (No. 237 a). 857. Fricassee de Veau d VAllemande.—Pieces of breast, fillet, or neck of veal freed from skin and bones and stewed in white sauce, garnished with crayfish quenelles, crayfish tails, asparagus tips, and sprigs of cauliflower. 858. Foie de Veau braise.—Take a small calf’s liver, soak it in cold water for about twenty minutes, then drain and wipe it with a cloth. Insert small thin strips of larding-bacon into the surface of the liver. Prepare a mirepoix of vegetables—onion, carrot, bay-leaf, bacon and herbs. Put these in a stewpan containing about one and a half ounce of butter. Fry the vegetables a golden colour, put in the liver and let it brown gently, pour off the fat, add about half a pint of rich brown sauce and a gill of good stock. Season with pepper and salt, and let simmer gently for about an hour. Then add a glass of port wine, the juice of half a lemon, and a small quantity of finely- chopped parsley. Boil up, take up the liver, let the liquid reduce, strain and remove the fat. Dish up the liver, sauce over carefully, and serve whole. 859. Foie de Veau a la Clermont.—1 large Spanish onion, 2 oz. butter, 4 pint stock, ■§• pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), f lb. calves' liver, a tablespoonful flour, salt,-pepper, chopped parsley. Peel and blanch the onion, cut it into very fine dice, and fry a golden colour in about an ounce of butter ; then add the stock, and cook slowly until reduced to a thick puree. Now add the brown sauce and reduce further. Mix the flour on a plate with a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Cut the liver into slices about three-eighths of an inch in thickness, pare each slice to the shape of a neat fillet, and dip in the prepared flour. Melt the remainder of butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the liver and fry the slices on both sides until they are firm to the touch. This should not take more than six or eight minutes. Put the onion puree on a hot dish, drain the slices of liver, place them neatly on top, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and serve. 860. Foie de Veau d I’JEchalote.—1 lb. calves' liver, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 2 finely-chopped shallots, 1 tea-