276 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 718. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Prince de Galles.—4 to 6 mutton cutlets, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 8 oz. liam, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 large pig's caul, 2 small shallots, 2 tomatoes, chopped parsley, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, 1 whole egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, sauce. Trim the cutlets neatly, make an incision at the side of each cut- let with a small knife so as to slit the meat without making a wide opening (this is intended to receive the forcemeat). Pound the veal or rabbit meat and ham (freed from fat, skin, or gristle), when fine incor- porate the yolks of eggs, and a little cream if found too consistent, season well and rub through a sieve. Put the farce in a cornet or forcing-bag, and press the farce into the opening of each cutlet. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Heat up the butter in a saute-pan and fry each side of the cutlets just for a minute or so to brown, take up and let cool. Cut the tomato into slices, allowing one neat slice for each cutlet. Peel and chop the shallots and fry a little in the butter wherein the cutlets were partially cooked, put in the tomato slices and broil a little, take up the tomatoes, place one slice on each cutlet, sprinkle over some parsley and a very little of the shallots. Wrap up each cutlet in a piece of caul, the ends of which may, if liked, be moistened with a little white of egg, egg and crumb them carefully and neatly, fry them in hot fat (lard is preferable) for about ten minutes, take up, drain, and dish up on a thin border of mashed potatoes. The dish may be garnished with macedoine of vegetables or green peas. Serve hot with brown, tomato (No. 271), or piquante (No. 241) sauce. Note.—The cutlets must be trimmed so as to remove all or nearly all the fat and skin. Instead of frying the cutlets in deep fat they can be placed in a well-buttered pan and be cooked in the oven, when about fifteen minutes should be allowed. 719. Cdtelettes de Mouton a la Princesse.—Trim ten to twelve small mutton cutlets in the usual way, fry them a little in butter, lay between two baking-sheets to press ; when cold, cover one side of them with a thin layer of chicken forcemeat (No. 403), mixed with finely-minced mushrooms and truffles ; dip them in stiffly reduced Madere sauce (237a), set them on the ice to set the sauce quite firm on the cutlets, dip them in egg and crumbs, fry in clarified butter, strain on a cloth. Dish up in circular form, fill the centre of the dish with cooked asparagus points (mixed with a few fresh peas if desired), sauce round with Perigord sauce (No. 243), and serve. 720. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Provenqale.—Prepare the cutlets as before, oil them slightly with salad oil (huile de Pro- vence). Broil them on one side only, and put them on a dish to get cold. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Spread the cooked side thickly with puree a la Provengale (No. 358), cover with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese. Put one ounce butter in a saute-pan, when hot lay in the cutlets raw side downwards, baste the surface with, oiled butter, and cook in a hot