THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 500 CHAPTER XXYI SWEET ENTREMETS As a rule sweets in general—that is, hot and cold puddings, creams, pastry, and dessert ices—are called Third Course Dishes. Some authorities class these dishes, including fresh fruit, as * Dessert; ’ others call them Entremets sucres (Sweet Entremets) ; this last is, no doubt, the most correct. This course is, as everyone knows, .the last one of a dinner, for savouries (if such are served) are included in this part of the service. I shall not, however, deal with savouries for the present, but confine myself exclusively to sweets. Probably owing to these dishes coming last, many cooks and housekeepers do not seem to consider them of sufficient importance to require that strict attention which other courses receive. Indeed, some look upon these dishes as luxuries and not necessities ; others, however, recognise their importance, and1 devote the attention which they deserve as an obligatory complement of every dinner. I am inclined to think that the sweet course is one to which we cannot devote too much thought and care, because it is a course which is absolutely necessary for any dinner. If the hors-d’oeuvre and soup are the so called prelude to a dinner, then the sweets may be described as the final act of a repast. Without dwelling upon the fact that the cook’s skill and taste can be displayed to advantage by the delicate manner in which the sweets are prepared, it must be admitted that in an ordinary household of moderate means it is economical to serve sweets with a meal, for when these are not provided a greater quantity of meat must be consumed to satisfy nature’s demands. Moreover the majority of people require a certain amount of sugar and starch in their diet, and both of these are very largely represented in these dishes. Children always welcome * sweets ’ and puddings, and these are generally wholesome and nourishing; it is as well not to deprive the young people of this pleasure. Even the poorer classes will find it economical to provide a simple pudding &c. When planning a dinner which contains one or more substantial dishes of meat it must be borne in mind that the first principle regulating the ‘ sweets ’ course should be that the dishes must be at once light and elegant. On the other hand, if the main portion of a.