THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 554 pistachio kernels, fasten them by means of a little icing in a row round the gateau. When the dish is wanted for table, remove the top piece and fill with well-frozen strawberry ice cream; replace the top, and serve. The chocolate icing can be substituted by straw- berry fondant or orange fondant icing. 1750. Gateau a la Heine.—Cream | lb. of fresh butter with ^ lb. of caster sugar ; add one by one six yolks of eggs, 4 oz. ground almonds, and 4 oz. of fecula (potato flour), flavour with vanilla or lemon, and stir in the beaten whites of 3 eggs. Lastly add gill of whipped cream and a few candied violets or orange flowers. Butter a spiral-shaped mould, and dredge with fine sugar; fill up, and bake in a moderate oven. When done unmould, mask with apricot marmalade, and ice with maraschino icing. Decorate tastefully. 1751. Cornets de Nougat dla Creme.—^ lb. sweet almonds,. % lb. sugar, \ lemon, 1 gill cream, vanilla sugar, pistachio hernels for garnish. Blanch, peel, and shred the almonds finely, put them on a baking- sheet, and bake in a cool oven a fawm colour. Put half a pound of caster sugar in a copper pan, add the strained juice of half a lemon, cook until it is a light brown, add the shredded almonds, stir well, and let boil again,. Pour quickly on to an oiled marble slab, stamp out some very thin circles about two and a half inches in diameter. Wrap each quickly round an oiled cornet mould, put in a second mould so as to keep in shape. Remove when cool, whip the cream, sweeten with a little vanilla sugar ; fill the cornets with this, sprinkle with a few chopped pistachio kernels, and serve. The edges of the cornets look better if garnished with little beads of royal icing. These cornets can also be filled with ice cream or any kind of sweet custard, and will thus make a pleasant change. 1752. Gateaux Savigny.—8 eggs, ^ lb. caster sugar, finches vanilla-pod', 6 oz. almonds {sweet), 6 oz: butter, 6 oz. flour, coffee icing, almond cream. Blanch and peel the almonds, shred them coarsely, and place them on a baking-sheet in the oven until of a fawny brown. Break the eggs in a basin, add the sugar and the vanilla, beat up with a wooden spoon until creamy, stand the basin in a vessel of hot water over the fire, and whisk until it has the appearance of a thick Genoise mixture. Take out the vanilla, add the almonds, and mix in gradually the- sifted flour and melted butter. Put the preparation in a well-buttered saute-pan, bake in a slow oven for about twenty-five minutes, turn out, and let cool. Divide the gateau into two rounds, take out a little of the soft crumbs, spread with creme d’amandes or praline d’amandes, close together neatly ; cut into any desired shapes, diamonds, fingers, or ovals, mask the surface with fondant icing flavoured with coffee, and sprinkle over with finely-chopped roasted almonds. 1753. Creme d’Amandes for Gateaux Savigny.—% lb..