DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 229 Skin and fillet the soles, put the bones in a stewpan with enough water to cover, a slice of onion, herbs, and about half the wine, season with salt, and cook for twenty minutes, then strain. Season the fillets, fold or roll them neatly, trim and place them in a buttered saute-pan, add the lemon-juice and remainder of wine, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for fifteen minutes. Take them up, put the veloutee sauce into the liquor, boil up and strain. Ee-heat the sauce, add the prepared fish stock, and reduce to its original quantity. Now add the chopped parsley, season with a pinch of cayenne, and add. half the meat glaze. Cook the small potato balls in salted water. Drain well and blend with the remainder of the butter. Dress the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with the potato balls (heaped up high), pour the sauce over the fillets, and sprinkle some meat glaze over the whole. 546. Filets de Soles d Id Mornay.—2 medium-sized soles (filleted), 1 gill white ivine, ^ lemon, oz. grated Gruyere cheese, j, pint milk, 1 oz, grated Parmesan, £ oz, flour, 3 oz. fresh butter, 1 small onion, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), pepper and salt, aromatic seasoning. Trim the fillets a little, range them closely, but neatly, on a buttered saute-pan or oval dish; season with pepper and salt; moisten with a few drops of lemon-juice and the white wine; cover with finely sliced onion, put buttered paper on top, and cook in the oven for about eight minutes. Put the milk in a small saucepan, add the bouquet garni, the bones and trimmings left from the sole, and a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and the essence from the fillets. Let the whole reduce to about half the original quantity. Mix the flour with half the quantity of butter, and add to the stock thus made, previously strained. Stir with a whisk over the fire for about ten minutes, incorporate the grated cheese, and the remainder of the butter. Spread a layer of sauce on an oval flat silver dish, range the cooked fillets in a row on this, sauce over well, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese. Put the dish in a very brisk oven for five minutes, or under a hot salamander, to colour the surface, and serve. 547. Filets de Soles d la Fiemontaise.—Skin one or more soles, remove the fillets, fold them and range them in a buttered saute-pan, season with pepper and salt; moisten with a small glass of white wine, cover and poach in the oven for ten minutes. When partially cooked, add enough tomato sauce (No. 271) to well cover the fillets, bake for another five minutes, dish up, pour over the sauce, garnish with small polenta croutons, and slices of truffles. Serve hot. 548. Filets de Soles en Mamequin.—2 medium-sized soles, ^ oz. butter, i glass white wine (Sauterne or Ghablis), 1 gillsoubise sauce (puree), 1 ounce grated Parmesan cheese, 1 white of egg, salt and pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel sauce (No. 203), 4 short crust paste.