172 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK well. Eub through a fine sieve, put the pulp in a small stewpan, stand it in the bain-marie, stir in with a whisk the sauce (bechamel), let it get quite hot, then add by degrees the butter and cream, also the yolks of eggs one at a time. Stir until the sauce begins to thicken, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add a few drops of spinach greening if not green enough. This sauce is excellent with green artichokes, asparagus, salmon, trout, &c. If the sauce is prepared on the open fire great care must be taken so as not to let it come to the boil. 215. Sauce Anchois.—Warm up half a pint of bechamel or Hollandaise sauce (No. 208), and stir in one teaspoonful of anchovy essence. 216. Sauce an Vin Blanc (White Wine Sauce). -Some fish liquor (fumet de poisson : if the sauce be used for fish), ^ pint white stock, 1 gill white icine, J oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of egg, lemon, salt, white pepper. If the sauce is required for dressed fish, the fish should be cooked in a mirepoix of sliced onion, parsley, and savoury herbs as usual, with the appropriate quantity of water. The liquor is strained and used in the sauce. Melt 1 oz. butter, stir in the flour, cook a little, dilute with stock, fish, liquor, and wine, cook for fifteen minutes. Add by continuous stirring the remainder of the butter bit by bit, also the yolks of egg, one at a time, season with a little salt, a pinch of mignonette or white pepper, and add a fewr drops of lemon-juice. Strain through a tammy or napkin, and use as sauce for dressed fish, &c. Mostly served with soles, salmon, trout, and whiting. 217. Sauce Xavier (Fish Sauce).—^ bunch water-cresses, a few sprigs of fennel, f pint milk, fish-bones, essence of fish, for which the sauce is prepared, 1 foz. butter, ^ oz. of flour. Seasoning, lemon- juice. Remove the stalks from the cresses and fennel, put the leaves. in a stewpan with the milk and fish-bones, previously cut into small pieces (add a tiny piece of soda), boil until the leaves are done. Strain and let cool, put the cooked herbs in a mortar, and pound with half the butter, then rub through a sieve. Cook the flour in the remainder of the butter, without taking colour, dilute with the milk in which the cresses, &c., have boiled. Stir until it boils, add the fish essence, and let the whole simmer for ten minutes. Strain, return to the stewpan, boil up, add the green puree, and cook a few minutes longer. Season with a few drops of lemon-juice, pepper, and salt, add a little cream or stock if found too thick, and keep in the bain- marie until required. 218. Sauce Cardinal.—\ pint veloutee (No. 206) or bechamel (No. 202) sauce, 1 oz. butter, jioice of % lemon, ^ oz. lobster coral or 1 oz. lobster butter(No. 891), 1 dessertspoon meat glaze, | gill mush- room liquor, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor, season with salt.