DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {COLD) 257 5 lb. in weight, wash well ; make an opening for filling ; prepare a stuffing with 4 oz. of fresh bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of chopped onions, 3 yolks of eggs, ^ lb. of whiting forcemeat (No. 400), salt, pepper, 1 oz. of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of coarsely chopped truffles ; fill the fish, sew up the opening, put in an oval braisoire or baking-dish well buttered, with a gill of stock and two glasses of white wine; cover with buttered paper, and cook gently in the oven, basting it from time to time. When done, dish up, and allow it to cool, then add a pint of Madere sauce to the remaining stock, reduce well, mix with a gill of stiff aspic jelly, and strain the sauce. Remove carefully the skin off the fish, mask over with the sauce when the latter is nearly set, ornament with truffle, aspic jelly, slices of cucumber and lemon and parsley. Serve remainder of sauce diluted with mayonnaise with the fish. 665. Filets de Truite d la Mayonnaise.— 1 large or 2 small trout, | pint mayonnaise {No. 277), f- pint aspic, a few French gherkins, frying-fat, or clarified butter. Trim and wipe the fish, brush over with milk, and dip in flour. Have ready some hot fat or clarified butter, and fry a golden colour. When cold place the soles on a gridiron for a few seconds, take off the crust and remove the fillets, cut them into neat pieces about an inch long. Line a border mould with aspic jelly, decorate the bottom with neatly-cut slices of gherkins, mix the mayonnaise sauce with sufficient aspic jelly to make it set; put a layer of this sauce in the mould, range in neatly the pieces of fillets, coating each piece in the liquid mayonnaise before setting ; fill up the mould with the batter, so as to well cover the fish, set on the ice to cool; when set immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, and garnish the centre with dressed salad. 666. Truite d la Malvoisie.—1 small trout, 1 cucumber, 1 gill ivliite icine, 1 bay-leaf, 4 carrot, ^ onion, salt, 1 gill aspic, 1 gill mayonnaise {No. 277), tarragon vinegar, parsley, ^ gill cream. Clean and wipe the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with enough water (warm) to cover, add the wine, bay-leaf, carrot and onion, also suffi- cient salt to season the water. Cook till the fish is tender, then take it up carefully and drain on a cloth. When cold, remove the skin and put the trout on a dish. By means of a vegetable-cutter, scoop out some small rounds of cucumber—the latter must be thinly peeled beforehand—put the little rounds on a plate, and season with a few drops of vinegar and chopped parsley. Mix half the mayonnaise sauce with half the given quantity of aspic, stir it on the ice until it begins to set, then mask the surface of the fish carefully with this. Chop some of the cucumber finely, enough to make a table- spoonful. Whisk the cream, and mix the latter with the chopped cucumber, the remainder of aspic and mayonnaise, put all in a sauce boat, and send to table with the fish. Surround the trout artistically with the rounds of cucumber. s