ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 511 Butter one or two timbale moulds, pour in the mixture, and steam for about two hours. Cover them with buttered paper. When done turn out on a hot dish, and serve with wine sauce, vanille custard, or sabayon sauce (No. 881). Note.—If liked, a tablespoonful of finely chopped primrose petals may be stirred into the mixture, just before the flour is added. 1594. Ponding Prince Henri.—£ lb. sugar {caster), i lb. butter, 7 eggs, 4 oz. glace cherries, 1 oz. candied peel, i lb. flour, 1 glass kirschwasser, 8 finger biscuits, sweet sauce. Cream the sugar and butter together in a basin; add gradually while stirring the yolks of seven eggs, cut the cherries into small dice, and chop the peel finely. Stir these into the mixture, also the kirschwasser liqueur, and beat well. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this and the flour gradually into the prepared mixture. Line the bottom and sides of a well-buttered mould with the finger biscuits; then put in the mixture. Cover* with a buttered paper ; steam for about 2 or 2^ hours. Serve with any kind of suitable sweet sauce. 1595. Snowdon Pudding. £ lb. beef suet {chopped finely), i lb. bread-crumbs, 4 oz. caster sugar, the rind of one lemon finely grated, 1 oz. ground rice, 2 eggs, i gill milk, % tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade, 1 oz. glace cherries, £ lb. raisins {stoned), 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. Cut the raisins and cherries in halves, grease a pudding-basin or tin mould, and ornament the bottom and sides with the fruit. Put the remainder of the fruit and all the dry ingredients in a basin, mix them thoroughly, then add the eggs and milk, stir well, and lastly add the marmalade ; this should be slightly warmed, so that it will mix more freely. Pour the mixture into the ornamented mould, cover with a . ■ cl p er, and steam for l^-.hour. Kemove the paper. Turn the pudding out on a hot dish, pour some hot custard or fruit syrup round the base of the dish, and serve. 1596. Ponding transparent.—6 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. butter, apricot jam. Cream the sugar and butter together, add one by one the yolks of eggs, beat up for about fifteen minutes. Butter five or six small timbale or dariole moulds. Divide half the above mixture equally into the moulds, then place about a dessertspoonful of apricot jam in the middle of each mould, fill up with the remainder of mixture, and steam them from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Take up, allow the moulds to stand for a few minutes, then turn out on to a lpot dish, pour round some custard sauce, and serve. 1597. Mousse atioc Framboises.—Prepare a mousseline pudding mixture (No. 1599), and, incorporate £ gill of raspberry syrup and a few fresh or preserved whole raspberries, as well as a few crushed finger biscuits. Colour with liquid carmine or cochineal