COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 403 moulds, similar in shape, but somewhat smaller. Coat the moulds thinly with aspic, decorate with strips of truffle and tarragon and chervil leaves. Stir the mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of aspic while still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie gras, pound the latter till smooth, season to taste, add the sauce in which the two leaves of gelatine has been dissolved. Pass through a fine sieve, coat ea<?h piece of foie gras with this and set into the moulds, fill up with the puree, smooth over with a knife, and place the moulds on to the ice to set. When ready for serving immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, dish up, garnish to taste, and serve. 1174. Filets de Caneton d la Lorraine.—1 large duckling, 1 gill brown chaud-froid sauce (No. 291), 1 terrine of foie gras (No. 12 size), % gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1^ gill aspic jelly (No. 293), ^ lb. cooked lean ham, \ glass Marsala, 1 gill double cream, salt, pepper, and paprika. Truss the duckling for roasting, and roast carefully in front of the fire or in the oven (baste frequently with butter). When done let cool, then remove the fillets and part of the wing ; cut these into even- sized slices the shape of hearts. A good-sized duckling should make eight pieces (fillets). Take the truffles out of the foie gras and rub the latter through a sieve, mix with a little cream or white sauce, season to taste, and spread one side of each prepared fillet with this ; then coat the fillets with brown chaud-froid sauce. The latter must be nicely flavoured ; the carcass of the duckling should be utilised for this purpose. Decorate the' fillets with fancifully cut slices of truffle, and mask them with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Pound the ham in a mortar, add to it the remainder of foie gras puree, the veloutee sauce, and the wine; mix well, season with pepper, salt, and paprika, and pass all through a fine sieve. Incorporate the aspic jelly (previously whisked to a froth) and the cream (also whipped). Stir this over the ice until it commences to set, then pour it into a silver-plated round vegetable or entree dish. Keep it on the ice till quite set. Arrange the prepared fillets neatly on top of the puree (mousse), and send to table when required. 1175. Fate d la Strasbourgcoise (Strasbourg Pie).—Line an oblong greased Strasbourg pie mould with nouille paste or hot water crust rolled out about a quarter of an inch in thickness. This must be done very carefully, and the paste must be pressed well against the sides, so that the pattern of the mould is ob- tained when the pie is baked. Prick the sides and bottom of the lined mould with a fork to prevent blistering. Have ready a forcemeat made of veal, pork. DBLONG STRASBOURG PIE MOULD and