VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 453 1347. Chou-de-Mer d la Creme (Seahale with Cream Sauce.)—1 baked seakale, 1 lemon, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 gill cream, 2 eggs, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful white sauce. Trim and wash the seakale, pat it in a basin with enough water to cover, and add a good pinch of salt. Half fill a convenient-sized stewpan with water, add the juice of half a lemon and the flour, previously mixed into a paste with a little water (flour and lemon juice are used to preserve the whiteness of the seakale). Season with salt and boil up. Place in the seakale, tied up in bundles, and cook till tender. Take up, drain, and dish up on a piece of toasted bread. Whisk the cream, the sauce, and egg-yolks in a stewpan over the fire till hot, not boiling, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and enough salt and pepper to season. Pour this over the heads of the seakale and serve at once. 1348. Chou-de-Mer glace d la Creme (Bed Seakale with Cream Sauce).—Cook the seakale in the usual way, as described in the foregoing recipe. When cold place it in a tin and bury it in the ice for about two hours. Prepare the cream sauce as directed in the above recipe, and keep it in the ice till wanted. Dish up the seakale on a cold dish, mix the cold sauce with a tablespoonful of stiff mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), and pour over the seakale. This is a most delicious dish for lunch or supper. 1349. Choux-de-Mer d la Florentine (Seakale, Florentine Style).—Trim and wash a basket of seakale ; cook it in plenty of salted water and the juice of one lemon. When done take up and drain on a sieve. Put a slice of toasted bread on a dish, arrange the cooked seakale nicely upon this. Sauce over carefully with a layer of well reduced bechamel sauce; sprinkle over some grated cheese (equal quantities of Parmesan and Gruyere). Season with white pepper and a pinch or two of paprika and cayenne. Pour over a few drops of melted butter and dredge lightly with a few bread-crumbs. Place the dish in a very hot oven long enough to brown the top. Serve at once as vegetable entremets or savoury. 1350. Chou-de-Mer d la Hollandaise (Seakale with Hollandaise Sauce).—Wash, pare and trim a basket of seakale, put a tablespoonful of flour in a stewpan (large enough to hold the kale), dilute with water, place in it the seakale, add more water to cover, and salt to taste. Boil till tender. Take up, drain well, and dish up. Sauce over with Hollandaise sauce (No. 208), and serve. 1351. Choux d la Lilloise.—Small portions of parboiled cabbage, drained, slightly pressed, and fried in butter, seasoned with chopped onions, parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Dished up and served with a suitable brown gravy. 1352. Choux farcis au Jieurre.—2 medium-sized cabbages, i lb. mushrooms, 1 lb. fat bacon, ^ lb. fresh bread-crumbs, 4 yolks of eggs, ijr lb. sausage-meat, 2 oz. of butter, 1 onion, 1 clove, chopped