THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 278 cutlets were cooked, put this (shallot and butter) in with the foie gras, mix thoroughly, adding a little brown sauce to form a smooth puree or farce. Season to taste, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread one side of each cutlet with a thick layer of this farce, egg.and bread- crumb them, and fry in very hot fat. Drain, dish up, and pour hot tomato sauce round the base of the dish. 724. Cot alettes de Mont on a la Talleyrand6 to 8 mutton cutlets, 4 to 6 oz. cooked fowl freed from skin and bone, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 shallots, i gill white sauce, A preserved nmshrooms, seasoning, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, 1 oz. butter, frying-fat, demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Trim and pare the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, and cook them slightly in a saute-pan with the butter (they must only be partly cooked), and place them on a dish to cool. Pound the meat of the fowl in a mortar until smooth, then add the yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of sauce, mix well, season to taste, and rub this through a fine sieve. Chop the mushrooms finely, also peel and chop the shallots ; fry the latter a golden colour in the pan in which the cut- lets were par-cooked ; then add the mushrooms, stir over the fire for a few seconds, and mix with the puree as above prepared. If found necessary, a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs and a tablespoonful of white sauce can be added to the puree. The seasoning above referred to should consist of salt, pepper, a tiny pinch of nutmeg, and a similar quantity of cayenne. Mask the cutlets completely with the puree or farce, brush them over carefully with beaten egg, and crumb all over. Fry a golden brown in hot fat, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up in a row or in a circle, pour a little demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 725. Filets cle Moat on a la Tyrolienne.—About 3 lb. best end of a neck of mutton, 4 small even-sized tomatoes, 12 button onions, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 1 gill of sweet oil, \ gill Orleans vinegar, 1 minced shallot, 1 bay-leaf, a clove of garlic salt, 2 oz. ham, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 1 gill stock, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat. Remove the meat from the bones of the neck of mutton, cut it into eight nice fillets, trim off some of the fat, and lay them in a marinade for twelve hours. The marinade in this case consists of the oil, vinegar, shallot, bay-leaf, garlic, coarsely chopped parsley, and salt. It is advisable to turn the fillets from time to time. Cut the tomatoes in halves and squeeze out a little of the pulp. Peel the button onions, fry them a golden colour in the butter. When this is done pour off the butter. Add the stock, and let come to the boil quickly; skim well, and braise in the oven until done ; the stock should, by the time the onions are done, be reduced so as to glaze them completely. Put the butter left from the onions in a saute-pan, place in the tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, and fry gently for a few minutes. Take out the fillets from the marinade, wipe dry with a cloth, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden