THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 298 up the dish, wet the edges of the dish and line with a strip of paste, brush the edge of the crust with egg, milk, or water, and place on a cover of paste. Make a small incision in the centre of the paste, and decorate with a few fancifully cut leaves of paste. Brush over with beaten egg-yolk and bake for about one and a half hour. Yeal and ham, pigeon,, and rabbit pies are made in the same manner. Hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or slices can be used with the filling ingredients if liked. A rough puff or flaky crust is eminently suitable for all kinds of meat pies. 816. Steak and Oyster P adding. 1 lb. flour {sifted), 8 oz. beef suet, 1 gill milk, li lb. buttock or rump steak, 18 sauce oysters, ^ gill stock {No. 87), salt and pepper, | lemon. Free the suet from skin and chop it very finely, sprinkle a little flour or bread-crumbs with the suet when chopping it, put the flour and suet in a basin, add a good pinch of salt, and mix thoroughly. Add the milk, and a little water if needed, and work into a paste. Cut the beef across the grain into thin slices. Mix about a table- spoonful of flour with a teaspoonful of fine salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper in a plate, dip one side of the meat slices in this, roll in each a small piece of fat. Beard the oysters. Boll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick and line with it a pudding-basin of suitable size. Reserve a piece of the paste large enough for the top of the pudding. Fill the lined basin with layers of beef and oysters. Rasp a little lemon-rind between the layers, moisten with well seasoned stock and a little lemon-juice. Wet the edge of the paste crust, and place on the cover; press down the edges very firmly. Tie up the basin in a pudding-cloth, which has been wrung out in hot water and floured : in tying the cloth allow sufficient room for the crust to swell in cooking. Put the pudding in a stewpan half filled with boiling water, and cook for two and a half hours, or steam for about three hours. When done remove the cloth, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, and serve. 817. Cold Meat Kedgeree.—6 oz. of cold meat {any kind ivill do), 4 oz. rice, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 oz. butter, 2 slices finely- chopped onion, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Remove the skin, gristle, and superfluous fat from the meat, and chop it not too finely. Boil the rice in the usual manner, so that when tender each grain will separate and is intact. Drain the rice when done. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion and fry a golden colour, then add the meat, and fry for a few minutes, stir in the rice, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Shell the eggs, chop the whites, and mix with the above. Heat up the whole thoroughly and dish up in a pyramidal form. Rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve and sprinkle over the kedgeree. Sprinkle over likewise some finely-chopped parsley, and arrange the dish as neatly as possible. Place it in the oven for a few minutes, and send to table.