THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 340 clone take up, drain them on a hair sieve, and dress them neatly on a hot dish, garnish the centre of the dish with spinach or potato puree, and serve with a nicely flavoured white sauce, which should be poured over the quenelles. 960. Quenelles a la Clamavt.—8 to 10 oz. chicken, veal, or rabbit meat free from bone, skin, and gristle, £ lb. bread panade (No. 8), 2 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 oz. butter, 1 gill of cooked peas, 1 truffle, ^ cucumber, % pint stock, pepper, salt, mustard, aromatic spice, spinach greening, mashed potatoes for border. Cut the meat into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the panade, mix thoroughly with the cream, a few drops of spinach greening or a tablespoonful of cooked spinach, and the eggs. Season to taste, and rub through a sieve. Fill a number of well-buttered and ornamented pie moulds with this farce; place them in a saute-pan with a little water and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. Reduce th& stock to a quarter, add the sauce, and reduce again. Scoop out some pea shapes of cucumber, cook in salted water, strain, and put in a stewpan together with the peas, add the butter and toss over the fire. Cut out the truffle in pea-shapes, mix with the above, moisten with a little sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Turn out the moulds and dress neatly on a round border of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with the prepared garnish, and pour a little of the remaining sauce round the base of the dish. Should any quenelle-meat be left over, put it in a forcing-bag or paper cornet and force out on a buttered saute-pan very small quenelles about the size and shape of peas; add a little stock, poach for three or four minutes, and mix these with the above-mentioned garniture. 961. Poulet saute ala Cabello.—1 young chicken (trussed), b gill olive oil, 1 orange, % pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), ^ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), % oz. butter, 1 glass port wine, % pint of preserved pimentos (siveet), a tablespoonful meat glaze, seasoning. Untruss the chicken, cut it into six to eight joints, wipe them, and fry a nice light brown colour in the oil. Pour off the oil and season the chicken with salt, pepper (white and red); chop or grate the thin rind of an orange ; add this, also the wine and sauces (demi-glace and tomato), to the chicken, cover, and cook gently for about twenty minutes. Take out the chicken and dress the pieces neatly on a dish containing a small bed of potato puree. Keep it hot, melt the butter till nut-brown, and pour over the dish of chicken. Have ready the pimentos cut into Julienne shapes and make hot with a little demi- glace, add to this the meat glaze, and dress in the centre of the dish or in groups round its base. Re-heat the sauce, skim it, season to taste with a good pinch of aromatic spice. Strain it over the chicken and serve very hot. 962. Poulet saute a la Carnot.—1 chicken, 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, 1 glass sherry, 1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 gill