592 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK garnish with parsley, and serve. Slices of cucumber in place of asparagus points will be found a nice change. A pinch of caster sugar should be added when sauteing if cucumber is used. 1895. (Eufs a la Boston.—6 eggs, oz. butter, ^ large onion, 1 teaspoonful flour, 1 gill milk or cream, 2 oz. chopped cooked ham, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, % gill Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Peel and slice the onion and fry it in an ounce of butter to a golden colour, sprinkle in the flour, stir long enough to cook the flour, moisten with the milk or cream, season with a pinch of salt and half a pinch each of pepper and nutmeg. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and put the yolks with the onions &c., stir well and add one ounce of chopped ham. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix carefully with the above. Butter a round baking-tin or gratin-dish, dress the mixture neatly on it, sprinkle the top with chopped ham, bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes; when done, turn out on a hot dish and serve with Madere sauce. 1896. Scrambled Eggs.—6 eggs, £ gill cream, f oz. butter, salt and pepper to taste, toasted bread (buttered). Break the eggs into a basin, add pepper and salt, beat with a fork until the yolks and whites are thoroughly mixed. Put it in a stew- pan with the butter and cream, stir over a brisk fire until the mixture begins to set. Have ready a square piece of toasted bread well buttered, cut each into quarters, and put neatly on a hot dish ; turn the egg mixture on to this, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Or, instead of dressing the eggs on toast, put the mixture, heaped up, in the centre of a dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 1897. (Eufs brouilles aux Anchois.—6 eggs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1\ oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 6 Gorgona anchovies, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt, toasted slices of bread, parsley for garnish. Wipe the anchovies with a damp cloth, remove the fillets, and cut into strips. Cut the toast in oblong slices about three inches long and two inches broad, and butter them. Beat up the eggs ; put them, together with the anchovy essence, an ounce of butter, and the cream, in a small stewpan; add a pinch of cayenne, and salt to taste. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; put an equal quantity on the buttered side of each piece of toast; lay the strips of anchovies across each in the shape of lattice-work ; place a caper in each cavity; dish up, put the dish in the oven for a few minutes, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 1898. (Eufs brouilles aux Truffes (Scrambled Eggs with Truffles).—6 eggs, oz. butter, 1 large truffle, ^ glass Marsala, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 1 slice toasted bread. Cut the truffle into fine shreds; put in a stewpan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter; cover and reduce the liquid to about half its quantity. Break the eggs into a basin ; season with salt, pepper,