ENT BEES CHAUDES BE VIANDES {EOT MEAT DISHES) 293 783. Tournedos d la Madeleine.—Cut eight slices of fillet of beef, of equal size, each weighing about a quarter of a pound ; beat them a little and trim them neatly. Prepare as many croutons of bread, the same size as the tournedos ; fry them in clarified butter and drain. Warm up in a small earthen pan three ounces of meat glaze, work in with a wooden spoon gradually four ounces of fresh butter; work vigorously until it resembles a light creamy substance, adding in the meantime the juice of one large lemon, one shallot, a sprig of tarragon, one of chervil, one of chive, and a few sprigs of parsley, all chopped very fine; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Parboil about two ounces new kidney potatoes, previously scraped ; drain and fry them in butter a nice light yellow; season with salt and pepper, and when done sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, add the tournedos; let them brown one side, then turn and let brown the other side, over a quick fire ; now season with pepper and salt, dish up each on a crouton of bread, place them on a dish, put the potatoes round the tournedos in rows ; put a dessertspoonful of the prepared butter over the top of each, leaving a little space in the centre for a few drops of dissolved meat glaze ; serve quickly. 784. Tournedos de JBoeuf d la Moscovienne.—Choose a nice piece of tender loin or sirloin of beef, remove all the sinews and fat, cut it into even-sized oblong slices, flatten a little with the cutlet- bat, and lard them with small strips of larding-bacon, raw ham, and truffles, so that they are inserted in alternate rows. Place the tournedos in a flat stewpan, cover them with a few slices of fat bacon, add half a sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a small bunch of savoury herbs (No. 2). Season with pepper and salt, moisten with a gill of white wine and a gill of brown stock (No. 87). Cover and cook briskly over the fire from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain the tournedos, remove the bacon, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), and a dessertspoonful of grated horseradish to the fond. Let all reduce well and strain into a small stewpan. Remove all fat, and finish the sauce with a pinch of caster sugar and an ounce of fresh butter, worked in bit by bit; keep the sauce warm. Glaze and dish up the tournedos, garnish with alternate groups of button mush- rooms, previously warmed in well-reduced stock, and medium-sized stuffed onions (No. 785). Pour the sauce over the garnish (not over the meat), and serve. 785. Stuffed Onions a la Moscovienne.—Peel eight to ten medium-sized onions, parboil them in salted water, with a small piece of butter. Drain on a cloth, and cool. Carefully scoop out the centre part of each onion, and chop very fine, with about half its quantity of mushrooms. Put it in a stewpan, with a handful of bread- crumbs, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, moisten with a little Espagnole sauce (No. 48), mix well, and stuff the centre of the onions with sauce. Place them on a buttered saute-pan,