863 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) enriched with one or two yolks of eggs, bake in a hot oven for ten minutes or so, and turn out on a hot dish. Have the spinach puree ready and hot, well seasoned, and richly flavoured. Cut the pheasant into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, arrange these neatly on the prepared border, dress the spinach in the centre, sauce over the slices with a little of the sauce, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1044. Eaisan a la Bonne-Femme. -Braised pheasant, with small pieces of ham, sliced and stewed Spanish onions. Served with a brown sauce mixed with some Indian chutney. 1045. Faisan aux Choux.—Braised pheasant with stewed cabbages, garnished with fried slices of rolled bacon, small carrots, and pieces of fried sausages. 1046. Cotelettes de Faisan a la Richelieu.—Pheasant forcemeat shaped into cutlets and poached; when cold egged, crumbed and fried in deep clarified butter. Served with a rich Perigueux sauce (No. 243). 1047. Filets de Faisan a la Talleyrand.—Fillets of pheasant, larded and braised. Served with a daintily-prepared stew of minced pheasant arranged round the fillets. Garnish the dish with slices of hard- boiled eggs. 1048. Salmis de Faisan a la Bohemienne.—Stewed pheasant in brown sherry sauce (No. 237 a), minced ham, and mushrooms. Garnished with fried bread croutons and whole stuffed button mush- rooms. 1049. Salmi de Coq de Bruyere (Salmi of Grouse).— 2 small grouse, £ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), £ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), \ gill sherry toine, 18 stoned French olives, 12 large preserved mushrooms, 1 small bouquet garni (No. 2), 6 small button onions, seasoning, 1 croute of bread. Pick, draw, singe, and truss the grouse as for roasting; put them in a baking-tin, cover the breasts each with half an ounce of butter, and roast them for about ten minutes in a quick oven. Take them up, untruss, and cut the birds into small joints. Cut up the carcass and fry them with the bouquet garni (a small bunch of savoury herbs) in the baking-tin with the butter left over from the birds. Pour off the fat, and put the remainder in a stewpan, add the wine, cover, and let reduce quickly. Now add the Espagnole and tomato sauces, boil up, season to taste, skim, and cook for ten minutes. Arrange the pieces of grouse in a clean stewpan or saute-pan, season with pepper and salt, add the olives and mushrooms (sliced), and