THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 314 8.64. It is de Veau frit d I’Awiericaine.—Cut a blanched •sweetbread into slices about half an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, beat up an egg, add a little, chopped parsley and half an ounce of melted butter, mix well; dip the slices into this, cover well with bread-crumbs, repeat this operation, shape, and fry in boiling fat. Drain, serve on toast or a hot dish ; pour some hot tomato sauce round, not over, the sweetbreads, and serve. 865. His de Yean en Hdtelets.—Cut some cooked sweetbread into small slices ; cut as many thin slices of bacon of the same size. Season the breads with a little pepper or aromatic seasoning. Put three slices of sweetbreads and of bacon, alternately placed, on to small skewers, and proceed thus until the breads and bacon are used up. Egg and crumb twice, or dip into frying-batter. Have ready some hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. 866. Jit's de Vena a la Chartreuse.—Blanch, trim, and lard two or more heart sweetbreads, braise them in the usual manner, and glaze them when finished. Dress them on a croute of fried bread (neatly cut), and garnish with a chartreuse of vegetables, previously heated (green peas, asparagus tips, young carrots, and beans), place three poached quenelles of chicken (No. 403) on each side of the dish, decorated with stars of truffles &c. and a few mushroom heads, and then sauce over with demi-glace sauce (No. 237), and serve hot. 867. His de Yea a d la Con t i.—2 heart sweetbreads, larding- bacon, mirepoix, seasoning, demi-glace (No. 237), or Madere (No. 237 a) sauce, a few slices of tongue, 2 large truffles, h pint stock, chicken or veal quenelles for garnish (No. 403), meat glaze [No. 247). Blanch, truss, and press the sweetbreads. Lard the best side with strips of larding-bacon and strips of tongue, stud the centre with truffles. Line a saute-pan with a mirepoix, i.e. a few slices of bacon, a sliced onion, a sliced carrot, a bunch of herbs parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf) ; lay the sweetbread on this, moisten with the stock ; season with salt, whole peppercorns, and cover with a buttered paper. Boil up, and finish cooking in a slow oven—it will take from forty to forty-five minutes. Baste frequently during the time. Brush over with meat glaze, and let it get a nice golden colour. Take up the sweetbread, strain the liquor through a fine sieve, skim off the fat, and reduce to a glaze ; mix this with the brown sauce, and heat up. Dish up the sweetbread on a bread croute. Garnish round with some well-shaped chicken or veal quenelles, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffle, pour some of the sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauce-boat. 868. His de Veau frit mix JEpinards.—1 large or 2 small sweetbreads, ^ pint thick bechamel (No. 202) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, l^r lb. cooked spinach (puree), piquante (No. 241) or Robert sauce (No. 238), salt and pepper, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, and frying - fat.