76 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 3. Little fuel and little attention are required. There are two ways of stewing known and practised: the first is partly frying or browning the meat, &c. before stewing, and the second is par-boiling (Irish stew type). Stewing is performed in earthenware covered jars and stewpans in the oven or over the fire. To soften the fibres of coarse meat, it is often soaked or steeped in vinegar. Braising.—Braising (or braizing) is a combination of roasting and stewing small joints of meat in a shallow stew-pan, called ‘ braisoire ’ or braiser, which has a close-fitting lid with a grooved edge round it, on which hot coals (charcoal) are placed, whereby the meat can be cooked with a fire above it as well as under it. This process of cooking, it is said, greatly decreases loss by evaporation. It is a favourite method with the French, and is supposed to bring out an unusually fine flavour and aroma. Viands to be braised are gene- rally boned, and either larded or barded with thin slices of fat bacon. The pan in which a braise is to be made is always (or should always be) lined with a mirepoix (slices of bacon, carrot, onions and herbs), upon which the meat is placed. It is usually moistened with stock, or stock and wine. The more delicate meats, such as sweetbreads, fillets, fowls, turkeys, &c., are sometimes covered with buttered paper ; this is done to prevent the heat from the top of the pan scorching or imparting too much of a roast flavour to the meats which are to be braised. Occasional basting during the process of this method of cooking is essential. When done, the meat is taken up, the fat removed from the mirepoix and gravy, which latter is then reduced, strained, and blended with some kind of gravy or thin sauce. Mirepoix.—Perfect braising demands the mirepoix, bed of sliced carrot, turnip, onion, bacon or ham,' and a small bouquet of herbs. A mirepoix is found essential for the moistenings of braised meats, and for imparting a delicate flavour of vegetables and aromatics, which cannot be effected by any other means. Again, most braises require garnishes of a more or less elaborate nature. The latter may, however, be quite simple, inexpensive, and yet effective, and can thus come within the reach of the average household kitchen. When stewing or braising meats &c., the liquor becomes slowly reduced in the process, and furnishes a most appropriate, fragrant, and delicious sauce with which to surround the portion when served at table. So meats which are otherwise dry and of little flavour, such as veal, become saturated with juices, which render the food succulent and delicious. Spices and wine are sometimes used to FBICANDEA.U PAN