COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME 401 saute-pan half-filled with boiling water, steam slowly for ten minutes, then draw the pan on one side and let stand till cold. Turn out on a cloth, cut into slices, and stamp out into fanciful shapes suitable for garnishing. Open the tin or terrine of foie gras, remove the lard from the surface, turn out, take out the pieces of truffle, wash them, and cut into fanciful shapes also for garnish. Cut the ham in the same manner for a similar purpose. Line six to eight little square or oblong-shaped moulds with aspic jelly, garnish the bottom portions with the stamped-out shapes of truffles, yolks and whites of egg, and ham, so as to form symmetrical designs. Put the foie gras and trimmings of ham into a mortar, pound until smooth, and rub through a sieve, return to the mortar and work in the veloutee sauce and the remainder of cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the chicken stock and incorporate with the puree, add half a tablespoonful of aromatic seasoning, mix well. When nearly cold fill up the centre of the moulds, and place them on the ice to set. Turn out on a dish, surround with a bed of endive salad, or any other kind of green salad, and serve. 1170. Petites Cremes a la Mulhouse.—1 terrine or tin of foie gras, 1 bundle of asparagus or \ pint asparagus-points, 4 pint veloutee (No. 206) or Allemande (No. 204) sauce, seasoning, ^ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 gill whipped cream, 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), truffle and red chillies for garnish. Procure eight to ten square baba moulds or dariole moulds, line the inside with a thin coating of aspic jelly, decorate each mould according to taste with strips of truffle, red chilli, and some nicely cooked asparagus-heads. The green part of the asparagus must be cut into short pieces and be cooked in slightly salted water. After having selected the heads required for garnish drain off the water and rub the pieces through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in the sauce, add this to the puree, season to taste with pepper and salt, also a pinch of nutmeg or cayenne if liked. Set it on the side to cool a little, then mix in the whipped cream, and a little spinach greening to give it a nice green tint. Mask the inside of the moulds with a thick layer of the prepared puree. Remove the fat from the foie gras, trim it neatly, and cut it into conveniently-sized pieces. Put one or two of these into each mould, and fill up with the re- mainder of the puree. If there should not be sufficient to fill all the moulds mix a little aspic with the puree. Let the moulds set on the ice. When required for table dip each mould into some warm water and turn out the creams on a cloth, dress them in the form of a circle on to a round entree dish, fill the centre with some green salad or sliced tomatoes. Put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish, and serve. 1171. Petites Mousses a l’Ancienne.— 6 oz. foie gras (preserved), 2 tablespoonfuls Allemande or bechamel sauce (Nos. 204 and 202), 1 white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 4 oz. leaf gelatine, D D