THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 84 Rules for Stock-making.—1. Exercise care in selecting the proportion of meat, bones, and vegetables. See that everything is perfectly fresh, and that the utensils used are absolutely clean. 2. Cut meat and chop bones into small pieces. Use double the weight of water to that of meat and bones, the average quantity being a quart of water to every pound of meat and bone, used in pro- portion of f lb, meat and £ lb. bone. 3. Start the stock with cold water, and let meat and bones soak for a while, if possible, before being heated. Cold water draws out and dissolves the meat-juices remarkably. 4. Use a well-tinned stock-pot, copper, tin, or iron. The former is best. For small households the earthenware marmite or stock-pot is highly recommended, as a smaller amount of heat is required to keep contents at simmering point than if a copper or iron pot is used. Stock thus prepared must be brought slowly to boil. Vegetables and their uses in Stock.—Vegetables in stock con- tribute an important portion of the flavour. However, they should not be allowed to remain longer in the broth than is absolutely necessary. If, especially in first stock, these are allowed to linger in the broth they absorb some of the rich aroma of the stock, greatly to its detri- ment. Over-cooking (Simmering).—After all the nutriment from the meat, vegetables, juices, fat, albumen, and flavour have once been extracted, do not attempt to make further use of residue of fibre ; for they are dry and insipid, unless additional materials are at hand to make a second stock palatable. The French system in pot-au-feu stock is to remove the meat as soon as tender and serve it as bouilli. This does not affect the refill or general stock so much as the first stock used for clear soups, though it is always best to take out the vegetables cooked in the first stock, and replenish with fresh materials. Stock or Marmite.—The best way of making this stock is by boiling, or better simmering, a certain quantity of meat and bones, in a stock-pot, which may be iron, steel, copper, or earthenware. The water must be judiciously apportioned to the quantity of meat, and so must be the vegetables used as flavouring. One pound of meat and bones is generally used for each quart of water, and should be allowed to simmer from four to five hours, at least; vegetables such as carrots, onions (stuck with cloves), turnips, leek, celery, thyme, bayleaf, and parsley, are added after the first boil, and when the scum has been removed. The water must be cold, and be seasoned with a little salt. The liquid in simmering should be reduced to about one-third of its original quantity. We thus obtain a bouillon. Bones of cooked meat and meat scraps, remnants of poultry and game should never be wasted, but find their way to the stock-pot.