PATISSERIE, ETC. 60 1948. Pdte brisee d VAncliois (.Anchovy Paste Crust for Savouries).—6 oz. flour, 2^ oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon milk or cream, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence or anchovy paste. Sift the flour, rub in the butter, add the anchovy, the egg, and sufficient cream or milk to work it into a stiff but smooth paste. Line moulds &c. as directed. 1949. Pdte a Pate (Raised Pie Crust).—1 lb. flour, 1 gill milk, 4 oz. lard. Sift the flour, put the milk and lard into a small stewpan, and beat up. Mix a small quantity of water with this, and work into the flour to produce a firm but smooth paste. Use the paste for lining, and covering for raised pies, pork or game. 1950. Hough Puff or Half-Puff Paste (Demi-feuilletage). —1 lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, a pinch of salt, lemon-juice, and water. Sift the flour on to a paste-board, make a well, and put in half a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, the salt, and an ounce of the butter ; add enough water to make a smooth yet stiff paste. Roll out, fold in the remainder of the butter, and proceed in the same manner as directed in No. 1944. Roll and fold four times in all. This paste is used for meat or fruit pie crust, tartlets, &c. 1951. Pdte d Clioax (Choux Paste for Sweet Dishes).—( lb. butter, 1 pint water, 1 lemon, 2 oz. sugar, a pinch of salt, 2 or 8 eggs, about 4 oz. flour. Put the water, butter, lemon-rind finely chopped, sugar, and salt in a stewpan on the fire, and when at the boiling point stir in sufficient flour to form a stiff paste, and work over the fire till the flour is cooked. When a little cool add two or three eggs according to size. 1952. Macaroon Paste.—4 oz. ground almonds, \ lb. caster sugar, 3 ivhites of eggs, 3 drops almond essence. Pound the almonds and sugar in a mortar ; add the whites of eggs one at a time ; pound well, so as to thoroughly mix it; last of all add the essence, and use as required. If placed in a jar and covered it will keep good for some time. 1953. Creme d’Amandes. — Pound a pound and a half of blanched almonds with half a pound of caster sugar ; when fine enough pass through a sieve. Then make a cream with half a pound of sugar, half a pint of milk, two ounces of flour (sifted). Cook for ten minutes ; add one yolk of egg and a few drops of vanilla essence. When the mixture is sufficiently creamy incorporate the almond paste. 1954. Pdte d’Amandes (Almond Paste).—Put six ounces of loaf sugar in a stewpan, add a pinch of cream of tartar and about a tablespoonful of water, bring it to the boil, remove the scum, and boil to the ball degree, i.e. 235 degrees by Senn’s saccharometer, then pour it into a basin containing three ounces of ground almonds, mix thoroughly with about half the white of an egg. When well worked turn out on a board and use as required.