THE KITCHEN 45 KITCHEN ECONOMICS It is scarcely possible that economy in the kitchen can be successfully carried out unless the cook has a fair idea of the relative value of .the various ordinary (inexpensive) foods and the cost of the same. To go to market and buy foods at a low price can hardly be termed economy, because if they lack nutritive qualities they are dear at any price. True economy means no waste. The French are often referred to as being the most economical cooks and excellent managers. Well, they certainly understand lespetites economies better than any other nation, and it cannot be disputed, that thrift does prevail in their country. May not their careful ways of economising partly account for the culinary accomplishments of the French ? France is not, however, the only country where economy is studied. Indeed every well- governed kitchen in this or any other country is ruled by the practice of wise economy. It is a subject that may be studied with advantage by every cook and manager. To be economical means saving money, and saving money means earning money. There are few kitchens in England where waste is not common in some way or another. This is freely admitted by us, and other nations record the fact in sayings which have become proverbial, yet how few take the hint ! This is solely due to want of better know- ledge and lack of thought. Mistakes nearly always arise from ignorance, from not thinking, and from not taking care. Cooks who are wasteful are generally those who are ignorant and thoughtless. They never get on in their profession. No scrap of food is too small to be used up in some way, so long as it is fresh and wholesome; but before dealing with food let me draw attention to the waste of heat and its result. Many cooks are of opinion that the water for cooking a ham, a leg of mutton, or other joint of meat, must be kept at boiling point until done. This is quite an error, because actual boiling, after the first preliminary stage, is possibly detrimental to the success of a boiled joint of meat. Fast boiling in most cases destroys the delicious flavour of meat, it fills the kitchen with unpleasant steam and vapour, and a certain amount of fuel is thereby wasted. It is a well-known fact that much of the heat given off from the fuel in cooking stoves is wasted; only a comparatively small proportion is used for actual cooking, the remainder goes up the chimney or escapes into the kitchen. Since one cannot help some waste of fuel, economy as well as comfort demands that such waste be as small as possible. The average cook, as a matter of course, prefers to work with fresh materials, rather than use up stale or left-over food ; but those who study the masters’ interests will make good use of so-called ‘ scraps,’ and instead of wasting them, they will use them up and work them into suitable dishes. For instance, every cook will, with a little care, be able to use up