382 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK wire sieve and mix with a well-beaten- egg. Season with salt, pepper, and aromatic seasoning. Line a pie-mould with hot water or nouille paste, prick the bottom and sides with a fork, line the sides and bottom with thin slices of bacon and with a layer of the prepared farce ; fill up the mould with the fried pieces of hare. Sprinkle the powdered herbs and seasoning in between, moisten each layer with port wine and red currant jelly, cover the top with farce, and lay on the crust; fix the latter firmly. Decorate with fanciful pieces of paste in a tasteful manner. Do not forget to make a suitable incision in the centre of the cover of crust, to allow the steam to escape while cooking. Bake in a moderate oven from, ©ne and a half to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. As the pie leaves the oven pour a little welLreduced stock into it; this is best done by means of a funnel. This pie is delicious hot, but, as many prefer it cold, it would be advisable to introduce some aspic jelly instead of the stock. In this case the mould should not be removed until the pie is quite cold. 1115. Ruble de Lievre d la Mode.—Small joints of hare (fillets larded), seasoned and drained, fried in butter and stewed in brown sauce, with small squares of salt pork. Served with its own sauce well reduced and flavoured with a little chilli vinegar. 1116. Levraut frit d VOrly.—Boned leveret, cut into small pieces, egged, crumbed, and fried, served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 1117. Cdtelettes de Venaison d la Puree de Marrons.— 4 to 6 venison cutlets, 1| oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, chestnut puree, demi-glace sauce {No. 237), seasoning. Pare the cutlets neatty, flatten and trim again ; season them with pepper and salt, beat up the egg, dip each cutlet in egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. Melt the butter in a saute-pan; when hot put in the cutlets and fry each side a nice brown colour ; take up, drain, and dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Pill the centre with chestnut puree, pour a little demi-glace or other thin brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1118. Cuissot de Venaison a la Riehemond.—Boast leg of venison larded, cut into neat slices sauced over with reforme (No. 255), garnished with small fried sweet potatoes and red currant jelly. 1119. Chevreuil braise a la Saint Hubert.—-Braised pickled venison, larded, finished in a brown sauce, flavoured with claret and cinnamon. Served with a garniture of French prunes which have been stewed with the meat. 1120. Cotelettes de Chevreuil a la Turque.—Venison cutlets, seasoned, egged, crumbed, and fried in butter, served with tomato puree, and garnished with fried parsley.