552 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK (The chestnut puree should weigh about eight ounces.) Put the loaf sugar in a stewpan, add about a gill of water, and reduce to a syrup. Dissolve the gelatine, and strain with the syrup; mix the chestnut juice with this, and stir over the fire until it becomes quite smooth ; turn into a basin and let cool. Melt the chocolate with the jelly, strain, and let cool a little; mask the inside of a border-mould with this, and put on the ice to set; then fill up with the half-set chestnut mixture and keep cool to set well. Whip the cream till stiff, sweeten with vanilla sugar, and put on a sieve to drain. Immerse the mould in tepid water, wipe it with a cloth, turn out on a dish. Dress the cream in the centre in the shape of a pyramid, and serve. 1745. Bordure aux Prunes a la Creme.—1 lb. primes, j lb. loaf sugar, 1 gill claret, the rind of half a lemon thinly cut, 1 inch cinnamon stick, \ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 gill cream. Stone the prunes, put them on the fire in a fire-proof pot or stew- pan with the lemon-rind, cinnamon, claret, sugar, and just a little water. Stew slowly until tender, adding a little more claret if needed ; take out cinnamon and lemon-rind. Pass through a fine sieve, dissolve the gelatine, and strain into the prepared pulp; half an ounce is reckoned to be sufficient for every pint of pulp. Mix well, cool a little, pour into a border-mould previously lined with clear wine-jelly. When cold and set immerse in tepid water, turn out on a dish, decorate with shreds of pistachio kernels and almonds. Whip the cream, sweeten slightly with vanilla sugar, put it in the centre of the mould, and serve. 1746. Bordure de Figues d la Creme.—^ lb. dried figs, the rind of half a lemon, 1 oz. caster sugar, oz. French gelatine, \ pint claret, 1 gill whipped cream. Cut the figs into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the sugar and lemon-rind ; moisten with the claret, or, if preferred, with the same quantity of water instead of the claret. Simmer gently on the stove or in the oven until tender. Soak the gelatine, dissolve it, and add to the figs. Remove the lemon-rind, and put the whole through a sieve. Stir in a little cream (about a quarter gill), pour into a border-mould; when set turn out on a cold dish, put the- whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar, in the centre, and serve. N.B.— The liquor put with the figs should be almost absorbed by the time they are done. 1747. Oranges glacees d la Napolitaine.—4 to 6 fine even-sized oranges, vanilla custard, wine-jelly, spinach greening, 1 glass green chartreuse. Wipe the oranges, make an incision on top of each with a pastry - .cutter about one inch and a quarter in diameter, remove the covers with a small knife, and lay them aside till later. Scoop out the centre of the oranges with a small teaspoon, being careful not to