THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 528 i pint syrup, yeast batter (No. 1657), frying-fat, caster sugar, and ground cinnamon. Cut the apricots in halves and stone them, cook them in the syrup until tender, cool, and drain on a sieve. Cover the fruit with yeast batter, and place them on to buttered strips of paper; let them stand for half an hour in a warm place, then drop them into plenty of boiling fat. Fry to a golden colour, take up, drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with powdered sugar, mix with finely ground cinnamon, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin. 1657. Yeast Batter for Fritters.—Dilute a quarter of an ounce of compressed yeast with a little tepid milk, work in two ounces of flour, and make a light dough. Let it rise in a warm place. When sufficiently risen add six ounces of sifted flour, an ounce and a half of melted butter, a pinch of salt, a pinch of sugar, and enough milk to form a smooth paste ; beat up well, and put again in a warm place to rise. Cover the halves of apricots completely with the batter, place them on buttered paper, and proceed as directed. 1658. Beignets d’Ananas d la Misler (.Pine-apple Frit- ters).—6 round slices preserved pine-apple, £ inch thick, i pint creme patisserie (confectioner’s custard), frying-batter, clarified butter or beef suet, vanilla sugar, 1 small glass of kirschwasser. Cut the centre of each slice of pine-apple with a round cutter. Divide each slice in two, put them on a plate, and pour over the kirschwasser, or, if preferred, maraschino can be used in place of the former. When the pieces have been immersed for ten minutes take them up, and drain on a sieve, cover each with patisserie creme or confectioner’s custard. Let this set well, then dip each in some specially prepared light batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dredge with vanilla sugar, dish up, and serve. A boat of pine-apple syrup, heated, and flavoured with kirsch or maraschino, should be handed round with the fritters. 1659. Frying-Batter for Pine-apple Fritters.—2 oz. flour (sifted), \ oz. butter (melted), 2 tablespoonfuls cream, a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, 1 whole egg, and 1 yolk of egg. Put the flour in a basin, add the salt and sugar, stir in the cream and the yolks of eggs, beat well for some minutes, then add the melted butter. Let the batter stand for some time, and when it is required whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth and stir carefully into the batter. 1660. Beignets de Bananes (Banana Fritters).—Select some bananas, not too ripe, peel them, cut them lengthways into pieces about two and a half inches long, put in a deep dish and sj>rinkle over with a glass of kirschwasser. Prepare a batter (No. 35 or 1657), dip the bananas into this, and drop into very hot clarified butter, fry them a nice colour ; drain on paper or cloth, dredge with caster sugar flavoured with a little ground cinnamon, dish up, and serve hot.