THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 226 Remove the skin from the soles and fillet them. Skin and bone the whiting, pound in a mortar till smooth, add the panade, | oz, butter, salt to taste, a pinch of cayenne and a grate of nutmeg; mix thoroughly, and work in the cream and the eggs. Rub through a fine sieve, fill up a well-buttered fluted border mould sprinkled with bread-crumbs or panurette, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. In the mean- time flatten the fillets of soles a little, fold each into halves, range them neatly in a buttered saute-pan, season with salt, pepper, and a few drops of lemon-juice, moisten with a small glass of white winer cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly in the oven ; they will take about ten minutes. Blanch the oysters, remove the beards, cut them into quarters, slice the mushrooms, and put in a small stewpan ; moisten with Royal Chasseur sauce, cut the truffles into slices, stamp out eight nice stars, and keep for garnish. Add the remainder of slices with the above garnishing, strain the liquor of the fillets into this along with the sauce, and cook for a few minutes. Unmould the border on to a hot entree dish, dress the fillets neatly on to this (en couronne), place a star of truffles on top of each fillet, put the dish in the oven to get thoroughly hot, fill the centre with the prepared garniture, pour a little sauce Chasseur Royal over the garnish and some round the border, and serve the remainder separately with the dish. 535. Filets de Soles a la Czarina.—2 medium-sized soles, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots chopped finely, % gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 tablespoonf ul concentrated tomato pulp, 1 small glass white wine, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, ^ lb. mashed potatoes, 1 tea- spoonful meat glaze, 2 yolks of eggs, a few sprigs of chervil, 1 tea- spoonful chopped chives or ciboulette, grated horseradish, salt, pa- prika pepper. Skin the soles, remove the fillets, trim them, put trimmings and bones in a stewpan with a little stock or water, and let it well reduce, adding a little seasoning. Fold the fillets, season them, and put them in a saute-pan with an ounce of melted butter. Cook them over a brisk fire, so as to slightly brown each side. Cook the shallots in the wine, add the meat glaze, lemon-juice, the sauce, and a little chopped chives, add fish stock and reduce; boil up and keep hot, mix the remainder of chopped herbs with the potato puree, add to it half an ounce of butter and the egg-yolks. Stir well over the fire till thoroughly hot. Spread this on a dish to cool. Stamp out some oval shapes, one for each fillet, and fry them in butter. Dress the cooked fillets on these, dish them up, re-heat the sauce and pour over, put a little scraped horseradish on top of each fillet, and serve hot. 536. Filets de Soles a la Dioeletien.—Fillets of soles, stuffed with fish quenelle forcemeat (No. 400), folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and sherry or Marsala wine, dressed in the form of a border or circle, garnished with small hearts of lettuces (braised), and very small