THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 416 on top of this, with the bacon, and allow the meat to acquire a nice brown colour (turn it frequently). Now add the carrots, moisten with the stock, season with pepper and salt, and let the whole simmer for about an hour, then add the brown sauce, and finish in the oven with a lid over the pan. Time required for cooking is from one and a half to one and three-quarter hour. When done take up the meat, remove the string, and keep hot. Strain the sauce, skim off the fat, add a glass of sherry, boil up again, and reduce a little. Dress the neck (whole or cut into slices) on a bed of prepared nouilles. Sauce over carefully, garnish the sides with groups of nouilles, and serve very hot. A little sauce may be sent to table separately in a sauce-boat. 1204. JEpaule de Mouton farcie (Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton).—1 small shoulder of mutton, 1 small onion, finely chopped, 1 teaspoonful chopped savoury herbs, 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley, 4 oz. of streaky bacon cut up very small, salt and pepper, fat for baking, 1 egg, bread-crumbs. Trim the joint, removing any superfluous fat &c.; remove the bones, and lay the joint on the table, spread it out, and season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle some of the herbs, parsley, and onion over the meat, place a layer of chopped bacon on the seasoning and put the remainder of seasoning over the bacon. Boll up the meat, fasten it securely with string or with skewers, then put it on a baking- tin or flat braising-pan, containing about eight ounces of dripping or butter. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven for about one hour and a half. Baste frequently. Now remove the paper, brush over the joint with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs; put it again in the oven (quick heat) for twenty to thirty minutes, according to the size of the joint. Keep it carefully basted during the whole process of cooking. When done draw out the string or skewers, place the joint on a hot dish, and. serve it with a nicely flavoured thin brown gravy. 1205. Gitjot de Mouton braise d la Bvetonne (.Braised Leg of Mutton with Haricot Beans).—1 small leg of mutton, 2 oz. dripping, 1 oz. butter, 1 bouquet garni, 1 small onion, lpint haricot beans (haricot de Soissons), ^ clove garlic, salt and pepper, 1^ gill stock, % pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Wash the haricot beans, and put them to soak in three pints of water till wanted. (Allow two to three hours for soaking if possible.) Cook them in slightly salted water till tender. Bone the leg of mutton, and tie up into its original shape with thin string. Insert the garlic in the centre of the leg. Only a very tiny piece of garlic should be used. Melt the dripping in a braising or stew pan, large enough to hold the meat. Add the onion, previously peeled and stuck with a clove, and the bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), place in the meat, allow it to acquire a nice brown colour over a fairly quick fire. Pour off the fat, add the stock, and season with salt and pepper; cover