THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 100 (3) Sweet Sauces : Apple Cherry Orange Gooseberry Apricot Peach German Sabayon Mousseline Vanilla Custard Chocolate, &c. II. COLD SAUCES (1) Cliaud-fvoids : White Green Pink Cream Blonde Brown Tomate Suedoise, &c: Horseradish Bavigote Verte Fines Herbes Mint Bed (2) Salad Sa uces : Mayonnaise Tartare Fines Herbes Mousseline Cardinal Bavigote Bemoulade Vinaigrette, &c. Moutarde (8) Sweet Sauces : Cream Custard Vanilla Chocolate, &c. Eum Sabayon Mayonnaise.—The Mayonnaise is the highest type of salad dressings or salad sauces. It is a mixture of yolks of eggs, sweet oil, salt, pepper, and vinegar. Its excellence depends entirely on the mode of working it up. A raw yolk of egg, when properly handled, will, when incorporated with as much as- a pint of oil, produce a thick cream. Two yolks of eggs to a pint of oil is, however, the average quantity employed. In working up a mayonnaise, the oil and egg should be so thoroughly incorporated, that separation of the two in- gredients becomes impossible. The yolks, salt, and white pepper are first worked smooth with a wooden spoon, or spatula, in a basin (placed on ice if possible), then a few drops of oil and a few of vinegar are added, the stirring continued all the time, and the remainder of oil and vinegar is used up gradually. The mixture will then present a thick, smooth, and creamy appearance. The process of stirring is long and somewhat tedious, and if not carefully done, the mixture, instead of becoming smooth, will separate or decompose in the very act of stirring. During the warm weather it is much more difficult to prepare a mayonnaise ; this is overcome by placing the basin in which the sauce is manipulated on ice. The following are the exact ingredients and quantities necessary to produce a perfect sauce:— 2 yolks of eggs | 1 pint oil I teaspoonful pepper, I Vinegar, .1 teaspoonful to every 8 f teaspoonful salt | tablespoonfuls of oil. If found too consistent, dilute with a little raw cream or cold water. Cold bechamel is sometimes used as a foundation for mayonnaise.