THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 134 Cut the bread into slices £ inch thick. Stamp out eight rounds inches in diameter; scoop out a little of the centre portion of each,, fry in clarified butter a golden colour, and drain. Kemove the fat from the foie-gras, cut out some small cubes with a f-inch cutter. Pound the trimmings of foie-gras (without any pieces of truffles) in a mortar, together with the butter and the yolks of hard-boiled eggs, add the mustard and season to taste, mix well and rub through a coarse wire sieve on to the croutes of bread so as to cover the hollow side completely with the puree as it comes through the sieve. Dish up carefully, place a cube of foie-gras in the centre of each, garnish tastefully with hard-boiled white of egg, truffles, and a little chopped aspic if liked. 80. Olives farcies.—There are numerous ways of stuffing olives. The above being intended as hors d’oeuvre, the following method will be found the most suitable. Take 10 to 12 large Spanish olives (Queens), cut out the stones by means of a column cutter. Toast one or two slices of bread and stamp out some rounds about an inch in diameter. Prepare a mixture by pounding 4 oz. foie-gras pate, 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs, 1 oz. butter ; season with pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve; spread thinly the rounds of toast with this, put the remainder of the puree in a forcing-bag, and fill the olives ; place each in the middle of the croutes, decorate tastefully with creamed butter and sprigs of parsley, and dish up on little glass dishes. 81. Olives farcies a la Gelee (Stuffed Olives in Aspic Jelly).— 1 bottle stuffed olives (olives farcies), 4 pint aspic jelly (No. 88), tarragon-leaves, 3 red chillies, spinach greening, 10 to 12 rounds of fried bread, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 1 oz. fresh butter.. Take about a gill of aspic and dissolve it in a small stewpan, add a few drops of spinach greening to give it a greenish tint. Mask the inside of 10 or 12 small olive or cup moulds with this, decorate them tastefully with tarragon-leaves, and fancifully-cut shapes of chilli skin. Wipe the olives carefully with a damp cloth, and set one in each of the moulds (these should be very little larger than the olives), fill up the base of the olives with dissolved aspic, and put them on the ice to set. Stamp out some rounds of bread, about an eighth of an inch thick and an inch in diameter, fry these a golden colour in clarified butter, drain and cool. Mix the anchovy paste with the butter, spread one side of the rounds of bread with this. Unmould the olives, place them on the rounds of bread, dish up on glass dishes with pretty lace paper, garnish to taste with parsley or sprigs of cresses, and serve. 82. Olives a la Madras. 6 Spanish olives, 6 anchovy filets, 2 hard-boiled eggs, ^ teaspoonful of chutney, 1 dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce or paste, 1 oz. of butter, cayenne and salt, 6 fried croutes. Stone the olives, pound the butter, anchovy paste, yolk of eggs,, chutney, and seasoning in a mortar. Then rub them through a sieve..