THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 320 them with the above, sauce over each layer with supreme sauce and season to taste with salt and pepper. Rub the peas through a fine sieve, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the peas puree, season to taste and stir till hot. Add the egg-yolks and cook a little longer. Put this in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, force out the puree on to the top of cases, so that the surface of each is well covered. Place the cases on a baking-sheet and cook in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Dish up and send to table very hot. 882. Roulettes de Ris de Vea u d I’Imperatrice.—6 oz. cooked sweetbread, 6 mushrooms, 1 small truffle, puff-pastry, fried parsley, puree of green peas, 2 oz. cooked ox-tongue, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, ^ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), pepper, nutmeg, and a good pinch of paprika. Mince rather coarsely but evenly the sweetbread, tongue, the mushrooms and truffle, and put in a saucepan with enough sauce to bind so as to produce a salpicon of moderate consistency. Season to taste, and keep hot in the bain-marie. Poll out the paste, cut out some squares or rounds of even size, roll each round some small wooden rollers, well greased (any size so long as they are not more than two or three inches in length). Place them on a baking-sheet, folded sides downwards, brush over with beaten white of egg, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven to a nice light-brown colour. Remove the wooden rollers.1 Fill the roulettes of pastry with the above mixture. Garnish with green pea puree by means of a forcing-bag, and fried parsley. Dish up, and serve hot. 888. Timbales de Ris de Veau d la Mirabeau.—24 stuffed olives, 1 cooked stoeetbread, lb. lean veal, \ lb. veal suet, 3 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs and 1 whole egg, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms, 2 truffles, ^ oz. anchovy paste, a few cocks’ kernels, well-reduced demi-glace (No. 237), or Madere sauce (No. 237 a), seasoning. Butter a large timbale mould, and garnish the bottom with stuffed olives, pound the veal and suet, separately, in a mortar till quite smooth, then mix together, and add by degrees the panade and eggs (yolks and whites). Mix thoroughly in the mortar, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Add the anchovy paste, and pass the mixture through a fine sieve. Test the consistency of the farce. Line the bottom and the sides of the timbale mould with the farce, cut the sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, and cock’s kernels into small dice, and moisten with some well reduced, rich Madere or demi-glace sauce. Put this in the mould, fill it up with the remainder of the farce. Place the mould in a saute-pan containing boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about one and a quarter hour. Turn out on a round dish, sauce 1 These rollers are merely made of plain wood, three and a half to four inches long, three-quarters of an inch in diameter. Ordinary penny rulers, cut to size, will answer.the purpose, but they must not be painted.