425 REMOVES AND ROASTS process of cooking ; dredge with a little flour when almost done. Take up, pour off the fatr from the dripping-pan, add sufficient brown stock to make the gravy, boil up; whilst stirring season with pepper and salt, and strain. Garnish the dish with cress, endive, or watercress salad, and serve with a boat of bread sauce (No. 235). 1230. Faisan barde an Cresson.—Pick, draw, singe, and truss one or more pheasants. Cover the breast with a thin sheet of fat bacon (larding-bacon) tied on with some thin string; roast it for thirty to forty minutes, according to the size of the bird. Remove the string, dish up, garnish with bunches of picked watercress, seasoned with a little oil and vinegar. Serve with gravy, bread sauce (No. 235), and fried bread-crumbs (No. 1237). 1231. Becasse farcie rotie (Boast Stuffed Snipe).—2 or 3 young snipe, 4 oz: butter, 2 oz. ham, 2 oz. bacon, 6 sauce oysters, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 stick white celery, seasoning, gravy. Pick and singe the birds, remove the inside and chop up about half the intestine; put this into a basin and mix with the bread- crumbs. Use only the white part (heart) of the celery ; wash and chop it finely. Mince finely the ham, beard the oysters and cut them into dice, put these with the ham into the basin, season with salt and pepper, and mix all well with two ounces of melted butter. Stuff the birds with this, truss them, and wrap each bird in a thin slice of bacon. Put the remainder of bacon in a roasting-tin ; upon this place the birds and roast for about twenty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Baste frequently. When done take up, untruss the birds, and dress them on suitably sized pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, garnish with watercress, and serve with a boat of gravy and a glass dish of red currant jelly. 1232. Coq de Bruyere rdti (Boast Grouse).—Grouse should, like most game birds, be well hung if required for roasting purposes. It is advisable to keep them hung unplucked for about a week. Great care must be taken in plucking, so as not to injure the skin, which is more delicate when birds have hung than it is when freshly killed. When plucked, singe, draw, and truss the grouse similarly to fowls. Mix some butter with a little pepper and put a piece of butter about the size of a nutmeg into the body of each bird ; hang before a brisk fire or place in a tin if done in the oven ; the former method, how- ever, is the best and more correct way. In each case the birds must be very liberally basted with either oiled butter or hot bacon fat. Well hung or high game should always be well cooked. Grouse take from forty-five minutes to an hour, according to size. If cooked in the oven a thick piece of toasted buttered bread should be placed under each bird ; the toast thus used is served with the bird. When done take up, untruss, place on a hot dish, garnish with watercresses and fried bread-crumbs (No. 1237), and serve with gravy and bread sauce (No. 235).