TEE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 512 to give the desired tint, and finish as directed in Recipe No. 1599. Serve with a syrup flavoured with raspberries. 1598. Mousse a VA.Isacienne.—4 oz. sugar (caster), 8 eggs, 4 oz. butter, 1 orange, % lemon, mousseline sauce (No. 385). Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin or copper egg-bowl; when thoroughly worked and creamy add the yolks, the juice of the orange, and that of the half-lemon (work in gradually). Whisk over a stewpan of boiling water until it begins to thicken (this process is exactly the same as for a Genoise or a Hollandaise). Stir in the whites of eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Have ready a charlotte mould, well buttered, and dredged with flour, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper. Steam in the oven (the mould being stood in a saute-pan or stewpan three parts full of hot water) for a good half-hour. Turn out on a hot dish, sauce over with mousseline sauce, and serve quickly. 1599. Poudiny Mousseline—2 oz. butter, 1 lemon, 2 oz. caster sugar, 4 eggs, 2 oz.-flour, ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence, mousse- line sauce (No. 385). Cream the butter, add the sugar, and work together for ten minutes ; then add the rind of lemon (chopped finely), stir in the yolks of eggs, one at a time, likewise the juice of half the lemon, and vanilla essence. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix care- fully the whites and flour (previously sifted) with the above prepara- tion. Have ready a plain charlotte mould, well buttered, and lined with buttered paper ; pour in the mixture, cover with paper, place in a saucepan three-parts filled with boiling water, cover the pan, and steam the pudding for a little more than an hour. Turn out on to a hot dish, remove the paper. Whisk the mousseline sauce until quite frothy, and pour round the pudding. Note. - This being a very light souffle pudding, it is essential that it should be served quickly. 1600. Poudiny Souffle d l’Ananas.—\ lb. fresh or pre- served pine-apple, \ pint milk, 2 inches vanilla pod, 4 oz. butter, 3 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. Vienna flour, angelica for garnish. Put the milk and vanilla pod in a stewpan on the fire, boil up and let it infuse on the side of the fire or in the bain-marie for about half an hour. Melt the butter in another stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little ; strain the milk into this and work it vigorously over the fire until the flour is thoroughly cooked. Remove from the fire, add the sugar and a handful of cut pine-apple, stir, and let cool a little. Next stir in the yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Butter a plain char- lotte mould, decorate the bottom with slices of pine-apple and angelica, stamped out with a plain round cutter. Add the whites of eggs, previously whipped to a stiff froth, to the mixture; pour it into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam for about half an hour. Remove the paper, turn out on a hot dish, garnish tastefully