THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 216 over the inside with finely chopped dried lobster coral. Fill them with the salmon forcemeat, steam for twenty-five minutes, dish up on a hot dish, and serve with sauce cardinal. 505. Saumon a la Montmorency. — 3 lb. salmon (head-piece or middle cut), 1 bouquet garni, 1 oz. butter, 1 chopped shallot, 1 carrot, 1 sliced onion, 18 olives, 1 glass claret, £ gill wine vinegar, salt, pepper, aromatic seasoning, ^ pint of matelote sauce, (No. 228). Clean and wash the fish, truss it nicely, put it in a well-buttered saute-pan with the sliced carrot, onion, bouquet of herbs, and seasoning to taste. Moisten with the wine and vinegar. Cover with a buttered paper. Put it in the oven and cook about an hour, baste well from time to time. When ready for serving take it out, dish up, remove the upper skin, and keep hot. Fry the shallot in a little butter, add to it the liquor left from the fish ; boil up, and add the matelote sauce. Reduce a little, sauce over the fish, garnish with stoned and stuffed Spanish olives, and serve the remainder of the sauce separately. 506. Saumon en iSpillotes.—2 lb. salmon, f lb. cooked ham, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 small onion, 8 mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful parsley (chopped), 1 teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pepper. Cut the salmon into six or eight even slices, remove the skin, beat them gently with a bat, season with salt and pepper, and roll them. Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of paper as you have slices, grease them well w;ith butter or oil. Cut double the quantity of thin slices of ham. Peel and chop finely the shallots and onion, put them in a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, previously heated, and brown slightly. Then add the parsley and mushrooms chopped fine, season with salt and pepper and let cool. Lay a slice of ham on each piece of paper, spread over these a layer of the cooked herbs, place a rolled slice of salmon on each, spread with a thin layer of cooked herbs, and cover with another slice of ham, then fold the paper and twist the edges together, or tie up with string. Put them on a buttered baking-tin or sautoir, and bake for twenty minutes in a slow oven. Have ready a hot dish, remove the fish from the tin, and if tied remove the string, dress them neatly on a dish, leaving the paper on, and serve hot. 507. JPdte de Saumon d VHomard (Salmon Pie with Lobster).—About li lb. salmon, 1 tin lobster, 1 oz. butter, % pint bechamel sauce (No. 203), 1 truffle, 1 hard-boiled egg, 6 to 8 small fish quenelles (No. 561), puff-paste, seasoning, 1 yolk of raw egg. Wipe the salmon, and cut it into three or four slices. Cut the lobster in half, pick out the flesh and chop it small, mix this with the sauce, and season with pepper and very little nutmeg. Butter a pie- dish (medium size), put in a layer of the above mixture, then a slice of salmon, season with salt and pepper, cover with mixture and con- tinue until the fish is used up, placing a slice or two of hard-boiled egg, and a slice of truffle between the layers ; pour in a little stock