47 CHAPTER Y COOKING FUELS AND COOKING STOVES In this chapter I will endeavour to deal with the relative values of fuels used for the purpose of cooking, and the apparatus in which fuel is used with that object. SOLID FUELS Coal.—By far the greater amount of cooking is done by means of coal fires. The so-called mineral coal is the most concentrated of all solid fuels, and gives more heat than any other solid fuel materials. There are two kinds of coals, the hard and soft. The best example of hard coal is that known as anthracite ; it is more expensive than any other kind, but is acknowledged to be the most convenient, the cleanest, and therefore the best kind of coal to use, because it has greater heating power than any other kind. Hard and soft coals are very similar in appearance ; but the latter differ from the fact that they fuse and melt when burning, which the hard coal does not. Their heating power is about equal. Coke and Charcoal.—These are mainly used for slow cooking processes, such as braising, and sometimes for grilling. Coke mixed with ordinary coal is recommended, because it forms a more economical fuel, though the heating power becomes somewhat reduced when coke is used. Charcoal is excellent for many culinary purposes, but is rather expensive to use in this country. Wood.—As an exclusive fuel, wood is but seldom used for cooking purposes in England, though in many parts abroad it is still widely used as household fuel. Man’s first fires were unquestionably made of wood, and it is still an essential ingredient throughout the world, as scarcely a coal fire can be lit without the aid of wood. Hard wood is the best for cooking purposes, such as oak, maple, and hickory. Soft wood is good on account of its kindling properties; the resin which most soft woods contain causes them to burn more freely, the principal kinds being pine, fir, spruce and cedar. GASEOUS FUELS Gas.—Gas ip now largely, and in some establishments exclusively, used for cooking purposes. This is mainly due to the great strides that have of late years been made in the manufacture of gas cooking-