DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 223 roll up and place them in buttered paupiette rings, range them in a buttered saute-pan containing the white stock (the latter must be well flavoured; otherwise add a small mirepoix). Cover with a buttered paper and cook for about fifteen minutes in the oven. When done, take up, let them cool a little and then remove the rings. Dip each paupiette in beaten egg and roll in panurette or brown crumbs. Fry in deep fat a golden colour, drain, dish up in a circle on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, placed in the centre of the dish, and send to table with a boat of hot Marseillaise sauce. 525. JBarbue bvaisee a VAmiral.— Cut the fins and tail off a good-sized brill, or large plaice, if the former is not obtainable, place it on a bed of vegetables (mirepoix) in a turbot kettle, dark skin down- wards. Moisten with half a pint of Chablis wine and white stock, season with salt, cover and braise over the fire till tender. Prepare twelve large oysters and twelve mussels, beard the oysters, egg and crumb them in white bread-crumbs, and fry them in deep fat; egg and crumb the mussels in red bread-crumbs (panurette), and fry likewise. Take up the fish, place it on a dish, arrange the oysters and mussels alternately round the sides, sauce over with a nicely flavoured cardinal sauce. Put a group of round potatoes (pommes Parisiennes, fried) on each end of the dish, and decorate the centre of the fish with thin slices of truffles and lemon ; serve with a boat of cardinal sauce (No. 218). 526. Cabillaud frit a VIndienne (Fried God, Indian Style).—About lb. cod (middle cut of tail end), 2 eggs, 3 French gherkins, ^ lemon, 2 tablespoonfuls piccalilli, bread-crumbs, frying- fat, salt, cayenne. Cut the fish into five or six neat scollops about half an inch thick. Season with salt and a little cayenne, beat up one egg, boil the other till hard, dip the slices of fish in egg, cover well with bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a golden colour ; drain and dish up. In the mean- time prepare a garnish consisting of gherkins, hard-boiled white of egg, and piccalilli, all cut up into Julienne strips. Warmup in a little butter, moisten with fish stock, garnish the dish tastefully with alter- nate groups of the above and fanciful-cut slices of lemon. Send to table with sauce Indienne (No. 261). 527. Cabillaud a la Maltaise.—About 2£ lb. cod-fish (middle cut), % pint veloute sauce (No. 206), 1 gill white wine, 2 small shallots (chopped fine), 1 gill white stock, 2 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful anchovy paste, 2 teaspoonfuls capers, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a small bunch parsley and herbs (bouquet) (No. 2). Wash and wipe the fish well, place it in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and add veloutee sauce, white wine, stock, chopped shallots, and bouquet garni. Set it to simmer slowly until the fish is done; baste occasionally. Put the fish on a dish and keep warm.