556 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK replace the top slice of cake, and mask the whole with a moka icing. Decorate tastefully, and serve as cold dinner or lunch, sweet. 1757. Moka Icing for Gateaux St. Emilion.—Put about ten ounces of icing sugar through a sieve ; put it in a basin and work in one teaspoonful of kirschwasser and one teaspoonful of strong coffee essence, or a tablespoonful of freshly-made strong coffee. Stir over the fire till dissolved, and pour over the cake while warm. If coffee essence is used a little water should be added, else the icing will be too stiff. 1758. Gateau a la Hegence.—Make a stiff paste with the following ingredients:—Six ounces flour (sifted), four ounces ground almonds, six ounces caster sugar, two eggs, a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and one teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind. Flour the paste-board and roll out the paste to two round shapes. Stamp out each with a large round cutter, roll out the trimmings and cut it into half-inch strips, fix these round the edge of the paste to form borders. Spread the centre of the paste with dissolved apricot marmalade, and fill up with the following mixture:—Pound in a mortar six ounces blanched and dried almonds, add one white of egg and three yolks, some lemon-juice, and six ounces caster sugar. When quite smooth work in the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth, also four ounces of sifted flour. See that the gateaux are well and evenly spread with this mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes. 1759. Savarin a la Charivari.—Prepare and bake a savarin border (No. 1627). When cold soak it slightly with a syrup, flavoured richly with maraschino, chartreuse, and curapoa, and ice over with lemon-flavoured transparent icing. Fill the centre with partially set cream and custard mixed with glace or crystallised fruits all cut into thin slices. Arrange this cream so as to give it a dome-shaped appearance. Decorate with a little red currant jelly, and set the dish on the ice till wanted for table. 1760. Sand-Torte (Tourte de Sable).—■§■ lb. fresh batter, | lb. caster sugar, 8 eggs, ^ lb. best Vienna flour mixed with a small quantity of potato flour, ^ oz. grated chocolate, ^ lemon, \ tea- spoonful powdered cinnamon, 1 liqueur glass old rum. Work the butter and sugar to a cream, add gradually (one by one) the yolks of eggs, and continue to beat the mixture for about twenty minutes. Work in the finely grated rind of half a lemon, the cinnamon, the rum, and lastly the flour. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt before commencing to whisk them, and work these into the mixture. Fill one or two well-buttered and floured flat cake moulds with the mixture ; when half full sprinkle over with the grated chocolate, then add the remainder of the mixture and smooth the surface with a potato knife. Bake in a moderate oven for about fifty minutes. Unmould, let cool, and cover with water icing. Decorate tastefully with glace fruit.