THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 300 layer of rich bechamel (No. 202). Sprinkle over some grated Par- mesan cheese, and cover neatly with boiled macaroni. Pour a little melted butter over the macaroni, and strew over some more grated cheese. Bake in a quick oven for about half an hour, see that the surface is nicely browned, and serve at once. 822. Cornish Cutlets.—About f lb. of cold meat, 1 lb. of potatoes, 1 tablespoonful of ketchup, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, % teaspoonful bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, chopped lemon-rind, fat for frying, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into slices (a quarter inch thick), trim them into heart-shapes, put the slices on a dish, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and parsley, pour over the ketchup. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes, dry them and rub through a sieve, beat up one egg and mix with the mash, season with pepper, salt, and add the lemon-juice or a little grated nutmeg. Cover well each slice of meat with mashed potatoes, shape and smooth with a knife. Beat up the other egg, dip each cutlet in the egg, and crumb well; when set egg and crumb again. Fry the cutlets in hot fat a golden colour, drain on a cloth, dish up, and garnish with crisp parsley. 823. Brisotins de Veau a la Bouquetiere (.Braised Veal Bolls, Bouquetiere Style).—2 lb. lean veal, 6 oz. larding-bacon, \ lb. forcemeat, 2 oz. butter, 1 sliced carrot, 1 small sliced otiion, \ pint stock, 1 gill Mad'ere sauce (No. 237 a), 1 glass of sherry, jardiniere of rate vegetables, seasoning, mashed potatoes for border. Cut the meat into six to eight slices of even size, about a quarter of an inch thick, beat them with a cutlet-bat, and season with pepper and salt. Lard one side of each with strips of larding-bacon. Spread the sides, not larded with a layer of forcemeat (any kind will do, chicken, veal, &c.), roll up, and tie with string. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, place in a carrot and onion, range the rolled pieces on top, cover with a buttered paper, and cook over the fire until the meat has a golden colour. Next add the stock and sherry, put in the oven and braise for twenty-five minutes, basting it occasionally. Take out the brisotins and keep hot; remove the fat from the essence, add the sauce, boil up and strain. Have ready a narrow border of mashed potatoes, remove the string from the brisotins, dress them nicely on the border, fill the centre with a jardiniere of vegetables, and serve with the sauce. 824. Jardiniere of Vegetables.—Scoop out by means of a vegetable-scoop an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, and cucumber ; cut some French beans into . small pieces, prepare also a handful of asparagus tips, cauliflower buds, and green peas. Cook each vege- table separately in -salted water, drain, add a small piece of butter, a pinch of caster sugar, season with pepper and grated nutmeg, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Serve in groups round the dish as garnish, or mix all together;