PATISSEBIE, ETC. 621 floured baking-sheet, prick them over with a fork, and bake in a well- lieated oven. 2020. Biscuits de Cognac.—4 lb. flour, 8 whites of eggs, 4 gill cream, 4 gill brandy, 14 oz. caster sugar, a pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful milk. Sift the flour on to a board, add the salt and sugar; mix a table- spoonful of milk with the whites of eggs, and pour into a well in the centre of the flour, together with the brandy and cream. Work the whole into a smooth paste, and roll out very thin on a floured board. Stamp out some rounds with a tin cutter, prick them over with a fork, and bake on a floured sheet in a quick oven. 2021. Opera Biscuits.—8 oz. Vienna flour, 4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. ground almonds, 4 oz. glace cherries, 1 oz. pistachio kernels, 4 eggs, 8 drops vanilla essence. Put the sugar into a basin, add the eggs one at a time, and work to a light cream. Sift the flour, and work in lightly. Blanch the pistachios, peel, and chop small; cut the cherries into small pieces, and add both to the mixture, together with the almonds and vanilla essence. Put the mixture into a forcing-bag, with a large plain tube. Squeeze out some drops on to a greased tin about the size of a half- penny-piece ; dust over with fine sugar, and bake hi a moderately heated oven. When done remove from the tin on to a sieve, and serve when cold. 2022. Water Biscuits.—1 lb. flour {sifted), 1 oz. Paisley flour, 3 oz. butter, a saltspoonful of salt. Mix the two kinds of flour in a basin, rub in the butter until the latter becomes thoroughly amalgamated with the flour. Add the salt and mix well, moisten with enough water to form a soft paste or dough. Roll it out on a floured board about one-eighth of an inch thick; prick the paste with the prongs of a fork. Stamp out some round or square biscuit shapes, place them on a buttered baking- sheet and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. If liked a little grated cheese can be mixed with the flour. 2023. Cocoanut Biscuits.—4 lb. cocoanut {desiccated or freshly grated), the whites of 3 eggs, 14 oz. potato flour or corn-flour, 4 oz. caster sugar, wafer paper or rice paper. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, thoroughly mix the sugar, cocoanut, and flour, stir into the whites, mix carefully with a wooden spoon. Drop the mixture in little heaps, about 4 inch apart, on wafer or rice paper laid on to a baking-sheet. Bake in a very slow oven. This mixture may now be laid out for baking by means of a biscuit or forcing-bag, but where only a small quantity is required this mode of dressing is not advisable. 2024. Biscuits d VAfricaine.—4 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. corn-flour, 3 eggs, 3 oz. desiccated cocoanut, a little milk. Rub the flour and butter together until very fine, add the corn-