DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 219 cream, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Poach the escallops in a fairly-heated oven for ten minutes ; then take up and cover with the prepared farce. Place each as done on a buttered baking-sheet and bake in a hot oven for ten minutes longer. Have ready some well-seasoned prawn or crayfish sauce, incorporate the liquor in which the fish was cooked. If there is any fish farce left over, make and poach a few small quenelles for garnish. Have ready a hot dish with a border of potato puree neatly decorated, place the escallops of turbot on top, sauce over very carefully, and garnish with the fish quenelles, if such have been made. Serve very hot. N.B. Brill, plaice and John Dory can be treated in the same way as above described. 514. Filets de Turbot d la Careme.—2| to 3 lb. turbot, 2 oz. butter, 1 glass Ghablis or Sauterne wine, 18 heads of preserved mushrooms, 1 dessertspoonful lobster coral, 18 prawns, % pint bechamel sauce (No. 202), 2 to 3 truffles, 12 sauce oysters, 1 yolk of egg, whiting forcemeat, seasoning. Cut the turbot into slices about half an inch thick, cut each in two lengthways, and remove the dark skin and bones; trim and shape neatly, and range them in a saute-pan (well buttered), season with pepper and salt, moisten with white wine and a little mushroom liquor. Put a tiny piece of butter on top of each slice, and cover with a buttered paper. Cook in a moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Pre- pare the garniture as follows :—Cut the truffles into slices, put these with the mushroom-heads in a stewpan, add the oysters, previously bearded and cut in halves, moisten with a little white sauce, and keep hot till required. Fill a well-buttered border mould with whiting forcemeat, and poach in the usual manner. When done unmould on to a round dish. Take up the slices of turbot, and range them neatly on top of the border. Strain the liquor in which the fish was cooked into a stewpan, add the remainder of the sauce, also the lobster coral, previously pounded with an ounce of butter and rubbed through a sieve. Stir over the fire till quite hot, then add the yolk of an egg and about a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice. Whisk well over the fire, but do not let the sauce boil again. Put the garniture in the centre of the dish. Sauce over the border carefully with the prepared sauce, garnish the centre with picked prawns, and serve at once. 515. Filets de Turbot d la Cussy.—2 to 3 lb. turbot (small fish), 1 glass of white wine, 6 cocks' kernels, 6 mushrooms and liquor, 1 oz. butter, 1 truffle, 6 to 8 small quenelles, ^ lemon, \ pint Allemande sauce (No. 204), \ gill tomato sauce (No. 271), pepper and salt, puff-paste, fleuronsfor garnish. Bone the fish, removing the dark skin, cut the fillets into con- venient oblong pieces, flatten a little with a cutlet bat, and trim. Range the fillets in a well-buttered saute-pan. Moisten with the wine