THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 214 salmon, have this cut into half-inch-thick slices. Cut each slice in two lengthways, trim neatly into cutlet shapes, season each with pepper and salt, and spread a little anchovy paste on each side of the cutlets ; dip them in flour and brush over with beaten egg, then cover with bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat for about ten minutes, or until the fish has acquired a golden colour. Drain on paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley,'and serve with Danoise sauce (No. 213), to be handed round separately. 501. Filet de Saumon d la Fuchesse.—2£-3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), 1| oz. butter, a small glass white wine, 12 preserved mushrooms, mushroom liquor, 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice, 1 gill icell reduced Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 2 ripe but firm tomatoes, chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, mashed potatoes, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fish, take off the fillets from the bone, place the fillets in a buttered saute-pan ; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Add the wine, mushroom liquor, and lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderately heated oven from fifteen to eighteen minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Have ready some mashed potatoes, mixed with a little butter and one or two yolks of eggs, nicely seasoned, arrange a bed of this on an oblong silver dish. Range the cooked fish neatly on this. Make a pretty border of mashed potatoes by forcing it through a large-sized rose pipe round the fish, and mask well with the sauce made for that purpose. Garnish the top of the fish tastefully with mushroom heads and slices of tomatoes, previously tossed in a little butter over a quick fire and seasoned to taste. Place the dish in a quick oven for a few moments, sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over the top of the fish garniture, and serve with a "little more sauce, which should be poured round the dish, or sent to table separately in a sauce-boat. To make the sauce above referred to, put the Espagnole sauce into the saute-pan containing the liquor with which the fish was cooked. Add the trimmings of the mushrooms and tomatoes and the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until sufficiently reduced. Pass through a fine strainer, season to taste, and use as directed. ■ Small salmon trout and red or grey mullets can be served in the same style; it is then, however, not necessary to remove the skin of the fish. 502. Saumon d la Matelote.—2 to 3 lb. of salmon cut into half-inch slices, 2 oz. butter, 2 dessertspoonfuls finely chopped herbs— i.e. parsley, a little chervil and tarragon, and some chives—the juice of 1 lemon, 1 glass Chablis or Sauterne wine, 3 truffles, 18 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 12 small braised button onions, 18 small fish quenelles (No. 561), ^ pint rich Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 ounce meat glaze, seasoning. Wipe and pare the slices of salmon, melt the butter in a large