DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {COLD) 263 677. Dame de Cabillaud d la Sefton.—About 2 lb. middle cut of cod, 1 small carrot, 1 small onion, 1 small bunch of herbs (bouquet garni), ^ gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, a handful spinach, \ gill Allemande sauce {using fish stock in place of meat stock), ^ teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, 1^ gill aspic jelly, £ oz. beef gelatine, h gill cream, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce {No. 277), seasoning. Put the fish, after being cleaned, in a stewpan, cover it with warm water, add the wine, carrot previously cleaned, the onion, peeled and stuck with one clove, and the bunch of herbs. Season with salt and bring it to the boil, simmer very gently until the fish is tender, drain and cool. Meanwhile wash and cook the spinach, drain it well, and rub through a sieve. Heat up the Allemande sauce, add the vinegar and about half the given quantity of aspic jelly, dissolve the gelatine and strain it into the sauce, stir until cool, then add enough spinach puree to give it a greenish tint, lastly add half the cream and half the mayonnaise, season with a little salt and pepper, stir the sauce over the ice until.it begins to thicken, then coat the fish completely (it is best to remove the skin of the fish before it is coated) ; this operation may be performed twice if desired. Mask it over when the sauce is set with a layer of aspic jelly. Place the fish on a dish. Surround the dish with prettily arranged small salad, chopped cucumber, or diamonds of aspic. Dilute the remainder of the sauce with the rest of the mayonnaise sauce and the cream, season to taste, and send it to table with the fish. Salmon is eminently suitable, and highly recommended for this mode of preparation. 678. Chaud-froid d’Hultres d la Montpellier.—12 large oysters, 1 dessertspoonful vinegar, 1 bay-leaf, 1 slice onion, 1 gill aspic jelly, 1 tablespoonful spinach puree, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil chopped finely, ^ gill cream, 3 sheets of gelatine, 1 tea- spoonful lemon-juice, 1 gill bechamel or.veloutee sauce. Remove the beards from the oysters and put both with their liquor into a stewpan, add the vinegar, bay-leaf, and onion, and heat up slowly (the oysters must not boil). Take up and put the oysters on a sieve to drain and cool. Strain the liquor, dissolve in it the gelatine, previously soaked in water, add the spinach puree, heat up and stir in the sauce, chopped tarragon and chervil. Mask twelve oyster-moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mix the remainder of aspic with the prepared sauce, and pass through a tammy cloth. When nearly cold coat the oyster-moulds with a layer of this sauce ; place an oyster in each, sprinkle over each a few drops of lemon- juice, a tiny pinch of salt and pepper (white paprika or cayenne, according to taste). Fill the moulds with chaud-froid sauce, and put them on the ice to set. Have ready on a dish a border of rice masked with white or red chaud-froid sauce, unmould the oysters, and place them neatly on the prepared border. Fill the centre with green salad, and send the dish to table.