PRACTICAL HINTS ON CARVING 431 raising up the back by means of the fork. The back or fillet part is considered the best portion of a hare or rabbit. 1248. To Carve Ham.—Ham should be cut through to the bone first from the centre or near the thin end. The slices must be cut thin. Always commence cutting from the upper side. The fairest way by far, so as to serve fat and lean evenly, is to begin cutting from the centre of the thickest part, and to cut thin circular slices ; by this means the flavour of the ham is far better, and it will prove to be the more economical mode of serving. 1249. To Carve Shoulder of Mutton.—This ioint is usuallv sent to table lying on the dish the reverse side to that which is shown in the illustration. It should then be turned over. Com- mence carving into slices, more in the shape of a wedge at the end. Serve a small slice cut from the bladebone end to each guest. All slices should be cut through to the bone, as shown in the illustra- tion. The under parts of a shoulder are considered the most delicate, but it is essential for the carver to consult those at table as to which portions they prefer. 1250. To Carve Haunch of Venison.—First cut it across length- ways down to the bone; then turn the dish with knuckles furthest from you and commence cutting slices from the centre of either side of the cut first made; cut down as deep as possible. The knife should be held in a sloping position when making the first cut. Venison should never be cut in very thick slices and plenty of good gravy should be served with each portion. See that both meat and gravy are very hot, and that some red currant jelly is handed round at the same time. 1251. To Carve Saddle of Venison, Lamb, or Mutton.—Commence to carve lengthwise at first on both sides of the spinal bone, after which cut crosswise downward, and detach from the bone. The slices should be cut as close to the bone as possible. Hold the fork firmly in the centre of the saddle. Large slices should be cut in two crosswise. The slices should be from half to three-quarters of an inch in thickness. A small portion of the fat taken from the sides should be served with each portion, also some nice hot gravy and red currant jelly, both of which may be handed round separately. 1252. To Carve a Leg of Mutton.--The simplest way to carve SHOULDER OF MUTTON