360 CHAPTER XXI ENTREES CHAUDES DE GIBIER (ENTREES OF GAME : HOT DISHES) (For cold service see Chapter XXII) 1038. Faisan braise aux Choux.— 1 pheasant, 3 to 4 slices fat bacon, \ lb. raw ham, a small cabbage or a savoy, a bouquet garni (No. 2), 2 oz. butter, 2 pairs Frankfort sausages, about h pint stock, salt and pepper. Truss the pheasant as for boiling, line a braising-pan or ordinary stewpan with the bacon; over this place a few bits of butter, allow it to get quite hot, then put in the pheasant and let it fry over the fire until it is well coloured. Meanwhile trim, wash, and blanch the cabbage or savoy in slightly salted water, drain well, and divide into several small portions. Take up the pheasant, cut it into neat joints, pour off some of the fat in the stewpan, arrange the bird and cabbage in layers in the pan, add the bouquet of herbs ; season each layer with pepper and salt. Blanch the sausages, and place them, together with the ham, cut into slices, between the layers of pheasant and cabbage ; now add the stock, cover the pan, and allow to braise gently for an hour or longer according to the size of the bird ; the bouquet of herbs should, of course, be allowed to remain during the process of braising, and be removed as soon as the dish is done. Dress the whole smartly on a hot dish, cut the sausages into slices, and arrange in the shape of a border round the base of the dish. See that the whole is dressed high ; pour a little gravy over and round the dish and serve hot. 1039. Her dure de Faisan d la Chasseur.—i lb. raw pheasant, freed from bone, skin, and sinews, \ lb. panade, a couple of tablespoonfuls well-reduced bechamel (No. 202) or veloutee sauce (No. 206) and an equal quantity of double cream, 1 oz. fresh butter, 2 whole eggs, 12 preserved mushrooms, 1 large truffle, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, demi-glace (No. 237) or Madeira; sauce (No. 237 a). Pound the pheasant meat in a mortar until smooth, then add the panade and work well, adding gradually the white sauce, the eggs, butter, and the cream ; season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Take a well-buttered border mould ; garnish the bottom with mushroom-heads, into which a star