ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) >17 the prepared custard. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar, and arrange it in rock-like pieces over the custard, dredge the whole with sugar, and bake in a fairly heated oven till the egg-whites have acquired a light brown colour. Serve quickly. 1616. Casserole de Famines au Fiz.— d cooking apples (Wellington or Newtown), 4 oz. rice, 1 oz. butter, pint milk, 3 oz. caster sugar, \ teaspoonful of salt, 1 oz. chopped almonds, 1 oz. orange peel, 1 yolk and 1 whole egg, H oz. of glace cherries. Peel and core the apples, put them in a saute-pan with two ounces of sugar and a gill of water, put the lid on, and place in a hot oven until tender. Wash the rice in lukewarm water, drain well, and put into a stewpan with the milk (which must be hot), cook slowly until the rice is almost done. Eemove from stove, and add the orange-peel, finely chopped, the cherries, cut into small dice, the almonds, chopped and pounded, the butter, the remaining ounce of sugar, and the salt. Mix well together, adding the eggs at the same time. Have ready a round timbale mould, butter it well, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and line bottom and sides thickly with the prepared rice. Place the apples in the centre, leaving out one for garnish, and cover with rice until full; tie over with a buttered cloth, stand it in a deep stewpan half filled with boiling water, cover over and cook for an hour. Eemove the mould, let drain for a minute, then turn out on a hot dish, place the apple put aside on top, ornament with a few cherries, and serve with sauce au liqueur (No. 377). 1617. Fommes etouffees d la Folonaise—4 to 6 sour cook- ing apples, 2 tablespoonf uls apricot jam, 2 ichites of eggs, 3 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. crushed macaroons, ^ teaspoonf ul cinnamon. Peel the apples, take out the cores, and cut them into slices (cross- ways) about a quarter of an inch thick. Spread the slices with apricot jam or marmalade, and pile up in a dome shape on a round silver or fire-proof china dish, previously buttered, and sprinkled with crushed macaroons. Mix about an ounce of sugar with the macaroons and ground cinnamon, and besprinkle the apple shape with this. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add about two ounces of sugar and the remainder of macaroons, mask the surface of apples with this, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to forty minutes. Serve as soon as done, placing the dish on a napkin on another dish of similar size. 1618. Gidsette de Fommes.—| lb. apple compote {use sour apples, 4 eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful grated lemon-rind, 2 oz. sultanas, 3 oz. crushed macaroons or biscuits. Eub the apples through a fine sieve. Work the yolks of four eggs and the sugar to a cream, add the lemon-rind and the sultanas, and mix with the apple puree. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully into the above preparation, together with the crushed macaroons or Savoy biscuits. Have ready a buttered