575 ENTREMETS SAVOUBEUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 1830. Talmouse de Merluche fumee.—8 oz. flour {sifted), 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 tea- spoonful lemon-juice, paprika and cayenne pepper, smoked haddock, a tablespoonful white sauce. Prepare a short-crust paste with the flour, two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, one ounce of cheese, one yolk of egg, lemon-juice, and a little water. Put about half a small haddock in a tin with a little butter into the oven for ten minutes, remove skin and bones, and chop the fish finely. Mix with the remainder of butter and cheese, season with paprika, and moisten with the sauce and half a yolk of egg. Roll out the paste, one-eighth of an inch thick, stamp out some rounds with a two-inch cutter, put a tablespoonful of the mixture in the centre of each round, wet the edges, and take up the edges in such a manner as to form a triangular shape similar to a Pope’s cap (talmouse), brush over with egg, sprinkle a tiny pinch of paprika on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. 1831. Croiites a la St. Georffes.—i dried haddock, \ pint milk, 2 eggs, 1 shallot, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. butter, brown bread, seasoning. Scald the fish, remove the skin and bones, break up the flesh into very small pieces, and put it in a saute-pan with the milk. Cook till tender, take up the fish, drain, and shred it as finely as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot (peeled and finely chopped) and the parsley; blend a little but do not let it get brown; then add the fish and stir over a gentle fire. Beat up the eggs, add about a couple of tablespoonfuls of the milk the fish was cooked in, season with a pinch of pepper and a pinch of nutmeg ; stir this into the pan containing the fish ; when it commences to set remove it from the fire. Have ready some neatly shaped croutes of fried brown bread, dress the mixture upon these; dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as after-dinner savoury or breakfast dish. 1832. Sardines au Parmesan d la lief fence.—1 tin sardines, £ lb. flour, 2 oz. Parmesan cheese grated, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, salt, cayenne pepper, frying-fat. Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre of the flour, put in a pinch of salt, a little grated cheese, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of water. Work this to a stiff but smooth paste, which must be well kneaded for at least ten minutes. Place in the cool for half an hour. Cut the tails off six or eight sardines, wipe them gently with a damp cloth. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible and cut into oblong pieces. Oil the butter, dip each sardine in butter and roll in grated cheese, place on a piece of paste and wrap up neatly, seal the ends with white of egg. Drop into hot fat, fry gently a golden brown, take up, drain well, dish up neatly. Sprinkle over with grated cheese mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper and serve hot.