230 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK Roll out the paste to a round shape, about a quarter of a inch in thickness. Place a flanc ring (pastry ring) on a greased baking-tin and line the ring with the paste ; prick the bottom with a fork, fill the shape with rice, dried peas or haricots, and bake a nice golden colour. Remove the rice or other ingredient used, while the paste is hot, and replace the crust on the baking-tin. Skin and fillet the sole, trim the fillets, flatten them, season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, fold them neatly, and range on a well-buttered saute-pan, moisten with the w7ine, cover with buttered paper, and cook for ten minutes in the oven. Spread the bottom of the paste crust with white sauce ; place in the fillets. Mix the soubise puree with the white of egg, previously beaten to a stiff froth, add also the grated cheese, a pinch of white pepper, and a little cayenne. Pour this neatly over the fillets in the crusts. Bake in a hot oven for another six to eight minutes, and send to table as soon as it leaves the oven. 549. Filets de Soles d la JRoyale.—Skin one or two soles, remove the fillets, season them and spread a layer of finely minced or pounded truffles and champignons moistened with a little bechamel sauce (No. 203) over one side of each fillet, roll or fold them, range them in a buttered saute-pan, moisten with a glass of Madeira or Marsala wine, cover and cook till tender. Dish up in a row or circle on a hot dish, sauce over with a hot mousseline or Hollandaise sauce (Nos. 224 and 208), and serve at once. 550. Filets de Soles ala Suetone.—Fillets of soles, seasoned, folded and poached in the oven with butter and a little white wine. Prepare a Normande sauce (No. 205), incorporate some pounded pis- tachio kernels (blanched). Dress the fillets on a dish, sauce over neatly, and garnish the dish with small shells of prawns or shrimps and pistachios, seasoned with white sauce. 551. Filets de Soles d la Victoria.—Fold the fillets and cook them in a buttered saute-pan with a little white wine. Dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, previously browned in the oven. Sauce over with a well reduced white wine sauce (sauce au vin blanc, No. 216), garnish with chopped truffle and tongue, also with some small fleurons (half-moons of puff-paste). 552. Soles a la Colbert.—Trim a good-sized sole, take off both skins and wipe it with a cloth. With a sharp-pointed knife make an incision alongside the bone, break the bone at each end, remove it carefully without mutilating the fish. Brush the fish with beaten egg on both sides, and cover well with fresh bread-crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat a golden colour, drain it well on paper or a cloth, dish up and fill the centre of the fish (the cavity where the bone was removed) with well-seasoned maitre d’hotel butter (No. 394), garnish with sprigs of parsley and quarters of lemon, and serve. 553. Soles a la Normande.—Clean, skin, and trim two large soles, make an incision about a quarter of an inch deep along each side of the bone of the skinned part. Place in a buttered saute-pan,