128 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK up and serve cold. Or if required to be served hot, put the rounds of toast with caviare in a hot oven for five minutes, then dish up and put the olives on them just before sending to table. In either case the dish should be garnished with fanciful cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled whites of egg. 59. Caviar en Belle Vue.—This dish consists of halves of lemons cut into pretty crown-shaped baskets filled with seasoned caviare, dressed in pyramidal form on croutes of bread, previously coated with butter. The centre of each basket is garnished with a, small quantity of finely chopped shallots, and the dish is garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley. 60. Caviar a,ux JScrevisses.-—2 oz. Russian caviare, 1 shallot finely chopped, ^ lemon, a pinch of cayenne, 8 stoned olives, 16 small prawns, 2 large gherkins, bread for croutes, clarified butter for frying, parsley. Cut some slices of stale bread a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out with a plain cutter eight rounds about an inch and a half in diameter, fry them in butter a light golden colour, drain on paper or cloth and put to cool. Put the caviare in a basin, add a few drops of lemon-juice and the chopped shallot, season with cayenne and stir gently with a wooden spooi^ or fork. Cut eight thin slices of lemon, place one on each of the bread croutes, put about a teaspoonful of caviare on each of them, place a stoned olive in the centre, and arrange two picked prawns on each of the croutes. Put a tiny sprig of parsley in the centre of each olive. Dish up on a warm glass dish in a circle. Shred the gherkins and put in the centre. Ornament with a few prawn heads and serve. 61. Canapes a la Capucine.—4 slices brown bread, 4 oz. hygienic or Astrachan caviare, 8 to 10 prawns, 1 hard-boiled egg, ^ oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful mayonnaise, a few sprigs small cress. Stamp out 8. to 10 oval pieces of bread about 2 inches long, f of an inch wide. Cream the butter and mayonnaise sauce together, spread one side of each slice of bread wfith this, put a layer of caviare on top. Remove the heads from the prawns, free them from skin, split open, and place one on each. Rub the yolk of hard-boiled egg through a sieve, put a little in the centre of the canapes, ornamented with little sprigs of washed small cress, dish up on a dish-paper in a pyramidal form, place the heads of prawns on the top, and serve. 62. Tartines de Caviar en Cliaud-froid.—Put the contents of a small jar of Russian caviare into a basin, add a finely-chopped shallot and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, stir gently with a wooden spoon or fork. Cut some thin slices of brown bread, butter them, and spread one side with the prepared caviare, close up two slices and press together tightly. Stamp out some rounds with a pastry-cutter an inch and a half in diameter. Dissolve an ounce of meat glaze in two tablespoonfuls of rich brown sauce, add a gill of aspic jelly