ENT BEES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 283 Dish up round a bed of .spinach or green pea puree, pour some piquante sauce (No. 241) round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 752. Longe de Mouton en Chevreuil.—Boned loin of mutton braised in a richly-flavoured game stock with plenty of savoury herbs, carrots, onions, peppercorns, and juniper berries. Served with port wine or Reforme sauce (No. 255). 753. Pieds de Mouton a la Rouennaise.—Boiled sheeps’ trotters, boned and stuffed with sausage-meat, dipped in frying-batter, and fried in hot fat. Served with piquante sauce (No. 241).. 754. Queues de Mouton braisees a la Francaise. Sheeps’ tails braised, with carrots, turnips, small onions, garnished with the vegetables used in braising, and small marble-shaped fried potatoes. 755. Rognons de Mouton a l’Epicurienne.—Sheeps’ kidneys skinned and split, broiled or grilled ; when dished up the centres are filled with a thick tartare sauce (No. 278). Garnish the dish with small round fried potatoes, and serve with poivrade sauce (No. 263). 756. Rognons de Mouton Sautes a la Francaise.—Sliced sheeps’ kidneys, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne, grilled or broiled over a quick fire ; when partly done dredge with flour, and finish cooking in a little demi-glace sauce (No. 237), garnish with fried bread croutons, buttered and sprinkled over with chopped parsley. 757. Rognons de Mouton a la Turbigo.— Sliced sheeps’ kidneys tossed in butter and finely- chopped shallots. Finish cooking in a little white wine sauce mixed with small pieces of sausages and grilled lean bacon. Cut in dice-shapes. 758. Rognons de Mouton aux Fines Herbes.—Grilled sheeps’kidneys, the centres of which are filled with maitre d’hotel or parsley butter (No. 394). Serve with a little demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 759. Rognons de Mouton panes.—Sheeps’ kidneys blanched, skinned, and split, put on skewers, buttered, covered with bread-crumbs, and baked in a very hot oven, or fried in deep butter. 760. Mag out de Mouton (Haricot Mutton).— 3 lb. loin of mutton, 4 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 2 pints stock, 2 carrots, 8 to 10 small button onions, 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), a clove of garlic, 2 turnips, salt and pepper, \ glass claret. Cut the meat into neat pieces, pare off skin and fat, fry the pieces in the butter, and let them take a nice colour, then drain the pieces, trim, and cut the bones. Prepare the vegetables, cut the carrots into olive shapes, and the turnips like pigeons’ eggs, peel the onions and fry each lot in the butter until they have attained a fine colour. Take up and drain. Pour over some of the fat (butter), put in the flour, and fry a nut-brown colour, then moisten with the stock, add the claret, bouquet (clove of garlic, must be first fried a little), &c. ; boil up whilst stirring, skim, put in the meat (seasoned), and cook