470 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK cream and \ oz. butter, previously warmed; add salt and pepper, and 1 tablespoonful grated cheese ; heat up. Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle with grated cheese, strew the potatoes on this, sprinkle well with grated cheese and bread-crumbs, place a small piece of butter here and there, and bake in a quick oven ; bake a nice light brown, and serve. 1422. Pommes sautees a la Suisse.—Slice as thinly as possible about 8 cold potatoes of medium size. Melt 1 oz. butter in a frying or omelet pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt. Cook over a quick fire for five minutes, toss very frequently; put them on one side of the pan, so as to give it the shape of an omelet. Allow them to colour nicely, then turn out on a hot dish, and serve. 1423. Pommes sautees a la Parisienne.—Choose 8 medium-sized cold boiled potatoes, cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Put about 1^ oz. butter in a saute-pan ; when hot put in the slices of potatoes, season with pepper and salt, and toss over a bright fire until of a golden colour. Dish up, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. 1424. Kromeskis a la Jackson (Potato CromesJcis).—8 new potatoes, 12 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 1 large truffle, 1 gill Allemande sauce (No. 204), 1 yolk of egg, i pint pancake batter, 2 oz. butter for frying pancakes, salt, pepper, nutmeg, frying batterf frying fat, fried parsley for garnish. Wash and scrape or peel thinly the potatoes, and cook in salted water till tender, then strain and let cool. Make about ten small very thin pancakes with the batter and the butter above named. Cut the potatoes, mushrooms, and truffle into very small dice, or mince the latter coarsely. Put this in a stewpan with the sauce and allow to heat over the fire. Season to taste and reduce ; stir frequently to prevent burning. Add the egg-yolk, and cook a little longer, then spread the mixture on a dish and let cool on the ice. Divide the mixture into ten portions, roll each in a pancake, cut off the ends. Dip in frying batter and fry a golden colour in plenty of hot fat, Drain, and dish up on a folded napkin. 1425. Souffles de Pom mes de Terre a la St. Louis.—8 kidney potatoes (not too large and of even size), 1 oz. of butter, ^ gill of cream or milk (about), 2 whites of eggs, ^ oz. grated Cheddar cheese, salt and pepper. Wash and scrub the potatoes with a brush; when thoroughly clean dry them on a cloth, put them in a moderately heated oven, and bake until done. Make an incision with a round cutter or knife at the ends, and scoop out the contents by means of a teaspoon, taking care not to break the skins. Bub the soft parts thus removed through a wire sieve, put it in a basin, work in the butter while warm, boil up the cream or milk, and add likewise; beat up well with a wooden spoon, season with salt and pepper, and mix in the cheese.