GARNISHINGS AND GARNITURES 205 419. A la Bignon.—Small round or kidney potatoes, scooped out, raw, stuffed with sausage-meat, and baked in butter. 420. A la Bourgaignotte (for Fish only).—Small quenelles made with whiting forcemeat poached in fish stock. Sauce, Matelote (No. 228). 421. A la Bayard.—Cooked ox-tongue and artichoke bottoms cut into dice, mushrooms and truffles cut into slices; the whole boiled for a few minutes in well-reduced Madere sauce. Small rounds of fried bread covered with a thin layer of foie gras, puree complete this garnish. 422. A la Bayonnaise.— Cooked asparagus points, button onions (boiled), gherkins and anchovy fillets, dressed in groups round braised or broiled meats. 428. A Id Bontoux.—Very small macaroni timbales, tartlets, flavoured with fumet of game, tomato sauce, grated cheese, and slice of cooked meat, dressed round braised meats, and served with demi-glace sauce. Sometimes served with poultry as a remove. 424. A la Bordeaux signifies the special sauce prepared with Bordeaux wine (claret) ; in its garnish marrow-fat is general^ used, especially for fillets of beef. (Also known as Bordelaise.) 425. A la, Bourgogne usually signifies that the sauce of a dish bearing such a name has French red wine as a basis, the garnish being generally small braised button onions. 426. A la Brisse.—Border of mashed turnips, sauce demi-glace, and tomato reduced. Served with fillets of beef or duck. 427. A la Bordelaise for tournedos, small steaks and fillets. Parboiled slices of beef, marrow grilled and placed alternately with the cooked meat when it is dished up. For sauce, reduce finely chopped shallot in claret, add sufficient quantity of Espagnole or demi-glace. Season with cayenne, &c., and pour over the meat. 428. A la Bourgeoise.—Young carrots and turnips cut into neat shapes, parboiled and braised, also button onions, braised and glazed, dressed in groups. Sauce, Demi-glace (No. 237). 429. A la Cambaceres.—Small, even-sized truffles, mushroom heads, olives (stoned), and brown sauce. Usually served with fish removes. 430. A la Castelaine {for Fisli Entrees).-—Lobster meat, tails and claws, cut into slices, slices of truffles, bearded oysters, and white fish sauce. 431. A la Favour.—Steamed or poached nouilles, thin round slices of carrots, cooked in rich white stock. Sauce, Veloutee (No. 206), enriched with yolks of eggs, and extra quantity of fresh butter. 432. A la Chambord {for Fish).—Small quenelles made with forcemeat of fish, mushroom heads, bearded oysters, sliced truffles, cooked in brown fish sauce or Genoise (No. 244). 433. A la Chartre.-—Olive-shaped young carrots, parboiled and