602 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1935. Biz a la Florentine (Bice, Florentine Style).—This is rice cooked in rich broth mixed with picked shrimps, crayfish-tails, or prawns, flavoured with curry paste, grated Parmesan cheese, and finely chopped fried onions. An excellent breakfast dish. 1936. Biz a la Turque (Bice, Turkish Fashion).—Stewed rice seasoned and flavoured with saffron powder, cayenne pepper, Smyrna raisins, and finished with fresh butter. , 1937. Biz a la Bolonai.se (Bice, Polish Style).—Thinly sliced fried onions and finely shredded cooked ham are mixed with rice cooked in meat stock and strained. Season and flavour with cayenne pepper and grated cheese. 1938. Biz a la Bievnontai&e (Bice, Piedmontese Style).— Stewed rice made savoury with finely chopped fried shallots, grated Parmesan cheese, and cayenne pepper. This is dressed in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes and served as a breakfast or supper dish. 1939. Biz a la Milanaise (Bice, Milanese Fashion).—Stewed rice mixed with finely chopped cooked meat, such as fowl, game, tongue, or ham, flavoured with grated Parmesan cheese, seasoned with salt, nutmeg, and pepper. 1940. Biz a I’JEspagnole (Bice, Spanish Style).—Boiled rice, drained and fried in olive oil, mixed with tomato stew and slices of ham, seasoned with grated cheese and Spanish sweet pepper ; the dish is garnished with rounds of ham and slices of smoked sausages. 1941. Bisoletti (Savoury Bice Croquets).—These are croquets made of stewed rice, seasoned with a rich brown or red savoury sauce. Some prepared mincemeat (salpicon) is enclosed in the centre of the croquets; they are then dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in deep fat. Drain, dish up, and serve for breakfast or supper, or use as a garnish for entrees. 1942. Biz a la Beine (Bice, Queen's Style).—This is a delicious breakfast dish, and consists of stewed rice mixed with finely chopped hard-boiled white of eggs and the white part of cooked haddock finely shredded, seasoned, and mixed with grated cheese. Dish up in a pyramidal form, and allow it to brown in a quick oven.