REMOVES AND ROASTS 415 of boiling water, sufficient to cover it. Season with salt, and let boil fast for five minutes to harden the outside. Remove the scum, add some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, and let simmer gently until tender. Average time allowed for cooking is twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes* over. Salted or pickled meat should be placed in cold or tepid' water, and must be brought slowly to the boil. Boiled beef is served with a garnishing of cooked carrots and turnips and small suet dumplings. Boiled mutton is garnished with vegetables—i.e. carrots, turnips, and onions—and is served with caper sauce (see ‘ Sauces ’). 1201. Braised Beef d la Mode.—3 to 4 lbs. rump of beef, larding-bacon, a piece of lemon, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, 2 cloves, an onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 quart stock, 2 carrots, 8 to 10 small button onions, a bouquet garni (No. 2), a glass of claret, pepper and salt. Trim the meat, which must be free from bones, insert some strips of bacon (larding-bacon), place the meat in a basin, season with salt and pepper, add the lemon-juice, wine, bay-leaf, thyme, and an onion sliced. Let it stand thus for several hours. Take up the meat, strain well and fry it in the butter a nice brown ; place the meat on a dish, stir the flour into the fat &c. in which the meat was fried, let it get a nice brown, then add the marinade, the stock, and bouquet garni, let it come to a boil, and skim. Replace the beef, add the carrot (previously cleaned and cut into slices), also the onions (the latter are better if slightly fried). Simmer gently for about one and a half to two hours. Dish up the meat, skim the fat off the sauce and strain over the beef, arrange the carrots and onions in groups round the dish, and serve. A clove of crushed garlic added to the sauce, at an early stage will impart a flavour which is much appreciated by connoisseurs. 1202. Piece de Bceaf braise a la Vert Vre.—Braise a piece of rump of beef, weighing from four to five pounds, in the usual manner. Prepare meanwhile the garniture vert-pre, which consists of a selection of green vegetables, such as French beans, flageolets, green peas, small timbales of spinach or chicory. The vegetables must be cooked separately. Dish up the beef, cut into slices or whole, whichever is preferred, garnish the base of the dish with groups of the above vegetables, and serve with a nicely- flavoured demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 1203. Carre de Mon-ton braise auoc Woollies.—A neck of mutton (best end), 1 oz. butter, 1 onion, peeled and cut into quarters, 3 or 4 slices of streaky bacon, a small bouquet garni, 3 or 4 small carrots (cleaned and cut into pieces)', 2 cloves, 4 pint stock, i pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), pepper and salt, nouilles. Trim the meat and carefully remove the bones ; fold in the thin end and tie with twine. Melt the butter in a braising or stew pan, put in the onion, cloves, and bouquet, and fry a little; place the neck