613 PATISSERIE, ETC. Cream the sugar and yolks of eggs in a basin, pound the almonds in a mortar, incorporate the juice of oranges and peelings finely chopped. Work well in the mortar for a few minutes; work this mixture in with the sugar and yolks of eggs, and add the fecula. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the mixture, and fill into an oblong mould well buttered ; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Turn out on a sieve to cool, glaze neatly with a coat- ing of glace royale, ornament with crystallised cherries and angelica. Serve whole or cut into slices. 1991. Gateau de JPdques (French Easter Cake).—For crust: | lb. flour, £ lb. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, a pinch of salt. For filling : 8 oz. rice cooked in milk, 6 eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds (browned in the oven), i gill cream, fondant icing, vanilla flavouring. Sift the flour, rub the butter into it till quite fine, then add the salt and work into a smooth but fairly stiff paste with the two egg- yolks and a little water. Roll out the paste and line two convenient- sized flan-rings, and prick the bottoms of the paste with a fork. Cream the six egg-yolks with the sugar, add the vanilla flavouring, and stir in the cooked rice and the almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs and the cream separately, incorporate both into the mixture. Fill up the lined flan or pastry rings with this, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour. Allow to cool, then remove the rings and cover the surface of the gateaux with fondant icing. 1992. Denises aax Amandes (.Frosted Almond Sandwiches). —Roll out some puff-paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it into two long strips about three inches wide. Place one of them on a wetted baking-tin ; prick the paste with a fork and spread with a thin layer of raspberry or apricot jam ; upon this spread a layer of cheese- cake mixture. Place the other half of pastry carefully upon this, close up the edges with a paste-pincher ; brush over with milk, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Mean- while beat up to a stiff froth one white of egg, add a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar, and spread it over the pastry as soon as it has cooled a little. Sprinkle over with blanched and shredded almonds, divide into portions of about one and a half inch wide ; return to the oven and bake for another ten minutes. 1993. Talmouses d VAbricot.—Pdte d’office (No. 1945), apricot jam, \ lb. choux-paste, egg. Roll out thinly some pate d’office or pate a seche and cut out some rounds with a paste-cutter about four inches wide. Place a tea- spoonful of apricot jam in the centre of each round, dilute a quarter of a pound of choux paste with a little rich custard (creme Pithivier No. 1960), spread this thickly over the round pieces, leaving a little space free at the edges ; wet the edges with beaten egg ; fold the paste over on three sides, to give it the shape of a three-cornered hat,