40s THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK set. When ready for serving dip the mould into warm water, wipe quickly with a cloth, and unmould into a cold dish. Put a little chopped aspic round the base of the dish and serve. Partridge, snipes, grouse, or other game may be served in the same manner. 1186. Cdtelettes de Gibier d VMtoile.—6 oz. cooked game, oz. gelatine, 1 pint aspic jelly, 1 truffle, chilli, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 4 oz. foie gras pate, 1^ gill salmis sauce (No. 240), a handful of vermicelli stars, endive, cucumber, rice border, and seasoning. The meat must be freed from skin, bones, and gristle ; pound it in a mortar with the foie gras, add to it the sauce in which the gelatine has been introduced ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and aromatics, and rub through a sieve (fine wire or hair). Cook the vermicelli stars in salted water, containing a little lemon-juice, strain and cool. Line a number of cutlet moulds with aspic, garnish them with vermicelli stars, filling the centre of each little star alternately with red chilli and truffle. Fill up with the prepared puree before it begins to set firm. Put the mould on the ice. Prepare a border mould by lining it with aspic, decorate the sides with stars of cucumber, truffle, &c. Coat with tomato sauce mixed with enough aspic to make it set; three parts fill with cooked rice (cold), and fill up with aspic. Allow the border to set, and turn out on a dish when quite firm ; place a wax figure in the centre. Turn out the cutlets, and range them tastefully round the top of the border. Garnish with slices of cucumber and endive, and serve. 1187. Petits Pains d la Chevalier.—6 oz. cooked game (any kind), 2 oz. cooked ham or bacon, 2 large tablespoonfuls cream, 1 truffle, 1 hard-boiled egg-yolk, 1 tablespoonful bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 293), aromatic seasoning. Mask the bottom of six or eight small zephire moulds with aspic, place a star of truffle (thinly cut) in the centre, mix aspic (remainder of) and cream together, coat well the inside of the moulds with this, and stand on the ice to set. Free the game from skin and sinews, cut the ham and game into small pieces, pound in a mortar till smooth, add sauce and the yolk of egg, season with a good pinch of aromatic seasoning, and rub through a fine sieve. Chop the remainder of the truffle finely, mix with the above mixture, add the remainder of aspic and cream while the latter is liquid, fill up the moulds, cover with a layer of stiff aspic, and place on the ice. When thoroughly set turn out, dish up, and serve. 1188. Ter vine de Gibier a la Suisse.—This dish forms one of the most delicious delicacies and is very popular in Switzerland and France. The dish is suitable for a cold entree, as a ball supper dish, or for other occasions where a cold collation is desired. Almost any kind of game can be used—pheasant, partridge, snipe, hare, or venison. Free the meat from bone, skin, and gristle, weigh it and allow half its weight in fresh pork (lean and fat). For two pounds of game use one pound of pork. Pass these twice through a