ENTREES CHATIDES BE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 315 Blanch the sweetbreads, trim, parboil for ten minutes in slightly salted water, cool, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick; trim the slices a little (avoiding waste). Have ready some well-reduced white sauce, partly cool, season the slices of sweetbread, dip each into the sauce, so as to coat them well. Place on a baking- sheet or wire tray, and put on the ice to get set. Beat up the egg, dip each into egg, and crumb. Place them in a frying-basket and fry in hot fat or lard a golden colour. Dish up in a circular row on a thin border of mashed potatoes, fill the centre with spinach, previously heated and well seasoned, give them a pyramidal shape, pour the sauce, previously heated, round the dish, and serve. 869. His de Yean d Vlndienne {Sweetbread, Indienne Style).—1 'pair heart sioeetbreads, -k pint good stock, border of chicken quenelle meat {No. 403). Steep the sweetbreads in cold water for one or two hours. Blanch them in one quart of cold water, bring them to a boil. As soon as they become firm and round without being hard, take them out of the water, remove the pipe, and press them well between two dishes till cold. Then fold each one in a buttered paper and braise them in half a pint of good stock for half an hour. After this time take them up and set them aside to cool. When cool cut them in slices with a sharp knife, dish up on a border of chicken quenelle meat, and pour the curry sauce over. Serve plain boiled rice in the centre. 870. R is de Yean d la Jardiniere.—2 heart sweetbreads, larding-bacon, 2 slices streaky bacon, a small bouquet of herbs, 1 onion sliced, 1 carrot sliced, 2 cloves, a fete peppercorns, aromatic seasoning, salt, 1 gill rich stock, meat glaze {No. 247), oz. butter, jardiniere garnish {No. 471), a croute of bread. Trim the sweetbreads, and steep them in cold water for a few hours, blanch them—viz. bring them to the boil in slightly salted water—cool them, and press them between two plates or dishes, writh a weight on top. Lard the best sides of the sweetbreads with strips of larding-bacon. Put the bacon (cut small), the onion, carrot, butter, herbs, cloves and peppercorns in a saute- or braising-pan, arrange the sweetbread on top (larded sides upwards). Heat over a bright fire for several minutes, then moisten with the stock, add salt, pepper, and aromatics to taste, cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven from thirty to forty minutes. Baste frequently. During the process of braising, sprinkle the top of the sweetbreads occasionally with liquefied meat glaze. When done transfer the sweetbreads into another pan. Bemove the fat from the liquor, add a little more meat glaze ; reduce to half glaze, and strain over the sweetbreads. Have ready a hot dish, place upon it a fried bread croute, dress the sweetbreads well upon this. Sauce over carefully and garnish with jardiniere. The dish is then ready for serving.