609 PATISSERIE, ETC. (two pounds of sugar to one ounce of vanilla); when fine pass through a sieve, and keep in a well-closed tin or jar. 1971. Meringues (Shells).—| lb. sifted sugar, 6 whites of eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs in an egg-bowl until they represent a stiff froth ; mix them with the sugar lightly ; be careful not to work the batter too much in mixing, otherwise the froth will become too soft for shaping. The preparation is then ready for moulding the desired shapes of meringues; this may be effected with a spoon, with a cornet, or piping-bag. Place some foolscap paper on a baking-sheet, or on a board of about three-quarters of an inch thick, shape the meringues on it in rows, keep them about an inch apart from each other, dust them with sifted sugar, place them in a very moderate oven for about two houi;s. When done take up each meringue, break in the bottom carefully with your thumb, put back on the baking- sheet, and allow them to dry overnight in a warm place. 1972. Meringues au Citron.—Proceed as before; add the rind of half a lemon finely chopped and mixed with the sugar ; when baked cool fill with whipped cream slightly sweetened. 1973. Meringues mix Amandes.—Proceed as before, adding a quarter of a pound of peeled, dried, and pounded almonds to the sugar, and proceed as previously described. 1974. Meringues mix IHstaches.—A quarter of a pound of pistachio kernels, peeled, dried, and pounded with two whites of eggs; make a stiff froth of five whites of eggs, and mix with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; whisk all over the fire until it becomes cold, then add the pistachios, and mix carefully. Shape the meringues and bake. If liked, two ounces of ground almonds and two ounces of pistachios may be used in place of the four ounces of pistachios. 1975. Genoise Paste.—5 whole eggs, 4 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. flour, dried and sifted, 2 oz. warmed blotter. Separate the whites of eggs from the yolks, place the whites in a copper egg-bowl and the yolks in a round basin ; to the latter add the sugar, and work them well with a wooden spoon for about five minutes. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, mix the flour and butter, and whisk lightly with the yolks to incorporate the ingredients ; the mixture will then be feady for pouring into buttered and floured tins, sheets, fancy moulds, &c. 1976. Genoise au Chocolat.—Prepare the same mixture as given for plain Genoise, but incorporate with the yolks and sugar two ounces of ground almonds and one ounce of grated chocolate. 1977. Genoise au Cafe.—Add a dessertspoonful of best coffee extract, with the yolks of eggs and sugar, and prepare the same mixture with the given ingredients as for Genoise. 1978. Genoise decoree.—Prepare the Genoise mixture (any flavour) and put into a square baking-sheet; if you do not have one with the sides turned up all round fasten a piece of wood across the It R