DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (HOT) 213 498. Dame de Saumon a la Chambord.—Wash and dry a middle cut of salmon weighing about four pounds; put it in a stew- pan with one and a half pint of stock, one carrot, an onion stuck with a clove, one gill of white wine, one ounce of butter, a bouquet garni, and a few peppercorns; season with a little salt, cover it over and simmer slowly over the fire for about an hour. When done take up the salmon, strain the stock into a small saucepan, add one ladleful of Espagnole sauce (No. 236) and one of tomato sauce (No. 271) ; let boil for ten ■ minutes, skim well, stir in two pats of fresh butter, a tea'spoonful of anchovy paste, the juice of a lemon, and pass through a tammy cloth. Have ready a garnishing consisting of twenty-four small poached fish quenelles, made with whiting forcemeat (No. 400), twelve mushroom heads, eight crayfish tails, eight cooked oysters, and three sliced truffles. Dish up the piece of salmon, remove the skin on the surface, garnish top and side with the garniture and a decorated hatelet skewer; sauce over gently, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. 499. Dame de Saumon a la National.—About 3 lb. salmon (tail-piece), 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 turnip, a bouquet of herbs, 1 small piece of celery, 6 peppercorns, 1 quart of fish stock, 2 small cucumbers, 1 gill Chablis, 3 or 4 potatoes, salt, parsley, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill of milk, grated nutmeg and pepper, 1 tablespoonful of cream. Cut the fish into slices about half an inch thick. Butter a saute- pan, cut up the carrot, turnip, celery, and onion (previously prepared), into thin slices. Line the saute-pan with these, put in the fish, season with a dessertspoonful of salt; cover with the remainder of vegetables, add the peppercorns and savoury herbs ; moisten with a pint of fish stock and the Chablis wine ; cover with a buttered paper and cook in a slow oven for about thirty minutes. Wash and peel the potatoes, peel thinly the cucumber, scoop out as many round balls as possible. Blanch them, each lot separately, and drain, and cook gently in some white stock or salted water, until tender, then drain and keep until wanted. Take out the salmon with a slice, place it neatly on a hot dish, cover and keep hot. In tho meantime have ready a white roux, prepared with one and a half ounces of butter and one ounce of flour, strain in the stock left from the fish, add the milk (boiling), also the trimmings of the cucumbers, previously blanched in salted water. Let the whole come to a boil, and allow to simmer for twenty minutes, adding more stock as the sauce reduces. Pass through a tammy or fine sieve, return to the stewpan, and finish with the cream ; season with a pinch of white pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Pour the sauce over the slices of fish so as to mask them nicely. Besprinkle with chopped parsley; garnish the sides with groups of the stewed potatoes and cucumber, and serve hot. 500. Cdtelettes de Saumon a la Danoise {Salmon Cutlets with Banish Sauce).—Procure about 2£ lb. of middle cut of a small