THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 156 stir in the flour, and cook a little; moisten with three quarts of stock, add the cooked pieces of bacon and about f lb. cooked rabbit meat. Boil for half an hour, stirring occasionally. Rub the whole through a wire sieve. Return to the stewpan, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice. Wash the sorrel, cut it into fine shreds, blanch, strain, and put with the soup. Mix the cream with the yolks of eggs and stir into the soup when boiling. Stir over the fire long enough to bind the yolks, but without allowing the soup to boil. Pour into a soup-tureen, sprinkle over a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 1 162. Votaye Fausse Tortue (Mock Turtle Soup, Thick).— ^ small calf’s head, 1 lb. veal, 2 lbs. lean beef, 6 oz. lean ham or bacon, 4 oz. flour, 3 quarts stock, 1 gill Madeira wine, 1 oz. butter, 1 small onion, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 stalk celery, a feiv sprigs parsley, 1 bay- leaf, 4 cloves, 1 sprig thyme, 1 sprig marjoram, 10 peppercorns, cayenne pepper, salt, ^ lemon. Bone the calf’s head, blanch it, and cook for three or four hours in stock or salted water. Press it between two boards or dishes. Cut the veal, beef, and ham or bacon into pieces, put them in a large stewpan with the vegetables, cleaned and cut into slices, the butter and herbs, stir the whole over a brisk fire until light brown. Stir in the flour, and cook until it acquires a light brown colour, moisten with 2 quarts of liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled and 3 quarts of other stock ; add the peppercorns, a little salt, and a pinch of cayenne; let the whole come to a boil (stir till boiling), take off the scum, and simmer slowly for three hours. Strain the soup, and let cool. Cut the calf’s head into neat 1-inch squares, trim off the fat, and put them in a stewpan with the wine, cover with a lid, and simmer for a few minutes ; then add the strained soup, boil for another thirty minutes, skim well, add more seasoning if needed, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve with thin slices of pared lemon. 163. Potaye a la Heine (Puree de Volatile). —I medium-sized chicken, 3 quarts stock, 4 oz. bacon, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 bunch parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, 3 oz. butter, 1 oz. almonds, 4 oz. bread- crumbs, quenelle meat, seasoning, £ pint of milk. Slice the bacon and put in a stewpan together with the vegetables, herbs, &c. Place the chicken, previously trussed as for boiling, on top, season with pepper and salt, pour in a quart of stock, cover with a lid, and let it reduce slowly. Add the remainder of stock, boil slowly, skim, and continue to boil until tender. Remove the chicken, free it from skin and bones, and pound meat in a mortar with bread-crumbs, season with salt and nutmeg, moisten with all the stock, rub through a fine sieve and return to the stewpan. Peel and pound the almonds, boil in milk, and rub through a napkin. Add this to the soup along with the broth just before serving. Serve the soup with a garnish of small chicken quenelles, bead shapes, made with the