SAUCES AND THE IB COMPOSITION 93 If the roux is used in a cold state (stock-roux), it may be mixed with cold or hot stock, but as soon as mixed it must be stirred constantly over the fire till boiling; or if mixed hot, the liquid should be poured by degrees into the roux away from the fire, and then stirred over the fire till it boils. Special precaution must always be exercised in making a sauce with a roux thickening that the temperature be lowered, or in other words that the roux be allowed to cool a little before the liquid stock or gravy is added. This will prevent the sauce from getting lumpy, and will do much towards making a sauce perfectly smooth. All roux must be stirred constantly during the process of blending (frying or roasting). WHITE ROUX (Roux Blanc) This is a mixture of flour and water cooked in a stew-pan on a moderate fire, without allowing it to attain any colour, whereby it will retain its original white colour. BLOND OR FAWN ROUX (Roux Blond) This is made by melting a certain quantity of butter, by stirring in the same or a less quantity of sifted flour, and by cooking it over a slow fire or in the oven until it has acquired a light blond or fawn colour. BROWN ROUX (Roux Brun) This is the so-called stock-roux, which can be prepared in large quantities to be used cold as required. It is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing, with the exception that it is fried longer (“ roasted ”) till it becomes a darker colour, a chestnut brown, or russet brown. It is best to finish the roux in a slack oven, for the slower the process the better the blending and the finer the aroma of the sauce will be. ROUX LIAISON This liaison is made by pouring prepared strained stock slowly into the stewpan containing the roux, which, as before explained, must be allowed to cool a little. The mixture is then stirred over a slow fire until it boils, and allowed to simmer until it attains the desired consistency. With brown and blond sauces the roux employed is usually made up with a ‘ mirepoix ’ to introduce the necessary flavourings. This item ‘ mirepoix ’ is more fully explained later on. EGG LIAISON This is a thickening composed of yolks of eggs beaten up and diluted with a small quantity of cream or cold white stock. Cream is