173 SAUCES pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, add the lemon-juice, and whisk in the butter and lobster coral (the latter finely chopped). Strain through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, return to the stewpan, stir in the meat glaze, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required for Serving. N.B.—If sauce ndaigre is desired, use bechamel sauce only, and substitute the meat glaze with \ gill of cream. 219. Sauce aux JEcrevisses (Prawn Sauce).—Proceed the same as for sauce Cardinal (No. 218) and include 1.2 prawns’ heads which must be cut in quarters and placed into the sauce a few minutes before serving. 220. Sauce Venitienne. -\ pint Allemancle (No. 204) or Bechamel (No. 242) sauce, 1 oz. lobster butter (No. 391), 1 dessert- spoonful meat glaze (No. 247), the juice of half a lemon, pepper, nutmeg, and salt, 1 teaspoonful finely-chopped tarragon-leaves. Heat up the sauce, stir in the lobster butter and meat glaze when required for serving, add lemon-juice, sufficient pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt to taste, and last of all the chopped tarragon. 221. Sauce Mirabeau.—1 gill Espagnole sauce (No. 236) 14 gill fish stock, \ small onion, \ small carrot, j gill Burgundy wine, | gill mushroom liquor, 14 oz. fresh butter, chopped tarragon, chervil and parsley. Prepare the fish stock from the bones and trimmings of the trout. Peel the onion, scrape the carrot, and mince both ; fry them in a little butter to a nice colour, drain off the butter, add the wine, cover and let boil quickly for a few minutes, then add the mushroom liquor and the stock, reduce to about half the original quantity, then stir in the Espagnole sauce, and let simmer for about five minutes. Strain into a clean saucepan, add the remainder of the butter, about a tea- spoonful (in all) of chopped parsley, tarragon, and chervil, also a few drops of lemon-juice and seasoning if found necessary. Whisk over the fire until thoroughly hot (not boiling) and use as directed. 222. Sauce Maintenon. This sauce is especially adapted for so-called gratin dishes, and must therefore be well reduced so as to be of the correct consistency. Boil 1 pint of bechamel sauce for about 15 minutes, stirring con- tinually ; add to it the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, 1 tablespoonful of cooked onion puree (soubise), a suspicion of garlic, just enough to impart the aroma, a pinch of paprika pepper, and a little grated nutmeg (salt if needed). Stir till it thickens, without allowing it to boil, and use as required. 223. Sauce a la Mornay.—4 pint bechamel (No. 202) sauce, j gill of mushroom or Italiennc sauce (No. 239), 4 gill cream, 4 oz. meat glaze or 2 tablespoonfuls half-glaze of chicken stock, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, l.oz. fresh butter. Put the bechamel sauce into a saucepan, reduce it well, then add the Italienne or mushroom sauce. Let it boil up, skim well and add