THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 356 1015. Poulet saute a la Fermiere.—Saute of chicken, sauce enriched with cream and flavoured with lemon-juice. Dished up in pyramidal form, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Garnished with groups of neatly cut spring vegetables. 101G. Poulet saute a la Florentine. -Saute of chicken, flavoured with chopped shallots and green pepper, sauce diluted with tomato puree and white wine, and then well reduced. 1017. Poulet saute a la Godard.—Neatly-shaped pieces of chicken, skinned, larded with truffles and bacon, first cooked in butter, and afterwards stewed in a rich white sauce with chopped mushrooms. Garnished with whole truffles, heads of mushrooms, and fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff-paste baked). 1018. Timbales de Poulet a la Meridionale.—Chicken timbales, prepared with finely minced chicken meat, demi-glace sauce (No. 237), panade (No. 8), ancl flavoured with a little Worcester sauce. Filled in well-buttered timbale moulds with some well-reduced tomato puree in the centre. Steamed in the oven, and served with Madeira wine sauce (No. 237 a). 1019. Chapon a la Bourgeoise.—Braised capon cut into small joints and finished-in a brown sauce blended with tomato sauce (No. 271), and white wine (reduced), garnished with groups of glazed carrots and button onions. 1020. Chapon a la Cavour. — Stuffed capon braised (breast larded and glazed), served with reduced Allemande sauce (No. 204) well worked with meat extract and lemon-juice, garnished with small timbales, baked nouilles, or macaroni. 1021. Chapon a la Piemontaise.— Boast capon stuffed with force- meat and sliced truffles, served with tomato sauce (No. 271) and ravioli paste quenelles, which are stuffed with veal forcemeat and well-reduced tomato puree, or tomato paste. 1022. Chapon au Gros Sel.—Braised capon, breast larded and covered with thin rims of lemon. Served with reduced demiglace sauce (No. 237), containing a small quantity of coarse salt. This must be added just before serving (hence the name, gros sel, i.e. coarse salt). 1023. Dinde ala Chipolata. -Boast turkey larded and stuffed with sausage meat and veal forcemeat, dished up with a ragout of small rounds of sausages, small squares of fried bacon, button mushrooms, and sliced truffles finished in sauce Madere. Garnished with a border of small forcemeat quenelles. 1024. Dinde a la Godard.—Braised turkey (breast larded), stuffed with veal forcemeat mixed with sliced sweetbread and mushrooms. Dished up and garnished with slices of truffles, mushroom-heads, cocks’ combs, turned olives, and small chicken quenelles. Served with sauce Madere (No. 237 a). 1025. Dinde a la Provencale.—Boast turkey stuffed with finely chopped boiled onions, bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, egg-yolks, sliced truffles, and seasoning, served with tomato sauce (No. 271).