THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 170 eggs ; stir in bit by bit 1 oz. of fresh butter and a few drops of lemon- juice ; pass through a fine strainer or tammy cloth, and use. 205 a. Sauce JBlanquette.—This is exactly the same as Sauce Allemande, with three tablespoonfuls of cream instead of one. 206. Sauce veloutee.—1 oz. flour, oz. butter, 1 pint of veal stock, \ gill mushroom liquor, 4 gill of cream, 1 small bouquet garni, 6 peppercorns, salt, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Cook the flour and 1 oz. of butter together without browning, stir in the stock and mushroom liquor, add the bouquet and crushed peppercorns, boil slowly for twenty minutes, stir frequently, and skim. Pass through a sieve or tammy ; keep on the side of the stove, put a few tiny pieces of butter on top to keep from forming a skin. Just before using it add the cream. Stir well and let it get thoroughly hot without boiling, season with salt if necessary, a pinch of nutmeg, and about a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. The sauce is now ready for use, and will serve as a foundation for any white stock, or as a veloutee by itself. The cream may be omitted if used as the former. 207. Sauce a la P Gillette.—This sauce consists of Allemande or veloutee (No. 206) sauce mixed with finely-chopped parsley. 208. Sauce IIollandaise.—3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 gill bechamel (No. 202) sauce, j gill stock, the juice of half a lemon, salt and pepper. Boil up the sauce, remove to the side of the. stove and whisk in the yolks of eggs, add the stock (fish, chicken, rabbit or veal), mix thoroughly and add the butter gradually, season with pepper and salt and the lemon-juice. Pass through a tammy and use. Before adding the butter the sauce should be sufficiently heated to bind the eggs. Great care must be taken to prevent it curdling. Another way to make this sauce is to omit the bechamel, and to use 4 yolks of eggs to 4 a gill of stock, which is finished with 4 oz. of butter. The first is the most convenient and most popular way. This sauce, when finished, is to be just hot, and on no account must it be allowed to reach the boiling point. 209. Sauce blanche (White Sauce).—1 pint milk, 1 small onion, 1 clove, 1 bay-leaf, 2 oz. butter, 14 oz. flour, \ pint stock {white), 10 peppercorns, salt. Cook flour and butter together without browning, moisten with the milk and stock, put in the onion, clove, peppercorns and bay-leaf, stir until it boils, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes, season with salt. Strain or tammy, and use as required. It is best to first boil the onion with the milk. 210. Sauce supreme.—Make a white roux with 1 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour ; dilute with three parts of a quart of chicken stock ; add a small onion, one clove, and half a bay-leaf; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, skim well, and work in three pats of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of cream, one yolk of egg, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix well and pass through a tammy cloth. *