358 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 1031. Lapin frit a la Tartare.—1 young rabbit, 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, bread-crumbs, Tartare sauce (No. 278), seasoning, frying fat. Skill, draw, wash, and wipe the rabbit, cut it into neat joints, and fry in butter in a saute-pan until three-parts done. Sprinkle with a little pepper and salt, put the pieces to cool, then trim ; dip each in beaten egg and crumb ; when set dip in oiled butter, and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying-basket, and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard, drain, dish up on a hot dish with folded napkin or dish-paper, garnish with fried or fresh parsley, and serve with Tartare sauce. This dish is sometimes garnished with strips of fried bacon. 1032. Let its Souffles de Lapin (Small Souffles of Babbit).— 1 small rabbit, 2 oz. finely-chopped liam or tongue, 2 yolks of eggs, 1^ gill of well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), f oz. butter, 1 lb, mashed potatoes. Seasoning, % pint of supreme sauce (No. 210). Cut the meat of the rabbit into small pieces, removing any gristle ; put it in a mortar and pound till quite smooth; add the yolks of egg and the bechamel sauce; work well and mix in the ham or tongue. Season with very little salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg ; then rub through a wire sieve. Butter about eighteen fancy moulds (dariole or small ham-shaped moulds) ; fill these with the above preparation. Place the moulds in a saute- or stew-pan,, containing boiling water to reach half-way up the moulds. Cover with a piece of buttered paper, bring it to the boil over a quick fire,, then put in a moderate oven and cook for about twenty-five minutes. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes dressed on a dish. (Season the potato puree with pepper and salt, and mix with a small piece of fresh butter). Turn out the moulds ; range the souffles neatly on top of the border. Sauce over with hot supreme sauce, and serve. The centre of the dish should be filled with either peas, French beans, or flageolets, previously heated in a little stock or gravy,, flavoured with a small small piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, pepper, and salt. 1033. Gibelotte de Lapin a la Hourf/uignonne. — Stewed rabbits, done in brown sauce. The same as directed for gibelotte de lapin (No. 1030), using claret in place of Chablis, and with small braised button onions. 1034. Darioles de Lapin a la Heine.—£ lb. rabbit meat freed from bone and skin, 2 oz. lean pork, 1 oz. butter, 2 oz. panade,. 3 yolks of egg, \ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), a small tin or terrine of foie gras pate. Seasoning (salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne), supreme sauce (No. 210). Pound the meat (rabbit and pork) in a mortar until quite smooth ; then add by degrees the panade, the eggs, and bechamel sauce, also about three-quarters of an ounce of butter. Season to taste, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Butter some dariole moulds; dust the