- ENTREES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 305 carefully on a buttered saute-pan, about half an inch apart. Pour in gently some boiling water or white stock, and cook for about fifteen minutes. Put the tomato, Espagnole sauce, stock, and sherry in a stewpan, let it reduce well, skim, and add the mushrooms, cut in slices. Lift out the quenelles, drain carefully on a cloth, dish up in pyramid form, sauce over with the above, fry the six eggs separately in very hot salad oil till slightly brown, drain on a cloth, and place them round the quenelles. 885. Quenelles tie Venn d lit Tyrolienne.—% lb. lean veal, 6 oz. soft bread, \ pint milk, 8 whole and 2 yolks of eggs, a couple of tablespoonfuls white sauce (bechamel, No. 202, or veloutee, No. 206), 3 to 4 oz. lean bacon, ^ lemon, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. rice, 4 small ripe tomatoes, 1 pint rich stock, salt, pepper, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, parsley, fried bread croutons. Shred the veal, free it from skin and sinews, soak the bread in the milk. Pound the meat in a mortar, adding by degrees two whole eggs and the two yolks of eggs, also the sauce and about an ounce of butter. Drain the bread and add it to the above, mix thoroughly and season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Rub the whole through a fine wire sieve ; this constitutes the forcemeat or Farce de Yeau. Wash the rice, put it in a stewpan with enough cold water to cover it, let it come to the boil, drain and steep it in cold water (this is blanching the rice), melt two ounces of butter in a stew- pan, put in the bacon, cut into dice, fry a little, then put in the rice (well drained), stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes without browning, and add sufficient stock to well cover the rice, cook it very gently until quite tender, stirring occasionally and adding some more stock to prevent it from burning. Cut the tomatoes into small pieces or slices, toss them in butter over a quick fire for about ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, add the juice of half a lemon, and a little stock. Let it boil for ten minutes, then strain. Reserve a little of this sauce to go round the dish, and put the remainder into the rice, which must be allowed to reduce to the required consistency for moulding. Shape as many quenelles as are required, use a couple of dessert-spoons dipped in hot water to form the quenelles. Poach the quenelles in stock or salted water, when cold dip each in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot fat a nice light-brown colour. Fill a buttered border mould with the rice. Unmould it quickly on to a hot dish (round entree), place a round croute in the centre of the dish. Arrange the quenelles on top of the border and the croute, pour the tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. 836. l ean Saute d la Marengo.— Slices of cushion or fillet of veal, fried, and stewed (etouffe) with sliced mushrooms, chopped shallots, tomato and Espagnol sauce, flavoured with sherry. Dish up in pyramidal form, garnish with eggs, fried whole in very hot sweet oil, the same as for ‘ Chicken Marengo.’ x