354 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK chicken in butter to a nice pale brown. Pour off the butter, and put into a deep stewpan, add the remainder of fresh butter, stir in the rice, and allow to fry for several minutes over a moderate fire. When the rice has sufficiently evaporated moisten with the stock, and stir over the fire until it commences to boil; then allow to simmer gently on the side of the stove. Mince finely one small onion, fry in butter a golden colour, add the curry-paste and mace, also a tablespoonful of stock, mix well, add the chicken pieces, and mix the whole with the rice. Stir the rice &c. occasionally, to prevent burning. Season with salt and pepper at the last. Just before dishing up fry one more onion, cut into very thin slices ; these must be fried in butter and be of a nice pale brown colour. Dress the pillau in a pile on a hot dish, strew over with thin strips of fried onion, and send to table. ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER POULTRY ENTRE'ES. 996. Cotelettesde Volaille a la Montpensier.—Chicken fillets chopped finely, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, egged, crumbed, and fried in deep fat. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 997. Quenelles de Volaille a l’ltalienne.—Chicken forcemeat quenelles, with chopped preserved mushrooms in centre of each, steamed in the oven. Served with a rich brown sauce, containing truffles, slices of mushrooms, chopped parsley, and chopped cooked ham. 998. Supreme de Volaille a la Royale.—Stewed chicken fillets dished up in the centre of a vegetable border, garnished with fanci- fully cut slices of ox-tongue, truffles, and macedoine of vegetables. Served with supreme sauce (No. 210). 999. Poulet (Chicken or Fotvl). Poulet a la Cardinal.—Boiled chicken, breast bone removed, stuffed with veal forcemeat (No. 402), and dished up with a garniture of small fancy quenelles and slices of truffles. Served with cardinal sauce, composed of white sauce, anchovy essence, lobster butter, and chilli vinegar. 1000. Poulet a la Chivry.—Braised chicken, dished up with rings of Spanish onions, filled with a mixture of chives, boiled onions, and blanched tarragon leaves all finely chopped, sauced over with a savoury herb sauce prepared with the chicken stock. 1001. Poulet a la Livournaise.—Split chicken, flattened, steeped in a mixture of lemon juice, sweet oil, flavoured with bay-leaf, parsley root, and onions, drained, sprinkled with fresh bread-crumbs, and broiled slowly in butter. Served with Livournaise sauce, composed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tarragon vinegar, and season- ing, all well mixed and served cold. 1002. Poulet a la Montmorency.—Braised chicken stuffed with a salpicon of sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, breast larded, and glazed, dished up with a garniture of slices of sweetbread and mushroom-heads. Served with sauce Madere (No. 237 a).