499 SALADES (SALADS) quantity of plain syrup. Place the bowl on the ice for about two hours. Just before serving add a small glass of liqueur, such as kirschwasser, cura90a, Benedictine, or Chartreuse. This is a most refreshing dish, suitable at all seasons of the year, but more especially for hot summer days. 1557. Salade de Fruits (Fruit Salad in Glasses).—Put into small tumblers, or goblet glasses, layers of strawberries, thin slices of bananas, and stoneless cherries. Pour into each glass a tablespoonful of the following mixture : — Half-gill syrup, the juice of one lemon (strained), one liqueur glass maraschino, and one liqueur glass of cognac brandy. Mix the remainder with a gill or more of sweet clear jelly ; divide this into equal parts, and pour over the fruit in the glasses. Keep on the ice till required for table. A few fancy gateaux or Genoese fingers should be handed round with this. 1558. Compote de 3Telon, to be served ivith any kind of roast game or game entrees.—1 melon, 1 gill ivater, 1 glass Marsala or Madeira, 4 teaspoonful krona pepper, 4 saltspoonful ground ginger, the juice of 1 lemon, 1 lump loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful rice flour. The melon used must be perfectly ripe. Peel it, cut it in half, and remove the seeds ; divide the melon into even-sized slices about If or 2 inches long; place these in a deep enamelled or copper saucepan, pour over the wine. Mix the rice flour with a little cold water, bring it slowly to ’the boil, add the ginger and the remainder of water, the lemon-juice, sugar, and krona pepper. Boil for five minutes, stir fre- quently, and strain over the melon. Cover the pan and cook in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. The compote is then ready for serving. 1559. Salade d’Oranges (Orange Salad).—4 oranges, 4 lemon, 1 tablespoonful sweet salad oil Qmile de Provence), 1 table- spoonful brandy, 4 teaspoonful caster sugar, 4 teaspoonful finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges, divide the fruit into the natural divisions, removing at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl, add a few thin slices of lemon, free from skin and pips, pour over the oil and brandy, season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish. Keep the dish on the ice until required for table. 1560. Salade d’Ananas (Pine-apple Salad).—Cut half a peeled ripe pine-apple into fine shreds (remove the cores before shred- ding). Mix this with the white part of a small head of celery, chopped small. Place it on the ice till wanted. A few minutes before serving mix it with sufficient mayonnaise sauce (No. 277) to moisten and season the salad. Dress neatly on a deep glass dish, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve it ice-cold. K K 2