73 COOKING PROCESSES AND THEIR EFFECTS 3. It should be basted about every ten minutes, as this helps to cook it, keeps it juicy, and improves the flavour. 4. The time allowed is 15 minutes for every pound, and 15 minutes over for beef and mutton ; for veal and pork 20 minutes for every pound, and 20 minutes over. The latter should be well cooked to destroy parasites ; very thick pieces require five minutes longer for every pound. Three ways of roasting are practised, viz:— Roasting before the fire, by exposing meat to the direct heat of an open fire. This mode of roasting is confined mostly to England and America. Very few other countries practise roasting in front of the fire to any extent. Roasting in the oven of ordinary coal stoves or ranges. Of the two this mode of cooking is considered inferior to the first: never- theless it may be safely said that the greatest part of meat-roasting is done in close ovens. It appears, from various experiments, that m^jte:oasted or baked in a close oven loses rather less of its weight th^Kf roasted by an open fire. Roasting in a gas stove (under a sheet of flame). This method has of late become popular, and the results obtained are, as a rule, very satisfactory. Most of the modern gas stoves are so constructed that there is a constant supply of fresh air circulating through them, whereby one of the elements which we get by roasting in front of a fire is obtained. It matters little how the roasting of a joint of meat or poultry is effected, so long as the points previously named are observed, the main objects of which are to preserve the nutritive qualities, and to retain the juices, but the joint must be sufficiently seasoned and dressed just before serving. Elementary Rules for Roasting.—By way of supplementing the former remarks, it cannot be sufficiently insisted upon that the excellence of a roast depends to a very great extent upon the amount of basting it receives. Basting should be performed at least ^once every 15 minutes whilst a joint is cooking. It is wise to add a little dripping at first, so that this may be used for basting until the fat from the meat melts. Some cooks wrap their joints in oiled paper, others flour the joint before roasting. Neither of these plans is recommended, because thorough basting will do all that is wanted. Some cooks season a joint before it is cooked, whilst others season it with salt and pepper just before it is served. There is a difference of opinion as to which is the correct way of the two. I am inclined to hold with the latter. To ensure proper and careful roasting the fire must in the first place be in the right condition—clear, bright, and giving out a uniform but not too fierce a heat. In the case of an open fire its breadth and depth should be regulated according to the size of the joint to be roasted, so that the weight of a joint to be