VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 481 after which pack them loosely into a wire border mould, as shown in the illustration on the previous page ; place the wire cover over and fix with the pin attached. Plunge the whole into very hot fat and fry till a golden brown colour. Take up, drain well, remove the cover, and turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with a little fine salt, and serve. FARINACEOUS DISHES. 1491. Beignets de Gruyere d la Krona.—| lb. firm fresh Gruyere cheese, free from rind,panurette (grated rush), 1 teaspoonful krona pepper-seasoning, 1 egg, frying-fat, or clarified butter, 4 gill ichite sauce. Cut the cheese into oval or round slices about 4 inch thick. These must he cut of even size. Coat each on both sides with a layer of cold white sauce, and place on a wire tray to set. Mix a plateful of panurette bread-crumbs with the krona pepper. Dip each cheese slice in beaten egg and roll in the crumbs. Place them in a wire frying-basket and plunge into very hot fat ; fry till nicely coloured (it will take about four minutes). Drain, dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve quickly. 1492. Gnocchi a la Basse.—| pint milk, 4 gill white wine, 3 eggs, 6 ounces butter, (5 ounces flour, 4 ounces grated Parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, and paprika, bechamel sauce. Put the milk and wine in a stewpan. When hot add half the quantity of butter, sift the flour, and stir it gradually into the liquid as soon as it begins to boil fast. Work the mixture vigorously over the fire with a wooden spoon until it leaves the sides and bottom of the stewpan perfectly clean. Set the pan on one side for a few minutes, so as to cool the paste a little. Now incorporate the eggs one at a time, about half the grated cheese, and season to taste with a pinch of salt, white pepper, and a little paprika, beat up well, and work in finally the remainder of the butter. Shape some quenelles by meana of a table or dessert spoon, drop them into fast boiling water or stock, slightly salted ; poach them from fifteen to twenty minutes, keeping the cover on the stewpan while cooking. Take up, drain, dish up neatly, incorporate the remainder of grated cheese with the bechamel sauce, let this boil, and sauce over the quenelles. Serve very hot. 1493. Macaroni d la Rossini.—Pound four ounces of raw chicken livers, previously cleansed, in a mortar, adding the same quantity of truffle and foie gras, season with salt, pepper, grated cheese, and nutmeg, moisten with one yolk of egg and a tablespoonful o‘f brandy. Rub through a fine sieve. Meanwhile cook in salted water some large-sized macaroni ; when done pour off the water and drain the macaroni on a cloth. Fill the pipes with the prepared farce, using a paper cornet for this purpose. Place the stuffed macaroni in a stewpan, pour over sufficient tomato sauce to cover. i i