VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 463 or dried, and a pinch of salt. Put in the peas and boil quickly for five minutes, then drain them in a strainer. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the peas, and toss over the fire for a few seconds ; sprinkle over half a teaspoonful of flour, season with pepper and salt and a tiny pinch of caster sugar. Moisten with 2 tablespoonfuls of rich stock or gravy. Cook gently for about eight minutes, shaking the pan frequently. The peas are then ready for serving. 1390. jPuree de Pois Verts (Green Peas Puree).—Boil a quart of shelled peas in slightly salted water till tender (a small pinch of soda or a teaspoonful of moist sugar should be put into the water, as that will preserve the green colour). When done, drain off the water, rub the peas through a sieve. Put the puree in a stewpan with enough milk or cream to moisten, also a small piece of fresh butter. Season to taste with pepper and salt and stir over the fire till quite hot. Serve as a garnish for cutlets &c. 1391. Poireauoc d la Diablo (Devilled Leeks).—6 young leeks, oz. butter, 3 slices of toasted bread, 1 pint stock (toell -flavoured), 1 gill white sauce (bechamel, No. 202), 2 yolks of eggs, 1 gherkin chopped finely, 1 saltspoonful mustard, salt, cayenne or Oriental salt, panurette or bread-crumbs. Wash, trim, and cook the leeks in the stock ; when done take up and cut them into three or four inch lengths. Heat up the white sauce, put in the gherkins, and mustard, also a little salt if needed, stir in the yolks of eggs and allow the latter to bind, taking care that the sauce does not curdle. Butter the toasted bread lightly and spread over with a little of the sauce. Kange the leeks neatly on the toast and cut into finger-shapes. Mask each with a thick layer of the sauce, sprinkle over with panurette or bread-crumbs and a pinch of cayenne or Oriental salt, place a tiny piece of butter here and there on top of each. Put them in a very hot oven or under a salamander to brown, dish up, and serve. 1392. Poireauoc au Gratin (Leeks Gratin Style).—Wash and trim about ten young leeks, boil in salted water for five minutes, drain and finish cooking in white stock, drain again, and range neatly on a well buttered gratin dish. Season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg, sauce over with well reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), sprinkle over with grated Parmesan and bread-crumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes to brown the top. Serve in the same dish placed on another with folded napkin. 1393. Fritot de Poireauoc (Leek Fritters).— 6 large young leeks, 1 gill milk, \ pint stock, ^ blade mace, a sprig of young thyme, \ bay-leaf, 1 egg, salt, pepper, and a gill of well reduced white sauce, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, parsley. Wash, trim, and pare the leeks, cut the white parts into about three inches in length, put them in a stewpan or saute-pan with the milk, mace, thyme, and bay-leaf, add the stock, and boil till tender.