391 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME trim where necessary (removing any skin or sinews). Cut the carrot and onion into slices. Put the butter in a deep saute-pan, cover the bottom with a layer of the vegetables and the bouquet of herbs, put the sweetbreads on top, season with pepper and salt, cover with the slices of bacon ; moisten with the stock and wine, put on a lid and cook in a moderate oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes ; baste frequently, adding a little more stock if needed. When cooked take up and let cool. Warm up the tomato veloutee sauce; add to it the strained liquor from the sweetbreads, dissolve the gelatine in a little water or stock and strain into the sauce, which should be of a pale- pink colour (a few drops of liquid carmine or cochineal may be added if found necessary). Strain the sauce into a basin and put in a cool place. Cut the sweetbreads into a quarter-inch thick slices, mask each side with the above sauce as it becomes consistent enough to coat. Decorate one side of each slice with fancifully cut strips or leaves of truffle and chilli skin (crown or star shapes are most effective). Fix the garnish with aspic, and when set mask over the whole with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Have ready a socle or flat border of cooked rice, coat with the remainder of sauce and aspic, put this in the centre of a cold dish (silver-plated), dress the prepared slices of sweetbread on the border or socle, and serve as a cold entree for luncheon, dinner or ball supper. 1145. jKis tie Veciu a VAmiral.—Blanch two or three nice heart sweetbreads, trim them carefully and cook in white stock till tender ; the stock must be well flavoured. When done wrap the sweet- breads in a clean cloth and press them lightly between two boards. Have ready a white chaud-froid sauce (No. 290), cut the sweetbreads into neat oval slices of even size, and mask each well with the chaud- froid sauce, decorate one side of each tastefully with thin slices of truffle (cut into fancy shapes). Prepare beforehand a daintily decorated border of aspic, using plenty of vegetables for garnishing it. When set turn out on a dish and dress the prepared sweetbread slices round the border. Fill the centre with a richly dressed prawn salad, i.e. a salad composed of lettuce, endive, prawns, and dressing. 1146. JPetites Croustades d la Milanaise,—k lb. puff- paste, 6 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, ^ pint aspic jelly (No. 38), 1 gill cream, 1^ gill tomato aspic (No. 295), 2 oz. cooked ham or smoked ham sausage, pepper, salt, and cayenne, 1-| teaspoonful mixed mustard. Boll out the parts thinly, stamp out six or eight rounds with a plain or fluted cutter, two inches in diameter ; place these on a baking- sheet, brush over with water, sprinkle with Parmesan, and bake in a quick oven till a golden colour ; take up and let cool. Melt the aspic jelly; when cooling add the remainder of grated cheese and the seasoning, salt, pepper, mustard, and cayenne, stir well, and mix in the cream previously whipped ; also the ham, finely chopped. Have ready six or eight very small plain dariole moulds ; coat the inside