369 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) bacon, 1 shallot, J lb. soft bread (French rolls), soaked in milk, 1 whole egg and 3 yolks, paprika pepper, salt, nutmeg. Pass the game twice through a mincing machine, cut the bacon into thin slices or dice. Melt the butter, add the shallot, peeled and chopped, and saute the liver in this for a few minutes. Pound it in a mortar, add the game, mince and pound both together till smooth, extract all the liquid from the soaked bread, and add it to the meat in the mortar; continue to pound ; now add the eggs, and mix thoroughly, season to taste with the above-named condiments. Rub all through a fine sieve ; poach a small quantity of the farce in boiling water to test its consistency, and use as directed. 1065. Risotto (for Cailles dl a Tosca).—4 oz. butter, 1 oz. onion minced, 6 oz. rice (well pickled), H pint ichite stock, 1 table- spoonful glaze or meat extract, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 small truffle chopped finely, | gill tomato pulp. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan, add the onion, fry for a moment, then put in the rice, picked, but not washed, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, then moisten with stock, using enough to double the quantity of rice (adding more later on if needed). Cover and cook gently for twenty-five minutes ; stir occasionally with a fork. When nearly done add the remainder of the butter, the truffle, and the tomato pulp, also the necessary seasoning of salt and pepper. Cover again and put it in the oven for another ten minutes. By this time all the moisture should become absorbed. Stir in the grated cheese, mix well, and use as directed. 1066. Cailles poelees a la Rarisienne.—6 quails, 2 oz. ’ butter, salt, pepper and nutmeg, parsley, 3 or 4 chicken livers, 1 gill demi-glace (No. 237) or sauce Madere (No. 237 a), 1 gill milk, a handful of bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 shallot, about 6 slices of bacon. Prepare the quails as for stuffing. Put the milk in a stewpan, add half an ounce of butter, a small bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg ; when boiling stir in the bread-crumbs (about a hand- ful). Simmer for ten minutes. Remove the bay-leaf and stir in the egg-yolks. Cut up the chicken livers small, saute them in butter in which a finely chopped shallot has been blended ; season with pepper, salt, and aromatics, and rub the liver &c. through a sieve. Mix the puree with the bread-crumbs &c. and stuff the birds with this. Wrap each quail in a thin slice of bacon, place them in an earthenware pan (casserole) with the remainder of butter, and cook over a slow fire for half an hour. Pour off’ the fat and finish cooking in the sauce (demi- glace or Madeira). 1067. Cailles err Feuilletage (Quails in Pastry).—-Bone four quails, stuff them with liver farce (No. 406), and braise them in a mirepoix with a little rich and well flavoured stock. Take up, let c6ol, and cut each bird in two. In boning the quails do not remove the legs, which latter should have the feet left on. Have some good B B