ENTREES CHAUDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 219 sheeps’ kidneys, six yolks of eggs, 2 oz. blotter, ^ pint cooked brown. They must cook slowly, else they will not be clone by the time they are of the desired colour. Range the fillets neatly in a row in the centre of an oblong dish. Have ready the ham finely chopped and warmed in a little brown sauce, just sufficient to moisten. Put a dessertspoonful of the ham in each half of tomato, place a button onion on top of each. Pour the demi-glace sauce round the dish and serve. The demi-glace should be well reduced, and have a table- spoonful of the marinade incorporated during the process of reducing. 726. I*elites Timbales a la Meridionals (.Little Timbales, Meridionale Style).—f lb. lean mutton fillet, 2 tablespoonfuls Espa- gnole sauce (No. 236), 1 tablespoonful sherry or Madeira, 1 table- spoonful cream, 1 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 10 stuffed Spanish olives, \ gill well-reduced tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), pepper, salt, nutmeg. Cut the meat into small pieces and pound in a mortar until smooth. Add the Espagnole sauce, wine, cream, half an ounce of butter, and the eggs, one at a time, season to taste, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Butter eight to ten small timbale or dariole moulds, fill them with this preparation, leaving a small hollow in the centre of each, in which place about a dessertspoonful of reduced tomato sauce and an olive stuffed with forcemeat; cover well with forcemeat, and place the moulds in a saute-pan half filled with boiling water. Let it come to the boil, then cover with an oiled paper, and finish cooking in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up, and sauce over with hot demi-glace. 727. Cervelles d la Dreux (Sheeps’ Brains with Mush- rooms) .—f sheep’s brains, a tiny bunch of parsley, some mushroom trimmings, 1 onion, 4 yolks of eggs, 1^ oz. panade, or ^ gill toell- reduced white sauce, 1 oz. butter, paprika, pepper, salt, grated nut- meg, 18 preserved mushrooms, Madere sauce (No. 237 a). Wash the brains several times in salted water, remove the skin and wash a second time in fresh water. Peel and slice the onion, put this, the parsley, and fresh mushroom trimmings in a stewpan half filled with water, plunge in the brains and let them boil for about five minutes, then drain them carefully and rub the whole through a wire sieve into a basin. Put the panade or sauce into a mortar and work in the yolks of eggs, add this to the brain puree, stir well, and season to taste with a pinch of pepper, a pinch of paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Butter eight to ten small dariole moulds, fill these with the prepared puree. Poach these in the usual manner for about ten minutes in a saute-pan containing boiling water. When done turn out the moulds on to a hot dish, arrange the darioles in a circle, pile the preserved mushrooms, previously heated in brown sauce (Madere sauce), in the centre of the dish, pour some hot sauce over and round the darioles, and serve. 728. Itofjnons de Moaton d la Chinoise.—Six small