THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 48 stoves. The modem stoves are vastly superior to the old patterns, and the ventilation of the ovens is now so perfect that roasting and baking can be done quite as well in gas ovens as in coal-heated ovens. Coal gas was originally the only gas used for fuel. Now, however,, air gas and water gas, as well as natural gas, are so utilised. The most perfect fuel is obtained from coal containing a due proportion of hydrogen. This is known as coal gas, and is the most efficient of all gaseous fuels, being a pure hydrocarbon fuel, and eminently suitable for both heating and lighting purposes. Acetelyne, or water gas, is a mixture of carbon-monoxide and hydrogen. Air gas is a mixture of air and vapour of gasoline. Natural gas is obtained from the earth by boring very deep. The latter gas is similar in composition to coal gas/and equally as good. The water and air gases are both very deficient for heating purposes, and cannot therefore be recommended. There are two kinds of systems of burners adopted in gas cooking- apparatus, those which provide luminous flames, similar to those used for lighting purposes (the burner inserted brings forth a white flame), and those fitted with burners producing atmospheric flames. In the latter case the gas is diluted with air before being burnt. The products of combustion from the luminous burners are chiefly steam and carbonic acid, whilst the products of combustion from the atmo- spheric burners are steam, carbonic acid and carbon-monoxide. The latter produce a blue flame and the former a white flame. Luminous gas flames are preferable where a radiant heat is required ; but atmospheric gas is more generally used for all kinds of cooking purposes, because it is found to be more powerful and more effective. ELECTRICITY The same electric current which serves for lighting streets and houses can be utilised for cooking. Domestic machines, such as knife-cleaners, coffee-grinders, boot-cleaners, &c., are also worked by means of the electric current. There being no combustion at all in the use of electricity, it is claimed that cooking done by its aid can be performed with much less heat than is the case with coal or gas, the reason being that no fireplace is needed, thus no loss of heat takes place. Electricity will in course of time revolutionise our kitchen arrangements. At present it is but little used, no doubt owing to the comparatively heavy cost ' of electric currents. LIQUID FUELS Oils.—There are two kinds of liquid fuels used for cooking, viz. oils and alcohols. Coal oil and petroleum are obtained from the