THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 280 asparagus points, 2 tablespoonfuls bechamel (No. 202) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce, chopped parsley, 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), \ gill of oil, pepper and salt. Skin and wipe the kidneys. Split each without dividing entirely, and fasten on skewers. Season with pepper and salt. Melt one ounce of butter, and butter the kidneys thoroughly on both sides. Broil them over a clear fire from six to eight minutes. In the mean- time put the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, put in the asparagus points, toss over the fire till hot, moisten with the white sauce. Add a little pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley. Fry the yolks of eggs separately in hot oil and strain. Take up the kidneys, put a tablespoonful of asparagus points in the centre of each, place the fried yolks on top, dish up, pour round some hot tomato sauce, and serve. 729. Rogrtorts sautes en Caisses.—4 large sheeps’ kidneys, 1 shallot, H oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful (level) flour, 1 gill rich brown stock or gravy, 1 small glass Madeira, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, 8 rounds of fried bread to fit the bottoms of 8 china ramequin cases. Steep the kidneys in boiling water for a few seconds, remove the skins, split them into halves, and slice them as finely as possible. Season with pepper and salt. Peel and chop or mince finely the shallot. Melt the butter, put in the shallot and fry a golden colour ; fry the sliced kidneys in this over a brisk fire—toss frequently; this should take about five minutes. Sprinkle over the flour, and stir a few moments longer over the fire. Now add the stock or gravy, and the wine, stir until it boils, and cook gently for another ten minutes. Place the ramequin cases in the oven to get hot, put a thin round of fried bread in each, fill up each case with kidneys and sauce, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the top of each, dish up, and serve quickly. 730. Mognons sautes aux Champagne.—3 to 4 sheeps’ kidneys, 1 oz. butter, 2 small shallots, Q to 8 preserved mushrooms, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), a glass (about ^ gill) Madeira, parsley, bread croutons and seasoning. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys, and cut the latter into thin slices.. Season with pepper and salt. Mince finely the peeled shallots and slice the mushrooms. Put the butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the shallots and allow them to get a pale brown or fawn colour, then add the kidneys, and shake or toss well over a brisk fire for about six minutes. Now add the champagne, cover the pan, and le.t the contents infuse for a few seconds. Put in the sauce, previously well-reduced, and the mushrooms. Allow the whole to get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, else the kidneys will become hard. Dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread sprinkled with chopped parsley, and serve. Calves’ kidneys or calves’ liver may be prepared in the same manner.