SOUPS (POTAGES) 157 cornet and poached, also with a handful of freshly-cooked peas or asparagus points. 164. Potage de Perdreaux (Partridge Soup).—1 or 2 roast partridges, j lb. calf’s or chicken livers, 2 tablespoonfuls JEspagnol sauce, 2 quarts stock, 2 oz. butter, l\ oz. flour, 2 oz. bacon, 1 bouquet garni, 2 yolks of eggs, seasoning. Remove the fillets from the partridges, cut two of them into small dice. Take off the legs from the birds and put away for further use. Chop up carcase. Fry the bacon with a little butter, add the liver finely sliced. Season with pepper and salt, pound in a mortar, add the sauce, season and rub through a sieve (the two fillets remaining may be pounded with the above if the soup is desired specially rich). Fry the carcase with the bouquet garni in a little bacon fat and the remaining butter. Sprinkle over the flour, stir in the stock. Skim well as it begins to boil. Simmer for about half an hour, stirring occasionally ; strain through a tammy and return to the stewpan, with the puree previously prepared, boil up, add a glass of sherry or port, season to taste. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, bind with two yolks of eggs, and add the minced breasts just before serving. 165. Potage Paubonne. — 1 pint soaked lentils, 2 quarts of stock, 3 oz. butter, 1 bouquet garni, 1 gill cream, a handful of fried bread croutons, 3 tablespoonfuls cooked peas, a pinch powdered mint, pepper and salt. Drain the lentils, put them in a stewpan with the butter and bouquet of herbs, fry a little, moisten with the stock, and cook until the lentils are tender. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan, add the cream and mint, season to taste, heat up (but do not let it boil), put the peas and croutons in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 166. Potage d la Jackson.—Proceed in the same manner as in the above recipe, using 1 lb. of potatoes, washed, peeled and sliced, instead of the lentils, omitting the peas and mint. Add a little grated nutmeg in seasoning the soup. 167. Potage Creme d’Ocge (Barley Soup ivitli Cream).pint of pearl parley, 3 pints of white broth (stock), 1 oz. of butter, grated nutmeg, a gill of cream, a pinch of sugar, pepper, salt, and fried bread croutons. Wash the barley in several waters, put it in a stewpan with the broth or stock, stir over the fire until it boils, then let simmer slowly for three hours, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Rub through a hair sieve or fine wire sieve, return to the stewpan, boil up the cream, and add it to the soup together with a pinch of sugar and the butter; stir again until it is thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Place the croutons (previously prepared and fried in butter) in a soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 168. Creme d’Articha ats (Green Artichoke Soup).—4'green artichokes, 1 onion, 1 quart white stock, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. crbme de