177 SAUCES 4 oz. flour {sifted), 4 oz. rate ham or lean bacon, 1 carrot, 1. onion, 2 cloves, \ pint tomato pulp, i gill claret, 1 glass sherry, 4 oz. flour, some mushrooms. Wash and peel the carrot, turnip, and onion, cut up small and put in a stewpan with the bouquet of savoury herbs, peppercorns, cloves, and the veal and ham, both cut into pieces. Add an ounce of butter, and stir over the fire until of a nice light brown colour ; this forms a true mirepoix; pour off the fat, moisten the mirepoix with the stock, claret, sherry, and tomato pulp, boil gently for about an hour. Skim occasionally. Meanwhile, prepare a roux by melting 3 oz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook very slowly over a moderate fire, stirring all the while with a wooden spoon until it acquires a chestnut-brown colour; or place the stewpan in the oven and cook there until brown, stirring from time to time to prevent it from burning, and to blend the flour better. Allow the roux to cool a little, pour in gradually the prepared stock &c., stir over the fire until it boils, let simmer slowly for another hour, skim well, and - pass through a tammy cloth or fine sieve. If found too thick, add a little more stock. To prevent a thick crust forming on the top of the sauce, stir occasionally until quite cool. Keep the sauce in a stone vessel or pan until wanted. Be sure and boil up the sauce each day if not used up at one time, adding a little stock if necessary. 237. Sauce Demi-Glace.—Reduce \ pint Espagnole sauce with 1 gill of good gravy (strained and free from fat) ; allow to simmer about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper. 237 a. Sauce Madere.—Proceed the same as for Demi-Glace. Add one glass of sherry or Madeira wine ; reduce a little longer than the above, and finish with ^ oz. of meat glaze. 238. Sauce Robert.—| small onion, ^ oz. butter, £ teaspoonful caster sugar, \ pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), | glass white wine, saltspoonful dry mustard. Peel and mince the onion, fry it in the butter a nut brown, add the mustard, moisten with the wine, and reduce a little. Stir in the Espagnole and cook for ten minutes ; season it to taste and strain. 239. Sauce Italienne.—% pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), 4 small shallots., 8 preserved mushrooms, a sprig of thyme, 1 bay-leaf, 1 tablespoonful sweet oil, 1 glass Ghablis or Sauterne, ^ gill stock. Peel the shallots, chop them finely, place in the corner of a clean cloth, hold tightly wrapped up under cold water, then squeeze out the water, and put them in a small stewpan with the oil, stir over the fire for a few minutes, to blend but not to colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms (finely chopped), herbs, and the stock, let it reduce well, and add the Espagnole. Boil for ten minutes, take out the herbs, free it from the oil, and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. 240. Sauce Salmis.—1 teaspoonful red currant jelly, | pint Espagnole sauce {No. 236), 1 gill of game stock, carcase of cooked N