THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 612 Cream the sugar and eggs together; when perfectly smooth and creamy mix with a quarter of a pound of ground almonds, flour, and the vanilla essence. Grease a baking-sheet, and place upon it table- spoonfuls of the mixture about one and a half inch apart from each other, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When nearly done take it out of the oven and wrap each gaufre quickly round a well- greased cornet or cornucopia tin; put back into the oven and bake a few seconds longer, then remove from the tins, and place on a sieve to cool. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in gradually the ground almonds, cinnamon, icing sugar, and about a tablespoonful of whipped cream, put this mixture in a forcing-bag, and fill the cornets or the gaufres with it. Lay them on a baking-tin and put in a cool oven long enough to set the filling. Serve hot' or cold. Note.—If preferred the gaufres can be filled with whipped cream, slightly sweetened with vanilla sugar. In this case they are served cold. 1988. Cornets Genevois {Swiss Cornets).—1^ oz.fresh butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. flour (sifted), 2 tablespoonfuls caster sugar, 6 drops of vanilla essence, \ gill milk, 3 tablespoonfuls raspberry or strawberry jam, ^ gill cream. Cream the butter with the sugar, add by degrees the yolks of eggs and the vanilla essence. When well beaten add the milk and the flour. Have ready a well-buttered baking-sheet; drop the mixture in dessertspoonfuls about two inches apart on to the fire, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When of a pale brown colour take out and twist quickly, cut carefully into cornet shapes, or roll them on greased cornucopia tins, so as to shape them more evenly. Put about a tea- spoonful of jam in each, and fill up with whipped and sweetened cream. 1989. Queen Cakes.—£ lb. butter, % lb. caster sugar, 3 eggs, 2 oz. currants (cleaned), ‘l oz. glace cherries (cut in dice), a grate of nutmeg, the thin rind of \ a lemon (chopped finely), the juice of 1 lemon, i tablespoonful brandy, £ lb. Vienna flour, 1 oz. Paisley flour. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and work with a wooden spoon to a cream, add the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture thoroughly until it resembles a light sponge. Mix in a separate basin the fruit, lemon-rind, and the Vienna and Paisley flour. Stir this into the beaten eggs &c., then add the nutmeg, lemon-juice (strained), and the brandy. Stir the mixture for several minutes longer. Have ready some buttered and floured queen-cake tins, three-parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Unmould the cakes and place them on a sieve to cool. These cakes may be coated with chocolate icing, water icing, or royal icing, or served plain, according to taste. 1990. Gateau a la JPortugaise.—j lb. almonds (peeled), l\ orange, £ lb. caster sugar, 3 whole eggs, 1 oz. fecula, glace royale, crystallised cherries, and angelica.