PATISSERIE, ETC. 617 above-named mixture. Place several small, well-buttered flan rings on a greased baking-sheet, three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes or longer. Remove the rings, cover the surface of each galette with apricot marmalade, previously dissolved and strained, place one on top of the other with the mar- malade between. Coat carefully with icing. Decorate with split almonds, cherries, and fancifully-cut leaves of angelica. 2005. Tartelettes au Chocolat.—Ingredients for paste for lining : 6 oz. flour, 1 egg, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, little milk, pinch salt. For mixture : 1^ oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, 2 eggs, rasp- berry jam, 1^ oz. grated chocolate, | teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 table- spoonful fecula or corn-flour. Prepare the paste, roll out and line some tartlet-moulds, put a teaspoonful of raspberry jam in each. Make the mixture as follows : Put the sugar in a basin, add the butter, and stir until creamy; then add one yolk of egg, the chocolate and cinnamon, beat up the two whites of eggs, and mix together with the fecula ; fill up the tartlets and bake in a moderately heated oven. Ice over the top with choco- late icing (No. 1969), and decorate with royal icing (No. 1968) to taste. 2006. JPrussiens or Palmiers.—Roll out some puff-paste (No. 1944), dredge it well with caster sugar, and fold as usual. Repeat this twice, then roll up and cut into half-inch thick slices ; place these upside downwards on to a baking-sheet, and bake a deli- cate brown. 2006 a. Smelles.—Proceed in the same way as above described, but instead of rolling up the paste at the last stage roll it out flat and stamp out some rounds with a fluted two-inch cutter, then roll them to oblong shapes, dust with sugar, and bake a golden colour. 2007. Tartelettes a la St. Cloud.—\ lb. short-crust (No. 1943), \ lb. puff-paste, | lb. greengage jam, | gill cream, glace cherries and angelica, vanilla sugar (No. 1970), caster sugar. Roll out the short-crust; line six to eight tartlet-pans, brush over with beaten egg, dust with sugar, fill the centre with greengage jam, previously rubbed through a coarse sieve; bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Roll out the puff-paste about one-eighth of an inch thick. Stamp out some rings fully half an inch smaller in diameter than the tartlets, brush these over with milk, turn wet side on to caster sugar, and put on to a baking-sheet, sugared sides upwards. Bake in a fiuick oven, and place a ring on each of the baked tartlets. When cold fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla sugar. Place a glace cherry in the centre of each, finish with a few strips of cut angelica, and serve on a folded napkin. 2008. Dames d’JFTonnenr (Maids of Honour).—2 oz. of Jordan almonds, I oz. caster sugar, 2 yolks 'of eggs, 4 oz. Paisley