THE CONSTRUCTION OF MENUS 627 and young vegetables are in perfection. If a special feature of these be made in a menu, it would be considered bad taste to introduce a mock turtle or ox-tail soup, for it would need a lighter and more delicate soup with which to commence a dinner with a plat printaniere. 6. See that the combination of every dish selected is well assorted, the colour well blended, and finally see that the flavours of the materials are judiciously applied. 7. See that everything needed for carrying out the programme is procured in good time, so that it may be handy when required. 8. In carrying out a menu, from the beginning to the time of serving the dishes thereon, observe punctuality in the strictest sense. Never serve anything half finished, and see that hot dishes are served hot, and cold dishes cold. 9. Make sure that every dish on the menu is correctly and concisely described. It matters little in what language the menu is set up, so long as the correct rules above specified are properly observed. French being the recognised language of the kitchen all over the civilised world, it has become the fashion, rightly ojr wrongly, to make out every menu of importance in that language. It is quite true that there are a number of typical French and other foreign dishes which cannot be translated into English in any form of nicely sounding words, but I maintain that in most cases, should it be so desired, the English language has enough words to provide a name for every dish. The langue de cuisine, or kitchen French, is practically a language of itself, and unless one is well acquainted with the many terms and phrases thereof, it becomes a difficult task to remember the correct names of the various dishes which constitute a dejeuner, dinner, luncheon, or supper. MENUS FOE LAEGE DINNEES- In preparing a bill of fare for a large dinner it is advisable not to include dishes which are difficult to dress when done in a great number, for such will cause needless complication in the kitchen, and often lead to a confusion in the service. It is also most unwise to use new names of dishes which are not known, or which may be known under a different title, for they will only puzzle the diner, who may know the technical names of old dishes. Avoid also the use of pompous names of dishes, especially when the cost for their prepara- tion is not known, for they often lead to confusion and disappointment. The names of high-standing personalities, towns, countries, &c., are applied in connection with many dishes: the French cuisine espe- cially has the names given to dishes in honour of men who gained their celebrity either by their talent as diplomats, statesmen, soldiers,