THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 334 cut into strips ; rub it through a wire sieve; return it to the mortar ; add two ounces of butter, three chopped mushrooms, two ounces of panade (No. 8), and a tablespoonful of Allemande (No. 204) or veloutee (No. 206) sauce; season well with pepper, salt, and aromatic spice; work it thoroughly, and add gradually two whole eggs and one yolk of egg. Butter twelve small timbale moulds, line them rather thickly with the above farce, place a dessertspoonful of salpicon (No. 11), of pigeon, ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms in the centre of each, cover, fill up with the farce. Place them in a saute-pan, pour in some boiling water so as to steam them, cover with a buttered paper, bring it to the boil over the fire, and steam in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. When done, turn out; dish them up in a circle; place a small mushroom head and a piece of truffle on each; pour some supreme sauce (No. 210) over and around them; garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste and fancy shapes of sliced ox-tongue. ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 939. Pigeons a la Marigny.—Halves of pigeons, seasoned and braised, dressed on heart-shaped slices of smoked cooked ox-tongue, covered with oiled paper, and baked in the oven, served with Madere sauce (No. 237 a). 940. Chartreuse de Pigeons a la Rouennaise.—Braised pigeons, dressed in the centre of a border composed of carrots, turnips, braised savoy cabbage, and small squares of boiled pickled pork, all set in a symmetrical row. Garnish the dish with slices of smoked pork sausages, and serve with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 941. Compote de Pigeons a l’Americaine.—Stewed pigeons with small squares of fried bacon and medium-sized button onions, slightly sugared and fried in butter. Served with brown sauce mixed with a small quantity of cranberry jelly. 942. Compote de Pigeons a la Bourgeoise.—Parboiled pigeons, stewed in brown sauce with a little claret, small fried button onions, savoury herb flavouring. Served with a garniture of cooked young carrots, green peas, and glazed button onions. 943. Cotelettes de Pigeons aux Pointes d'Asperges.—Pigeons cut in halves, boned, seasoned, and shaped into cutlets, and partly braised. When cold press them between two dishes, egg, crumb, and bake them in clarified butter. Serve with a brown sauce (flavoured with sherry or port wine), and garnish with stewed asparagus points. 944. Cotelettes de Pigeons au Supreme.—Halves of pigeons, boned, except the legs, flattened, seasoned, fried, pressed, pared. Filled with chicken salpicon and truffles, and shaped into the form of cutlets. Egged, crumbed, fried, and served with veloutee sauce (No. 206), thickened with cream, egg yolks, and butter. 945. Pigeons en Matelote.—Pigeons cut into joints, seasoned, broiled in butter and thin slices of bacon, stewed in a brown sauce,