THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 522 into the above. Then add the liqueur (kirsch). Fill a well-buttered mould with the mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Unmould on to a sieve and let cool. Meanwhile beat the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to it the pistachios, previously peeled, blanched, and chopped. Heat up the marmalade and mix it with the beaten eggs. Place the cake on a dish, and fill the centre thereof with the last-named preparation, pile up high, and dredge with a little caster sugar. Bake in a hot oven long enough to heat the cake and brown the surface of the egg mixture. Pour some hot rum or other syrup round the base of the dish, and serve hot. 1632. Timbales aux Fruits ala Metro pole.—Mix 4 oz. butter (melted) with about i lb. brioche paste. Put this into a buttered charlotte mould, and allow it to stand in a warm place for about thirty minutes. Bake it in a moderately heated oven. Meanwhile prepare a compote or macedoine of peaches, prunes, pears, or any other fresh or preserved fruit. If the former are used cook them in some syrup. Drain the fruit, reduce the syrup with some apricot marmalade, and mix again with the macedoine of fruit, flavoured with a glass of kirsch. Scoop out the centre of the baked cake, and fill the hollow with the prepared fruit. Decorate the top with pistachios, glace fruit, &c., and serve not too hot. 1633. Timbale a la Sicilieme.—Prepare a brioche paste crust timbale as above directed, and fill it with layers of cooked and sweetened rice and fruit, previously stewed. Serve hot or cold with a suitably flavoured fruit syrup. 1634. Timbales de Semoule a la Tortugaise.—1 pint milk, 3 oz. semolina or fine-grain fiorador, 2 oz. caster sugar, 3 whole eggs and 1 white of egg, 1 bottle or tin of apricots, angelica, glace cherries. Vanilla-pod for flavouring, a few almonds cut in halves or shreds, 2 tablespoonfuls whipped cream, maraschino syrup for sauce. Put the vanilla into the milk for half an hour before boiling, then boil with the milk and take it out. Bring the milk to the boil again, and stir in the semolina, boil for several minutes while stirring. Bemove from the fire, work in the sugar, the yolks and one white of egg, reserving the remainder of whites for beating up to a froth; this being carefully mixed into the above preparation as soon as it gets cool enough, the whipped cream and a few drops of maraschino liqueur should be added at the same time as the whites of eggs. Butter six or eight small timbale moulds, fill the mixture into these, and steam for half an hour. Warm up six to eight halves of apricots, some angelica cut into leaves, almonds, and halves of cherries. Turn out the timbales on a hot dish, place half an apricot on top of each, decorate them tastefully with cherries, angelica, and almonds, pour over a nicely prepared apricot syrup flavoured with maraschino, and serve.