THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 378 and the foie gras, previously freed from the lard usually found on the top of the terrine. (Take out the pieces of truffle in the foie gras and chop coarsely.) Add the brown sauce, season to taste with pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning, and rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Test the consistency of the farce in some boiling water. If found too stiff add a little more sauce, if too thin add a little more panade, then stir in the chopped truffles. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the mixture. Fill up several small- sized lion moulds, previously buttered. Shake the moulds so that the farce sets well into the shapes. Then place them in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover the moulds with buttered paper, and cook in a hot oven for about thirty-five minutes. Warm up the supreme sauce, add while whisking the butter and the meat-glaze, but do not let the sauce boil again. Turn out the moulds on to a hot dish. Sauce over carefully and serve. 1103. Petite# Timbales de G-ibier a la Galmier —i lb. rate hare, partridge, or pheasant meat, freed from shin and bones, 2 chicken livers or an equivalent quantity of calf’s liver, 3 table- spoonfuls well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202), 1 raw egg and 1 yolk of egg, 1 large truffle, 1 tablespoonful double cream, \ lb. cooked lean ham, £ lb. cooked game, 8 large mushrooms (preserved), 3 table- spoonfuls macedoine of vegetables, 1 tablespoonful rich brown sauce, seasoning, tomato sauce (No. 271). Pound the raw meat and the chicken livers in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the bechamel sauce and the eggs. Season to taste and rub through a fine sieve. Butter about 8 small timbale moulds ; sprinkle them over with finely chopped truffle. Work up the farce with the cream and line the moulds with it. Prepare a salpicon with the cooked game and ham (cut into small dice) and the macedoine of vegetables, add the brown sauce, season, and put about a dessert- spoonful in the centre of each mould, fill up with the remainder of farce, and poach in the oven for about twenty to twenty-five minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, place a mushroom on top of each timbale, sauce over carefully with tomato sauce, previously heated, and serve. 1104. Bor dure de Lievre u V A'utriehieune.—1 hare, larding bacon, a mirepoix of vegetables, 3 oz. blotter, 1 glass claret, £ gill cream, 4 oz. panade, about 4 oz. chestnut puree, 10 to 12 very small potato croquettes (fried), | pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), seasoning, meat glace (No. 247), red currant jelly. Remove the fillets from the hare, cut them into eight nice slices, lard these with bacon, and place them in a saute-pan on a mirepoix, larded sides downwards, with about two ounces of butter. Season with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and put in a quick oven for ten minutes; add the wine and a little stock, and cook in the oven until quite tender (baste frequently). Put the trimmings of the fillets and enough of the meat of the hare to make ten ounces in a mortar, pound well, add gradually the panade, the cream, and a little