125 HOBS D'CEUVBE (APPETISEBS) them in a stewpan with the chutney (chopped finely), the anchovy essence, mustard, vinegar, and tomato aspic; heat up while stirring, season to taste, and turn into a basin. Scoop out a portion of the centre of each mould with a hot dessertspoon, fill up the cavity with the prepared mixture, as it becomes cool. Set the mould on the ice for about an hour, turn out, dish up, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. 50. Bonnes Bouches de Sardines—2£ oz. of sardine paste, a handful of small cress, 1 dessert-spoonful of street oil, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, 3 oz. butter, brown bread, salt, pepper, and cayenne; 2 hard-boiled eggs, watercress for garnish. Cut some, thin slices of brown bread, put 2 oz. of sardine paste in a mortar, and pound with the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, and oz. of butter. Rub through a fine sieve. Spread this over the slices of bread. Wash the cress and cut up small, season with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and sprinkle over the layer of paste. Place another slice of bread on top, and press together, spread the top of each with butter, and sprinkle over thickly with finely-chopped whites of hard- boiled egg. Cut them into fanciful shapes, or strips about an inch wide, mix some sardine paste with a little cream or butter, and ornament the surface by means of a forcing bag, according to taste and fancy. Dish them up neatly on a folded napkin or dish-paper, and garnish with some picked watercress. 51. Denises d la JPrincesse {Princess Sandwiches).—4-6 oz. cooked chicken, meat freed from skin and bones, 1 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful lemon-juice, 4 shelled walnuts, 1 dessert-spoonful double cream, salt, paprika pepper, thin slices buttered bread. Pound the chicken meat in a mortar till smooth, then add the butter, and mix thoroughly, now add the cream, lemon-juice, and season with salt and a good pinch of paprika pepper. Work the mixture until quite smooth, and put on a plate. Blanch, drain and skin the walnuts, cut them into thin slices. Spread the prepared mixture upon thin slices of buttered bread, arrange the sliced walnuts upon the chicken puree. Press the slices together in the usual way, cut out into desired shapes, dish up, garnish with sprigs of watercress, and serve. 52. Denises d la Tnrqxie {Turkish Sandwiches).—^ loaf of white bread {stale), 3 hard-boiled eggs, 6 prawns, 4 boned anchovies {Gorgona), 1 tablespoonful chutney, 3 oz. butter, 1 saltspoonful made mustard {English), 1? pint of aspic, 4 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise {No. 277), 1 tablespoonful white sauce {No. 209), 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp, a few drops of carmine, paprika pepper, parsley for garnish. Cut the bread into slices, | inch thick, and stamp out some heart shapes or rosettes by means of a pastry-cutter, and fry them slightly in hot fat or clarified butter. Drain well and split them in halves with a sharp knife. Pound the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, the anchovies and prawns (picked) in a mortar; when smooth add the chutney, pound again, then add the butter, season with the mustard,