388 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK over the fire ; then cover and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. Meanwhile wash and scrape the potatoes, blanch and drain them, finally saute them in butter in a saute-pan. Pour the fat off the chicken. Add the wine, sauce, and button onions, return to the oven and cook for another fifteen minutes. Take up the fowl, untruss, and dish up; surround it with the button onions and potatoes. Season the sauce to taste and pour a little over the fowl. Serve the remainder in a sauce-boat and send to table with the fowl. 955. Filets de I*o n let aux Grose illes.—Remove the breasts of two chickens, pare and trim them neatly, season with pepper and salt, dip them in white of egg and cover with bread-crumbs (use fresh crumbs for this purpose). Make a farce with the remainder of meat of the chickens, fill up a well-greased border-mould, and poach it in the oven for thirty-five minutes. Cut the carcass into small pieces and fry in butter with a small onion and a bouquet garni, pour off the fat, add a gill of demi-glace sauce (No. 237), half a gill of rich gravy, and a dessertspoonful of red currant jelly, allow this to reduce well, strain, and season to taste. Fry the crumbed fillets in clarified butter. Dish up the border and fill the centre with green peas, tossed in butter. Cut the fillets in halves and place neatly on top. Pour the sauce round the base of the dish and serve hot. 956. Fricassee de Poulet (Fricassee of Chicken).—Truss a young fowl for boiling, and put it to cook in a large stewpan with one quart of hot water. Let it come to a boil slowly ; when it reaches this point remove the scum and add a couple of stalks of celery, three or four sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, two slices of onion, and a carrot: season with salt and pepper. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour, closely covered. As soon as done (test it with a fork) take it from the stock, untruss and cut into neat joints. Now make the sauce. Cook together in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour for a few minutes, but do not allow it to brown ; add slowly a pint of the strained stock of the fowl, boil ten minutes. Mix in another dish the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter, and a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper ; add this care- fully to the hot sauce, stirring all the time ; let the sauce get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again, add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and strain over the pieces of fowl. Dish up the cooked fowl (the skin may be removed if liked) on a bed of cooked rice. Sauce over care- fully, and serve very hot. Needless to say the pieces of fowl must get thoroughly hot in the sauce before dishing up. Some sliced preserved mushrooms put with the sauce will make an improvement to the fricassee. 957. Poulet frit d la Tf/rolienne.—1 tender chicken, 1 whole egg and 1 yolk of egg, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonf ul chopped parsley, pepper and salt, bread-crumbs, clarified butter' or lard, tomato sauce. Draw, singe, and wipe the chicken, and cut it into small joints.