581 ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. puree, place the foie gras upon this. Dish up and garnish with a few sprigs of freshly gathered watercresses. This dish may be served hot or cold, as a hors-d’oeuvre or after- dinner savoury. 1852. Friandines d la Westplialienne.—About f lb. puff- paste, 1 oz. anchovy paste, 6 thin slices of rate Westphalian ham, 6 oz. cooked veal or rabbit, 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs, % gill bechamel, sauce (No. 202), ^ gill cream, \ oz. butter, the breast of a cooked pheasant or fowl, 2 small gherkins, . 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, 3 slices pickled beetroot, seasoning. Eoll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, cut into strips about two inches wide, spread half the strips with anchovy paste, and cover with the other half. Stamp out eight rounds two inches in diameter, also the same number of rings, but somewhat smaller than the rounds. Place these on a baking-sheet and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, and let cool. Pound the cooked veal or rabbit in a mortar till smooth, add the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, the cream, sauce, and butter; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, work well so as to mix the ingredients thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve. Spread the large rounds with this puree, place the rings on top, put some of the puree in -a cornet, cut the point, and shape a circle on top of the rings with the puree; cut the slices of ham conveniently so as to form each into a roll, place on the puree (upright), fill the centre with a ragout of pheasant or chicken, beetroot and gherkins, all cut into small dice and seasoned with mayonnaise sauce. Ornament the top and sides with the remainder of the puree by means of a paper cornet or forcing-bag with a fancy tube, dish up on a folded napkin or dish- paper, and serve as after-dinner savoury or breakfast dish. 1858. Croquettes de Jambon au JRiz.—1 lb. cooked ham, % lb. cooked rice, 1 oz. butter, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 shallot, £ gill cream, \ gill veloutee sauce (No. 206), 1 whole egg, bread-crumbs, clarified fat or lard, parsley, pepper, and a pinch of powdered sage. Chop finely the ham and rice separately. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, put in the shallot, finely chopped, and fry a little ; add the ham and rice, season with pepper and powdered sage, stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add the sauce and cream. When on the point of boiling stir in the egg-yolks; when the mixture begins to thicken remove from the fire and spread on a dish to cool. Shape into even-sized balls, corks, or cutlets ; dip in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, fry in hot fat or lard, drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. The rice may be substituted by mashed potatoes, but less ham and more potatoes should be used than the above quantities. 1854. Croittes au Jambon (Ham Croutes).—8 or 9 fried bread croutes, 6 to 8 oz. cooked ham, % oz. blotter, 1 shallot, 2 yolks of eggs, chopped parsley, pepper, £ gill cream. Cut some slices of stale bread, and stamp out round or oval