102 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK hand, and a keen perception of palate are qualifications which every cook must possess in order to prepare food so as to make it appetising, pleasant to the taste, and in every way perfectly palatable. Well cooked and well seasoned food is admittedly more digestible than the unpalatable. An erroneous idea prevails that ‘ plain cookery ’ requires no other flavouring or seasoning beyond salt, pepper, and, say, Worcester sauce or ketchup. It can easily be proved that there are a variety of inexpensive seasonings besides these which may with advantage be used for imparting a better flavour, whereby the monotony of plain dishes becomes considerably alleviated. It is most difficult to give any precise directions for seasoning ; experience alone will teach a cook. Tastes differ considerably. What may be agreeable to one may be objectionable or insipid to another. It is the cook’s business to study the taste of those he or she serves, and the seasoning of the food must therefore be used according to the requirements of the employer and guests. It is in all cases well to remember that seasonings, whatever they may consist of, should be used in small quantities only, as one can always add more if found necessary, but it is impossible to remove any if too much has been added in the first instance. The late Monsieur U. Ude, one of the most talented chefs of the past, in his culinary work says that ‘ the best cookery in the world is worthless without seasoning.’ We know that cookery acts upon food by diminishing the firmness of some articles, and by increasing it in others. We further know that the flavour is altered as well as the smell and appearance, whilst seasoning and flavouring heightens the savouriness of food, the action of which is increased by the addition of aromatic, pungent and stimulant ingredients. The so-called highly seasoned dishes must be regulated on a sliding scale as regards the seasoning employed, so as to adapt them to the various palates, which, as before stated, differ considerably. It is quite impossible to specify in any recipe the exact quantity of seasoning materials for each dish. Not only palates but also stomachs differ as to the amount of salt and spices which suit them. For this reason, if for no other, it is always best to use all seasonings moderately, The scope of seasoning is a very large field for a cook to operate on. By seasoning and flavouring either solid substances or liquids are mingled with articles of food whereby we either modify or increase their savoury flavour and thus change their qualities. The object of seasoning, provided always it be effected in moderate and reasonable quantities, is to increase the digestibility of food, to favour food which would otherwise be insipid, and to render it at the same time more palatable and digestible. By seasoning certain food materials, we copy to a certain extent nature, who renders fruit wholesome and agreeable to the taste- by