ENTRIES CHANDES DE VIANDES (HOT MEAT DISHES) 307 1 onion, meat glaze, pepper, salt, and cayenne, ^ pint cooked green peas, 1 tablespoonful bread-crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Cut the veal into slices about one-eighth of an inch thick, bat the slices and trim into heart shapes, place a thin slice of bacon on each of the slices of veal; pound the trimmings of veal and bacon, previously freed from skin and gristle, also the pork. When smooth, add the panade and the yolks of eggs, season with pepper and salt, and a pinch of cayenne; mix thoroughly, and rub through a sieve. Put a layer of this farce on the slices of veal and bacon, roll up, put a piece of buttered paper round each, tie up with string so as to keep in shape. Put in a deep saute-pan, add 1 oz. butter, the peppercorns, bouquet garni, and carrot, turnip, and onions, cut into slices, place the paupiettes on top, cover and fry over a quick fire for a few minutes, then moisten with the stock. Put the pan in the oven or on the side of the stove, and braise for about one hour. Baste occasionally. Cut the tomatoes into halves, scoop out a little of the interior, chop the truffles and mushrooms finely, mix with the remainder of the farce, add bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Stuff the tomatoes with this, place them in a well-buttered saute-pan, and cook in an oven for ten minutes. Remove string and paper from the paupiettes, place them on a baking-tin, brush over with liquid meat glaze, and put in the oven for a few seconds. Put each paupiette in the centre of a stuffed tomato, dish up in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, dress the peas in the centre of the dish, and serve. The sauce is prepared as follows: take off the fat from the liquor in which the paupiettes have been cooked, strain the latter into a saucepan, add the tomato sauce, and reduce to required consistency. Add a little more seasoning if it be found necessary. The paupiettes may be dressed on a thin border of mashed potatoes, and, if desired, a puree of spinach, by way of a change, can be served in place of peas. 840. JPetites Creates tie Veau a VEcarlate.—8 to 10 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. panade, ^ gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), 3 yolks and 1 whole egg, 1 oz. butter, salt, mignonette pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg, % oz. ox tongue (cooked and chopped very finely), Pompadour sauce (No. 273), Macedoine or green peas. Cut the veal into small pieces, or shred it finely, removing skin and sinews, pound it in a mortar and add the panade, the bechamel sauce, and the eggs—the latter must be put in gradually. Season to taste, and mix in rather more than half the butter. When the farce is fine enough (sufficiently pounded), rub the whole through a fine wire sieve. Butter a number (eight to ten) tongue moulds, dust the inside completely with finely chopped tongue, and fill up with the prepared farce. Stand the moulds in a saute-pan containing a little boiling water, cover with a buttered paper, and cook for about twenty minutes.