"258 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK These may, if liked, be masked with a little aspic jelly. Garnish to taste, and serve. 667. Traites a la Nansen.—2 trout, weighing about 1 lb. each, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 lemon, ^ pint Chablis, 1 bouquet garni, 1 pint consomme, f oz. French leaf gelatine, the white and the shell of 2 eggs, 1 gill aspic, 1 pint tomato cream (No. 272), | pint cold horseradish sauce, half frozen (No. 288), 1 small cucumber, a handful Brunoise seasoning. Procure the trout not drawn, make a small incision at the back of each and draw carefully, wash and wipe the fish and put them in a deep saute-pan, or oblong kettle, add enough cold water to cover, the wine, carrot, and onion (sliced), the bouquet garni, and five or six slices of lemon, season to taste with salt, and bring slowly to the boil; move the pan on one side and let it stand for half an hour, then remove and let the fish get cold in the liquor or stock. Take up the trout and put them in a wire tray to drain, and carefully remove the skin. Boil up the stock, and strain, then add the consomme, the gelatine, whisk the whites of eggs and shells and stir into the stock. Continue to whisk until it boils, then move on one side and let simmer very gently for a few minutes. Pass through a jelly-bag or wetted cloth, till it comes out clear. Take an oblong plain mould (one large enough to take the two trout), mask the inside with aspic, decorate the edge with tiny dots of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, and fill up with the prepared fish aspic. Fill eight to ten large olive moulds with the tomato cream, and put them on the ice to set. Cook the Brunoise (finely-cut dice of carrot, lettuce and turnip) in a good clear stock, strain and mix with aspic. Mask the fish with this just before it commences to set. To serve, unmould the aspic shape on to a cold dish,- place the trout on the top, garnish round the sides with small tomato shapes and thin slices of fancifully cut cucumber, and send to table with a boat of half- frozen horseradish sauce, and a boat of semi-set aspic mixed with Brunoise. 668. Coqallies de Filets de Soles d la Favorite.— 1 medium-sized sole, \ oz. butter, \ small lobster, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 small truffle, J pint aspic jelly, ^ lemon, | gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 2 tablespoonfuls white sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne to season, mushroom liquor or white wine. Skin the sole, remove the fillets, and bat out lightly each fillet with a wet chopping-knife or cutlet-bat. Remove the meat from the lobster and chop finely, put it in a stewpan with a little butter, season to taste, and stir over the fire for a few moments, then add enough sauce to moisten, spread the mixture on a plate, and let cool. Cut each fillet of sole in half crossways, season with pepper and salt, spread over with lobster mixture, and fold up. Place them on a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle over with a few drops of lemon-juice, and