THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 594 Remove the shell from the eggs, cut them in halves crosswise, scoop out the yolks and put them in a mortar, add the boned ancho- vies and picked prawns, and pound very fine. Rub all through a wire sieve; return to the mortar, add the butter and bechamel sauce, mix thoroughly, and season to taste. Fill up the hard-boiled whites of egg, place a prawn-head in the centre of each, sprinkle the surface with a little grated Parmesan cheese ; put them on a buttered dish or saute-pan, and bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up neatly, sauce round with hot tomato sauce, and serve. - 1903. CEufs a la Carnot {Hot).—Trim neatly some artichoke bottoms of a nice white colour, cut the edges like a fancy border, keep warm in some dissolved meat glaze. Have ready some rather thick chicken puree, finished with a little fresh butter over the fire. Poach a fresh-laid egg for each fond, place a tablespoonful of chicken puree in the fond, trim the eggs nicely, place on top, dish up, sauce over with gravy, and serve. 1904. Fonds d la President.—Cut the edges of a number of preserved artichoke bottoms as for fancy border, mask them over with some dissolved meat glaze into which a little aspic jelly has been introduced. Put a little chicken puree at the bottom of each fond, cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, cut off the points evenly, place one half on each fond, on top put a small slice of truffle, mask the whole with aspic jelly, set to cool, and serve. 1905. Croquettes aux CEufs (Egg Croquets or Bolls).—Cut six to eight hard-boiled eggs into slices, rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Mince coarsely a dozen preserved mushrooms, and slightly fry them in an ounce of butter. To this add the egg puree, stir well, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Moisten with sufficient well-reduced bechamel sauce (No. 202) to form a bind- ing. When thoroughly hot pour tlie mixture on a plate and let it cool. Shape the mixture into croquettes, even-sized balls, or cork shapes, dip each into beaten egg (rawr), and cover well with coarse- grained florador or semolina; the former is preferable. Fry in hot fat a golden colour ; dish up neatly and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—The above, dressed around a bed of cooked spinach, nicely seasoned, makes a very tasty dinner or supper dish. 1906. Cromesquis aux CEufs (Egg Cromeskies).—3 hard- boiled eggs, 2 raw yolks of eggs, £ gill bechamel sauce {No. 202), \ teaspoonful finely chopped truffle, \ oz. chopped ox-tongue, 5 thin pancakes {unsweetened), seasoning, frying-batter, frying-fat. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and chop rather coarsely; put them in a stewpan, moisten with the sauce and the egg-yolks, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire till hot, add the truffles and tongue, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even-sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake, dip into frying-batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley.