THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 368 1062. Cattles a la Moliere.—4 quails, 2 oz. butter, 1 lb. lean veal, J lb. beef suet, 4 oz. panade, 2 whole and 1 yolk of eggs, 1 gill cream, i pint game sauce {No. 252), ^ glass sherry, 6 heads of mushrooms, 6 cocks' combs, 6 cocks' kernels, 8 small quenelles, 2 truffles, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Truss the quails for roasting, put them in a saute-pan or tin with the butter, and roast in the oven till three-parts done. Prepare a farce, cut the veal into fine slices, pound in a mortar, and rub through a sieve. Shred the suet finely, and pound likewise; mix both together, add the panade, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, work in the yolks of eggs and a little cream. Put this in a basin. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix carefully with the forcemeat. Butter a small border-mould, fill up with the above pre- paration ; place it in a stewpan, with enough boiling water to come about half-way up the side of the mould. Let it come to the boil, cover with a buttered paper, and finish in the oven. Prepare eight small quenelles with the remainder of forcemeat, poach them in a little stock, strain, and put in the game sauce, previously heated. Add the sherry, cocks’ combs, and kernels also the truffles cut into slices. Let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and keep hot till wanted. Turn the border of forcemeat on to a round entree dish. Cut the quails in halves or quarters, place them in the hot sauce for about five minutes, then dress them neatly round the base of the border. Dress the financiere garniture in the centre of the dish, boil up the sauce, sauce over the whole, and serve. 1063. Cattles a la Tosca.—4 quails, game forcemeat for stuffing, 2 or 8 truffles, risotto for border (see below), 12 stuffed capsicums, 2 oz. bacon, carrot, onion and bay-leaf for mirepoix, stock, seasoning, Madere sauce {No. 237 a). Bone the breasts of the quails; cook the bones in the stock to flavour it. Fill the empty space of the quails with game forcemeat, and insert the truffles cut into slices. Truss them and place them in a saute-pan containing a bed of braising or sliced bacon, slices of carrot and onion, and the bay-leaf (a mirepoix). Add a gill of stock and half a gill of sauce, and cook in a brisk oven for half an hour ; baste frequently. In the meantime prepare the risotto. When finished fill a border mould with it, and keep hot. Fill the capsicums (use pre- served ones) with forcemeat of game ; poach them in stock. Lift out the quails, strain the sauce (liquor), skim well, add to it the remainder of the sauce, and reduce -well, and season to taste. Un- mould the risotto on to a hot entree dish, cut each quail in two, and dress them pyramidically in the centre of the border. Lay the stuffed capsicums in a circle on top of the risotto border, pour the reduced sauce over the quails, and serve hot. 1064. Game Forcemeat {For Cailles a la Tosca).—| lb. game, free from skin and bone, \ lb. calf's liver, and 1 oz. butter, some