THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 420 processes adopted give an interestingly distinct flavour to the meat. The most noted hams throughout the civilised world are the ‘ York ; ’ they are well known for their mildness and delicate flavour. Excellently flavoured hams are also produced in the well-known bacon districts of Wiltshire, Cumberland, Suffolk, and Hampshire. Cumber- land hams are usually dried without smoke. Thoroughly cured and well smoked hams are often eaten without being cooked. The West- phalian ham is largely used for hors-d’oeuvre and salads. 1213. Howto Cook a York Ham.—Newly cured or smoked hams (three or four months old) need not be soaked for any length of time prior to cooking ; but if a ham happens to be of older standing, say upwards of a year old, it must be soaked for at least twenty-four hours in cold water before it will be really fit for cooking; when the ham has been sufficiently soaked scrape and trim it, and put it in a lai’ge pan with enough cold water to well cover it ; bring the ham slowly to the boil, and cook gently for about four or five hours, according to size and weight, and when it is done allow it to cool in its own liquor. 1214. Span ish Ham .—Spanish hams require to be soaked, say, from twenty-four to thirty-six hours ; they must be cooked with great care and attention, otherwise they are spoilt and are consequently not worth eating. First soak the ham well, thoroughly scrape and cleanse it, put it in cold water and gently boil for an hour ; then put it in a braising-pan moistened with a pint of wine and enough stock to cover it, and simmer gently from three and a half to four hours; allow the ham to become cold in its own liquor. 1215. Westphalia Ham.—These hams need to be soaked in water for about thirty-six hours at least. The water should be changed once in twenty-four hours. When soaked, trimmed, and cleansed put the ham in a pot with enough cold water and allow to simmer for about an hour ; then Cake up and place in a braising-pan, moisten with suffi- cient stock to cover, add some sliced carrots, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, six cloves, a blade of mace, pepper, marjoram, thyme, and two bay-leaves ; let the ham thus simmer very gently for about five hours. Allow it to cool in the liquor. 1216. Janibon a fa Basquaise {Ham, Basque Style).—Select a sound smoked ham, soak and partially cook it in the usual manner. When about half done take it out and place it in an earthenware vessel; put in enough marinade, vinegar, wine, thyme, bay-leaf, onion, carrot, peppercorns to cover the ham. Let it remain thus for at least eight hours. Wrap up the ham in several wrell-greased papers, and roast in front of a moderate fire or in the oven for about two hours. Baste frequently. Remove the paper and skin it, cut off about half close to the bone, trim away the superfluous fat, glaze it nicely with well-flavoured meat-glaze, cut it into slices and place on to a dish in its original shape ; pour some Madeira sauce (No. 237 a) over the ham and garnish the dish with stuffed tomatoes. Serve hot.