521 ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) glass of sherry, and the vanilla-pod. Skim, and let it infuse well. Eemove the vanilla, and keep the syrup hot. Peel and cook the chestnuts until tender, rub through a sieve, add 2 055. of caster sugar, mix with a glass of maraschino. Whip the two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the puree. Turn out the border when baked, trim, and immerse well with the prepared syrup, then place it on a dish, fill the centre with the puree, give it a domed-shaped appearance. Dredge well with caster sugar, and bake well in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Put the remainder of the syrup in a stew-pan, add the apricot jam and a little water, reduce, strain, and coat the border. Decorate with fruit and send to table. 1629. Baba au Blium.—f lb. sifted flotir, a pinch of salt, rather more than \ oz. yeast, 2 oz. caster sugar, 4 oz. butter, 5 eggs, llr oz. cleaned currants, 4 gill cream, about 14 gill milk. Put four ounces of the flour in a small basin, make a well in the centre, put in this, the yeast diluted with a little tepid milk, work it to a smooth dough, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place. Put the remainder of the flour in a large basin, make a well in the centre, add the salt and sugar, work in the eggs and a little milk, and beat for fifteen minutes. When the dough has well risen add it to the above, knead well for another fifteen minutes, put in the cream (just tepid), also the currants, and mix. thoroughly. Have ready six to eight small or one large well-buttered baba-mould (these are cylindrical-shaped copper moulds). Sprinkle the bottom and sides with a few currants, let rise for fifteen minutes in a warm place, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When done, turn out on a sieve, baste well, while hot, with rum syrup, dish up, sauce over with the sauce, and serve hot. 1630. Timbale a la Pompadour.—Prepare sufficient ‘baba- paste ’ (No. 1629) to fill a well-buttered copper pudding-mould, bake it in the usual way, turn out on a sieve, and, when cold, cut off the top carefully, scoop out the centre, and fill with a macedoine of fruit; reduce the syrup well with so much apricot marmalade and a little kirschwasser as to make a stiff syrup, pour some of this over the fruit, put the top on it, and turn over on a dish. Have ready some small rounds of apples, cooked partly in white and partly in red syrup, also a nice peach. Ornament the top with the fruit, garnish with angelica and dried cherries. Glaze over with the reduced syrup, warm in the oven, and serve. 1631. Timbale d la St-Petersbourg.—6 oz. caster sugar, 6 eggs, 2 oz. ground almonds, 1 glass kirschioasser, 4 oz. best Vienna flour, 2 tablespoonftils apricot or quince marmalade, the whites of 2 eggs, ^ oz. pistachio mots. Break six eggs into a copper egg-bowl, add the sugar, and beat with a whisk over a very slow fire for about fifteen or twenty minutes, then add the ground almonds, and beat a little longer, melt the butter, and mix this and the flour alternately and in small quantities