THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 444 ABBREVIATED RECIPES 1298. Asperges a la Bernoise.—Freshly boiled asparagus dressed on an oblong dish with alternate layers of grated Gruyere cheese with some finely minced onions fried in butter put on top ; then sprinkle with grated cheese and bread-crumbs. Bake for fifteen minutes in a sharp oven and serve hot. 1294. Asperges a la Nicoise.—Boiled asparagus dished up cold and served with a specially prepared salad-sauce made of sweet oil, hard- boiled egg-yolks passed through a sieve, vinegar, and seasoning. 1295. Asperges au Veloute.—Boiled asparagus finished in veloutee sauce (No. 206). It is best only to cook the soft parts of asparagus for this dish. 1296. Asperges eu Branches a la Bechamel.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread with bechamel sauce (No. 202) poured over. 1297. Asperges en Branches a la Colbert.—Boiled asparagus drained, dished up on toasted bread. Sauce over with Colbert sauce (No. 253), and serve hot with poached eggs placed on top. 1298. Asperges en Branches a la Piemontaise.—Boiled asparagus dished up on toasted bread covered with grated Parmesan cheese and coated with hot white cream (No. 306 a) sauce. 1299. Asperges en Petits Pois.—Green asparagus points cut very small to resemble peas and boiled. Drain and toss in a little fresh butter, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of caster sugar, dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. 1300. Pointes d’Asperges a l’Argenteuil.— Puree of green asparagus points, mixed with chicken cream farce (cooked) or cooked chicken quenelles, set in asparagus-shaped mould so as to resemble a bundle of asparagus. This dish may be served hot with supreme sauce (No. 210) incorporated and poured round the shape, or cold with aspic (No. 293) incorporated and salad as garnish. 1301. Pointes d’Asperges a la Sevillienne.—Asparagus puree, pre- pared from the heads, points or sprue, filled into an aspic-coated mould mounted with cooked cold asparagus, well masked with aspic. This dish is served cold, and is garnished with a salad of artichoke bottoms in the centre, or round the base of the dish. 1302. Asperges sautees au Beurre.—Boiled asparagus cut into short lengths (soft parts only), seasoned and finished in butter, dished up neatly on a slice of toasted bread. 1303. Aubergines a laLyonnaise.—Baked stuffed aubergines or egg- plants, with fried sliced onions placed on top of each. Serve hot. 1304. Aubergines aux (Eufs I*odies.—3 aubergines, 6 small poached eggs, 1 gill tomato pulp, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, 2 oz. chopped ham, J oz. butter, pepper and salt, chopped parsley.