THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 296 naise (No. 225), on top of the fillets with demi-glace (No. 237), round the dish. 799. Filets de Bceuf a la Conflans.—Braised fillets of beef, finished in white wine and savoury herbs. Served with a garniture of finely- shredded ox-tongue, mushrooms, and truffles, and a well-reduced demi- glace sauce (No 237). 800. Filets de Boeuf a la Financiere.—Boast fillets of beef, larded and glazed, garnished with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat quenelles, and turned olives. Served with Madere sauce (No 237 a). 801. Filets de Boeuf a la Garfield.— Small round fillet steaks larded, grilled, dished up and garnished with finely-cut Julienne shapes of ham, tongue, truffles, and mushrooms. Served with poivrade sauce (No. 263). 802. Filets de Boeuf a la Polonaise.— Small round fillets made from finely-choppdd lean rump or tender loin of beef and a small propor- tion of chopped suet, seasoned, shaped, egged, crumbed. Fried in clarified fat, garnished with small round fried potatoes, and served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 803. Filets de Bceuf a la Royale.— Braised fillets of beef, larded, surrounded with a garniture of forcemeat quenelles, stoned olives, sliced truffles, and small glazed lambs’ breads, served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 804. Filets de Boeuf a la Sicilienne. -Grilled fillets of beef, served with Sicilian sauce, which is composed of a well-reduced Madeira wine sauce with finely-shredded onion, previously fried in clarified butter. 805. Noix de Boeuf a la Bourgeoise.—Braised piece of kernel or rump (centre cut) of beef larded, finished in a richly-flavoured brown sauce, to which a little tomato puree has been added. Garnish with braised carrots and button onions, and serve with the above-named sauce well reduced. 806. Paupiettes de Boeuf a la Richelieu. Thin slices of fillets of beef stuffed, rolled, and braised, garnished with forcemeat quenelles, truffles, and mushrooms. Serve with Bichelieu sauce (No. 366). 807. Tournedos a la Colbert.—Small round fillet steaks seasoned and fried in equal parts of sweet oil and butter. Dish up en cou- ronne, fill the centre of the dish with small rounds of fried potatoes, garnish with bread croutons, and serve with shallot sauce reduced with sherry. 808. Tournedos a la Nicoise.—Small fillet steaks grilled, served with a demi-glace sauce (No. 237), blended with tomato puree. Garnish the dish with stuffed olives. Note.—Bump steaks, porterhouse steaks, tenderloin steaks, sirloin steaks, entrecotes, fillet steaks, beef olives, and tournedos may also be finished and served in a greater variety by substituting any appropriate garnish or sauce with their respective names as herein indicated.