ENTREMETS SAVOUREUX, BONNES BOUCHES, ETC. 599 the last time sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Cut th*e paste into very narrow strips about three inches long, twist each strip in screw-like fashion, and place in rows on a wetted baking-sheet. Shape also four or five rings about an inch and a quarter in dia- meter. Bake the strips and rings in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Make up into bundles by means of the rings, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. 1923. Macaroni a la Dieppoise.—h lb. Naples macaroni, 1 quart stock, 1 gill bechamel sauce (No. 202), ^ lb. chicken force- meat, 12 fresh prawns, 2 oz. butter, lobster spawn, H oz. grated Parmesan cheese, seasoning. Blanch the macaroni, pour into a colander, place them again in a stewpan with two quarts of water, and parboil; strain off the water, cut the macaroni into pieces about an inch long, add the stock, butter, and half a teaspoonful of salt, let simmer until tender, stir in half the cheese, and season with pepper. Mix the forcemeat with sufficient cooked lobster spawn to colour, and remove the tails from the prawns. Butter a silver-plated gratin-dish, put a little bechamel sauce on the dish, spread a thick layer of macaroni, next put on a layer of force- meat, then another layer of macaroni, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan between the layers, use forcemeat for the next layer, coat well with bechamel sauce, cover with Parmesan cheese, arrange the prawns round the edge of the mixture in a circular form, sprinkle with a few fresh bread-crumbs in the centre, also a few drops of oiled butter. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about half an hour, garnish with the heads of the prawns and a few bits of curly parsley, put the dish on to another suitable dish, and serve hot. 1924. Croquettes de Semoule.—1 lb. semolina or coarse- grained florador, 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, 1 oz. of grated Parmesan, 1 oz. of butter, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Cook the semolina or florador in the milk (let the milk and butter boil up, and stir in the semolina) ; cook slowly for ten minutes. Season with a little salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; add three yolks of eggs, and the cheese ; beat up well and spread on a flat dish to cool. Stamp out into shapes (oblong or round), dip in beaten egg, crumb well, fry in hot fat or clarified butter, strain on a cloth; dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. 1925. Petits Cannelons aa Florador.—\ lb. nouille paste, 4 oz. florador, 1 oz. butter, 1 pint milk, 2 oz. grated cheese, 1 egg, 2 slices cooked ham or tongue, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, frying-fat or butter. Put the milk and butter in a stewpan ; when boiling sprinkle in the florador, stir and boil gently for ten minutes, then add the grated cheese and a pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Spread the mixture on a flat dish. Boll out the nouille paste very thinly, cut it into even-sized pieces about an inch wide and three inches long. Spread the centre with a thick layer of the mixture, put a strip of ham or