534 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK proper blending and distribution of colours and flavours, the selection and arrangement of which require some knowledge, taste, as well as judgment. The rule of the order of service in sweet entremets is the same as in entrees and other courses, viz. that the order should be alternately dark and light; thus two dishes of similar colour and flavour cannot be served in succession. The list of sweets provides a much larger variety than any other course, hence there should not be much difficulty in the selection of suitable dishes. 1679. Works of Art in Sugar.—The illustrations on previous page as well as the two others on p. 122 are specimens of art sugar work executed by Monsieur Landry, a specialist in this particular branch. Almost the whole of the construction of this and other pieces is made of sugar boiled to full ‘ crack ’ and brilliantly coloured. Gum-paste and pastillage, as well as glace royale, are also used in the construction of these truly artistic ornamental grandes pieces de patisserie. 1680. Bavaroise a la Vanille (Vanilla Cream).—4 pint milk, \ pint cream, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 2-inch vanilla-pod, f oz. French gelatine, 4 yolks of eggs. Put the sugar, milk, and vanilla in a stewpan, and bring slowly to the boil. Stir the yolks of eggs, pour on the milk &c. when boiling, mix well, and return to the stewpan, stir on the fire until it thickens, then take out the vanilla and pass through a pointed strainer or fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in half a gill of water, strain it into the above mixture, let it cool a little, and add the cream previously whipped. Fill up a mould, place it in a basin surrrounded with crushed ice; when thoroughly set immerse in tepid water, turn out on to a dish with folded napkin, and serve. Note.—Wipe the vanilla-pod and put away for further use. More sugar may be added if liked. A stiffly whipped white of egg added to the above mixture just before moulding it will make the cream much lighter. 1681. Bavaroise aw Chocolat.—£ lb. chocolate, 3 oz. sugar, \ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 tablespoonful creme de riz, 1 quart milk, 6 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk, mix the ground rice or creme de riz with half a gill of cold milk. Put the chocolate, sugar, and remainder of milk in a stewpan; boil gently, and stir until the chocolate is dissolved ; add the gelatine and creme de riz; stir until it boils. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, pour on the milk &c., stir well, and return to the stewpan ; add the vanilla essence, and stir over the fire until it thickens, but do not let it boil. Strain through a fine hair sieve, pour into a fancy mould ; when set turn out on a cold dish and serve. The top of the shape may be decorated with whipped cream, sweetened with a little vanilla sugar, by means of a cornet or forcing-bag. 1682. Bavaroise de Bananes.—1 quart milk, 2 oz. corn-flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 bananas, % teaspoonful vanilla essence, 2 yolks of eggs..