409 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME mincing machine or chop very finely by hand, then pound in a mortar and rub through a wire sieve. Peel and chop finely four to six small shallots, fry them a golden colour in one ounce of butter, add six finely crushed juniper berries and a small glass of cognac, a gill of red wine (claret or Burgundy). Cover the pan in which this is put and let boil fast for three minutes. Add it to the farce (pounded and sieved meat), season with salt, white pepper, mignonette pepper, paprika, a little ground mace and grated nutmeg, and about a teaspoonful of aromatic seasoning ; mix thoroughly. Line a fireproof tureen (these can now be had at most china shops) with thin slices of fat bacon. Place in a layer of farce, and fill up the tureen with alternate, layers of raw ham and farce. The top layer should be of thin slices of fat bacon. Put the tureen in a moderate oven and bake for one and a quarter hour. Pour off the fat which will have accumulated on the top of the meat. When cold pour over a sufficient quantity of well reduced aspic or savoury jelly. The top may, if liked, be decorated with fancifully cut slices of hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles. 1189. Pate de Lievre a VAnglaise (Hare Pie).--Hare cut into small joints, filled into a pie dish, with alternate layers of force- meat, slices of bacon and liver, covered with puff-paste crust, and baked in moderate oven. 1190. Pate de Lievre d la Frangai.se.— Raised pie crust, filled with pieces of partially fried hare and alternate layers of forcemeat, bacon, and mushrooms, baked in a moderate oven. 1191. Pate de Mauviettes d VAnglaise.—This is, of course, a lark pie, made after the true English fashion, and as such a most highly appreciated dish, not only in England but in various parts of the Continent as well. 1 dozen larks, about £ lb. lean beef, % lb. streaky bacon, 1| gill stock, 5 to 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 small teaspoonful finely chopped lemon-rind, 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful chopped ham, 1 shallot finely chopped, 1 yolk of egg, puff-paste, pepper and salt. The larks for this dish are by far best if boned, though this is not essential. Make a stuffing with the bread-crumbs, shallot, half the chopped parsley, the lemon-rind, and the chopped ham and the egg- yolks ; add a little water or stock if found necessary, and season to taste. Roll the birds in flour ; and fill them with the stuffing. Cut the beef and bacon into very thin slices. Line the bottom of a large pie-dish with beef and bacon, season to taste and sprinkle with parsley; place the birds on this, arrange them neatly, fill up the dish with the remainder of bacon and beef, season again, and moisten with the stock. Cover the dish with puff-paste, ornament the centre taste- fully (allowing a small incision in the middle for the steam to escape while cooking), brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about one hour.