ENTREMETS SUCRES (HOT SWEETS) 503 Thoroughly wash the carrots, scrub them with a brush, but do not scrape them. Cover with boiling water slightly salted, and cook till tender. When done rub through a fine sieve. Cream the butter with the sugar ; when well worked add the bread-crumbs and the cinnamon. Stir in the yolks of eggs and beat well. Cut the cherries into quarters and add also. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix the carrot pulp with the creamed butter, bread-crumbs, &c., and add lastly the beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for rather more than two hours. Serve'with lemon-sauce or sweet sherry sauce. 1566. JPouding d la Dresde.—2 oz. flour, 1^ oz. butter, | pint milk, 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated cocoanut, 3 eggs, 2 oz. tchole-meal bread-crumbs, 2 oz. sugar, ^ teaspoonful ground cinna- mon, 1 ligueur glass curagoa, the grated rind of half a lemon. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook a little; add half a gill of water and one gill of milk and work well while stirring. Warm up the remainder of the milk, and pour it over the cocoanut; add the brown bread-crumbs to this, let it stand for ten minutes in a warm place, then add the sugar and lemon-rind. Stir the yolks of eggs into the panade (the prepared butter, flour, and milk mixture), whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the cocoanut and brown bread mixture with the panade &c. Stir well, and fold in the beaten whites of eggs ; add the cinnamon and liqueur. Pour the whole into a well-buttered souffle tin, or ordinary pudding mould, and bake it for about one hour in a moderately heated oven. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with hot fruit syrup or some other nicely flavoured pudding sauce. 1567. JPouding d la JJuchesse.—4 oz. butter, 4 oz. siogar (caster), 4 oz. macaroons, 6 eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, 1 teaspoonful ground rice, 1 oz. chopped pistachios. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, adding gradually the yolks of six eggs ; incorporate the macaroons (roughly pounded) and the orange marmalade. Whisk the whites of six eggs till stiff, add to it the ground rice and half the pistachios; mingle carefully with the mixture. Butter a timbale or plain charlotte mould, sprinkle the bottom with chopped pistachios, and pour in the mixture. Steam for one hour and fifteen minutes in the usual manner ; unmould and serve with a hot sweet sauce. 1568. JPouding Louis JNapoleon.—6 oz. sifted sugar, 6 whole eggs, -2 oz. flour, dried and sifted, 1^ oz, corn-flour, 2 oz. pounded almonds, a few drops orange-flower igater, 1^. oz. fresh butter, a pinch of salt, some stewed apricots, peaches, die., crystal- lised fruit, meringue for ornamenting. Separate the whites of eggs from the yolks, put the yolks into a basin with the sugar, work it with a wooden spoon, beat the whites to a stiff froth, add the ground or pounded almonds, the orange-flower water ; mix all gradually with the whites of eggs, the flours, and the