119 ELEMENTARY METHODS 25. To Clarify Butter.—Put the butter in a stewpan or saute- pan, let it dissolve and cook slowly, then skim off the scum and all impurities. The butter is ready for straining as soon as a blue smoke appears. Strain through a fine hair-sieve or pointed strainer into a basin, let it stand to settle, then pour gently into another basin so as to keep out the sediment. 26. Liquid Caramel.—Put a pound of loaf, caster, or moist sugar into a copper stewpan or sugar-boiler. Add about half a gill of water, and let it dissolve ; stir over a slow1 fire and cook until a dark brown colour; when a whitish smoke appears it is a sign that the sugar is done. Remove it from the fire, pour on about a pint of boiling water, allow this to boil up whilst stirring, land cook till it has the appearance of a syrup; when cool put it in a corked bottle and use as required. Caramel should be used with discretion. Good cooks rarely use it, for it is apt to impart a bitter taste if used too freely. It is prin- cipally used for colouring clear soups, gravies, and sauces, and some- times jellies. 27. Saumure {Brine) Tickle for Beef or Tork.—Two gallons water {soft); 6 lbs. coarse salt; f lb.,brown sugar, 11 oz. saltpetre. Put all the above in a stewpan, let it come to the boil, skim and boil for about twenty minutes ; pour into a covered pan or tub and use when cold. Meat should lie in a pickle from eight to ten or more days, according to the size. In pickling tongues a separate pan should be used ; these usually take from three to four weeks to pickle. 28. Dry Tickling.—1| lbs. salt, 1 oz. saltpetre, £ lb. allspice, £ lb. brown sugar. First rub in sugar and let meat lie for a few hours, then rub in the saltpetre and spice, also the salt, a little at a time. Turn and knead meat well, let it lie in a cool place from ten to twelve weeks, turning it daily. The above quantity is for about 14 lbs. of meat. 29. Marinade.—Marinade is the name applied to a kind of pre- paration which is used for pickling fish or meat. It is more fre- quently used for meat than fish. This process introduces a savoury aroma, and develops the flavour of meats &c., which are usually allowed to lie in pickle from two to three days. A maripade will keep good for several months if boiled up, say, every four days. A small quantity added to brown sauce will be found a decided improvement where piquancy is required. 30. Marinade Tickle.—1 quart vinegar, 3 cloves, 1 onion sliced, 1 carrot, 1 lemon, £ orange sliced, 12 juniper berries, a few coriander seeds, 2 sprigs of thyme and tarragon, 2 sprigs of marjoram 1 of sage, 20 peppercorns and 2 blades mace, 1 pint claret, 2 bay- leaves.—Boil the vinegar and claret and pour over the ingredients. It is advisable to season the meat with a little salt before it is put in the marinade.