222 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK f turnip, 1 slice of parsnip, 10 peppercorns, fish stock or water, salt, parsley. Thinly cut brown bread and butter, ^ lemon. Trim the fish, and place them in a saute-pan, season with a good pinch of salt, add the onions cut in slices, the bouquet of herbs, and peppercorns, cover with stock or water, allow it to boil, and let simmer slowly for about ten minutes. Cut the carrot, turnip, and parsnip into fine strips (Julienne shapes), and cook till tender in fish stock or salted water. Take up the flounders, dish up neatly on a deep entree dish. Strain the liquor, and if found cloudy clarify with raw white of egg. Blanch and chop a little parsley, strain the vegetables, add to the fish liquor, pour this over the fish, sprinkle over with parsley. Garnish with a few thin slices of lemon, and serve with brown bread and butter, which is handed round along with the fish. Note.—Soles and almost any white fish may be served as souchet. A souchet is usually served in hot soup-plates ; one small flounder or half a large one is reckoned as one portion. 523. Filets de Barbue ci la Grand Due.—Remove the dark skin of one good-sized brill, fillet it, and cut each fillet into neat pieces of convenient size ; trim them neatly. Place them in a large earthenware dish, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon-juice, two tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, and a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley and chives. Allow the fillets to soak for at least one hour. Have ready some well reduced veloutee sauce (No. 206), let it cool a little, then dip each fillet in the sauce so as to well mask them. When the sauce has set, cover with fine bread-crumbs, then dip in beaten egg and crumb again. Shape and smooth the fillets. Dissolve two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, place the fillets in it, and fry over a quick fire; as each side acquires a light-brown colour turn carefully with the blade of a knife so as to allow the other side to colour. Drain the fillets on a cloth, dish them up in a circular row on a round dish, and keep hot. Warm up a gill of veloutee sauce, add a dessertspoonful of finely grated horseradish, a tablespoonful of well reduced tomato pulp, and a tablespoonful of cream ; when hot add a dozen cleaned and blanched mussels and a few bearded oysters, let these get thoroughly hot, but do not let the sauce boil again. Put the garniture in the centre of the dish, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and pour the sauce round the base of the dish. When brill is not. obtainable,'plaice or turbot may be substituted. 524. Filets de Barbue a la Madeleine (.Fillets of Brill, Madeleine Style).—1 brill, \ lb. whiting forcemeat (No. 400), 1 tea- spoonful finely chopped green herbs, £ oz. butter, seasoning, ^ gill rich white stock, 1 egg, “ panurette ” for crumbing, frying -fat, fried parsley. Sauce Marseillaise (No. 274). Fillet the brill, remove the skin, flatten the thick ends of the fillets and cut into eight to ten neat oblong pieces of even size. Season and cover one side of each with fish forcemeat mixed with the herbs;