THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK a cloth or paper, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Joinville sauce. 567. Filets de Merlans frits d la Tyrolienne.—Remove the fillets of five medium-sized whitings (skinned); season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, roll in flour, dip in egg beaten with a table- spoonful of sweet oil, roll in fresh bread-crumbs, smooth them with a knife. Dip the ends of each fillet in egg, thrust a small skewer through each to give them the shape of rings, fry light brown in clear hot fat, drain them carefully on a drainer, pile up on a folded napkin, put some fried parsley on the top, garnish with quartered lemons, and serve with a well-buttered tomato sauce (No. 271). 568. Souffle de Merlan.—2 small or 1 large whiting, 2 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, \ pint milk, 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 4 eggs, pepper and salt. Skin the fish, free it from bones, and chop the fillets finely or pound in a mortar. Butter a souffle tin, and fasten a well-buttered paper band round the top, sprinkle the inside of the mould with a few brown bread-crumbs. Put the remainder of the butter into a stewpan, when hot stir in the flour, cook a little without browning ; add the milk, stir briskly until smooth, then add the cream, cook a little longer, stirring all the while ; remove from the fire, cool a little, work in the yolks of eggs, anchovy essence, and lastly the fish. Mix well, season with pepper and salt. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the mixture, pour it into the mould, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes. Dish up, and serve with a suitable fish sauce. 569. Rouyets d la Francillon.—Clean four red mullets, make a few incisions on each side of the fish, dip them in oil and flour, and grill them in front or over a clear fire. Have ready four croutes of bread, cut and shaped the same as the fish, and fried in clarified butter. Butter the croutes with anchovy butter, and place one grilled red mullet on each. Dish up and pour a well-prepared tomato sauce, into which a small quantity of anchovy butter (No. 287) has been incorporated, over the fish. Garnish with fried straw potatoes and fried parsley, and serve. 570. Rouyets en Filets d la Juive.—3 to 4 red mullets, i gill sweet oil, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley mixed with a few leaves of fennel and tarragon, 2 tablespoonfuls, flour, 1 egg, breads crumbs, frying-fat or frying-oil, pepper and - salt, tartare or vert-pre sauce (No. 282). Carefully remove the fillets from the fish, lay them in a pie- dish, sprinkle over, some salt, a good pinch of pepper and the chopped parsley &c., pour over the oil and let the fillets lie there for at least one hour. Take up the fillets one by one, drain, but do not wipe them. Dip each into flour, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs or panurette. Pry in hot fat or oil a golden colour, drain well on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish