192 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, diluted with sherry; flavoured with lemon-juice and finely-shredded orange-rind. 338. Sauce Matelote, blanche (Matelote Sauce, white).—A white oyster sauce with mushroom juice, white wine, and button mushrooms ; flavoured with savoury herbs. 339. Sauce Matelote, bvune (Matelote Sauce, broion).—A red-wine sauce with fried button onions and button mushrooms; flavoured with fine herbs and anchovy essence. 340. Sauce Malaga (Port Wine Sauce).—A brown sauce pre- pared with meat glaze, port wine, and lemon-juice; flavoured with shallots and cayenne. 341. Sauce Maxim ilian (Maximilian Sauce).—Tartare sauce with tomato pulp, and finely-chopped tarragon-leaves to flavour. 342. Sauce aux Monies (Mussel Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce with cooked mussels cut into dice. 343. Sauce a la Moelle de liceuf (Beef Marrow Sauce).— Espagnole sauce flavoured with fried shallot, mixed with blanched beef marrow cut in thin slices, chopped parsley, a little vinegar, and red pepper. 344. Sauce Moutarde (Mustard Sauce).—Melted butter ,or Bechamel sauce, mixed with sufficient prepared mustard to flavour. 345. Sauce Ncipolitaine (Neapolitan Sauce).—A brown sauce with finely-minced ham, claret, currant jelly, and grated horse- radish ; flavoured with shallots, bay-leaf, thyme, and cloves. 346. Sauce JNorvegienne (Norwegian Sauce).—A cold sauce prepared with hard-boiled egg-yolks (which are passed through a sieve), yolks of fresh eggs, salt, pepper, prepared mustard, oil, and vinegar, mixed with finely-chopped savoury herbs. 347. Sauce JYonpareille (Nonpareil Sauce).—Hollandaise sauce worked up with crayfish or lobster butter ; mixed with chopped lobster meat, mushrooms, hard-boiled whites of eggs, and truffles, all finely chopped. 348. Sauce aux Olives (Olive Sauce).—A brown sauce with stoned or turned olives, flavoured with a little lemon-juice. Served with ducks, fowls, and beef. 349. Sauce aux CEufs (Egg Sauce).—A white sauce with hard- boiled eggs finely chopped. 350. Sauce aux Oignons (Onion Sauce).—A white sauce with finely-chopped boiled onions, seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Served with boiled rabbit or mutton. Brown onion sauce is made, the onions fried in butter and cooked in demi-glace or poivrade sauce. 351. Sauce d VOseille (Sorrel Sauce).—A thin gravy sauce (demi-glace) with finely-chopped blanched sorrel-leaves. Served with braised or boiled fowls &c. 352. Sauce a la Seville (Seville Sauce).—Beduced demi-glace sauce, mixed with orange-juice and finely-cut rind of a Seville orange. Served with roast or stewed ducks or game.