THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 306 837. Petites Noisettes de Veau d la Princesse. —About 2 lb. of fillet or cushion of veal, \ pint asparagus tips, 8 artichoke bottoms, 2 truffles, \ lb. butter, 4 gill white wine, ^ gill sherry, \ pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), salt,pepper, and nutmeg, 8 rounds of fried bread (size of fillets). Cut the veal into six or eight even-sized round slices, flatten a little and trim neatly. Put the artichokes into sufficient hot salted water to cover, acidulated with a few drops of lemon-juice ; add a small piece of butter, and boil up very gently. Cook the asparagus points in salted water containing a very small piece of soda, strain, let cool in water, strain again and put in a stewpan, moisten with a little demi-glace sauce and half an ounce of butter. Slice the truffles and cook them in a little sherry. Season the fillets with pepper and a very little grated nutmeg. Saute them in butter in the usual way. Put them on a baking-sheet and brush over with meat glaze. Place each on a round piece of fried bread ; fill the artichoke bottoms with asparagus points and put one on each fillet. Dress them in a circle on a dish. Put the remainder of asparagus points in the centre of the dish. Arrange the slices of truffles as a garnish on top of each dressed fillet, so as to form an effective design. Have ready the demi- glace sauce, previously well reduced, with the wine, and containing the essence of truffle and fillets. Sauce round the dish and serve. 838. Olives de Veau (Veal Olives).—1 lb. lean veal (cushion op fillet), 2 tdblespoonfuls bread-crumbs, 1 ounce finely chopped beef suet, ^ oz. butter, chopped parsley, mixed herbs, lemon-rind and nutmeg, 1 egg, salt and pepper, brown sauce, % glass sherry. Cut the meat into slices, beat them out by means of a wetted cutlet-bat, and pare each slice. Mince finely the trimming of the meat, omitting any skin or sinews, mix this with the suet, butter, and bread-crumbs, add some chopped parsley, grated lemon-rind, and half a teaspoonful of mixed herbs. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix with the egg, previously beaten, taking only enough to moisten the mixture. Spread each slice with the prepared stuffing, roll up and tie with string. Range them in a stew- pan, containing a little dripping or butter, and fry a light colour ; pour off the fat, add about three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce and the sherry, and stew gently for about an hour, or longer, until the meat is quite tender. To serve, remove the string, dress the olives on a bed of spinach or mashed potatoes, and strain the sauce round the base of the dish. Beef olives are made in exactly the same manner. 839. Paupiettes de Vea u d la Toscane.—2| to 3 lb. fillet of veal, 1 oz. butter, 4 even-sized ripe tomatoes, 8 thin slices of bacon, 2 oz. fat pork, 4 oz. panade, 3 yolks of eggs, 10 peppercorns, 2 tnffles, 8 mushrooms, | gill 'white sauce, f? pint stock, 4 pint tomato sauce (No. 271), 1 bouquet garni (No. 2), 1 carrot, i turnip.