THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 530 1666. Crepes, Pancakes (Batter).—4 oz. of flour (Coombs's self-raising), 1 whole egg, 3 yolks of eggs, \ oz. oiled butter, 1J gill of milk, a pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt, beat up the eggs, and stir gradually into the flour ; add a little of the milk and beat to a smooth paste, then pour in the remainder of the milk and the oiled butter (this must be done gradually), mix well, strain through a pointed strainer into a jug. Let the batter stand for some time before using. 1667. To Fry Pancakes.—To fry pancakes successfully pro- ceed as follows: Put a very small piece of butter in a pancake pan; when hot pour in a small quantity, say two tablespoonfuls, of the batter, so as to cover the bottom of the pan completely. Fry over a clear fire till one side is coloured, then toss it over and fry the other side; when done turn on to a clean board, and proceed as directed. Dust with sugar, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over, roll up, or fold, and dish up on a hot dish. 1668. Panequets an Confiture (Baked Pancakes, French Fashion).—3 oz. butter, 2 oz. caster sugar, 3 oz. flour, the grated rind of \ a lemon and its juice, a pinch of salt, 1 pint milk, about 1 oz. clarified butter, 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls of jam. Put the butter and sugar in a basin and beat to a cream. Add the flour (previously sifted), the lemon-rind, and lemon-juice, also the pinch of salt; beat the mixture for ten minutes, adding gradually the eggs and milk. Continue beating for another ten minutes after the flour is added, and let the mixture stand for about an hour. Put a little butter in an omelet-pan, pour in about a cupful of the pancake mixture, and bake in a hot oven for about twenty minutes ; when done turn out on a board dredged with sugar, spread some hot jam on one half, and turn over the other half; continue thus until the mixture is used up. 1669. Creme brulee (Burnt Cream).—\ pint milk, \ pint cream, 1 dessertspoonful creme de riz, 6 yolks of eggs, 1^ oz. vanilla sugar, a pinch of ground cinnamon. Mix the creme de riz with a little cream (cold). Put the milk and cream in a stewpan and allow to come to the boil, add one ounce of vanilla sugar. Stir in the yolks of eggs and the mixed creme de riz. Whisk the whole over a gentle fire, in order to bind the eggs, and this must be done without allowing the mixture to boil, else it will curdle. Pour this into a well-buttered plate or souffle dish, sprinkle over with a pinch of ground cinnamon and sufficient vanilla sugar to cover the surface. Put the dish in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, so that the surface gets browned, then serve quickly. If the oven is not hot enough to brown the top hold the dish under a salamander for a few seconds. Note.—Corn-flour, potato-flour, or Vienna flour may be used in place of creme de riz.