ENTREES OF POULTRY, ETC. (HOT DISHES) 343 strew it over the centime, garnish with a few fleurons of puff-paste, and serve. 967. Poalet saute a la Cavour.—Cut up a large fowl into neat joints and saute it the same as directed in No. 965. Finish cooking it in a rich brown sauce flavoured with curry and saffron, garnish with small timbales of rice similarly flavoured. 968. Poulet saute a la Savoyarde.—1 large tender fowl, 4 oz. fresh fat pork, 1 oz. butter, 1 glass Marsala or sherry, 1 dessertspoonful finelywhopped herbs, i pint demi-glace sauce (No. 237), % pint of chestnut puree (nicely seasoned and cooked in rich stock), seasoning, 8 to 10 croutons of fried bread cut into lialf- moon shapes. Prepare the fowl as for roasting; cut it up into small joints, and season with pepper and salt. Cut the pork into small slices, and put it in a saute-pan with the butter. When hot, add the pieces of fowl and fry them to a golden colour. Pour off the fat, add the wine, cover the pan, and cook contents quickly for five minutes. Now moisten with the sauce, add also the herbs, and let simmer for about twenty-five minutes, or till the fowl is tender. Heat the chestnut puree, which must be made rather consistent, half fill a wide timbale mould with it, and turn on to a dish to form a bed ; dress the fowl upon this. Boil up the sauce, skim, season to taste, and pour over the fowl. Garnish with the bread croutons, which must be previously dipped in liquefied meat glaze. 969. JPoulet grille d I’ltalienne.—Procure a plump chicken, cut it open from the back, spread out and flatten well, rub both sides with lemon-juice, and season with pepper and salt. Insert two or three skewers so as to keep the chicken quite flat; immerse in sweet oil for about ten minutes, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and grill it over or in front of a bright fire. Prepare a sauce by frying two peeled and chopped shallots hi butter, add to this a finely-chopped anchovy, freed from bone, one glass of Marsala wine, and a gill of tomato puree. Allow to cook for ten minutes, then add one fresh tomato, cut into slices, and a table- spoonful of meat extract. Boil again, skim, and pass through a sieve. Re-heat and season to taste. Dish up the chicken, remove the skewers, garnish with cauliflower bud and shredded artichoke bottoms. Pour the sauce round the dish and serve. 970. Poussins frits d la Lyonnaise.—2 or 3 (according to size) very small spring chickens (baby chickens), the juice of 2 lemons, 2 bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives, a few sprigs of chervil, pepper and salt, clarified butter, frying-batter, 1 or 2 small Spanish onions, tomato sauce (No. 271). Singe and draw the chickens, and cut them into small joints, the same as for fricassee. Blanch the pieces in slightly salted water, drain, and dry them with a cloth, put them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, sprinkle over the chives and chervil, add the bay-