19 THE SCIENCE OF COOKERY 2. Meat.-—Here we have to consider two distinct structures. In the first place, we have the actual fibres of the meat, consisting, besides water, almost entirely of proteid, or albuminous material of several varieties. Some of these after death undergo coagulation, causing the carcase of the animal to become stiff and rigid. The other constituents of the meat are sinews and material uniting the fibres together. These contain fat and a substance which yields gelatin on boiling with water. Gelatin, the chief constituent of jellies and clear soups, is a sub- stance allied to proteid, and is of value in that it can replace part, though not all, of the proteid part of the diet. It has hence been called a ‘ proteid sparing ’ food. 3. Eggs.—These form the nearest approach to a pure proteid that we have in nature, their other constituents being comparatively unimportant. 4. Bread and Flour.—These in various forms constitute the main sources of carbohydrates. Bread contains a large amount of starch, some sugar formed from it in the process of baking, as well as about 8 per cent, of the vegetable proteid called gluten. Bread is made ‘ light ’ by the action of yeast, a small plant which, as it grows, forms carbonic acid gas from the sugar. This gas bubbling through the dough renders it porous. 5. Vegetables. —Some such, as potatoes, consist almost entirely -of starch ; others, such as green vegetables, consist mainly of a highly insoluble substance called cellulose, with small quantities of starches, proteids, &c. But they are especially valuable in'that they contain various mineral salts of vital importance. The importance of fresh vegetables and fruits was not for a long time realised, and hence there were fearful outbreaks of scurvy amongst sailors ; at the present day this disease is practically unknown in well-ordered ships. What the actual substance is that prevents scurvy has not as yet been discovered. Recent Arctic expe- ditions have also shown the value of fresh meat in preventing scurvy. Now, as we saw above, proteid contains practically all the elements which we require, and yet it is found, as a matter of practical •experience, that we can live much better on a mixed diet consisting also of carbohydrates, fats, &c., and furthermore that these should be in proper proportion. A typical physiological diet, i.e. one on which an average man would neither gain nor lose weight, is the following, known as ‘ Ranke’s ’ diet: — Proteid . . 100 grammes I Carbohydrates . 250 grammes Fat . . 100 „ I Water, salts, &c. Again, given such a diet, we must have it properly prepared for consumption and digestion. Before the body can absorb any of these they must undergo complicated chemical changes in the stomach and intestines under the influence of the various digestive juices ; for