THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 404 panade, and line the inside of the mould with this. Fill the mould with alternate layers of thin slices of streaky bacon, slices of veal, slices of fresh lean pork, and farce to which a small quantity of foie gras has been added. Season each layer with aromatic seasoning and finely powdered herbs. Cover the top layer with slices of fat bacon. Put on the paste to form the lid, wet the edge so as to merely seal the ends, pinch the edges with a paste-pincher, and garnish the top with fancifully cut leaves of paste: leave a small hole in the centre for evaporation. Brush over with egg-yolk and bake in a moderate oven for two to two and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. When nearly cold fill the pie with savoury aspic (No. 293). 1176. Chaiid-froid tie Cailles d la Victoria.—4 quails (boned and cleaned), \ pint aspic jelly (No. 298), £ gill aspic cream (No. 296), 4 gill tomato cream (No.' 272), 4 oz. raw veal (lean), 2 truffles, 4 oz. cooked ham (lean), 2 oz. panade (No. 8), 1 egg, ^ oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful white sauce, seasoning, parsley, tarragon, and chervil, mirepoix (No. 10), 1 pint stock, a border of cooked rice, a lidtelet of financier e. Make a farce by pounding the veal in a mortar, when fine add the ham and panade, pound till perfectly smooth, mix in the egg and the white sauce, season to taste with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, and rub the whole through a fine sieve. Fill the quails by means of a forcing-bag with this farce, put a couple of slices of truffle in each bird ; close them up and tie up in a buttered mousseline cloth. Place them on a mirepoix consisting of carrot, turnip, onion, and bacon, moisten with a pint of stock, and cook them till tender; it will take about thirty to thirty-five minutes. When done take up and let cool. Remove cloth and cut each bird in half. Line eight small round-top ortolan moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mask one- third part with aspic cream, another with tomato cream, and sprinkle the centre part with finely-chopped parsley mixed with a few tarragon and chervil leaves. Now place half a quail in each mould, cut side upwards, mix the aspic and tomato cream together, add some aspic jelly with it, and fill the cavities of the mould with this. Place the moulds on the ice to set. Arrange a cooked rice border (cold) on a dish, unmould the shapes and range them neatly on the border, setting one in the centre on a rice shape. Insert a hatelet of financiere, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 1177. Cailles farcies en Caisses aux Petits JPois.—6 quails (boned), 8 to 10 chicken livers (cleaned), 1 oz. butter, 2 shallots (small), 4 oz. lean bacon, 1 small tin foie gras (No. 14 or No. 12), 1 small bouquet garni (size No. 2), pepper and salt, a mirepoix of vegetables etc. for braising (No. 10), ^ pint cooked green peas, 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (No. 277), a little aspic (No. 293) and meat-glaze (No. 247), \ gill white wine, | gill broion sauce (demi- glace, No. 237, or Espagnole, No. 236), 12 quail cases. Cut the livers into slices, also the bacon ; peel and slice the