215 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES {HOT) saute-pan, place in the salmon, sprinkle over with the chopped herbs, season with pepper and salt, add the lemon-juice and the wine, cover with a buttered piece of paper, and cook in fairly hot oven for ten minutes. Baste the fish frequently. Poach the quenelles of fish (these must be made rather small, the shape of marbles). Drain them and put into the sauce, cut the mushrooms and truffles into slices, toss them in a little butter and put them into the sauce with the meat glaze. Warm up to boiling-point. Take up the fish and dress on a hot dish. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, boil up and skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish the dish nicely with the braised button onions, truffles, &c., and serve hot. 503. Sure de Saumon d la Moderns.—Head-piece of salmon {about 4 lb.) \-pint Ghablis wine, a small bunch of parsley, 1 quart fish broth, 2 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 6 small truffles, 1 egg, 12 mushrooms (heads), 12 Spanish olives, a lemon, J lb. fish sausages, seasoning. Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, trim it, truss neatly with strings, put it in a deep saute-pan or fish-pan, season with salt and pepper, add the parsley tied up in a bunch, cover with a piece of buttered paper, moisten with the white wine and fish broth, let it come to the boil over the fire, and then place it in a hot oven and let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour or more (it depends upon the thickness of the fish ); baste occasionally. When done, drain the fish and place it on a dish. In the meantime melt two ounces of butter, add the flour, and stir over the fire until the flour is of a deep fawn colour ; dilute with the fish liquor ; add the juice of half a lemon ; season with a little salt and mignonette pepper ; pass through a fine strainer or napkin, and finish with the remainder of the butter. Remove the skin from the fish sausages ; amalgamate with a yolk of egg ; shape some little corks, egg and crumb them, and fry in hot lard a golden colour. Prepare the truffles (sliced), mushrooms (whole heads only), olives (stoned and blanched), for a garnish ; sauce the fish well with the sauce; warm up the garniture, and place in small groups round the fish, also the fish croquets. Garnish the top of the fish with slices of lemon, truffles, and a few sprigs of parsley. Serve hot. 504. Mousselines de Saumon d la Cardinal.—1 lb. salmon, ^ oz. butter, \ pint well-reduced bechamel (No. 203), 1 lohite of egg, lobster coral, 2 truffles. Seasoning, Cardinal sauce (No. 218). _ Skin and bone the salmon, pound fn a mortar until quite fine, add gradually the reduced bechamel sauce and the white of egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Put through a fine wire or hair sieve, and keep on the ice until wanted. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, decorate the bottom and sides of each with fanciful cut slices of truffles, sprinkle all