307 COLD DISHES OF MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME gelatine, % 'pint aspic jelly, 2 truffles, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1 gill cream, 6 large Spanish olives {stoned), ^ gill tomato pulp or sauce, salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, 2 oz.foie gras, spinach greening. Remove the meat from the fowl, free it from skin, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth. Dissolve the gelatine in the white sauce, and strain into the mortar containing the pounded chicken ; mix thoroughly, season to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. Mix a few drops of spinach greening with a little aspic, and line the bottom of six small bombe or bouchee moulds with it. Pound the foie gras with the yolk of the hard-boiled egg, season to taste, and stuff the stoned olives with this. Set one olive in the bottom of each mould, mix the prepared puree with a gill of whipped cream, pour about a table- spoonful of it into each mould/ and let set. Mask the sides of the mould with plain aspic, decorate tastefully with fancifully-cut slices of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, Mix the tomato pulp or sauce with about half the quantity of aspic, and line the decorated portion of each mould with this sauce. Chop the trimmings of truffle finely and mix with the chicken puree ; fill up the moulds with this, and put on the ice until set. To serve dip each mould in warm water for a moment, wipe quickly with a cloth, then turn out on a dish lined with a folded napkin or lace-paper, garnish with chopped aspic, and serve. 1160. Pains de Tolaille d VArgenteuil.—£ pint aspic jelly, % lb. cooked chicken meat, ± glass marsala, 1 gill cream, 8 prawns, 1 hard-boiled egg, 1^ gill supreme {No. 210) or veloutee {No. 206) sauce, 6 oz. cooked rabbit or lean veal, 2 slices cooked ox- tongue, seasoning, 2 tablespoonfuls asparagus puree or spinach puree Line the two halves of an asparagus mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, pound the tongue in a mortar with the yolk of egg, add about a tablespoonful of aspic, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Put this puree in a cornet or forcing-bag when almost set, and force out two lines across each half of the mould, so as to represent the ribbon of a bundle of asparagus. Cut up the chicken and veal or rabbit meat (previously freed from skin and gristle), pound in a mortar with the white sauce till quite smooth, adding the latter by degrees. Season with pepper and salt, add the wine, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the preparation into a basin, work in the aspic, which must be liquid but not hot, stir in a cool place till nearly set, then add the cream, previously whipped stiff. Mix about a fourth part with a little spinach or green asparagus puree, and put this in each half of the mould to form the asparagus-tops ; fill the remainder of the mould with the white puree previously mixed with the asparagus puree ; close up the mould, wrap up in paper, and place in the ice for about one and a half hour. Immerse the mould in tepid water, turn out on a dish with a folded napkin. Decorate the dish with cooked prawns and diamonds of set aspic jelly, and serve as a cold entree.