THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 494 pyramidal form; place the heart of a nice French lettuce in the centre, ornament with chopped hard-boiled eggs, chopped chervil and parsley, and a few French capers. 1533. Salade Murger.—This is composed of calf’s feet or calf’s head, boiled in stock and cut into small shreds when cold. It is then seasoned with a dressing made with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, mustard, and finely chopped parsley, other herbs, and shallots. This is an excellent way of using up cooked calf’s feet or calf’s head. 1534. Salade de Volatile (Chicken Salad).—1 boiled chicken, 2 heads lettuce, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 gill mayonnaise (No. 277), 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, 12 stoned olives, 1 tablespoonful capers, 2 stalks ichite celery, salt and pepper. Bone the chicken, cut up into neat small slices. Wash the lettuce, wipe the leaves. Wash the celery, and cut into small pieces. Put chicken, lettuce, and the celery in a basin, -season with pepper and salt and vinegar, transfer into a salad bowl, pile up in the centre, garnish with alternate groups of lettuce leaves, quarters of hard- boiled egg, stoned olives, and capers. Pour the mayonnaise dressing- over the centre salad, decorate the top with hard-boiled yolk of egg, finely chopped, capers or gherkins, &c., according to fancy and taste. 1535. Salade de Canard (Duck Salad).—£ a cold duck, | stick of white celery, 1 tablespoonful Orleans vinegar, 2 tablespoonftds Provence oil, 1 teaspoonful each of chopped olives and parsley, 2 thin slices of sour orange (unpeeled), 1 cabbage lettuce, seasoning, % bunch cresses, mayonnaise sauce (No. 277). Cut the duck into inch dice or cubes, wash and clean the celery, cut it into fine strips or shreds (using the white parts only), mix both and put into a basin, season with pepper and salt, pour over the vinegar and oil, and let it stand for a while. Cut the orange slices into quarters or eighths. Wash and trim and drain the lettuce and the cresses, line a salad bowl with the leaves of the lettuce, then put in the cresses and the orange, moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce, add the mixture above referred to, cover with a thin layer of mayonnaise, and sprinkle over with chopped parsley and chives. 1536. Salade Imperials (Game and Celery Salad).—1 cooked (roasted)partridge,! stick white celery,lor2 truffles, 3 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise (No. 277), a pinch cayenne or Nepaulpepper, 3 or 4 slices of cooked and pickled beetroot,‘l pickled French gherkins, 2 table- spoonfuls whipped cream. The partridge must be carefully roasted and must not be allowed to get over-done. Eighteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient for roasting a moderate-sized bird. When cold remove the breast fillets and the meat from the wings, take off the skin, and cut the meat into shreds. Wash the celery, trim it and cut the white parts into fine shreds, next cut the gherkins, beetroot, and truffles into similar shapes. Mix all carefully in a basin, sprinkle with pepper, and season with the mayonnaise. Dress all neatly in a glass salad bowl. Decorate the