THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 414 quenelles (No. 403), \ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236), 1 gill tomato sauce (No. 271), 4 oz. rice cooked in stock, i pint stock or consomme, Dauphine potato croquets. Pare and trim the fillet into neat shape, lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, put it'in a deep dish or pan, sprinkle with a little salt, and pour over the wine ; add the carrot and onion, peeled and sliced, the bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, peppercorns, and oil; cover and let it soak in marinade for twelve hours ; turn it occasionally. Roast the fillet in a hot oven for about twenty minutes; baste well with dripping or butter. It must be still underdone (saignant) when taken up. Use preserved artichoke-bottoms, put them in a buttered saute- pan, moisten with a little stock or consomme, and warm up in the oven. Strain the liquor in which the fillet has been marinaded and put into a stewpan; boil up and add the sauces. Let the whole simmer for ten minutes, skim off the fat, and keep hot. Cut the truffles into thin slices or small dice ; poach the chicken quenelles in stock or consomme, strain, and moisten with a little sauce; add the truffles with the quenelles, drain the artichoke-bottoms, and fill them with the above. Place the fillet on a neatly-shaped bed of cooked rice on an oblong dish, garnish with the filled artichoke-bottoms and Dauphine potato croquets ; brush over the fillet with some liquid meat-glaze, and serve with the sauce, which should be served separately. 1199. Filet de Bceaf d la Xeres.—About 3 lbs. middle cut of fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, about 1 lb. cooked ox-tongue, larding- bacon, 1 glass port, 1 gill stock, 6 artichoke-bottoms, green peas, new potatoes, tomato sauce (No. 271), pepper and salt. Pare the fillet, removing the skin and part of the fat, by means of a wooden spoon ; make a slit through the centre of the fillet (outside) and insert the piece of ox-tongue, neatly trimmed, into the opening made. Lard the surface of the fillets with strips of fat bacon. Butter a saute or oblong flat braisiere, put in the fillet, larded side upwards. Season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper and cook in a brisk oven for about ten minutes, so as to acquire a nice colour, moisten with a gill of rich stock and a glass of port wine, and continue to cook until done according to requirements, which is usually underdone (saignant). When ready for table dress the fillet on a croute of bread, or bed of rice neatly shaped. Put about a gill of tomato sauce with the liquor in which the fillet was cooked, let the whole be reduced, and then strain. Cook the peas and toss them,in a little fresh butter. Warm up the artichokes, fill up each bottom with peas and place them round the dish, also the potatoes, which should be ready boiled and fried whole in butter. The sauce is best served separately. On sending the fillet to table the top should be well glazed over with meat-glaze. 1200. Boiled Beef or Mutton.—Wipe the meat, cut off any superfluous fat, and weigh the joint. Put the meat into a stewpan