ENTREES CHA TIDES DE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 287 saute-pan; when hot, put in the fillets and broil over a quick fire for a few minutes, then cover with a buttered paper, and finish in a hot oven. When done, take up, dress in a row on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Sauce over with well-reduced tomato or piquante sauce, garnish the sides with fried macaroni croquettes, and serve hot. 769. Filets de JBeeuf pique ci la Iieyniere.—Middle cut of fillet {about 4 lb.), 1 large truffle, 1 glass sherry, 1 small carrot, 1 small turnip, 1 small onion, 10 peppercorns, 1 bouquet garni {No. 3), larding bacon, 4 even-sized tomatoes, 8 small potatoes, 2 oz. butter, 1 Spanish onion, 2 oz. Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs,. 8 rounds of bread crorites, 1 quart of stock, 1 gill brown sauce, pepper and salt, meat glaze (No. 247). Free the fillet from skin, sinew, and fat; trim a little, and cut into eight even-sized slices (fillets). Lard one side of each fillet with strips of bacon and strips of truffles ; butter thickly a saute-pan, range the fillets in it, clean the carrot and turnip, cut into slices, peel the onion and cut in slices. Season the fillets with pepper and salt, cover with the vegetables, herbs, peppercorns, and trimmings of bacon. Put this on the fire and broil both sides of the fillets a little, then add the sherry and stock, cover with a lid or buttered paper, and braise in the oven for about twenty minutes. Take out the fillets, put them on a dish, and keep hot. Remove fat from the liquor, add the brown sauce, boil gently for ten minutes, and strain. Boil the Spanish onion in salted water. Peel the potatoes, cut the ends, scoop out the centre with a column-cutter, prepare a mixture with the Spanish onion finely chopped, grated Parmesan cheese, bread-crumbs, egg-yolks, and one ounce of butter. Fry the potatoes in hot fat or lard, drain and cool, then fill with the prepared stuffing. Cut the tomatoes in halves, broil slightly in butter, put a stuffed potato on the cut side of each tomato, place them on a baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes. Dish up the fillets on fancifully cut croutes of fried bread, brush the surface of the fillets with dissolved meat glaze, garnish round the dish with the stuffed potatoes and tomatoes. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. 770. Filets de Reeitf d la Viennoise.—2 lb. lean beef, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoo'nful savoury herbs, 3 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 3 onions, 2 eggs, 1 gill demi-glace sauce {No. 237), salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Remove the sinews from the meat, cut it into small pieces, and chop very fine, or pass twice through the mincing-machine. Mix this with chopped parsley, savoury herbs, a little flour, one whole and one yolk of egg, season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Form some even-sized balls, flatten each with the palm of your hand to give them the shape of round fillets. Peel and slice the onions, cut some of the slices from the centre of each onion, rather thicker than the rest, divide the rings carefully, and reserve the largest for