182 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK ham. Reduce the whole for ten minutes, or longer if found too thin. Strain through a pointed strainer and serve with braised ham. 263. Sauce Poivrade (Pepper Sauce).—f pint of Espagnole sauce (No. 236), ^ oz. of butter, ^ small carrot, ^ small onion, 18 peppercorns, 1 bay-leaf, 1 sprig thyme, 2 cloves, \ oz. of raw ham or bacon. Mince the onion and carrot, cut the ham or bacon into small pieces ; fry the above in the butter for three minutes, add the pepper- corns (crushed), herbs, &c.; skim off the fat, moisten with the sauce, and boil for ten minutes or longer ; skim, strain, and serve as required. 264. Sauce JEtouennaise.—Infuse 3 finely chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme in a glass of claret. Add a pint of demi- glace sauce, and 2 to 3 finely chopped ducks’ livers, and let reduce, season to taste, and strain. 265. Sauce Aigre-Douce.—Take half a pint of poivrade sauce (No. 263) and add to it 1 tablespoonful of red currant jelly, boil up and skim, then add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, re-heat without boiling again, season to taste and use as required. This sauce is especially suitable for roast game, &c. 266. Sauce Champignons, blanche (white).—Boil together gill of bechamel sauce (No. 202) and the same quantity of veal stock (or other white stock), reduce to about half its original quantity. Skim well and add 8 to 10 preserved mushrooms (half-pint tin), cut into slices, 1 tablespoonful of mushroom liquor, and 1 dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, and about half a gill of Chablis or other white wine. Let the whole boil, season to taste, then add 1 tablespoonful of cream, and serve. 267. Sauce Champignons, brune (brown).—Chop finely 8 to 10 preserved mushrooms (champignons), put them in a small stewpan with a little of the liquor and half a gill of sherry wine, cover and allow to reduce well. Now add half a pint of demi-glace or thin Espa- gnole sauce; boil up, skim, season to taste, and use as required. 268. Sauce aux Airelles rouge (Cranberry Sauce, served with Boast Turkey or Fowl.)—1 lb. cranberries, § lb. sugar, a pinch soda, a teaspoonf ul lemon-juice, f pint water. Pick over and wash the cranberries, put them in a stewpan with the water and soda. Remove the scum as soon as it begins to boil, then add the sugar, and boil gently for about twenty minutes, and keep covered whilst boiling ; remove the lid and add the lemon-juice, reduce briskly for a few minutes until the liquid stiffens ; strain into a melted mould or any earthen vessel, allow it to set in a cool place, and turn out when required. This is not exactly a sauce, although the Americans describe it as such. It forms an excellent and most appropriate accom- paniment with roast turkey. 269. Sauce Cumberland (a Cold Game Sauce).—Mince finely 2 peeled shallots, put them in a stewpan with the strained juice of a lemon, the thin rind of a lemon and that of an orange cut into fine