SOUPS {POTAGES) 147 124. Consomme Brunoise an Biz Proceed the same as in the foregoing recipe, adding a handful of well-washed, blanched, and cooked rice about ten minutes before serving. 125. Consomme Fleuri.—Prepare a jardiniere consomme (No. 122), put 8 tablespoonfuls cooked rice into the soup-tureen, pour the hot consomme over it, and serve. 126. Consomme a la JPrineesse.—2 quarts- consomme {No. 96), 2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley, 1 chicken breast cooked, 2 table- spoonfuls cooked asparagus points. Wash well the barley, strain and boil till tender in the consomme, cut the chicken breast into small dice, add to the soup with the asparagus points. Boil up, skim, and serve. 127. Consomme a la Nantaise.—Proceed the same as for the above, adding a handful of cooked green peas in place of the asparagus points. 128. Consomme des Bois.—2 quarts clarified double stock {i.e. chicken consomme), 3 fresh truffles, the breasts of six quails, 1 gill cooked asparagus points, a plate of Parmesan crou tons. Wash, brush, and peel thinly the truffles, cook them in a little stock with a small quantity of sherry or Madeira, keep the stewpan well covered whilst cooking the truffles. Cook the quail fillets in a saute-pan with a little butter, in the oven. When done take up both the truffles and the quail fillets, and cut them into fine strips (Julienne shapes). Put these with the asparagus points in a well-tinned copper stewpan, add the consomme, and let cook gently for about ten minutes. Remove the scum, season to taste, and pour into a soup-tureen. Hand a small plateful of Parmesan croutons along with the soup. 129. Consomme d la Maneelli.—Wash and pare 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 leek, and 4 head white celery, and cut them into very fine shreds (Julienne fashion). Put these in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and cook very gently over the fire for 10 minutes. Moisten with 3 pints of consomme (clarified beef and veal broth), and cook slowly for half an hour. Skim well, removing all the fat and scum that may rise to the surface. When ready for serving season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small handful of roasted chestnuts, peeled and cut into small dice, or better still into Julienne strips ; a tablespoonful of cooked game, such as partridge, grouse, or pheasant, cut into fine shreds, added to this soup will be found an improvement; the latter is, however, quite optional. 130. Consomme d la Flamande.—2 quarts clear soup {con- somme), 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 onion, \ of a medium-sized cabbage, 2 ounces butter, 1 teaspoonful caster sugar, a few sorrel-leaves, a few chervil-leaves, the crust of half a French roll, pepper and salt. Clean and peel the carrots and turnips, wash the cabbage and cut into small thin dice ; put them into a stewpan with the butter, and fry a light-brown colour. Add the sugar, drain off the butter, moisten