ENTREMETS FROIDS, ETC. (COLD SWEETS, ETC.) 567 folded napkin or dish-paper, remove the paper lining, and serve quickly. 1798. Ponding glace a la Peine-Claude.—Rub the fruit of eighteen stewed greengages through a sieve, add a little syrup and a few drops of spinach greening, and freeze to the usual consistency for moulding. Peel the kernels of twenty-four young green walnuts, and pound them in a mortar with eight ounces of caster sugar ; add half a pint of cream, and rub the puree through a sieve. Mix with a gill of rich custard, flavour with noyeau liqueur, and freeze in the usual manner. Line a plain ice-pudding mould with the greengage ice, fill the centre with the walnut ice, fix on the lid, wrap up in paper, and place the mould in crushed ice and salt. Keep it thus for three or four hours. Unmould, garnish the ice-shape with small cornets or gaufrettes filled with whipped sweetened cream, and a preserved strawberry on top of each. Serve immediately. 1799. JNids d’Oiseau glaces (Birds’ Nests with Ice).—Prepare some nougat, roll it out on a marble slab, and shape into a birds’ nest, using a nest-mould for this purpose. The inside of the mould is oiled and the nougat is pressed in so as to take the shape, which is then turned out on a round dish. Have ready some vanilla or caramel ice cream, and fill a number of small egg-moulds with this. When moulded and set sufficiently turn them out and place the eggs in the centre of the nougat nest. Cover the whole with some freshly made spun sugar and serve at once. This is an exceedingly pretty sweet, but it requires a certain amount of skill and patience to prepare it to perfection. 1800. Souffle glace d la Joinville. - Beat up four whole eggs and three yolks of eggs in an egg-bowl, add one pint of syrup and stir over the fire till hot and frothy, then whisk over the ice till quite cold. Whip up a pint of double cream and amalgamate with the contents of the egg-bowl. Add a few drops of lemon essence, half a glass of maraschino liqueur, and a handful of mixed fruit. Fill up some paper or silver-plated souffle cases, sprinkle the top with finely grated chocolate and chopped pistachio kernels, and place in a charged ice-cave. Freeze thus for two hours. Send to table immediately it leaves the ice-cave. 1801. Charlotte glacee a la Princesse.—Prepare one and a half pint of rich ice-cream custard, flavour it with a small glass of liqueur brandy, add half a gill of whipped cream ; freeze this to the usual consistency for moulding. Line one or two plain charlotte moulds with white paper, previously rubbed over with good olive oil. Trim some finger or Savoy biscuits, and range them neatly round the inside of the moulds. Mix an ounce of finely-cut glace cherries with the ice mixture, and fill the moulds. Place the mould or moulds in a charged ice-cave for two hours. When required for table unmould, carefully remove the paper, and ornament the top of charlotte with whipped cream coloured a pale pink, using a forcing-bag with a rose