THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 152 20 peppercorns, 2 blades of mace, a bouquet of herbs consisting of parsley, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, and marjoram, \ lb. lean beef, ^ lb. veal, 4 whites of eggs, ^ lemon, 2 glasses of sherry, 1 glass of brandy, salt, cayenne. Wash the turtle in cold water and put to soak in cold water for three or four days, changing the water each day. Wash and prepare the vegetables, tie up peppercorns, mace, and cloves in a piece of muslin. Put the turtle in a large stewpan with the stock, add the vegetables, herbs, and muslin bag as soon as the stock boils and the scum is removed. Let it cook gently from 8 to 10 hours. Remove the fat, strain off the stock, and put the turtle on a dish to cool. When sufficiently cool cut it into convenient pieces. Cut off the skin, fat and sinews from the beef and veal, chop it very fine, or pass twice through a mincing machine. Mix thoroughly with the whites of eggs and the shells of three, add the juice of half a lemon, a sprig of tarragon and chervil, stir in the stock, let it come to a boil, and allow to simmer gently for a good hour. Strain carefully through a cloth, reboil, add the wine and brandy and turtle meat, season with salt and a pinch or two of cayenne pepper, and serve. 151. Consomme de Gibier 0 la St. Hubert.—j lb. cooked breast of pheasant, grouse, or partridge, giblets of game, carcase, dec., 3 lbs. knuckle of veal, lb. lean ham or bacon, 1 large onion, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 1 bouquet garni, 1 small head of celery,3 cloves, 1 blade mace, 12 peppercorns, 1 oz. butter, a handful of cooked green peas, salt, a pinch caster sugar. Remove the flesh from the bird, take off the skin, and cut into small even-sized dice. Put the bones of game and poultry, and the giblets (previously washed) in a stock-pot lined with the bacon or ham cut in slices, add a carrot, a turnip, and the onion all cut into slices, the cloves, peppercorns, mace, and bouquet garni. Broil over a quick fire for about 15 minutes (if found too dry add 1 oz. butter). Cut up the veal, put it with the above and. broil a little longer, so as to let it take colour ; stir all the time to prevent it from burning. Moisten with 6 quarts of water, let it come to a boil, take off the scum as it rises to the surface, and simmer gently for about 4 hours. Wash the remaining carrot, turnip, and celery, scrape and peel, scoop out as many little rounds as possible, and cook them separately in salted water ; they must be firm and yet tender. Put the trimmings of the vegetables into the stock. Season the stock with salt to taste, strain it through a cloth, and clarify in the usual manner. Strain the cooked vegetable shapes, and add them together with the peas to the clarified soup ; simmer for a few minutes. Put the dice of game in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over it, and serve. 152. Pot age a la Metternich.—2 quarts consomme (i.e. clarified beef broth), 1 small chicken or fowl, A small ripe tomatoes, 1 heaped-up tablespoonful arrowroot, 1 glass sherry or Marsala, seasoning.