VEGETABLES (.LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED 445 Cut the aubergines in halves lengthways, and remove the pips. Cook them till tender in salted water, take up and drain on a sieve. Mix the tomato pulp with the bread-crumbs and ham, warm up with the butter, and reduce a little ; season with pepper and salt and fill the .cavities of the aubergines with this ; put the aubergines on a dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and place in a hot oven for 5 minutes. Place one poached egg carefully on each half, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 1305. Aubergines Anglaises (or Gourgeons) an Gratia (Vegetable Marrow Baked).— 2 small vegetable marrows, 6preserved mushrooms, 2 oz. cooked ham, 2 chicken livers, 1 shallot, 1 oz. butter, % gill brown sauce, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Peel the marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, and cook in salted water until tender ; take up, drain, scoop out the seedy portions. Cut the livers into thin slices, chop the shallot and fry in the butter a golden colour ; add the livers, and toss over the fire for a few minutes; then add the mushrooms, chopped finely, and the ham ; season to taste and moisten with a little sauce. Pill the cavities of the marrows with this, pour a little sauce over each, and place them on a buttered saute-pan. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, add a few tiny bits of butter here and there, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up carefully and serve very hot. Great care must be taken not to overcook the aubergines in the first instance, else they will break in dishing up. 1306. Aubergines farcies.—2 medium-sized egg-plants, 2 oz. butter, 6 mushrooms, 2 chopped shallots, 1 oz. lean bacon, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 egg, salt and pepper, 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237). Cut the egg-plants lengthwise in twos, remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stuffing. Chop the bacon, mushrooms, and suet finely. Put the butter and bacon in a stewpan; when hot add the shallots, and fry a little ; mix in a basin the suet, parsley, bread-crumbs (previously soaked in a little milk), and Parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt; add butter and shallots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if found necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put this stuffing in the aubergines. Range them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up, and serve with demi-glace sauce. 1307. Vegetable Marrow a a Gratia. - Place some nicely boiled and well drained slices of vegetable marrow in a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, and cover completely with a well reduced white sauce (cold), sprinkle with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top, and bake in a hot oven to brown the surface. 1308. Staffed Vegetable Men-row. — A medium-sized