THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 374 ABBREVIATED RECIPES. 1081. Perdreaux a la Beauharnais.—Braised partridges, garnished with stewed asparagus points, fresh button mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms. Served with truffle sauce (No. 243). 1082. Perdreaux a la Pompadour.—Stuffed partridges larded and braised, served with a daintily-prepared foie gras and truffle stew, moistened with a rich brown sauce. 1083. Chartreuse de Perdreaux.—Stewed partridges, with braised spring cabbages and young carrots, dressed in the centre of a border of macedoine of vegetables. 1084. Filets de Perdreaux a la Marechal.—Braised breasts of partridges, with truffles, mushrooms, and fried potato quenelles or croquettes. 1085. Filets de Perdreaux a la Princesse.—Breasts of partridges, skinned, larded with bacon and truffles, braised, and served with Madeira wine sauce (No. 237 a). 1086. Pains de Perdreaux a la Dauphine.—Poached or steamed quenelles of partridge forcemeat, mixed with truffles and mushrooms. Served with asparagus points, button mushrooms, in centre or side of dish, and Madeira sauce (No. 237 a). 1087. Salmis de Perdreaux a la Chasseur.—Stewed partridges with chopped mushrooms, Bordelaise sauce (No. 249), chopped rind of lemon, garnished with fleurons or sippets. 1088. Compote de JPluviers d la Dor la (Compote of Plovers).—2 small plovers, trussed for roasting, 1 oz.: butter, 1 lb, potatoes cooked and made into a puree, 2 small tomatoes, 6 to 8 preserved mushrooms (champignons), 1 gill demi-glace sauce (No. 237), 5 gill stock, 1 glass sherry or Marsala, 4 oz. meat glaze or Lemco, 1 small bouquet garni, 1 egg, seasoning, 12 small godiveau quenelles (poached) -(No. 401). Partially roast the birds in front of the fire, or in the oven, using the butter for basting. Allow about fifteen minutes, not more. When cold enough to handle cut them up into neat joints, remove the skin, and put the pieces in a saute-pan ; place the mushrooms, cut into slices, and the quenelles, previously cooked and drained, on top of the pieces. Toss the tomatoes (sliced) in a little butter, add the sherry, cover, and let reduce ; then add the carcases of the birds, cut up small, the stock, the sauce, and the bunch of herbs, and cook for about twenty minutes. Remove the bones and herbs, and pass the remainder through a fine hair sieve or tossing cloth ; add the meat glaze or meat extract, and pour over the pieces of plover &c. in the saute-pan. Season with salt, pepper, and half a teaspoonful of Krone pepper. Cover and let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Arrange a neat border of mashed potatoes on a round entree-dish, brush over the