60 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK CHAPTER YII CULINARY REQUISITES COOKING UTENSILS &c. It is of importance that every kitchen, small or large, should be equipped with the best possible utensils. No workman can produce satisfactory results without proper tools, and it is unreasonable to expect a cook to perform his or her work in a satisfactory manner without the necessary implements. A good kitchen equipment is one of the foundations of good catering. There is no end to the introduction of patent cooking utensils and alleged labour-saving machines for the kitchen; some of them are excellent and economical, whilst others are of little use to the practical cook, and many are dear at any price. It is difficult to give a complete list of cooking utensils needed, for this must, of course, be governed by individual circumstances, but in order to give an idea as to what is needed for an average large house- hold kitchen a list of the essential articles is appended. To each item in this list an explanation of the use for which the utensils are intended has been attached. Most of the illustrations of cooking utensils which appear in this work have been kindly lent by Messrs. Jones Bros, of 13 & 14, Down Street, Piccadilly, who manufacture and supply every kind of apparatus and utensil for the culinary profession. LIST OF COOKING UTENSILS For a Completely Equipped Moderately Sized Kitchen The dimensions are not in every case given, as this must necessarily depend upon the requirements, and must be varied accordingly. 1 copper stock-pot, holding about H to 2 gallons 1 copper consomme-pan, for finished consommes and purees 9 copper stewpans of various sizes, 4 to 12 inches diameter, with lids 3 saute-pans, with covers, 9 in., 10 in. and 12 in. in diameter 1 bain-marie, fitted with 6 to 8 pans, for keeping sauces, soups, gravies, &c., hot 1 round braising or fricandeau-pan, with cover 1 oval deep braising-pan, for cooking removes, hams, fricandeaus, fil- lets of beef, &e., and for braising large pieces of fish 1 large iron saucepan with steamer, for steaming puddings, meat, &c.