392 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK well with a layer of tomato aspic, decorate with a few tarragon and chervil leaves if liked; when set, fill up the moulds with the prepared cream, put on the ice for at least an hour, then turn out. Place the cream on the baked pastry, decorate the sides with whipped cream, dish up, and serve. 1147. Petits Sou ffles ati Jambon .—8 to 10 oz. cooked lean ham, 1 gill rich Madeira sauce (No. 237 a), 1^ gill aspic jelly, pint cream, 2 leaves French leaf gelatine, seasoning. Cut the ham into small slices, and pound till smooth in a mortar; add the brown sauce gradually, mix well, and rub through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water. Heat up the aspic and strain the gelatine into it. Whisk this over the ice till it begins to set, then stir into the ham mixture. Season to taste with pepper, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of ground mace. Whip the cream till stiff, and work into the mixture. Continue whisking for some minutes, then fill up some little souffle cases (paper, china, or silver). A band of paper should be previously fixed round each. Place them in a charged ice-cave for two hours. Remove the paper band, dish up, and serve quickly. 1148. Souffle de Jambon a V Espagnole (Ham Souffle).— \ lb. cooked ham (lean), 1 oz. butter, 1 shallot, ^ pint Espagnole sauce (No. 236) (rich in flavour), 1 gill aspic jelly (No. 38), £ oz. French leaf gelatine, 1 gill cream, 1 white of egg, seasoning, salt, pepper, and paprika. Cut the ham into dice. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, add the shallot, peeled and minced finely, and fry a little, then put in the ham and fry over a quick fire for five minutes, put it in a mortar and pound finely, adding a little Espagnole sauce to moisten. Rub the whole through a fine sieve and put it in a stewpan with the sauce. Allow to cook for ten minutes, and season to taste. Then add the aspic jelly and the gelatine, dissolved and strained. Whisk the egg- white to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture before it is quite cool. Whip the cream and incorporate with the mixture. Stir over the ice till it commences to set, then pour into a prepared souffle dish, with a paper band attached. Keep it on the ice for about two hours. Remove the paper band, sprinkle the top with panurette seasoned with a good pinch of paprika or krona pepper, and serve at once. 1149. Pates of Turkey or Chicken.—Prepare a good light puff-paste, and make some small patty cases ; a convenient plan is to order as many patty cases as may be needed from the confectioner. Any good shop will be able to supply them at a few hours’ notice. The cases, whether home-made or ordered from the confectioner, must be empty, i.e. the soft portion must be removed from the centre of the pastry. To make the mixture for filling proceed as follows : Mince (not too finely) six to eight ounces of cooked turkey or chicken, free from bone, skin, and sinew (a little cooked veal may be mixed with it if needed), three to four ounces of cooked ham or