ENTREES CHAUDES BE VIANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 277 oven for ten minutes. Dish up in a circle, garnish the centre with small rounds of potatoes (pommes Parisienne) (No. 767), pour round some demi-glace (No. 237), and serve. 721. Cdtelettes de Wouton d la Me forme (Mutton Cutlets, Reform Style).—6 to 8 neatly cut and trimmed mutton cutlets, a handful of fresh bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped ham, 1 slice of ham, 1 rate egg, 1 hard-boiled egg, 4 French gherkins, 1 truffle, 6 preserved mushrooms, a small carrot {cooked), 1 oz. lard, 2 oz. butter, seasoning, Reforme or pepper sauce {No..255). Flatten the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat, pare off some of the fat, and free the bones from skin (about an inch down). Season the cutlets lightly with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, and cover well with a mixture of bread-crumbs and chopped ham. Shape them neatly and put them on a plate till required. Cut the slice of ham, the white of the hard-boiled egg, the gherkins, the truffle, and the mushrooms into oblong shreds of even size, put them in a stewpan with a little stock and a small piece of fresh butter. Season with a pinch of pepper, and keep hot. Dissolve the remainder of butter and the lard in a saute- or frying-pan; when hot, put in the cutlets and cook till tender—a nice light brown colour. Drain, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, put the shreds of vegetable &c. in the centre, pour some Reforme or pepper sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. 722. Cdtelettes d la Riche.—6 or 8 mutton or lamb cutlets, 1 pig's caul, 1 oz. butter, liver farce, 1 truffle, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, fat to fry, pepper, salt, sauce Perigueux {No. 243). Trim and shape the cutlets, season with pepper and salt, put them in a saute-pan with 1 oz. butter (previously heated), fry the cutlets lightly over a quick fire (the cutlet must not be allowed to fry long, and should be quite underdone when taken up). Drain, put to press between two tins; when cold, pare and trim neatly. Have ready some liver farce ; chop the truffles finely and mix with the farce. Cover each side of the cutlet with the farce, wrap up each in pig’s caul, egg and crumb (twice if necessary), shape neatly, and place in a wire basket. Fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard; strain, dish up, and serve with Perigueux sauce. 723. Cdtelettes de Mouton d la Strasbourgeoise {Mutton Cutlets, Strasbourg Style).— 8 neatly-trimmed and pared mutton cutlets, 1 small terrine foie gras {No. 12 size), 1 shallot, ^ gill brown or Espagnole {No. 236) sauce, 1 gill tomato sauce {No. 271), 2 oz. butter, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, frying-fat, pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saute- or frying-pan ; when hot put in the cutlets (flattened slightly with a cutlet-bat, trimmed very neatly, and seasoned with pepper and salt), fry them over a quick fire so as to brown each side without cooking through the meat. Take up and drain the cutlets. Free the foie gras from the lard usually found on the top-, cut it into small pieces, and pound in a mortar. Peel and chop finely the shallot, fry it in the butter left in the pan in which the