THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK 336 a sliced carrot,.1 sliced onion, a bouquet garni (No. 2), ^ pint stock, 1 oz. butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, veloutee or supreme sauce (Nos. 206 and 210), financiere garniture (No. 455). Truss the pullet the same as for boiling, line a braising-pan with slices of bacon, put in the carrot, onion, and bouquet, lay in the pullet, cover the top with the butter, put in a hot oven for ten minutes, moisten with the stock, season, cover with a buttered paper, and braise until about three-parts done. Remove the pullet and let it get cold. Bone the chicken, free the meat from skin and gristle, chop finely, and pound till quite smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, return to the mortar and work in the whites of egg. Season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a suspicion of nutmeg. Whip the cream and mingle with the forcemeat. Untruss the pullet; with a sharp-pointed knife cut out the breasts and bones, so that it forms an oval case ; place it in a saute-pan (buttered), fill the hollow part with a fourth part of the prepared forcemeat, poach in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, cut the two breast fillets into scollops, range them in two rows on top of the forcemeat, coat with a little sauce, return to the oven for another ten minutes or so, put the remainder of the forcemeat on top, smooth neatly, fasten a paper band round it if necessary, and finish cooking in a moderate oven. Dress the poularde whole on a bed of cooked rice, on a large silver dish; garnish the sides with financiere previously warmed in a little sauce (arrange the garniture in groups or clusters), pour over some rich veloutee or suprendte sauce, and serve hot. Note.—It is safest to test the forcemeat first; if found too stiff add a little more cream, and if found too liquid add a little more white of egg whipped to a stiff froth. 950. Poularde sautee d la Saint Valentin.—Stewed pullet with finely-chopped truffles, mushrooms, garnished with heads of mushrooms, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, fleurons (small half-moon shapes of puff-paste, baked), and chopped parsley, served with orange sauce (No. 258), reduced with Madeira wine. 951. Poulet ‘ en Casserole—Trim a tender fowl the same as for boiling or braising, and rub the skin well with the cut side of a lemon. Take an earthenware or copper stew or braising pan, large enough to hold the fowl, put in two to three ounces of butter, three or four small onions (button onions) peeled and stuck with two cloves, and a full bouquet garni (this means with every herb to hand, but very little of each) ; add to this a handful of bacon cut into dice. Allow to get hot and put in the fowl; let it cook very gently on the stove for about one hour, baste the fowl frequently and turn it from time to time. When done pour off the fat, seaso^ the fowl with salt and pepper ; moisten with a ladleful of rich gravy or a tablespoonful of liquefied meat glaze, put it in the oven for about ten minutes, and baste it well with the liquor. Take up the fowl, untruss, dish it up on a hot dish, strain any liquid remaining in the pan over the fowl, and serve.