ENTREMETS SUCRES {HOT SWEETS) 515 liaison is formed. Mix the pulp and liqueur with the fecula or corn-flour and work this into the above, whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mingle carefully into the mixture, adding at the same time a few drops of orange-flower water. Eange the orange cases on a baking-tin, fill them with the above preparation, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 1609. Ponding Genevoise.—Fill a well-buttered timbale- mould with layers of cooked rice (cooked in milk and sweetened) and apple puree (sweetened and flavoured with cinnamon), bake for twenty minutes, and serve with hot fruit syrup. 1610. Souffle aux Prunes {Prune Souffle).—^ lb. good-sized 'prunes, 1 lemon, 4 oz. caster sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoonf ul flour, \ oz. fresh butter, | oz. sweet almonds blanched and peeled. Wash the prunes in several courses of water, place them in a basin, -cover with fresh cold water, and let them soak for a few hours. Cook them over a slow fire or in the oven in an earthenware fire-proof pan (casserole) until they are tender, add the thin rind of a lemon and with enough water to cover set them aside to cool. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs and cream, the former with the sugar. When thoroughly worked to a creamy consistency sprinkle in the flour and mix well, add also the strained juice of half a lemon and the prunes, freed from the stones and cut into small pieces. Butter a souffle or ordinary pie dish thoroughly; whisk the whites of eggs till stiff, and incorporate half into the mixture, also half the almonds, cut into small strips. Fill up the souffle dish, pile the remainder of egg-froth on top, sprinkle with caster sugar, place the remainder of almond strips here and there on top of the souffle. Bake from twenty-five to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. 1611. liordure de Poires d la Heine.—2 lbs. small stewing pears, 4 lb. loaf sugar, 1 oz. butter, 1 inch ichole cinnamon', 3 sponge cakes or apiece of Genoise cake, 2 ichole and 1 yolk of eggs, 2 oz. caster sugar, 1 gill milk, rind of half a lemon. Peel the pears, core them, and put in a stewpan with a quart of water, the loaf sugar, the piece of cinnamon, and a few drops of -cochineal. Let it boil up, skim, and allow to simmer until the pears are tender ; this will take about half an hour. Take out the fruit, reduce the syrup to the proper consistency, put the pears in the syrup again, and keep warm. Butter a border-mould with clarified butter, line the bottom with a piece of buttered paper, beat up the eggs in a basin, add the caster sugar, milk, lemon-rind, finely chopped, and a few drops of cochineal, to give it a pink colour. Cut the cake in slices, place it in the mould, fill up with the custard mixture, and stand the mould in a sautoir or baking-tin half filled with boiling water ; cover with buttered paper, and bake in the oven for forty minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, remove the paper, arrange the pears in. a row on the border. Strain the syrup, pour over the pears, and serve.