447 VEGETABLES (LEGUMES) PLAIN AND DRESSED Butter a pudding basin, sprinkle the buttered part with chopped parsley, and line the basin neatly with carrots ; fill up tightly with the remainder of carrots, place the basin in a hot oven for a few minutes, and turn out quickly on to a hot dish. Heat up the demi-glace sauce, add the cream, season to taste, and pour round the base of the dish. 1314. Carottes a la JBruxelloise.—1 bunch of young spring carrots, 1 oz. bittter, % teaspoonful chopped parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 table spoonfuls cream, salt, pepper, and caster sugar. Trim, wash, and scrape the carrots, cut them into halves or quarters, and blanch them in slightly salted water. Drain them and put them in a stewpan with the butter. Toss them over the fire for a few minutes without allowing them to get brown, then add a gill of good stock, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar, and cook till tender. Mix the yolks of eggs with the cream and pour into the stewpan containing the carrots ; stir till the liaison is formed, then add the parsley (finely chopped), mix thoroughly, and serve very hot. 1315. Carottes farcies a ax -JEpinards.—Z good-sized tender carrots, 4 oz. cooked game, poultry, or rabbit, 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 3 or 4 mushrooms (champignons), 1 tablespoonful bread-crumbs, 1 tablespoonful bechamel (No. 202) or Espagnole (No. 236) sauce, 1 yolk of egg, seasoning, 1 pint spinach puree. Waah and peel thinly the carrots, cut them into two-inch lengths, and pare each to about the same thickness all through. Boil in salted water till nearly tender ; drain and let cool. With a column- cutter stamp out the yellow (centre) part from each. Mince finely the game or poultry, ham or tongue, and mushrooms. Season with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, fine herbs, and grated nutmeg. Moisten with sauce and the egg-yolk. Cook over the fire till hot, then add the bread- crumbs. Fill the cavities of the carrots with this, place them on a buttered saute-pan, and bake for fifteen minutes in a fairly hot oven. Heat up the spinach puree, season to taste, and dress in the shape of a pyramid on a round entree dish ; surround with the baked stuffed carrots, pour a little hot gravy or demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. If liked, a small braised button onion, or a fried button mushroom, can be placed on top of each carrot; this will improve the appearance of the dish, though it is not essential to serve these. 1316. Carottes nouvelles a la Flamande.—l bunch new carrots, 1 oz. butter, ^ pint white stock, \ tablespoonful flour, 2 yolks of eggs, ^ gill cream, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, caster sugar. Wash and scrape the carrots (they should be spring carrots, all one size, if possible), cut them in halves or quarters, trim off a little of the inside and shape neatly, parboil them for ten minutes in salted water, drain them in a collander. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the carrots, season with a little salt, some pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and two pinches of caster sugar, sprinkle them with the-