259 DRESSED FISH AND FISH ENTREES (COLD) moisten with a little white wine or mushroom liquor, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes. Meanwhile mask some cockle-shell moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate each tastefully with stripes of truffle and hard-boiled white of egg, mix about half a pint of aspic liquid (i.e. not quite set) with the mayonnaise sauce, line the decorated moulds with this, then place the prepared fillets into the moulds, fill up with mayonnaise aspic, and put them on the ice to set. To serve, dip the moulds into warm water, and unmould quickly onto a dish, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve. 669. Filets de Sole en Aspic.—2 soles, 1 lobster, oz. blotter, 1 oz. flour, \ gill cream, i gill stock, chopped parsley, 2 truffles, 1 quart aspic jelly (No. 293), lemon-juice. Skin the soles and remove the fillets, chop the lobster meat until fine, melt the butter, stir in the flour ; when cooked add the lobster, moisten with cream and stock, season with salt, pepper, a pinch of cayenne, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; mix thoroughly, and put on a plate to cool. Spread one side of the fillets with this mixture, roll up each fillet, tie with string, place on a buttered baking-sheet, cover with buttered paper, bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Line a plain border mould with aspic jelly, decorate with fancifully cut slices of truffles, pour over another layer of aspic, set the fillets when cold, whole or cut in halves, fill up with aspic, and put on the ice to set. Serve with a nice salad in centre. 670. Chaud-froid de Filets de Sole d la Capucine.—1 large sole, % small lobster, 8 prawns, 1 truffle, % gill mayonnaise sauce (No. 277), 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, f pint aspic (No. 293), a little white sauce, 1 gill cream, 2 sheets French gelatine, a few drops of liquid carmine, pepper and salt, 1 oz: butter, lemon. Remove all the meat from the lobster, chop finely, and pound in a mortar, add the anchovy essence and sufficient white sauce to form a smooth paste, season to taste. Fillet the sole, flatten the fillets, and spread the above farce on one side of each ; roll up or fold in two, place them on a well-buttered baking-sheet or saute-pan, season with a little pepper and salt and a little lemon-juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. When done take up and set aside to cool. Mask the inside of a border or large dariole mould with a thin layer of aspic jelly, decorate the sides artistically with picked prawns and fancifully cut slices of truffle, and a few leaves of tarragon and chervil. Stand the mould on the ice, dissolve the gelatine in the remainder of aspic, stir when cooling into the mayonnaise, add the cream and a few drops of carmine to give it a nice pink colour, season with a pinch of sugar, a little salt and pepper, and coat the inside of the mould. Cut the fillets into neat slices and set these into the mould with alternate layers of sauce. Add a little more aspic to the sauce if needed, and fill up the mould