377 ENTREES OF GAME (HOT DISHES) 3 mushrooms, 2 oz. lean bacon or liam (cooked), 2 oz. butter, 1 small shallot, 1 dessertspoonful flour, 1 egg, a little stock, lemon- jioice, chopped parsley, fried parsley, pepper and salt, nutmeg, pig's caul, ovcd souffle cases. Chop finely the game, ham, and mushrooms ; melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan; when hot put in the shallot, finely chopped, fry a little, stir in the flour, and cook, while stirring for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with about half a gill of stock, let it come to the boil, mix in the chopped meat, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and a few drops of i lemon-juice, bind with the yolk of one egg; season with pepper, salt, and a little grate of nutmeg. Let it get thoroughly hot, and spread on a plate to cool. Make up into neatly-shaped, even-sized cork shapes (in accordance with size of paper cases), wrap each carefully in a square of pig’s caul, fasten the ends with a little white of egg. Let stand for a few minutes to set. Butter the inside of the paper cases, fry sufficient parsley to form little beds for each case. Melt the remainder of the butter in a saute-pan, put in the andouillettes, and fry a golden colour over a moderate fire or in the oven. When done take up, drain on paper or cloth, put on a baking- tin, brush the surface of each with liquid meat-glaze. Pass in the oven for another minute and put on beds of fried parsley in paper cases. Dish up and serve with a boat of piquante (No. 241) or tomato (No. 271) sauce. 1100. Croustades de Gibier a la Gambetta.—Salmis of game, with truffles, filled on fried bread croustades, and garnished with small stuffed tomatoes. 1101. Friandines de Gibier d la Ferif/tteux.—Prepare about one pound of salpicon (No. 11), of any kind of cooked game, tongue, mushrooms, and truffles. Take one pound of puff-paste, roll it out very thin ; stamp out some rounds with a fluted pastry-cutter ; put a small heap of salpicon mince in the centre of half the quantity of each round, wet the edges with a brush, cover each with the other half; press gently, taking care to keep the mince in the centre of each one. Dip them carefully in the well-beaten egg, crumb in freshly-made bread-crumbs mixed with a small handful of chopped ham or a dessertspoonful of chopped truffles ; fry in clarified butter, drain on a cloth, dish up in a pyramidal form, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with a boat of sauce Perigueux (No. 243). 1102. Mousses de Gibier ala Lion d’ Or.— About 1 lb. of raw game, pheasant, partridge, or any other bird (freedfrom skin and bones), 6 oz. pork (fresh), 3 raw eggs, 3 oz. panade (No. 8), 1 No. 12 size jar foie gras, 1 gill brown sauce (Espagnole, No. 236), pepper, salt, and aromatics, 1 gill supreme sauce (No. 210), 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 oz. meat-glaze (No. 247). Cut the game and pork into small pieces (the pork must consist of equal parts of lean and fat). Pound these in a mortar till smooth, then add the panade. Mix thoroughly and work in the yolks of the eggs