610 THE NEW CENTURY COOKERY BOOK part which is open, to keep the mixture from running off. Bake it in a quick oven to a nice yellow colour ; cut it into fancy or plain shapes, put them to dry, then glaze them with different coloured fondant or glace royale ; when dry ornament with apple and red currant jelly. 1979. Gateau Genoise (Genoise Cake).—6 eggs, ^ oz. caster sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 oz. flour, the thin rind of | a lemon finely chopped. Break the eggs into a basin or into a copper egg-bowl; beat up with a whisk and add the sugar ; whisk these together over a stew- pan of boiling water for about fifteen minutes, till it appears like a thick cream, then stir in by degrees the flour (sifted) and the butter (melted); lastly add the lemon-rind, pour this mixture into a well- buttered saute-pan, and bake in a moderately heated oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Turn out, let cool, and use as required. 1980. Madeleines d’Fpernay.—^ lb. caster sugar, 7 eggs, 4 oz. sifted flour, the rind of half a lemon finely chopped, 1 oz. of ground almonds, 2 oz. butter. Put the sugar into a basin, stir in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, and beat until it resembles a thick cream; stir in half the flour, the lemon-rind, and almonds. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, melt the butter, work in gently the whites of eggs, the remainder of the flour, and the melted butter. The mixing must be done very carefully, so as to retain as much as possible the frothy consistency of the whites of eggs. Three-parts fill some well-buttered madeleine or floured patty-pans, bake them in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 1981. Sponge Cakes.—6 oz. flour, 6 oz. caster sugar, 6 yolks and 4 ichites of eggs, a gill of milk. Sift the flour and put it in front of the fire to dry ; cream the sugar and egg-yolks, and beat or whisk for at least twenty minutes ; now add the milk and flour together, mix the whites of eggs, which have been whisked to a stiff froth, the flour, and eggs; the whites must be worked in very lightly and by degrees, i.e. in small quantities. Three-parts fill some well buttered and sugared or floured sponge-cake moulds. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about thirty minutes. 1982. Sponge Fingers.-—Prepare a mixture as for sponge cakes, as directed in the foregoing recipe, put it into a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and force out even-sized and even-shaped fingers on to a greased baking-sheet. Dredge them with caster sugar and bake in a moderately heated oven for about fifteen minutes. 1983. Pain d’Fpice (French Gingerbread).—f lb. flour, { lb. ground rice, % oz. baking-powder, 1 oz. ginger {ground), 8 oz. honey or treacle, ^ gill milk, 1 egg, 4 oz. ground almonds, 8 oz. butter, 1 lemon, 1 saltspoonful grated nutmeg, 1 ditto ground clove. Sift the flour, baking-powder, and ground rice, and mix together. Put the honey or treacle and butter in a warm jar, and put in a warm place until the butter is dissolved. Peel the lemon thinly and chop