ENTRIES CHAUDES DE VlANDES {HOT MEAT DISHES) 295 strips of fat bacon (larding bacon), season with pepper and salt, brush over well with oiled butter, broil over a brisk fire (rather underdone), dish up, garnishing a la Gouffe (No. 464), and serve with demi-glace (No. 237). ABBREVIATED RECIPES OF OTHER ENTREES, ETC., OF BEEF. 789. Beefsteaks a l’Anglaise.— Small steaks cut off the sirloin or tenderloin of beef, pared, seasoned, dipped in oiled butter, and broiled. Dished up with parsley butter (No. 394) on each, garnished with small round chipped potatoes. 790. Beefsteaks a la Bardoux.—Thinly-cut round fillet steaks, dipped in oiled butter, rolled in a mixture of fresh bread-crumbs, finely-chopped beef-marrow and parsley, salt and pepper. Pried briskly in butter, and served with mattre d’hotel sauce (No. 233). 791. Beefsteaks a la Brisse.—Small round fillet steaks, slightly marinated, then drained and broiled. Served with well-reduced and highly-spiced tomato sauce, surrounded with small timbales of mashed turnips. 792. Beefsteaks a la Godard,—Small round fillet steaks, seasoned and grilled. Served with a rich demi-glace sauce (No. 237), garnished with small slices of sweetbreads, mushroom-heads, quartered artichoke bottoms, and truffles. 793. Beefsteaks a la Soyer.— Small, but rather plump, tender steaks, dipped in oiled butter, sprinkled with bread-crumbs, finely- chopped chives, parsley, and seasoning, fried in butter or lard, and served with a richly-prepared savoury herb sauce. 794. Chateaubriand a la Chipolata. -Broiled double fillet steak, dished up and garnished with braised and glazed chestnuts, fried pieces of sausage, and mushroom heads. Served with tomato sauce (No. 271). 795. Chateaubriand a la Cordon Rouge. Double fillet steak basted with oiled butter, seasoned, sprinkled with finely-chopped ham and fresh bread-crumbs, then broiled gently in clarified butter, garnished with groups of sliced truffles, prepared Brussels sprouts, and small stuffed tomatoes. Served with demi-glace sauce (No. 237). 796. Chateaubriand a la Marseillaise.—Grilled double fillet steak, surrounded with groups of glazed carrots, button onions, and very small cooked pieces of calves’ feet, coated with batter and fried. Served with Bordelaise sauce (No. 249). 797. Entrecotes a la Parisienne.—Grilled entrecotes (sirloin steaks) of beef, spread over with a mixture of finely-chopped shallot and chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and meat glaze. Garnished with small round fried potatoes. Serve with rich gravy. 798. Filets de Bceuf a la Claremont.—Braised fillets of beef larded and glazed, served with a garniture of braised, stuffed cucumber and tomatoes, also some small stuffed onions glazed. Sauce : Bear-