NERVOUS CONDUCTION—EXCITABILITY. 323 2. Conduction of voluntary motion, by another set of nerve-fibres, tlie motor, in like uninterrupted communication by one extremity with the cerebral centre, and by the other with the voluntary muscles. 3. Conduction of reflex motion, by a third set of nerve-fibres, in uninterrupted commimication by one extremity with the spinal cord, and by the other with the involuntary muscles. Conduction is called into action only on the application of a stimulus. Nerves are charged with nervous force just as a Leyden jar is charged with electricity; but they do not give it ofi" until their passive state is changed, by the application of some physical or mental stimulus which disturbs the equilibrium of the force, thereby affecting every ultimate atom making up the nerve-fibre in the manner, it may be inferred, which is called induction in electricity. That property of a nerve by which it manifests its endowments under the influence of a stimulus is termed its excitability. By virtue of this property, a stimulus applied to the nerve-fibres for sensation excites sensation, and to those for motion, motion. Since stimuli excite in succession the ultimate component atoms of the nerve-fibres, it follows that every action of a stimulus is at the expense of this matter. A portion of it is used up in and by every excitation. The more violent and the longer continued the action, the greater is the expenditure of the nervous matter. Hence the exhaustion and waste caused by the daily actions of life. When these actions are normal, the daily waste is never greater than is compensated by the daily deposit of new matter by the process of nutrition ; but when the action is greater than natural, or more uninterruptedly continued, a longer time is required for repose, during which new matter may be supplied and appropriated. We are made conscious of these laws of excitabihty by the daily exercise of oui* senses and muscles. The longer the eye is fixed upon a coloured object, the less distinct becomes the colour, until at length it is lost, and the object becomes grey. The retina acted on by the stimulus of light becomes very rapidly exhausted, and at last insensible; the exhaustion being proportionate to the degree and persistence of the previous excitement. So with muscles. The longer and more forcible the contractions of the muscles of the arm, the greater their exhaustion and the longer the time required for the renewal of their excitability by their reception and appropriation of new supplies of blood. But a stimulus may be so violent as instantaneously to annihilate the excitability by the destruction of the nerve itself, like mechanical pressure by which the primitive fibres are crushed; the application of a chemical agent by which they are decomposed, or a stroke of lightning by which they are disorganised. On the excitability of the nerves which supply them depends tlie Y 2