FLEXIHILITY OF SPINAT. COT.UMN. 85 it should be firm, rigid, strong, and yet to a certain extent readily flexible in every direction. By what mechanism is it endowed with these apparently incompatible properties ? By means of the ring of compact bone, which forms so large a part of its body (Fig. 43, i), it is rendered firm, rigid, and strong. J3y means of its nnmerous separate pieces, exactly adjusted to each other, and dove-tailed into one another, an increase of strength is gained, such as it would not have been possible to communicate to a single solid piece. By the same mechanism, some degree of flexibility is also obtained; each sej)arate bone yielding to some extent, which, though slight in a single bone, becomes considerable in the twenty- four. But the flexibility required is much greater than could bo obtained by this expedient alone. A rigid and immoveable pile of bones, in the position of the spinal column, on wliich all the other parts of tlie body rest, and to which they are dkectly or indirectly attached, would necessarily have rendered all its movements stiff and mechanical; and every movement of every kind impossible but in a given direction. That the movements of the body may be easy, free, and varied ; that it may bo possible to brii\g into play new and complex combinations of motion at any instant, with the rapidity of the changes of thought at the command of the impulses of feehng, it is indispensable that the spinal column be flexible in every direction, forwards, backwards, and at the sides : it is equally indispensable that it be thus capable of yielding, without injuring the spinal cord, without mjuring the spinal nerves, without mjuring the thoracic and abdominal viscera, and with- out injuring the muscles of the trunk and extremities. The degree in which it possesses this power of flexibility, and the extent to which, by the cultivation of it, it is sometimes actually brought, is exemplified in the positions and contortions of the posture-master and the tumbler. It is acquired by means of the intervertebral substance, the compres- sible and elastic matter interposed between the several vertebrae. So compressible is this substance, that the human body is half an incli shorter in the evening than in the morning, having lost by the exer- tions of the day so much of its stature; yet so elastic is this matter that the stature lost during the day is regained by the repose of the night. The weight of the body pressing in all directions upon the spinal column ; muscles, bones, cartilages, ligaments, membranes, with all their vessels and all the fluids contained in them; the weight of all these component parts of the head, trunk, and extremities, pressing, without the cessation of an instant, during all the hours of vigilance, upon the intervertebral substance, compresses it; but this weight, being taken off during the night, by the recumbent posture of the body, the intervertebral substance, in consequence of its elasticity.