229 THE 8MALI, INTESTINES. tlnotlenmii the fluid is slowly but progressively propelled forwards, riie separation of the excrcmentitious matter becomes more comi)lete, and consequently the chyle more pure as it advances, until, having traversed the coui-se of the duodenum, it enters the second portion of the small intestines, the jejunum. The jejunum, so called because it is commonly found empty, and the ilium, named ft-om the number of its convolutions, on account of their great length arc provided with a distinct membrane to sujiport them, and to retain them in their situation, termed the mesenter^^ The mesentery is a broad membrane composed of two layers of peritoneum. Between these two layers, at one extremity of the du- plicature, is placed the intestines, while the other extremity is attached to the spinal column. The mesentery being much shorter than the intestines, the hitestines are gathered or puckered upon the membrane, l)y which beautiful mechanical contrivance they are held in fh-iU and close contact with each other, yet their convolutions cannot be en- tangled, nor can they be sliakeu from their place by the sudden and often violent movements of the body. It sometimes happens, in con- sequence of disease, that the convolutions of the intestines are glued together by the effusion of lymph, and then the most trifling causes are capable of producing the severest symptoms of obstruction in the bowels. The internal surface of the small intestines is distinguished— 1. By the number of the mucous glands, which may be seen by a magnifying glass to consist partly of a prodigious number of the minutest follicles, not collected in groups, but equally scattered throughout; and partly of glands of a larger dimension, disposed in groups at particular parts of the canal, 2. By the presence of the villi, of winch there are about four thou- sand to the surface of a square inch. The villi of the small intestine are composed of arteries, veins, and there is added a new vessel, the absorbent of the chyle, the lacteal, so named from the milk-like chylous fluid which it contains. 3. 15y the great extension of the mucous coat obtained by the dis- position of the membrane into the folds called valvuhie connivcntes (Fig. 87). These folds, which rarely extend through the whole circle of the intestine, are often joined by communicating folds. The folds are broadest in the middle, and narrowest at the extremities. In general, they are about a live and a half broad. One edge of the fold is loose, but the other is fixed to the intestine. The office of these folds is, first, without increasing space, to extend surface for the distribution of the vilh ; and, secondly, to retard the flow of the chyle, by opposing to its descent valves so constructed and disposed as.