188 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. temperature rises as high as 10"^ above the surrounding atmosphere. The union of oxygen with carbon in the lungs dming respu-ation must therefore necessarily produce heat, just as it does in a charcoal fire, or in any other natural process in which this combination takes place. 3. Numerous phenomena connected with the animal body show that its temperatm'e is in strict jjroportion to the quantity of oxygen which is consumed in respiration, and to the quantity of carbonic acid which is formed by the union of oxygen and carbon during the process. In all animals whose respu-atory organs are so constructed, that the consumption of oxygen and the consequent generation of carbonic acid is minute in quantity, the production of heat is 2n'Oi3ortionably small. In almost the entire class of the invertebrata, the respu'atory aj^jjaratus is comparatively minute and imperfect; accordingly, in these animals the power of generating heat is at the minimum. In the fish, though the respiratory apparatus be large, and though all the blood of the body circulate through it, yet only a small quantity of air is brought into contact with the respiratory organ, merely the air contained in water. In the reptile, though it possess a true and proper Imig, and respire air, yet only one half of the blood of its body circulates through the comparatively small, imperfectly divided, and simply constructed air bag, which constitutes its respiratory organ. Hence, the striking contrast exhibited between the temperatm-e of these cold-blooded creatures and that of the mammiferous quadruped, whose lung, compa- ratively large, and composed of innumerable minute and closely-set air vesicles, presents to the air an immense extent of sm-face, and the whole mass of whose blood incessantly traversing this sm-face, comes at every point into contact with the air. In the various tribes of warm-blooded animals, the elevation and uniformity of the temperature are strictly proportionate to the compa- rative magnitude of the lungs; to the complexity of their structure; to the minuteness and number of the air vesicles; and, consequently, to the quantity of oxygen consumed, and of carbonic acid generated. In all animals with red blood there is a strict relation between the temperatm-e of the body and the hghtness or depth of the colom- of the blood; invariably the deeper the colour, the higher the temperature. Thus, the blood of the fish and of the reptile is of a hght, and that of the bird of an intense red colour. It has been shown that the light- ness or deepness of the colour of the blood depends on the quantity of red particles which it contains; and the chemical action between the air and the blood is carried on chie% through the medium of the red particles. Even in the same animal, the temperature differs at different times according to the energy with which the process of respiration is carried on. When the circulation of the blood is sluggish and the respiration