274 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. the body, and the communication and preservation of its proper form. It is the office of the lacteals to replenish the blood by constantly pouring into it new matter, duly prepared for its conTersion into t]^e nutritive fluid. It is the office of the lymphatics to preside over the distribution of the blood as it is deposited in the system in the act of nutrition. The lymphatics are the architects which mould and fashion the body. They not only regulate the extension of the frame, but they retain each individual part in its exact position, and give to it its exact si2;e and shape. Growth is not mere accretion, not simple dis- tension; it consists of a specific addition to every individual part, while all the parts retain the same exact relation to each other and to the whole. When a bone grows it does not increase in bulk by the mere accumulation of bony matter; but every osseous particle is so increased in length and breadth that the relative size of every part, and the general configm'ation of the whole organ, remain precisely the same. When a muscle grows, while the entii'e organ enlarges in bulk by the augmentation of every individual part, each part retains exactly its former proportions and its relative connexions. When the brain grows, a certain quantity of cerebral matter is added to every individual part, but at the same time the proportionate size and original form of each part, and the primitive configuration of the entu'e organ, are retained exactly the same. How is this efiected ? By a totally new disposition of every integrant particle of every jDart of every organ. New matter is not deposited before the removal of the'old : the lymphatic, in the very act of removing the old, fashions a mould for the reception of the new, and then the cajDillary artery brings the new particle and deposits it with unerring exactness in the bed prepared for it. Thus, by removing the old materials of the body in a determinate manner, and thereby fiishioning a mould for the reception of the new, the lymphatics may be said, in the strictest sense, to be the architects of the frame.