33 INORGANIC, AND ORGANIC ELEMENTS. is given in Appendix No. I ; but the catalogue is continually changing; one substance being removed from the list, and another added to it, as experiment proves it to be compound or simple. Of these Inorganic Elements four only form the basis of organic bodies, namely, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen; and their relative abundance is nearly in the order of this enumeration. They are called essential organic elements, but to these are added minute quantities of other simple substances, as sulphur, phosphoins, chlorine, fluorine, potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, iron, silicon, man- ganese, aluminum and copper. These are named Incidental Or- ganic Elements ; but this term must not be understood in the sense of accidental; nor be allowed to convey the impression that they are of no determinate and essential use. They answer purposes of the utmost importance, as will be seen immediately. Out of the whole number of inorganic bodies, then, only seventeen have as yet been discovered in the organic kingdom. The essential organic elements never enter into the composition of organic bodies as elements. They first unite with each other in definite proportions, and form compounds of a determinate nature. Thus oxygen unites with carbon in the proportions that form carbonic acid ; hydrogen with oxygen in the proportions that form water ; nitrogen with hydrogen in the proportions that form ammonia ; and it is only as carbonic acid, water and ammonia, that the elements—now indeed no longer elements, but compound bodies—enter the organic world. The compounds thus formed are commonly named Organic Constituents. Organic constituents thus combined with one or more incidental elements, unite together in definite proportions and form distinct organic substances, commonly termed Proximate Principles—prin- ciples to distinguish them from elements, and proximate because they are the products of the first combinations of the organic constituents. The compounds thus formed may be said to stand on the verge of the organic world, but not to have entered it: they are not organised substances, but organisable: not living, but capable of being endowed with life : they have acquired new and peculiar properties and powers, such as are never manifested by inorganic bodies, and in order to distinguish them from the latter they are called " Vital;" yet they nmst not be regarded as formed by a peculiar vital principle different from ordinary chemical affinity, but as products of common chemical affinity, operating under conditions which present themselves only in living bodies. Since four elements make up the main bulk of the countless varieties of organic matter, they must be endowed with extraordinary powers of combination, and, indeed, there appeafs to be no limit 1)