324 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. action of aU the organs of the body. In its nonnal state every organ is always in contact with its appropriate stimiihis. By the influence of that stimulus on its nerves, its action is excited and maintamed.^ All the actions of life therefore are the result of stimuli. Life is a forced state, and is maintained only by an unceasing supply of stimu- lants. Lessen the stimulants, the actions are enfeebled ; increase them beyond a certam pomt, the actions are excessive, at the expense of the integrity of the nervous substance : take them away altogether, the actions stop; supply them with constancy and in due moderation, then and then alone are the actions carried on with their full and proper vigour, and capable of continuing during the whole term naturally assigned to them. The practical importance of a knowledge of these laws, in the regulation of the conditions on which physical and mental health and strength depend, in the conduct of physical and mental education, and in the modifications required at the different epochs of life, in infancy, in childhood, in manhood, and in old age, ^vill be shown in detail hereafter. CHAPTEE XXII. STRUOTUEE OP THE SYMPATHETIC OR GANGLIONIC CENTRE. The greater part of this system is termed the sympathetic, from an ancient notion that the so-called sympathetic nerve, from its peculiar relation to other nerves, is the cause of that wonderful consent and sympathy which exists between all parts of the animal body. But this nerve does not appear to possess anything really distinctive in this respect, beyond the comparative number of its branches, and its conse- quent more extensive connections. This division of the nervous system is also called the ganglionic, from its being composed chiefly of the bodies called ganglia; and the organic, from its being supposed to preside over the functions of the organic or vegetative life. The ganglionic system, in its whole extent, includes the ganglia of the great sympathetic (Fig. 102); the ganglia of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; those of several cerebral nerves; and those in the substance of organs, together with their respective communicat- ing branches. Anatomically all these organs are essentially the same, and therefore form one system. The sympathetic part of the ganglionic system, however, to which the term sympathetic is restricted, consists of a series of ganglia united by connecting cords, forming what is called the trunk of the great