247 RELATION TO BLOOD-VESSELS AND NERVES. secreting apparatus in the whole animal kingdom, and has traced the progressive development of the several secreting organs through the entire animal series, from their simplest form in the lowest animal, to then- most complex in the highest. From the researches of this physiologist, and from the labom'S of others, his coimtrymen and contemporaiies, who have engaged in the investigation with an ardour second only to his own, it is demonstrated that the secreting apparatus of the animal body is disposed in one or other of the elementary forms which have been described. The blood- vessels are distributed upon the walls of these elementary bodies, whether simple crypttB, folhcles, caeca, or tubuli, or whether these bodies are accumulated and combined into the largest and most com- plex series of secreting canals, just as the branches of the pulmonary artery are distributed upon the walls of the air-vesicles in the rete mirabile of the lungs. The air-vesicles of the lungs are secreting organs, and afford an excellent example of the mode in which the blood-vessels are distributed upon the walls of the elementary secreting bodies. The arteries do not form continuous tubes with the secreting bodies or their excretory ducts, as was maintained by Kuysh ; neither is the secreting body interposed between the termination of the artery and the commencement of the excretory duct, as was thought by Malpighi; but the ultimate divisions of the arteries are sjjread out upon the walls of the secreting bodies, where they terminate in veins by a delicate vascular net-work. The minutest branch of the artery is always smaller than the minutest secreting body on the walls of which it is distributed. The arteries, spread out upon the walls of the secreting bodies, form a distinct and pecuhar system of vessels visible under the microscope. In the more complex secreting organs, they reach their distribution upon the walls of the secreting folhcles, and no longer divide and subdivide, but are always of the same uniform size. These ultimate divisions of the arteries are the proper capillaries. It is in these that the changes are wrought upon the blood which it is the object of the various processes of secretion to effect. In the walls of these vessels there are visible no pores, no apertures, no open extre- mities by which the secreted fluid, when formed from the blood, is conveyed into the cavity of the secreting canals; it probably passes through the walls of the vessels into the secreting canals by the process of endosmose. Secreting organs are very abundantly supplied with nerves, which are derived for the most part from the organic portion of the nervous system; although for the reasons assigned sentient nerves are mixed with the organic. The more important secreting organs have each a distinct net-work or plexus of organic nerves, which surround the blood-vessels distributed to the organ, and which envelops more