COURSE OF THE THORACIC DUCT. particles that are found in the cliyle after it has been through the gland, so that these probably come from this source. Blood-vessels are richly spread out in the interior of the glands, and come into near relation with the chyle that passes through them. Emerging from the first series of glands, the lactcals proceed on then- course to the second series, which they penetrate, and in tlie interior of which they {ire disposed, as in the first set. On passing out of this second series of glands, the lacteals unite together, and compose successively larger and larger branches, until at length they form two or three trunks (Fig. 91, 4), which terminate in tlie small oval sac (Fig. 91, 5), termed the receptacle of the chyle (receptaculum chyli). In this oval sac or receptacle of the chyle, which rests upon tlie second or the first lumbar vertebra, also terminate the trunks of the general absorbent vessels of the system, called from tlfe hjmjyh or the pellucid fluid which they contain, lymphatics, as the lacteals arc named from tlie lactitious or milky appearance of their contents. The receptacle of the chyle produced forms the thoracic duct (Fig. 91, 7), a canal about three lines in diameter. This tube rests upon the spinal column, ascends on the right side of the aorta, passes through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and enters into the chest. Here it forms a transparent tube about the size of a crow-quill; it rests upon the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae; it continues to ascend still on the right side of the aorta, until it reaches the sixth or fifth dorsal vertebra, when changing its direction, it passes obliquely over to the left side. From this point it continues its course upwards, on the left side of the neck, as high as the sixth cervical vertebra ; when suddenly turning forwards and a little downwards, it terminates its course in the angle formed by the union of the internal jugular Avith the subclavian vein (Fig. 91, 8, u). At its termination in these great venous trunks arc placed two valves, which prevent alike the return of the chyle, and the entrance of the blood into the duct. This account of the course of the thoracic duct is a description of the course of the chyle. Performing a double, circuitous, and slow circulation through the minute convoluted tubes of which the double series of mesenteric glands arc composed, the cliyle, in its receptacu- lum, is mixed with the contents of the lymphatic vessels, lynipli, that is, organic matter brought from every surface and tissue of the body. Both fluids, chyle and lymph, mixed and mingled, flow together into the thoracic duct, by which in the course traced they are poured into the blood, just as the venous torrent is rushing to the heart. Thus, the final product of digestion, the chyle; particles of organ- ised matter, the lymph; and venous blood, that is, blood which has already circulated through the system commingled, flow together to the right heart, by which they arc transmitted to the lungs, where all