NEliVOUS BODIES AT THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 381 obtains in the voluntary muscles. With such an organisation, tliere is no difficulty in understanding that impressions may be made on the skin which do not excite sensation, and that contractions may be determined in voluntary muscles without the agency of volition. Tliere are two kinds of muscular motion, one the direct result of volition; for this the integrity of the brain is essential: the other, unattended with sensation, reflex action, which is capable of being equally excited whether the brain is entu'e or has wholly ceased to exist. The persistence of these motions after the destruction of the brain does not, therefore, prove the persistence of sensation, but only of reflexion; and the persistence of this power is sufficient to account for all the excited and combined phenomena observed in exjierimcnt and disease. As long as the medulla oblongata is uninjured, and in connection with the respiratory nerves, respiration and life continue; but when all the brain above it is removed, there is no more appearance of sen- sation and volition in the animal subject to the experiment than there is when only the spinal cord is left. The medulla oblongata has, therefore, no claim to be considered as the seat of sensation and volun- tary motion, or in any direct manner as the organ of the mind. The bodies within the cranium, situated between the medulla oblongata and the brain proper, are the Pons Varolii, the Crura cerebri, the optic tubercles, the Corpora Albicantia, the Thalami, and the striated bodies. Each of these masses possesses a distinct and definite organisation, and is invariably placed in the same relative position, so that it must be regarded as exercising a distinct and definite function. Many efforts have been made by vivisection to determine respectively what that function is, but hitherto with little success. The masses are so intimately connected together, and it is so difficult to isolate one from the other, that there seems but small hope of ascertaining with any degree of certainty the separate action of each. Still, observation and experiment have ascertained certain facts with reference to some of them which are not without interest, as suggesting probable conjec- tures with regard to then' office. 1. Pons Varolii.—It has been shown that the Pons proper consists of transverse fibres expanded arch hke across the median line, proceed- ing from the cerebellum, and forming the greater part of the Crura Cerebri. These fibres are purely commissural, and theii' office is to unite the hemispheres of the cerebellum with each other. But other fibres pass through the Pons from the pyramids, olives, and posterior pyramids, without forming part of it. In the intervals between all these fibres there is a considerable quantity of grey