PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 368 tlierefore, in its natural [Situation, there is no appearance of cerebel- lum. (Fig. 108.) The cerebral lobes, though extending over the cerebellum, are not in contact with it, a special ])rovision being made to protect it from the pressure of these large and heavy masses by the expansion of the process of the dura mater, termed the tentorium, akeady described, which forms a vaulted roof on which the cerebral lobes rest, and under which the cerebellum lies in perfect safety. The cerebellum consists of a central body continuous across the median plane, called the vermiform process (beneath medulla oblon- gata, in Fig. 107), and of two large lateral masses, termed hemi- spheres. The vermiform process is the fundamental part of the organ, as is shown by comj^arative anatomy; for in tracing the cere- bellum through the series of animals, it is found that the vermiform process is the typical cerebellum; this being the real cerebellum in all ' the animals which possess the organ. In the lower classes of animals there is nothing but the vermiform process ; in the higher orders the lateral masses, or hemispheres, are superadded. In man each hemisphere of the cerebellum is divided into lobes, which are generally described as six in number (Fig. 107) ; and these are again subdivided into innumerable laminae, or plates, by fissures that vary from a line to half an inch in depth, or more. (Fig. 107.) The external surface of the cerebellum presents a striking contrast to that of the cerebrum; because its neurine is folded in a different manner, forming laminas, or plates, not convolutions. One purpose is equally answered by both arrangements, namely, the packing of the largest amount of grey neurine, the dynamic portion, in the smallest space. Fig. 109 exhibits the several parts of the encephalon just described in section. 1. The cerebrum, which entirely fills tlie upper portion of the skull. 2. The cerebellum, occupying the base of it, and over- lapped by the posterior portion of the cerebrum. 3. The appearance of the convoluted sm-face of the cerebrum. 4. The appearance of the laminated surface of the cerebellum. 5. The relative position and magnitude of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata. This plate should be carefully studied. If a vertical section be supposed to be made through the deep fissure that separates the cerebral hemispheres from each other (Fig. 108), it would divide them into two equal and perfectly corresponding parts. These masses are therefore double and sym- metrical. Such are the appearances presented by the brain on its external surface, and which are visible without dissection. The whole of this outer surface is of a grey colour, because it everywhere consists of