AIU RECEIVED IN INSPIRATION. 161 being produced by an exhausting syringe, they transmitted half as much as in the collapse of suspension and submersion. 3. That it is only a moderate degi-ee of dilatation that is favourable to the transmission of the blood through the lungs. Wlien the lungs are over-distended with ah-, they are capable of transmittmg only an exceedingly small quantity of blood ; when they are fully distended with water, they are incapable of transmitting a single drop of blood. In fact they can contain only a certain quantity of air and blood; and w^hen either of these fluids preponderates, it can only be l>y the pro- portionate exclusion of the other. It vdW appear hereafter that these results are capable of apj^lications of the highest interest and im- portance in the explanation of numerous phenomena of health and of disease. Physiologists have laboured with great diligence to determine the exact quantity of air and blood which enters and which flows from the lung at each of the actions of respiration, and they have succeeded in obtaining tolerably precise results. The quantity of air capable of being received into the lungs of an adult man, in sound health, at an inspiration, is determined with cor- rectness by an instrument constructed by Mr, Green, analogous to one suggested by Mr. Abernethy. It consists of a tin trough, about a foot square, and six inches deep, three parts of which are filled with water. Into this trough is placed a three-gallon glass jar, open at the bottom, and gi'aduated at the side into pints, half-pints, &c. To the upper end of the jar a flexible tube is afiixed, having at its connexion a stop-cock. The lungs being emptied, as in the ordinary action of expiration, and the mouth appHed to the end of the flexible tube, the nostrils being closed by the pressure of the fingers, the air is drawn out of the jar into the hmgs by the ordinary action of inspiration. When as much air is thus drawn into the lungs as the air vesicles will hold, the stop- cock is closed, and the quantity of air inspired is ascertained by the rise of the water, the level of the water corresponding with the indications marked on the side of the jar. The quantity of air which a person by a voluntary effort can inspire at one time is found, as might have been anticipated, to be different in different individuals. These varieties depend, among other causes, on the greater or less development of the trunk, on the presence or absence of disease m the chest, on the degree in which the lung is emptied of air by expkation previously to inspiration, and on the energy of the inspiratory effort. The greatest volume of air hitherto found to have been received by the lung, on the most powerful inspiration, is nine pints and a quarter. The average quantity which the lungs are capable of receiving in persons in good health, and free from the accumulation of fat about the chest, appears to be from five to seven M