RELATION OF NERVES TO EACH OTHER. 321 agglutination by heat. To this he replied, that the pressiu-e under which the heat wsxs applied would prevent the escape of the carbonic acid ; and that being retained it might be expected to give that fusi- bility to the compoiuid which the simple qnicklime wanted. The next generation saw this anticipation converted into an observed fact, and verified by the direct experiments of Sir James Hall, who actually succeeded in melting marble by retaining its carbonic acid under violent pressm'e." There are in the history of physiology at least two instances of these triumphs, as brilliant as the preceding: the affirmation of the existence of a capillary system of vessels between the arteries and veins by the discoverer of the cii-culation of the blood, and the like positive affirmation of the continuity and insulation of the primitive nerve-fibres by the tnie interpreter of nervous structure. " Neither Harvey nor Bell," says Mr, Grainger, "saw with the bodily organ the great cardinal facts they so confidently proclaimed—the junction, that is to say, in the one case, of the arteries and veins by means of the capillary vessels, that subtle link in the chcle of the blood; and in the other, the individuality of the primary nerve-tubules but, nevertheless, they saw them by the force of their intellect with the distinctness of actual vision. And subsequently came the microscope, which rendered them visible to other and to all eyes, displaying in the one case the intervening capillaiy apparatus, and in the other the whole apparatus of nervous conduction; namely, the nerve-fibres intimately inter- mingling, never uniting, but each holding on its separate com-se ; the thread of neiTous substance in the centre of the tubule, the axis cylinder, the true conducting part, completely surrounded by its insulating envelope, the white matter of Schwann, and perhaps also the neurilemma, which is to the nerve-fibre precisely what silk or any other non-conductor of electricity is to the electric wire, preventing the electric fluid from passing into the surrounding medium. The difference in the relation of blood-vessels to each other, and of nerves to each other, places in a striking point of view the essential characters in the structure and function of a nerve here insisted on. In blood-vessels there is a true anastomosis; a direct opening from the cavity of one vessel into that of another; so teimed from ava, through, and o-ro/uia, a mouth; a mode of communication which secures an uninterrupted circulation; while it matters not to an organ, provided it receive a due supply of blood, by what particular channel it is conveyed: but were the nerve-tubules thus to anasto- mose, the transmission of nervous force to a single point, the convey- ance of a distinct impression, would be impossible. If the cerebral extremity of a tubule be connected by a single ]3oint with the nervous * Grainger's Hmiterian Oration on the Cultivation of Organic Science. Y