PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 23G gases are no longer tlie same, for whereas pure hydrogen is contained in the small intestines, none is ever found in the large, but in the place of it, carhuretted and sulphm-etted hydrogen; and now for the first time it receives its peculiar odour. As it continues to descend, its fluid parts are progressively absorbed, so that it becomes more and more solid, until it reaches the rectum, when it is almost dry. Here the accumulation of it goes on to a considerable extent, the peristaltic action at fii'st excited by the distension of the rectum being, it would appear, counteracted by the contraction of the external sphincter of the anus. When, however, the distension of the bowel reaches a certain point, it produces a sensation which leads to the desire to expel its contents. The bowel is now. thrown into action, and that action is powerfully assisted by the descent of the diaj^hragm and the contraction of the abdominal muscles, actions induced by an effort of the will. Thus the action of the first part of the digestive apparatus, that which is connected with the reception and partly with the deglu- tition of the food, is attended with consciousness, and is placed under the control of the will; the main portion of the digestive apj^aratus, that in which the essential part of the digestive process is carried on, is without consciousness, and is placed beyond the influence of volition ; the last portion of the digestive apparatus, that connected with the expulsion of the non-nutrient portion of the ahment, again acquires sensibility and consciousness, and is placed under the control of the will. The striking differences in the arrangement of the muscular fibres in these difi'erent parts of the apparatus, in accordance with the widely different function performed by them; the powerful muscles connected with the prehension, mastication, and deglutition of the food; the delicate and transparent tissue of fibres forming the muscular coat of the stomach and small intestines; the increase in the number and strength of the fibres of the large intestines, and the prodigious acces- sion to them in the rectum, are adjustments not only exquisite and admirable in their own nature, but so indispensable to our well-being and comfort, that were the appropriate action of either to be suspended but for a short period, life would be extinguished, or if it could be protracted, it would be changed into a state of unbearable torment. From the preceding account of the structure and action of the apparatus of digestion, on a comparison of all the phenomena, it appears that the successive stages of the process are marked by the progressive approximation of the food to the nature of the blood. The main constituents of the blood are albumen, fibrin, an oily principle, and red particles. Even in the chyme there are traces of albumen. In the chyle of the duodenum the quantity of albumen is larger, there are traces of fibrin, and of an oily matter. In the chyle, after its exit from the mesenteric glands, the oil remains much iu the same pro];or-