PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 296 acute the sense, how bounding the motion, how quick the percipience; how pure the blood mantles in the cheek and diffuses its sparkling colour over all the transparent complexion; how the jocund spirits laugh from the eyes; how the intellectual and sympathising mind beams forth from them with a higher and holier happiness! How wonderfully beautiful is such a human body, and how magnificently endowed in its capacity to give and to receive enjoyment! There are two adjustments, with regard to the excretions, carried on by organised bodies, which can never be contemplated with sufficient admiration. It has been fully shown that the relation established between the two great classes of organised beings is such that the excrementitious matter of the plant is nutritious to the animal, and the excrementitious matter of the animal is nutritious to the plant; and, consequently, that the two orders of living beings maintain the world, which is given them as their inlieritance, in a state of perpetual adaptation for the life and health of each other; the animal receiving healthy stimulation from that which is poisonous to the plant, and the plant being nourished by particles which the animal throws off as ex- hausted and useless. And this relation naturally suggests that so beautifully described by Milton :— " Flow'rs and their fruit, Maji's nourishment, by gradual scale sublimed To vital spirits asj^ire, to animal, To intellectual; give both life and sense, Fancy and understanding ; whence the soul Reason receives." Secondly, the particles thrown off by organised bodies are rendered, in the very act of their dissipation, subservient to purposes of utility and pleasm-e. How these poisonous elements are converted into the pabulum of life and health has been shown. To a being with the senses and faculties of man, how loathsome might these particles have been rendered during the period of their transition from one organised kingdom to the other! And if disagreeable at all, how constantly forced upon his sense, wherever he might be, dm-ing every moment of his waking hours, must these objects of disgust have been! But how does the matter actually stand ? The excretions of the plant are the very particles that, jjoured " Into the blissful field through groves of myrrh. And flow'ring odours, cassia, nard, and balm," create " a wilderness of sweets." It is as these exhalations are passing off from the economy to which, if retained, they would be noxious, that they become " Exhalations of all sweets * That Hoat o'er vale and upland