MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. a substance as bone, would produce a jar which, propagated along the bones of the face and skull to the brain, Avould severely injure that tender organ, and effectually interfere with the comfort of eating. This evil is guarded against, 1. By the structure of the alveoli, which are composed not of dense and compact, but of loose and spongy bone. This cancellated arrange- ment of the osseous fibres is admirably adapted for absorbing vibrations and preventing their propagation. (Chapter VI.) 2. By the membrane which hues the socket. 3. By the membrane which covers the root of the tooth; and, 4. By the gum. These membranous substances, even more than the cancellated structure of the alveoli, absorb vibrations and counteract the communi- cation of a shock to the bones of the face and head when the teeth act forcibly on hard materials; so many and such nice adjustments go to secm-e enjoyment, nay to prevent exquisite pain, in the simple opera- tion of bringing the teeth into contact in the act of eating. The teeth in mastication are passive instruments put in motion with the jaws. The upper jaw is fixed, the lower only is moveable. The lower jaw is capable of different motions; depression, elevation, a motion forwards and backwards, and a lateral motion. These simple motions are capable, by coml)ination, of producing compound motions. Numerous muscles, some of them endowed with prodigious power, are so disjiosed and combined as to be able, at the command of volition, to produce any of these motions that may be required, simple or compound. By the combination, succession, alternation, and repetition of these motions, the lower is made to produce upon the upper jaw all the variety of pressure necessary for the mastication of the food. In this process the muscles of the tongue perform scarcely a less important part than the muscles of the lower jaw. Some of its muscular fibres shorten the tongue, some give it breadth, others render it concave, and others convex: so ample is the provision for moving this organ to different parts of the mouth and fiiuces, whether to bruise the softer parts of the aliment against the palate, to mix it with the saliva, or to place it under the pressiu'e of the teeth. By the combined action of the muscles of the lower jaw and tongue, and that of the teeth, the food is bruised, cut, torn, and divided into minute fragments. This operation is of so much importance that the whole process of digestion is imperfect without it. It is proved by direct experiment that the stomach acts upon the aliment with a faciUty in some degree proportionate to the perfection with which it is masticated. If an animal swallow morsels of food of diflerent bulks, and the stomach be examined after a given time, digestion is found to