EXPERIMENTS. 223 only a few remained undissolved. In seven hours the muscular texture was no longer apparent; and in nine hom-s the solution was completed. At the commencement^of this experiment a piece of the same beef of equal weight and size was suspended within the stomach by means of a string. On examining this portion of beef at the end of half an hour, it was found to present precisely the same appearance as the piece in the vial; but on the removal of the string at the end of an hour and a half the beef had been completely dissolved, and had dis- appeared, making a difference of result in point of time of nearly seven hours. In both, the solution began on the surface, and agitation accelerated its progress by removing the external coating of chyme as fast as it was formed. An ordinary dinner having been taken, consisting of boiled salted beef, bread, potatoes, and turnips, with a gill of pure water for drink, a portion of the contents of the stomach was drawn off into an open- mouthed vial, twenty minutes after the meal. The vial was placed in a water-bath, maintained steadily at a temperature of 100°. It was continued in this temperatm-e for five hours. At the end of that time the whole contents of the vial were dissolved. On comparing the solution with an equal quantity of chyme taken from the stomach, little difference could be distmguished between the two fluids, except- ing that it was manifest that the digestive process had proceeded some- what more rapidly in, than out of the stomach. The food, in this experiment, after having remained in contact with the stomach for the space of twenty minutes, had imbibed a sufficient quantity of gastric juice to comj)lete its solution. Fifteen minutes after half a pint of milk had been introduced into the stomach, it presented the appearance of a fine loosely-coagulated substance mixed with a semi-transparent whey-coloured fluid. A drachm of warm gastric juice poured into two drachms of milk at a temperature of 100°, produced a precisely similar appearance in twenty minutes. In another experiment, when four ounces of bread were given with a pint of millc, the milk was coagulated and the bread reduced to a soft pulp in thirty minutes, and tlie whole was completely digested in two hours. "When the albumen or white of two eggs was swallowed on an empty stomach, smoll white flakes began to be seen in about ten or fifteen minutes, and the mixture soon assumed an opaque whitish appeai-ance. In an hour and a half the whole had disappeared. Two drachms of albumen mixed with two of gastric juice out of the stomach underwent precisely the same changes, but in a somewhat longer time. In the human stomach, according to the subject of these experi- ments, the ordinary course and direction of the food are first from