322 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. centre, and its cutaneous extremity by a single point with the skin, it is easy to conceive how a definite impression made upon the point of the skin may be communicated to the point of the brain. If, corre- sponding to the many thousand tubules which are given ofl' to the peripheral parts of the body, there are precisely the same number of points represented in the brain, there is no difficulty in understanding- how any number of definite impressions may be conveyed to the brain. But if the nerve-tubules were to anastomose like the blood-vessels, the irritation of a single point at the skin must necessarily be propagated through all the anastomoses, and consequently no definite impression could be communicated or received. After what has been stated, little need be added to prove that nerves are really the carriers of a force generated in the centres. As long as a nerve remains in connection with its dynamic centre, it is capable of performing its office: when that connection is severed its power ceases. If the connection of a spinal nerve with the spinal cord, for example, is cut off, irritation of the peripheral extremities of the nerve no longer produces spinal action : if the connection of a sensoiy nerve of the skin with the brain be interrupted, no amount of irritation of the skin will produce sensation: restore the connection of the nerves with theu' respective centres, and the phenomena proper to the action of each are reproduced. Separation of a nerve from its centre, not only deprives it of its functions, but destroys its life, and causes its disorganisation. If the sciatic nerve, for example, the great nerve which supplies motor and sentient power to the lower limb, is divided, paralysis of the Hmb and loss of sensation, which immediately follow, are succeeded in a few days by an organic change in the structure of the nerve : the contents of the tubules curdle and recede from the edges of the sheath ; in a few days more the white matter of Schwann and the axis cylinder are mixed and blended together, and ultimately the tubules shrivel up and become comi)letely granular. Sometimes, however, a divided nerve is reunited. Even the spinal cord itself, after a complete section of it, may repair the injury by a perfect reunion, so that motion and sensation, which had been lost, are restored. On examinmg the part at which the process of reparation has taken place, it is found that great numbers of nerve-tubules traverse the cicatrix and run uninterruptedly through it. These are regarded as new productions. Nervous conduction includes— 1. Conduction of sensation, by a distinct set of nerve-fibres the sensory, in uninterrupted communication at one extremity with a sentient organ, and at the other with the cerebral centre.