ASSIMILATION IN THE ANIMAL-DIGESTIVE Al'l'ARATUS. 1^7 its body, are differences in their mode of nutrition, connected Avith essential diOerences in the mode of life peculiar to the two beino-s. Plant-like animals Lave a plant-hke mode of nutrition. The transi- tion from the one class to the other is so gradual as to be almost in- sensible. Fixed to the same spot in the ocean as the tree to the land, the nutritive surface of the poriferous animal is always in contact with the water, as the soil is with the external surface of the i)lant. The cellular substance of which the bag of the poriferous animal is com- posed is permeated in all directions by ramifying and anastomosing canals, which, beginning by minute pores placed on the external surface, terminate in larger orifices, termed vents, which are fecal openings. These internal canals are incessantly traversed by streams of water, which enter through the minute, and are discharged through the larger, orifices. By these currents the nutrient matter contained in the water is conveyed to every part of the body, and the streams that issue from the fecal orifices abound with minute flocculent particles, the residue of the digested matter. No separate part of the body is appropriated to the function of digestion any more than in the plant; there is merely a general absorbent surface; the water is to this animal what the soil is to the plant; its whole surface is a root; every point of that surface is constantly in contact with its food, and every point is absorbent. Comparative aiifitomy, which has succeeded in tracing through the different classes, orders, genera, and countless tribes of animals, the modifications in form and structure of the digestive apparatus, has shown that those modifications are invariably in strict adaptation to the kind of food on which the apparatus is destined to act, and to the extent of the elaboration requisite to convert crude aliment into proper animal substance. To trace this adaptation through the rising and ever-varying series, is a most interesting and instructive study —not only exhibiting, in the veiy organs that elaborate its food, the physical and even the mental qualities assigned by the hand of nature to each individual, but oftentimes shedding a clear and bright light on the complex structures of the highest and most perfect organisation. Striking and beautiful illustrations are afforded by these investigations of the principle formerly insisted on (Chapter I.), that the commu- nication of the higher faculties exalts the apparatus even of the very lowest processes, that the latter may work in harmony with the former. In conformity with this principle, as the nobler endow- ments exalt the animal in the scale of organisation, so even its very digestive apparatus becomes extended, isolated, complex and refined. The highest and most perfect form of the digestive apparatus is that which is disposed in a series of chambers in free communication with each other. In these chambers the food undergoes a succession.