202 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. lateral incisor. Their office, as their name imports, is to cut the food, which they do, on the principle of shears or scissors. Standing next to the lateral incisor is the canine, or eye-tooth. It is the longest of all the teeth. Its office is to tear such parts of the food as are too hard to be readily divided by the incisors. Next the cuspid are the bicuspid, two on each side (Fig- 82), so named from theii- being provided with two distinct prominences or points. Then- office is to tear tough substances preparatory to theii* trituration by the next set. The molars, or the grinders, three on each side, are provided with four or five prominences on the grinding surface, with correspondmg depressions, wliich are so arranged that the elevations of those of the upper arc adapted to the concavities of those of the lower jaw, and the contrary. From the incisor to the molar teeth there is a regular gradation in size, form, and use, the cusi^id holding a middle place between the incisor and the bicusj)id, and the bicuspid being in every respect inter- mediate between the cuspid and the molar. Thus the incisor are adapted only for cutting, the cuspid for tearing, the bicuspid partly for tearing and partly for grinding, and the molar solely for grinding. The incisor has only a single root, which is nearly round, and quite simple (Fig. 82) ; the cuspid has only a single root, but this is flat- tened and partially grooved ; even the bicusj^id has only a single root, but this is commonly divided at its extremity, and is always so much grooved as to have the apj)earance of two fangs partially united, the body having two points instead of one, thus approaching it to the form of the molar; and these last have always two, sometimes three, occa- sionally four roots, and their body is greatly increased in size, and has a complete grmding smface. In some animals whose food and habits require the utmost extension of the office of a particular class of teeth, a corresponding development of that class takes place. Thus in the carnivora, as is strikingly seen in the tiger and the polar bear, the cuspid or canine teeth are pro- digiously elongated and strengthened, in order to enable them to seize their food, and to tear it in pieces. On the other hand, in the rodentia, or gnawing animals, as m the beaver, the incisors are exceed- ingly elongated; while in the graminivora, and especially in the ruminantia, the molar teeth are by far the most developed. In each case the other kinds of teeth are of little comparative importance; sometimes they are even altogether wanting. So intimately are these organs connected with the kind of food by which life is sustained, and the kind of food with the general habits of the animal, that an anatomist can tell the structure of the digestive organs, the kind of nervous system, the physical and even the mental