99 PELVIS. The organs contained in the pelvis are the rectum (Fig. 51), "whicli is merely the termination of the large intestines, the urinary bladder (Fig. 50, 8), and the internal jmrt of the apparatus of reproduction. The large and strong bones of the pelvis not only afford lodgment and protection to the tender organs contained in its cavity, but sustain the entire weight of the body, the tnmk resting on the sacrum as on a solid basis, and the lower extremities being supported in the sockets in which the heads of the thigh bones play, m the varied movements of locomotion. The last division of the body comprehends the superior and the inferior extremities. The superior extremities consist of the shoulder, arm, fore-arm, and hand. The soft parts of the shoulder are composed chiefly of muscles; its bones are two—the scapula or the blade hone, and the clavicle or the collar hone (Fig. 52, 2, 4). The SCAPULA is placed upon the upper and back part of the thorax, and occupies the space from the second to the seventh ribs (Fig. 52, 4), Unlike that of any other bone of the body, it is embedded in muscles, without being attached to any bone of the trunk, excepting at a single point. From the bones of the thorax it is separated by a double layer of muscles, on which it is placed as upon a cushion, and over the smooth surface of which it glides. Originally, like the bones of the skull, it consisted of two tables of compact bones, with an intermediate layer of spongy bony substance (diploe); but, by the pressure of the muscles that act upon it, it gradually grows thinner, until, as age advances, it becomes in some parts quite transparent, and as thin as a sheet of paper. The tigin-e of the scapula is that of an irregular triangle (Fig. 52). Its anterior surface is concave, corresponding to the convexity of the ribs; its posterior sm-face is very irregular, being in some parts con- cave, and in others convex, giving origin especially to two large processes; one of which is termed the acromion (Fig. 52, r>), and the other the caracoid process of the scapula (Fig. 52, r>). The margins of the bone, whatever the thimiess of some portions of it, are always comparatively thick and strong, affording points of origin or of insertion to powerful muscles. At what is called the anterior angle of the bone there is a shallow oval depression, covered with cartilage and deepened by a cartilaginous margin, called the r/lenoid cavity of the scapula (Fig. 52, 7), which receives the head of the humerus or bone of the arm (Fig. 52, 9). The clavicle, the second bone of the shoulder, is a long and slender bone, of the form of an italic * projecting a little forwards towards its middle, so as to give a slight convexity of outline to the top 11 2