342 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. ceeds to the longitudinal columns of the cord, and contmues to ascend with them to the brain; while the other set run transversely across the longitudinal fibres, and penetrate the cells of the posterior horn, in which they are lost. Fig. 106 represents two roots which, m this manner, take opposite directions. He fiurther calls attention to another set of fibres contained m the posterior horn, which are more slender and delicate than the white ascending fibres, which take a longitudinal direction, and which he regards as fibres of communication particularly connecting with one another the series of groups of cells situated at difierent heights of the spinal column. It has been long known that the cord con- tains certain longitudinal fibres distinct from those of the nerve Transverse section onuunan.spi.u,l coal, close to the ^Oots, the officO of which re- third and fourth cervical nerves; magnified ten roains to be interpreted, diameters (from Stilling), f, posterioi- columns ; wbnlp nf +TlP<=;e rp- i i, gelatinous substance of the posterior horn ; -I^ lOm tnC WnOlC 01 tliese rC k, posterior root; I, supposed anterior roots; searches it may be inferred a, anterior fissure; c, posterior fissure; b, grey ^ mi . "l ^p^.^p ^,.^.4., commissure, in which a canal is contained, ^^ h\ch, ^- -^^^^ ^^cn UCU 0 rOOt, OU according to this writer, extends through the reaching the COrd, definitely length of the cord; anterior horn of grey mat- -!•••] • ± l fn«PiVnH nnp ter containing caudate vesicles; c, antero-lateral aiVlCleS mtO IWO laSClCUi], OnO column (from k to a). of which enters into the an- terior and posterior horns of the grey matter respectively, where it is anatomically connected with the multipolar cells in the manner above described. 2. That the second fasciculus in each case becomes continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the cord, and so ascends to the brain. The root fibres which go to tlie posterior horn are named, from the course which the currents take, the incident nerve fibres; or, from their physiological signification, the exciter fibres (excito-motory of Marshall Hall). The fibres of the anterior root, emerging from the anterior horn, are called, in accordance with the course of the current, reflex. These two sets of fibres, together with the grey matter with which they imite, constitute the true spinal system. The fibres of the posterior root which join with the longitudinal fibres of the cord, and so ascend to the brain, are called sensory fibres. The fibres of the anterior root, which also join the longitudinal fibres of the cord, and in like manner ascend to the brain, are named the volitional fibres.