83 SPINAL CANAL. The exterior tough and unyielding matter is for the firmness of the connexion of the several vertebrae with each other; the interior softer and elastic matter is for the easy play of the vertebrae upon each other; the one for security, the other for pliancy. And the ad- justment of the one to the other is such as to combine these pro- perties in a perfect manner. The quantity of the unyielding sub- stance is not so great as to produce rigidity; the quantity of the elastic substance is not so , r> p »i i . . . or, I. Uiio of the lumbar veitebrre. 2. Interveitc- great as to occasion insecurity. bial substance. 3. a portion of the spinal The firm union of its solid matter '""^ ^" ''^ renders the entire column strong; the aggregate elasticity of its softer substance renders it springy. The column is not constructed in such a manner as to admit of an equal degree of motion in every part of it. Everything is contrived to give to that portion which belongs to the neck freedom of motion, and, on the contrary, to render that portion which belongs to the back comparatively fixed. In the neck the mechanism of the articulating processes is such as to admit of an equal degree of sliding motion forwards, backwards, and from side to side, together with a turning motion of one bone upon another: at the same time, the intervertebral substance between the several vertebrae is thick. In consequence of this mechanism, we can touch the breast with the chin, the back with the hind head, and the shoulders with the ear, while we can make the head describe more than a semicircle. P)ut, in the back, the articu- lating processes are so connected as to prevent the possibility of any motion, either forwards or backwards, or any turning of one vertebra upon another, while the intervertebral substance is comparatively thin. That portion of the column which belongs to the back is intended to afford a fixed support for the ribs, a support which is indispensable to their action in the fimction of respiration. In the loins, the articu- lating lu'ocesses are so connected as to admit of a considerable degree of motion in the horizontal direction^ and from side to side, and the inteiTcrtebral substance here progressively increases in thickness to the point at which the upper portion of the column is miited to the sacrum, where the degree of motion is extensive. The canal for the spinal cord, formed partly by the concavity in the posterior surface of the vertebra, and partly by the arch that springs from it (Fig. 43, o), is lined by a contmuation of the dense and strong membrane that constitutes the internal periosteum of the cranium, the G 2