69 STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION. fibrinous materials of the granules, and obliterates their intervening lines, but has no action upon the nuclei. It will be remembered that these curious phenomena are in perfect analogy with those of cell- formation in general. Figure 30 illustrates the development of the striped muscular fibres. Besides the foregoing substances, all of which invariably enter into the composition of a muscle, every fibre is attached by its extremities to white fibrous tissue, or to some tissue analogous to it. The fibre appears to end by a perfect disc, and with the whole surface of this disc the fibrous tissue is connected and continuous. The fibrous ter- mination of a muscle is termed tendon, the various and important uses of which will be explained hereafter. CHAPTEK X. MECHANISM OF THE TRUNK AND LIMBS. * The term organisation is employed in reference both to the component parts of the body, and to the body considered as a whole. We speak of an organised substance and of an organised body. An organised substance is one in which there is not only a definite arrangement of its component parts (structure), but in which the particular arrangement is such as to fit it for accomplishing some special use. Every organised substance is therefore essentially a special organ ; limited in its object it may be, and perhaps only conducive to some further object; but stOl its distinctive character is, that it has a peculiar structure, fitting it for the accomplishment of some appropriate purpose. On the other hand, an organised body is a congeries of organs—the aggregate of the individual organs. Attention was directed in the early part of this work to one peculiar and essential character, by which such an organised is distinguished from an unorganised body. Between the individual parts of the organised body there is so close a relation, that no one of them can be removed or injured, or in any manner affected without a corresponding afifection of the whole. The action of the heart cannot cease without the cessation of the action of the lung; nor that of the lung without that of the brain ; nor that of the brain without that of the stomach ; in a word, there is no organ in what- ever distant nook of the system it be placed, or however apparently insignificant its function, that is not necessaiy to the perfection of the whole. But into whatever number of portions an unorganised body