CONTENT?. Xll PAG 11 of excretion in the human body—Organisation of the skin—Excretory processes pcrforiued by it—Excretory processes of the lungs—Analogous proccs.ses of the liver—Use of the deposition of fat—Function of tiie kidneys —Function of the large intestines—Compensating and vicarious actions— Eeasons why excretory processes are necessary—Adjustments . . 275 CHAPTER XVIII. Composition of the blood—Liquor sanguinis—Recent accoimt of the structure of the red particles-Formation of the red particles in the incubated egg— Primary motion of the blood—Vivifying influence of tlie red particles— Influence of arterial and venous blood on animal and organic life—For- mation of human blood—Course of the new constituents of tlie blood to the lungs—Space of time required for the complete conversion of chyle into blood after its first transmission tlirougli the lungs—Distribution of blood to the capillaries when duly concentrated and purified—Changes wrought upon the blood wliile it is traversing the capillaries—Evidence of an inter- change of particles between the blood and the tissues—Phenomena attending the interchange—Nutrition, what, and how distinguished from digestion— How the constituents of the blood escape froni the circulation—Designation of the general power to which vital phenomena are referrible—Conjoint influence of the capillaries and absorbents in building up structure— Influence of the organic nerves on the process—Physical agent by which the organic nerves operate....... 298 CHAPTEE XIX. Defiuitioii of the term nervous system—Constitution of nervous substance— Functions of nervous substance—Action of stimuli. , . .311 CHAPTEE XX. Constituents of nerves—Structure of compound fibres—Primitive fibres—Dispo- sition and relation of fibres to each other—Origin and termination of fibres —How fibres ])osscssing difterent properties are bound up in the same trunk —Ultimate termination of fibres ...... 31G CHAPTEE XXI. Functions of nerves . . . . . . . .319 CHAPTEE XXII. Structure of the sympathetic or ganglionic centre .... 324 CHAPTEE XXIII. Functions of the sympathetic or ganglionic centre .... 327 CHAPTEE XXIV. Provisions for the protection of the spinal cord—Ligaments by which it is slung and fixed—Suspended in fluid—Arachnoid pouches—Form and extent of the cord—Composed of white and grey neuriue—Connection of spinal nerves w ith cord—Course of the fibres of the nerve-roots—Incident and reflex fibres—Sensitive and volitional fibres ..... 333