CONNECTING AND SUITORTING TISSUE. 43 fold growing inward to the centre, until the division becomes complete (Fig. 1, d); and the parent cell then spontaneously separates into two or four cells; a mode of multipHcation called fissiparous cell-fomiation. Cells are capable of developing with incredible rapidity. Thus in the mushroom tribe, Bovista giganteum, a species of fungus, has been known to grow m a single night from the size of a mere point to that of a large gourd. Taking the estimate of Professor Lindley, that the cells of this plant are jj^^ of an inch in diameter, a plant of the size of the Bovista will contain no less than 47,000,000,000 cells, which it develops at the rate of nearly 4,000,000,000 per hour, or of more than 66,000,000 per minute. Large tracts of land are often covered in a single night with vegetable growths, consistuig of clusters of cells, many millions of which are contained in the space of an inch. Among the changes which cells undergo, the most interesting are those which fit them for becoming constituent parts of tissues and organs. CHAPTER VI. Of the conneetiug and supporting tissuea—Areolar tissue, tendon, membrane, cartilage, bone, ivory. Much progress has been made of late years in the knowledge of the minute structure of organs and tissues, so that their history has become a new science, and has received the name of Histology. To treat fully upon this science at the present day would require the space of a large volume, for the number of its facts which have been found out and gathered together is very great. The bodies of all living creatures are at some time in their history composed altogether of cells, and some lowly organisms both in the animal and vegetable kingdom never develop into any structure more elaborate than a group of these. But in the higher forms, especially of animals, this condition is only temporary, and the cells which at first compose the incipient frame of the future being quickly pass through such courses of change as shall produce the kind of structure proper to the organ which is to arise and develoj) in the position which they occupy. Now in many—nay most—parts, the changes of the primary cells which conduct to the perfect organ are thoroughly consum- mated, and the original cellular condition is effaced, so that one who is not familiar with the history of developruent could never find, in the completed tissue, anything to suggest to him that it