856 PHILOSOPHY OF HEAI/fH. respiration is necessary, but tins is not in all carried on by means of the mouth. In those animals that do not use the mouth in breathing, it has only one function to perform, that of taking in food, and, for this a single nerve sufficing, it has only one nerve. In the same way, in all animals whose face and nostrils have no complexity of relation, those parts have only a single nerve. But, when the anatomist employs many weeks to dissect and disentangle the nerves of the throat and palate in the human subject, he finds at length that he has exhibited the branches of five different trunks of nerves. There is no clue to the labyrinth till he considers the multiplied offices of the mouth of man. It is a pneumatic organ; it is a manducatory ma- chine ; it is an instrument of voice; it is an instrument of articulate speech; it is an instrument of singing; it is an organ of taste en- dowed with exquisite feeling. It would indeed be matter of surprise if the same nerve served for the action of gnawing and feeding in the lower animals of simple structure, and also for the governance of those complicated operations which serve to interpret the wants and senti- ments of man. So with respect to the tongue, which is supplied with nerves from three diff'erent sources: it is an organ essential to the processes of mastication and deglutition ; it is an organ of touch ; it is an organ of taste; and it is the organ of articulate speech, by which man commu- nicates and combines with man, and without which he would have been incapable of civilisation and progress. The Individual Cerebral Nerves.—Three of these nerves, the olfactory, the optic, and the portio mollis of the seventh are nerves of special sense. Three others, the motores occuli, the trochleares, and the abducentes, are devoted to the motions of the eyeball. It is re- markable that the six muscles which produce the varied movements of the eye derive their motor power from three dilferent sources, when all of them are within the reach of branches from a single nerve. The reason seems to be that the action of some of these muscles is directly opposed to that of others; and it appears to be a general rule that when muscles are required to act in opposition to each other, the antagonists are supplied by nerves derived from different sources. The Third Nerve, or the Motores Occuli.—The motions of the iris are produced and governed by filaments derived from the thu:d nerve. The movements of this contractile curtain, suspended between the retina and the external hght, in order to regulate the quantity of light admitted to this exquisitely-sensitive nervous expansion, appear to be of a reflex natui-e. The stimulus of light on the retina is con- veyed by the optic nerve to the brain, which, on receiving the im- pression, sends back by means of the third nerve its commands to