EXPERIMENTS ON BRAINS OF ANIMALS. 391 the consummation of the organ is the completion of the cerebral lobes ; and that the elaboration of the highest structure is for the exercise of the highest faculties. 6. The conclusions thus arrived at from a consideration of the structure, development, and comparative anatomy of the brain, and of its natural action in health and disease, receive a remarkable confirma- tion from the results of direct experiment. Among the many endea- vours which have been made to determine by direct experiment the use of the several parts of the brain, there is a decisive one performed by M. Flourens, one of the acutest and most trustworthy observers and experimentalists of modem times. M. Flourens removed from a healthy pigeon the two cerebral lobes: these, it will be remembered, constitute in the bird the brain proper. It is known that reptiles, birds, and some of the lower mammals, survive for months after the removal of the entire brain. Accordingly this bird, deprived of its brain, survived ten months in a state of perfect health, and would in all probability have Hved longer if M. Flourens had not been obliged to leave Paris. During the whole of this time M. Flourens closely watched all the actions and habits of the animal, and the following is the result of his observations:— He had scarcely removed the brain before the sight of both eyes was suddenly lost; the hearing and sense of smell were also gone, and the animal did not give the slightest sign of volition, but kept him- self perfectly upright upon his legs, and walked when he was irritated, or when he was pushed. When thrown into the air, he flew, and swallowed water when it was poured into his beak. He never moved unless he was irritated. When placed upon his feet, he remained upon them ; when seated on his belly, in the manner that chickens do when they sleep, he appeared plunged in a sort of drowsiness, which neither sound nor light in the slightest degree dis- turbed : nothing but direct irritation, such as pinching, or pricking, or striking, had any effect in rousing him. When the animal did move about, he seemed to do so without any motive or object, though there were no convulsions, nor any want of harmony in its movements. If it met with any obstruction, it did not know how to avoid it. The pigeon was quite healthy, and five months after the operation the wound had quite healed, and a new layer of bony matter was forming. Still it had no sense of smell or taste ; neither had it any sensation of hunger or thirst; for, after allowing it to fast for three whole days, and then placing food immediately under its nostrils, and afterwards putting it into his beak, and also puttmg its beak into water, it did not