PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 252 gives it its suppleness and softness; and besides all these, are the hairs, each the product of a secreting organ placed immediately beneath the skin. An attempt to count the number of pores and hairs visible to the eye within the compass of an inch, and thence to compute the number on the whole surface of the skin, may convey some conception of the amount of these organs ; yet these form but a small part of the secreting apparatus. The great viscera of the body, the lungs, the liver, the pancreas, are portions of it; all the organs of the senses, the eyes, the ears, the nose, the tongue; all the organs of locomotion; every point of the surface of every muscle, and a great part of the surface and substance of the very bones are crowded with secreting organs. How do these organs act upon the blood ? All that is known of the course of that portion of the blood which flows through an organ of secretion is, that it passes into arteries of extreme minuteness, which are spread out upon the external walls of the elementary secreting bodies, and which pass into capillary veins— nowhere terminating by open mouths—nowhere presenting visible outlets or pores; theu' contents probably transuding through theii' thin and tender coats by the process of endosmose. As it is flowing through these capillary arteries, the blood under- goes the transformations eflected by secretion, forming—1. The fluids, which are added to the aliment, and which accomplish its solution, and change it into chyme. 2. The fluids, which are added to the chyme to convert it into chyle, and both to chyle and lymj^h, to assist in then- assimilation. 3. The fluids which, pom'ed into the cavities, facilitate the movements of their contents. 4. The fluids which, deposited at different points of the cellular tissue, when more aliment is received than is needed, serve as reservoirs of nutriment to be absorbed when more aliment is required than can be afi'orded by the digestive organs. 5. The fluids which are eliminated from the com- mon mass, whether of fluids or solids, to be carried out of the system as excrementitious substances. 6. In addition to all these substances, which are indispensable to the preservation of the individual, those which are necessary to the perpetuation of the species. In order to form any conception of the mode m which the secretino- organs act upon the blood, so as to elaborate from it such diversified substances, it is necessary to consider the chemical composition of the different products of secretion, and the degrees in which they reaUy differ from each other, and from the common mass of blood out of which they are ehminated. By chemical analysis, it is established that all the substances which are formed from the blood by the process of secretion are either water albumen, mucus, oil, resin, or salts.