PREFACE. Vll —all those, that is to say, which were chiefly affected by the later discoveries, and therefore needed the most alteration. The last nine chapters, which contain entii-ely new matter, were also accomplished. This division consists of an elaborate account of the Nervous System, as revealed by modern science, and enters so fully into detail that it cannot be considered as a mere exten- sion of the slight account of the Nerves which appeared in the earlier editions, where they were treated of at no greater length than any other organs of the human frame. It must be viewed as a separate section of the work. In 1861 my grandfather writes of the work as follows :—" The privilege may not be granted me of entering on the further and higher part of my original design—that of expounding the mental constitution with a view to the direction of the intellectual and moral faculties; but as the mental part of man's nature is based, as its instrument, on the physical, something will have been obtained by completing the account of the latter. The title-page has been modified in accordance with the object now more imme- diately in view, which is to expound the physical constitution of man, and the action of physical agents upon it, with a view to the practical deduction of the laws of health." This practical portion was, however, not written, and the sanitary bearing of the work is therefore only iudii-ect. Since the time when his labours ceased, the part of the book remaining unrevised has been carefully gone over by a Professor of Anatomy well acquainted with the latest discoveries on its subject. No attempt has been made to render this portion as full as it is possible the Author might have done, had he been permitted to finish it. But if its readers find a discrepancy between the various parts—that one portion is the old work re-written and elaborated ; and another, the old work, merely corrected—they will, at least, know that nothing has been allowed to remain which is incom- patible with the present state of knowledge, and that whatever new matter has been introduced is by him whose name appears on the title-page.