378 rHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. (CHAPTER XXVIII. Functiona of the incduUa oblongata, iuul of the nevvous masses tsituated between tlic medulla oblongata and tiie cerebral liemispberes. As the medulla oblongata forms an integral part of the spmal cord, the force which it possesses is essentially of the same kind; but as it presides over the vital action of respiration, its functions assume a more important character. Animal existence depends immediately and directly on the act of breathing, and this act depends on the medulla oblongata, which must, therefore, be regarded as the most essential of the nervous centres, surpassing, in this respect, both the spinal cord and the brain. These latter organs may have their actions temporarily suspended—as is seen in paralysis of the legs caused by fracture or concussion of the dorsal region, and in the insensibility following the like injuries of the skull—without the necessary and immediate destruction of life; but injury to an equal extent of the medulla oblongata is inevitably followed by instant death. It is, therefore, as has been already shown, more carefully defended by the protective apparatus of bone, elastic cartilage, and cerebro-spinal fluid, than the cord or brain. To this statement, however, there is an exception with regard to the upper portion of the spinal cord, from which the nerve of the diaphragm, or great muscle of respiration, arises ; and this for the reason below explained. The medulla oblongata is likewise the seat of another vital function essential to the maintenance of life. It is the centre of the co-ordi- nated movements necessary in the act of deglutition, as is proved by the persistence of the power to sh allow after the entire destruction of the cerebrum and cerebellum ; by its existence in acephalous infants ; and bj its complete arrest when the medulla oblongata is injured. The very point of the medulla oblongata, whence the power of exciting these combined movements issues, appears to be ascertained by an experiment of Miiller, who found that if its external surface be carefully removed, and its interior cautiously approached to within a few lines of the spot from which the pneumogastric nerves arise (Fig. 107, 8), respiration is undisturbed; but that when this part is divided, all the movements instantly cease. Eespiration is a reflex action. The nervous apparatus which forms its special seat will clearly appear by'a careful consideration of the following facts and illustrative diagram. It has been amply proved by experiment that the ordinary act of