193 INFLUENCE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. system, in some mode or other, contributes to the actual production of animal heat. It is established by direct experiment, that the quantity of carbonic acid formed in the system is inadequate to the suppl}* of the caloric expended by it; that in a given time more heat is abstracted fi'om the body by the surrounding medium, than can be accounted for by the consumption of the amount of carbonic acid thrown off by the lungs during the same interval. There is evidence that the soui'ce of this additional heat is the nervous system. The influence exerted by the nervous system over the production of animal heat, is demonstrated by the fact, established by nume- rous observations and experiments, that whatever weakens the nervous power, proportionally diminishes the capacity of producing heat. For, 1. The destruction of a portion of the spinal cord diminishes the temperatui'e of an animal without, as far as is ascertained, the dis- turbance of any other function. 2. The privation of the heart and blood-vessels of the nervous influence, as by decapitation, though the passage of the blood through the lungs and its ordinary change from the venous to the arterial state be maintained by artificial respiration, greatly diminishes, if it do not altogether suspend, the generation of animal heat. 3. The abolition of sensibility by the administration of a narcotic poison, artificial respu'ation being maintained, as efiectually distm-bs the generation of animal heat as decapitation; while the power of generating heat is restored, in the exact proportion to the retm-n of the sensibility by the cessation of the action of the poison. 4. The temperature of an organ is found, by direct experiment, to be diminished by the division of the nerves that supply it with nervous influence. The nerves that supply the horn were divided on one side of the body in a young deer; the other horn was left entire. The temperature of the horn—the nerves of which had been divided—was found, after some hours, to be considerably diminished, and it con- tmued diminished for several days : at length its temperature was restored. On examining the horn about ten days after the operation had been performed, the divided nerves were found to be connected by a newly-formed substance ; thus apparently accounting for the loss of temperature in the fii'st mstance, and for its subsequent restoration. But although these and other analogous facts prove, beyond all question, the important influence of the nervous system over the deve- lopment of animal heat, yet the mode in which that influence operates is not ascertained. Its action may be either director indirect. The nerves may possess some specific power of generating heat,—extricatmg it immediately from the blood by a process analogous to secretion,—or they may evolve it indirectly by other operations, as by some of tho 0