CHARACTEES OP APPARATUS OF ANIMAL LIFE. 7 immediately dependent on the action of the organs of the animal life, they do not need to be protected from the contact of external objects with extraordinary care, but it is necessary to the performance of their functions that they should be placed at the exterior of the body. And there they are placed, and so placed as to afford a defence to the organic organs. The groundwork of the animal is made the bulwark of the organic hfe. The muscles, the immediate agents by which motion is effected, and the bones, the fixed points and levers by which that motion acquires precision, rapidity, and power, are so disposed that, while the latter accomplish their primary and essential office in relation to the muscles, they serve a secondary, but scarcely less im- portant ofiice in relation to the internal viscera. The thorax, con- sisting essentially of the spinal column and ribs, together with the powerful muscles that act upon them, forms a moveable cavity in which are placed the lungs, the heart, and the great trunks of the venous and arterial systems; that is, a main portion of the apparatus of the organic functions of respiration and circulation. The bones and muscles protect the central engine that works the circulation. They also take an active part in the performance of the function of respira- tion : they, further, afford to the lungs (the chief organ of this function, composed of tender and deHcate tissues, easily injured, and the slightest injury perilling life) a free and secure place to act in. The fragile part of the apparatus is defended by the osseous portion of it; the play of the latter being equally essential to the function as that of the former. In like manner, the spinal cord, which is more im- mediately necessary to organic life than any other organ, inasmuch as it maintains the action of respkation, without which the heart ceases to contract in four minutes, is more carefully protected than the brain itself. It is enclosed in a cavity formed by the dense, strong, moveable bones of the spinal column; it is enveloped in several mem- branous coverings; and to protect it from contact with the hard substances that defend it, it is hung suspended in water. In a word, it is more carefully protected from injury than any other organ of the body, not excepting the heart itself. So the brain, the central seat of animal life, lodged in the cavity of the cranium, is pro- tected by the compact, strong, bony dome of the skull; but the other organs of animal life, not being vital organs, do not need these strong defences, while they require for the exercise of their proper functions a more external position. Hence the organs of sense, which put us in connection with the external world, render us susceptible of pleasm-e, and give us notice of the approach of objects capable of exciting pam, are placed where external bodies may be brought most conveniently and completely into contact with them; and where alone they can be efficient as sentinels of the system. For this reason, with the excep-