25 PLEASURES FROM THE SYMPATHETIC AFFECTIONS. with the healthy state of the organic, instead of accomplishing that end, only produces bodily disease. Any attempt to extend the selfish principle beyond what is compatible with the perfection of the sympa- thetic, or the sympathetic beyond what is compatible with the perfection of the selfish, instead of accomplishing the end in view, only produces mental disease. Opposing and jarring actions, antagonizing and mutually destructive powers, are combined in no other work of nature; and it would be wonderful indeed were the only instance of it found in man, the noblest of her works, and in the mind of man, the noblest part of her noblest work. No one supposes that there is any such inharmonious combination in the organisation of his physical frame, and the notion that it exists in his mental constitution, as it is founded in ignorance, so it is jDroduc- tive of mischief. In both, indeed, are manifest two great powers, each distinct; each having its own peculiar operation; and the one being subservient to the other, but both conducing alike to one common end. By the addition of the apparatus of the animal to that of the organic Hfe, a nobler structure is built up than could have been framed by the organic alone: by the addition of the sympathetic to the selfish part of the mental constitution, a happier being is formed than could have been produced by the selfish alone. And as the organic might have existed without the animal life, but by the addition of the animal a new and superior being is formed, so might the selfish part of the mental constitution, and the pleasures that flow from it, have existed alone; but by the addition of the sympathetic, a sum is added to enjoy- ment, of the amount of which some conception may be formed by considering what human life would be, witli every selfish appetite and faculty gratified in the fullest conceivable degree, but without any admixture whatever of sympathetic or social pleasure. Selfish enjoy- ment is not common. If any one set himself to examine what at fii-st view might seem a purely selfish pleasure, he will soon be sensible that, of the elements composing any given state of mind to which he would be willing to affix the term pleasurable, a vast preponderance consists of sympathetic associations. The more accurately he examine, and the farther he carry his analysis, the stronger will become his conviction, that a purely selfish enjoyment, that is, a truly pleasurable state of mind, in no degree, mediately or immediately, connected with the pleasurable state of another mind, is exceedingly rare. But if the constitution of human nature and the stnictm'e of human society ahke render it difficult for the hiunan heart to be aff'ected with a pleasure m no degree derived from—absolutely and totally imcon- nected with sympathetic association, of that complex pleasm-e which arises out of social intercourse, partly selfish and partly sympathetic, how far sweeter the sympathetic than the selfish; and as the sym-