INTEGRITY OF THE BRAIN NECESSARY TO SENSATION. 303 2. That this impression be conveyed in a continuous, nninterrnpted course to the brain. 3. That the brain be in a state of integrity to receive the impres- sion, and to convert it into sensation. Without the external object to originate the impression there is no sensation. Without an uninterrupted transmission of the impression to the brain, there is no sensation; for if a ligature be placed around a nerve, in any part of its course to the brain, there is no longer any feeling below the ligature. The skin may be sound, and the nerve distributed to it may be perfect, yet no amount of irritation will produce the slightest sensation. \A'itliout the integiity of the brain there is no sensation, or only perverted sensation. Pressure upon the brain, so as to produce coma, wholly annihilates the power of sensation. In disease of the brain, as the inflammation or softening of it, there is no true perception, but pain, delirium, and feeble, incongruous, or incoherent trains of ideas. All sensitive impressions are centripetal, from the periphery to the centre. When a sentient nerve is divided, and irritation is applied to the end still in connection with the brain, sensation is produced. When applied to the end cut off from its connection with the brain, no sensa- tion can be excited. A sentient fibre can transmit impressions only in a direction towards the brain. A sentient fibre termmates by one extremity either at a point of the external surface of the body, as the skin, or at a point of the internal surface, as in certain mucous mem- branes ; or in an apparatus of special sense, as that of touch, vision, hearing, and so on: by the other extremity it terminates in the brain. In most cases, as has been shown, every nerve-fibre thus terminates by a single point at its peripheral extremity, and by a corresponding point in the brain; an arrangement by which it is easy to conceive that a distinct impression maybe conveyed from the extremity to the centre. There are, however, some exceptions, as in the nerve of the vestibule of the ear, which ends m loops. It is necessary here to call to mind what has been fully stated, that there must be an absolute continuity and isolation in every individual nerve-fibre engaged in the operation. It must exercise its own endowment throughout its entire course, without commu- nicating with the other filaments bound up with it in the same trunk. Were there a true anastomosis of nerve-fibres, as there is of blood- vessels, distinct, discriminative sensation would be impossible. No nerve-fibre can convey more than one kind of impression. A ^ sentient nerve can transmit only sentient impressions ; a motor nerve only such as excite motion ; and a nerve of special sense only such as produce special sensation ; the optic nerve, light; the auditory nerve,