CONNECTION OF THE CEREBELLUIM WITH THE CEREBRUM. 377 who was the first to demonstrate the true anatomy of tliis structure. Fig. Ill is a drawing from Mr. Solly's dissection, which exhibits fil)res of comparatively large size passing across from one side of the median plane to the other; the decussation taking place about an inch distant from that of the y)yramids. An uispection of this figure further shows that some few fibres of this tract pursue their upward course on the same side of the median plane, Avithout at all entering the decussation, a fact of some interest, as affording a clue to the true explanation of certain obscure phenomena hereafter to be noticed. After their decussation, these fibres pass upwards, enter the crus cerebri, and pursue their course to the cerebral convolutions. 4. llESTiForvM Columns.—These cord-like bodies are formed prin- cipally of fibres from the posterior part of the spinal cord, and partly of fibres from its antero-lateral columns. They pass in a curved direction, in a plane below the oHves, where, from their arched form, they are called the areiform fibres. They ascend to the cerebellum, contribute to form its crura, and penetrate into the substance of its hemispheres. They thus connect the cerebellum with tlie medulla oblongata, and so with the spinal cord and brain, and are accordingly named "processes from the cerebellum to the medulla oblongata" (processus a cerebello ad medullam oblongatum). They convey to the cerebellum motor and sentient fibres fi'om the spinal cord, and thus are to the cerebellum what the crura cerebri are to the cerebrum. 5. FiBiiES Connecting the Cerebellum with the Cerebrum.— In describing the commissures of the brain it was stated that a thin layer of white fibres proceeds from the middle lobe of the cerebellum, called the " interposed veil" (velum interjectura), and extends to the ojjtic tubercles ; and that at the sides of this are two cords which also extend from the cerebellum to the optic tubercles, and which are therefore called processes from the cerebellum to the optic tubercles. This a^iparatus unites the cerebellum and the cerebrum to each other. And thus are established those anatomical connections between the spinal cord and the cerebral and cerebellic masses which constitute the conducting aj^paratus for voluntary motion and sensation. Such is an account of the Ence])halon, as far as it can be described in words and represented by drawings. With a knowledge of so much of the structure as is here given, brief as it is, what is known of the physiology may be communicated ; but without it, no clear and correct conception of the subject can be conveyed.