265 PULMONAKY ABSORBING SURFACE. But membrane is so disposed and modified, in different parts of the body, as to admit of the introduction of fluids and solids from the ex- terior to the interior of the system with widely different degrees of facihty. There may be said to be in the human body three great absorbing surfaces, the pulmonary, the digestive, and the cutaneous, each highly important, but each endowed with exceedingly different degrees of absorbing power. The pulmonary smface, for reasons which will be readily understood from what has been already stated relative to the structm-e of the air- vesicles of the lungs, is by far the most active absorbing sm-face of the body. The mode in which the air-vesicles are formed and disposed has been shown to be such as to give to the lungs an almost incredible extent of membranous surface, while the membrane of which the cells are composed is exceedingly fine and delicate. Moreover, there is the freest possible communication between all the branches of the j)ulmo- nary vascular system, whether arteries or veins; the distance between the lungs and the heart is short; the course of the blood from the pulmonary capillaries to the central engine that works the circulation is rapid, and the lungs are at the same time close to the central masses of the nervous system, with which indeed they are placed in du-ect communication by nerves of great magnitude and of most extensive distribution. These circumstances account for the wonderful rapidity with which substances are absorbed, when placed in contact with the pulmonary surface, and for the instantaneousuess and intensity of the impression produced upon the system, when the substance thus intro- duced is of a deleterious nature. They also afford an explanation of a phenomenon not to have been credited without experience of the fact, that innoxious substances in- troduced into the air-cells of the lungs in moderate quantities produce no more inconvenience there than when taken into the stomach. A single drop of pure water, when in contact near the glottis with the same membrane that forms the air-vesicles of the limgs, excites the most violent and spasmodic cough, and the smallest particle of a solid substance permanently remaining there occasions so much irritation that inevitable suffocation and death result. Yet so different is the sensibility of this membrane in different parts of its course, that while at the upper portion of the trachea it will not bear a drop of water without exciting violent disturbance, in the air-vesicles it tolerates with only slight inconvenience a considerable quantity even of solid matter. An accident of a nature sufficiently alarming, which occurred to Dessaidt, affords a striking illustration of this curious fact. This cele- brated surgeon had to treat a case in which the trachea and oesophagus were cut through. It was necessaiy to introduce a tube through the divided oesophagus into the stomach, and to sustain the patient by