PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 278 and hence also the magnitude of the rivers in all extensive countries which are covered with forests. Exhalation, scarcely appreciable in the night, is most abundant during the day under the influence of the solar light. If two plants of the same size are covered with two glass bells, and one be exposed to the sun's hght, while the other is left in the shade, the inner surface of the former bell becomes covered with drops of water, while that of the second remains perfectly dry. The absolute quantity of matter excreted by the plant is widely different in different species. According to Hales, in a sun-flower three feet and a half high, the leaves of which presented a sui-face of 5G16 square inches, or 39 square feet, the greatest quantity exhaled in twelve hom's, duiing the day, was one pound fourteen ounces avoir- dupois ; the medium quantity one pound four ounces. In a middle- sized cabbage, the greatest quantity exhaled was one pound nine ounces; the medium quantity one pound three ounces. In a vine, the greatest quantity exhaled was six ounces; the medium quantity five ounces. In a young apple-tree having 163 leaves, the sm-face of which was equal to 1589 square inches, or 11 square feet, the greatest quantity exhaled was eleven ounces ; the medium quantity nine ounces. Martino calculated the quantity exhaled by a cabbage, in the twenty- four hours, at twenty-three ounces; by a young mulberiy-tree, eighteen ounces; and, by a maize plant, seven drachms. Supposing the weight of the human body to be 160 pounds, and the weight of a sun-flower 3 pounds, the relative weights of the two bodies will be as 160 to 3, or as 53 to 1. The surface of such a human body is equal to 15 square feet, or 2160 square inches; the surface of the sun-flower is 5616 square inches, or as 26 to 10. The quantity perspired in the twenty-fom- hom's by an ordinary-sized man, according to the estimate of Keill, is about thu'ty-one ounces. Allow- ing two ounces for the exhalation during the beginning and the ending of the night, the quantity exhaled by the plant, in the same time, is twenty-two ounces; so that the persph-ation of a man to that of a sun- flower is nearly as 141 to 100, though the weight of the man to that of the sun-flower is as 53 to 1. Taking bulk for bulk, the plant im- bibes seventeen times more fresh fluid than the man, partly, no doubt, for the reason assigned by Hales—because, " the fluid which is filtered through the roots of the plant is not near so full freighted with nutrient particles as the chyle which enters the lacteals of the animal; the plant, therefore, requires a much larger supply of fluid." As soon, in the animal series, as organs are formed distinct from the homogeneous mass of which the minute and simple beings placed at the bottom of the scale appear to consist, these organs are appropriated, at least in part, to the function of excretion. In the human hem^,