196 PIIILOSOPPIY OF HEALTH. doubled or trebled in frequency; but in proportion to the rapidity of the circulation is the increase of the quantity of evaporable matter which is transmitted to the evaporating surfaces. From the whole it appears that by the combination of carbon and oxygen provision is made for the production of the greatest quantity of caloric that can at any time be required for the wants of the system ; that when a decreased evolution of heat is necessary a smaller quantity of carbon and oxygen is brought into union; and that when, from exposure to intense degrees of heat, it is requisite for the maintenance of the temperature of the body at its own standard, that it should actually generate cold, it accomplishes this object by the evaporation of water. CHAPTEE XIV. OF THE FUNCTION OF DIGESTION. Process of Assimilation in tlie plant; in the animal—Digestive apparatus in tlie lower classes of animals; in the higiier classes; iu man—Digestive processes—Prehension, Mastication, Insalivation, Deglutition, Chymificatiou, Chylification, Absorption, Fecation—Structure and action of the organs by which tlieso operations are per- formed—Ultimate results—Powers by which those results are accomplished—Tw(j kinds of thgestion, a lower and a liigher ; the former prepaititory to the latter. Digestion is the function by which the ahment is converted into nutriment. No food can nourish until it be converted into a fluid analogous in chemical composition to that of the body by which it is assimilated. The conversion of the crude aliment into such a fluid is efl'ected by a vital power peculiar to living beings, by which they subvert the constitution of other organised bodies, and cause them to assume their own. They accomplish this change by the agency of certain secretions which they elaborate in their own organs, and which they add to the substances they receive as aliment. By the action of these secretions, the chemical composition of the aliment is brought into a close afiinity to that of the body which it nourishes. Fixed immoveably to the soil by its roots, the nutritive apparatus of the plant is always in contact with its food, which is slowly but un- ceasingly absorbed according to the wants of its system. But the animal endowed with the faculty of locomotion receives its aliment into the interior of its body, that it may transport its food along with it in all its changes of place; and that, as m the plant, its food may be always in contact with its nutritive apparatus. The interior nutrition of the animal and the convergence of its nutritive apparatus to the centre of its system, and the exterior nutrition of the plant and the divergence of its nutritive apparatus to the peripheral extremity of