ARTERY—VEIN-CAI'lLLAKY VKbSELS. 120 posed of the same number of tunics as the artery, which, with the exception of the middle, are essentially the same in structure, but tliey are all much thinner. The external tunic consists of a less dense and strong cellular membrane; the middle tunic, instead of being formed of elastic rings, is composed of soft and yielding fibres, disposed in a longitudinal direction; while the inner coat, which is still more delicate than that of the artery, is arranged in a peculiar manner. The inner coat of most veins, at slight intervals, is formed into folds (Fig. 73, 5), one margin of which is fu-mly adherent to the circum- ference of the vessel, while the other margin is free and turned m the direction of the heart. These membranous folds are termed valves. In all veins, the diameter of which is less than a line, the valves are single ; in most veins of greater magnitude they are placed ui pairs, while in some of the larger trunks they are triple, and in a few instances quadruple, and even quintuple. The veins, like the arteries, are supplied vnih nutrient vessels and nerves. All the arteries of the body proceed from the two trunks akeady described ; that connected with the pulmonic circle, the pulmonary artery, and that connected with the systemic circle, the aorta. These vessels, as they go out from the heart, and proceed to theu' ultimate termi- nation, are arborescent, that is, they successively increase in number and diminish m size, like the branches of a tree going ofi" from the trunk (Fig. 73). Each trunk usually ends by dividing into two or more branches, the combined area of which is always greater than that of the trunk from which they spring, in the proportion of about one and a half to one. As the branch proceeds to its ultimate termina- tion it divides and suMivides, until at length the vessel becomes so minute, that it can no longer be distinguished by the eye. These ultimate branches are called capillary vessels, from their hair-like smallness; but this term does] not adequately express their minute- ness. The disposition of the veins, like that of the arteries, is arborescent, but in an inverse order; for the course of the veins is from capillary vessels to visible branches, and from visible branches to large trunks. In cveiy part of the body where the capillary aiteries terminate tlio capillary veins begin, and the branches miiting to form trunks, and the small to form large trunks, and the trunks always advancing towards the heart, and always increasing in magnitude as they approach it, form at length the two veins which it has been stated return all the blood of the body to the right auricle of the heart. The veins are very much more numerous than the arteries, for they often consist of double sets, and they are at the same time more capacious and more extensible. Beckoning the whole of the blood at one-fifth of the weight of the body, it is estimated that, of this K