333 CHAPTEE XXIV. STEUCTURE OF SPINAL CORD. Provisions for the protection of the cord—Ligaments by which it is slung and fixed— Suspended in fluid—Arachnoid pouches—Form and extent of the cord—Composed of white and groy neurine—Connection of spinal nerves witli conl—Course of the fibres of the nerve-roots—Incident and reflex fibres—Sensitive and volitional fibres. The spinal cord is an extended mass of neurine, consisting of fibrous and vesicular matter intimately united. It is lodged in a bony cavity formed by a series of bones termed vertebras, from verto, to turn, be- cause the bones that compose the column move or turn upon each other. The cord extends fi'om the border of the foramen magninn, where it enters the cranium, to the lower part of the vertebral canal, where it terminates at the second lumbar vertebra (Fig. 32). The integrity of the spinal cord being essential to actions indis- pensable to life, extraordinary provisions are made for its protection and nourishment. 1. The first and main protection of the cord is afforded by the bony case in which it is enclosed, the construction of which presents one of the most admu-able pieces of mechanism in the animal body, combining apparently incompatible conditions, and accomplishing in the most perfect manner purposes directly opposed to each other. Between the bodies of the firm and solid bones which compose the spinal column, there are placed large masses of elastic matter, called the Intervertebral substance. This substance consists partly of carti- lage and partly of fibrous matter, disposed in concentric plates, and forming large discs, one of which is placed between each pair of ver- tebra, excepting the two first, so that they amount in number alto- gether to twenty-three (Fig. 42). They constitute so many elastic springs, which form a much larger part of the entire column than is commonly conceived. According to the accurate measiu-emeuts of Weber, they make up rather more than one-sixth part of the whole length of the column. They perform the double ofiice of uniting the vertebrae to each other as ligaments, by firmly tying the bones together, and yet so as to give to the entire column a considerable degree of mobility. 2. The cm-vatures of the column, in conjunction with the elastic discs just described, afibrd a second protection to the cord. The natural curvatures of the column are considerably greater than are