PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 260 portions of the firmest and strongest muscle, nay, even of the most dense and compact bone, wholly disappear. At one time the fluids diminish in quantity, the flesh wastes, and the weight of the body is reduced one half or more. Under other circumstances, while the state of the general system remains stationary, some particular part diminishes in size, or altogether disappears. Healthy and strong men, engaged in hard labour and exposed to intense heat, sometimes lose, in the space of a single hour, upwards of five pounds of their weight. Though daily engaged for months together in this occupation at two different periods of the day, for the space of an hour each time, and though consequently these men lose five pounds twice every day, yet when weighed at intervals of three, six, or nine months, it is found that the weight of the body remains stationary, not varying, perhaps, more than a pound or two. It follows that the bodies of these men must absorb, twice every day, a quantity equal in weight to that which they lose. These phenomena depend on a power inherent in the body, that of taking up and carrying into the system certain substances in contact with its surfaces, and of transporting fi'om one part of its system to another its own component particles. The apparatus by which these operations are carried on is general and special. The general apparatus consists of blood-vessels and membrane. The special apparatus consists of a peculiar system of vessels, namely, the lacteals and lymphatics, together with the system of glands termed conglobate. It is proved by direct experiment that the walls of blood-vessels exert a power by which substances in contact with their external surface penetrate their tissue, reach their internal surface, and mix with the mass of the circulating fluids, and that this property is possessed by all blood-vessels, arteries and veins, great and small, dead and living. If a portion of a vein or artery taken from the body be attached by either extremity to two glass tubes in order to establish a current of warm water in its interior, if the vein be then placed in a fluid slightly acidulated, and the fluid which flows through the vessel be collected in a flask, this latter fluid becomes, in the space of a few minutes, sensibly acid. In this experiment there is no possibility of communication between the current of warm water and the external acidulated fluid, consequently the latter must penetrate the parietes of the vessel, that is, absorption must take place through its membranous walls. A striking experiment demonstrates the absorbing power of the living blood-vessels. If the trunk of a vein or artery be exposed in a living animal, and a poisonous substance in solution be dropped on the