PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 224 right to left along the small arch, and thence through the large curvature from left to right. The bolus as it enters the cardia turns to the left, passes the aperture, descends into the splenic extremity, and follows the great curvature towards the pyloric end. It then returns in the course of the smaller curvature, makes its appearance again at the aperture, in its descent into the great curvature, to per- form similar revolutions. These revolutions are completed in from one to three minutes. They are probably induced in a great measure by the circular or transverse muscles of the stomach, as is indicated by the spiral motion of the stem of the thermometer, both in descend- ing to the pyloric portion, and in ascending to the splenic. These motions are slower at first than after chymification has considerably advanced. The whole contents of the stomach, until chymification be nearly complete, exhibit a heterogeneous mass of solids and fluids, hard and soft, coarse and fine, crude and chymified; all intimately mixed, and circulating promiscuously through the gastric cavity like the mixed contents of a closed vessel, gently agitated or turned in the hand. The chambers in which the remaining part of the digestive process is carried on are much less accessible, and no such favourable oppor- tunity as that enjoyed by Dr. Beaumont has occurred of rendering their operations manifest to the eye. Nevertheless, the researches of physiologists have succeeded in disclosing, with almost equal exact- ness and certainty, the successive changes which the food undergoes even in these more hidden organs, that admit of no exposure during life without extreme danger. The chyme on passing through the pylorus is received into a chamber which fonns the first portion of the small intestines. The small intestines, taken together, constitute a tube about four times the length of the body.* This tube is conical, the base of the cone being towards the pylorus, and its apex at the valve of the colon, where the small intestines terminate in the large. From the j)ylorus to the valve of the colon the small intestines diminish in capacity, in thick- ness, in vascularity, in the size of the villi, and in the depth and number of the valvulae cenniventes. The first portion of the small intestine is termed the duodenum. It is about twelve inches in length ; and, unlilce the stomach, wdiich is capable of considerable motion, it is closely tied down to the back by the peritoneum, which imperfectly covers it. The rest of the smail intestine is divided into two portions—the upper two-fifths of which are termed jejunum, and the tliree lower ilium. The duodenum, the chamber which receives the chyme from the pylorus, is a second stomach, which carries on the process commenced * Described by some anatomists as six times, and in children, from ilieir smaller stature, ten times, the lengtli of the body, i.e., measuring from head lo heels.