DISCOVERY OF THE LACTEALS AND LYMPHATICS. 271 rapid, is energetic.. If a ligature be placed around tlie thoracic duct in a living animal, the tube will swell and ultimately burst, from the rupture of its coat, in consequence of the force of the distension that takes place below the ligatiu-e. If the thoracic duct in the neck of a dog be opened some hours after the animal has taken a full meal, the chyle flows from the vessel in a full stream, and in the space of five minutes half an oimce of the fluid may be obtained. Yet this system of vessels is beyond the influence of the circulating blood: it has no heart to propel it; no current behind always in rapid motion to urge it onwards; it is therefore inferred that it is moved by a vital contrac- tile power inherent in the vessels, analogous to, if not identical with, muscular contractility. The flow of blood through the arterial tubes is believed to be effected, in part at least, by such a contractile power, for this, among other reasons, that if in a living anhnal the trunk of an artery be laid bare, the mere exposure of it to the atmospheric air causes it to contract to such a degree that its size becomes obviously and strikingly diminished. The same phenomenon has been observed in the main trunk of the absorbent system. Tiedemann and Gmelin state that in the course of their experiments they saw the thoracic duct contract from exposure to the air. The delicacy and transparency of the lacteals and lymphatics long concealed them from the view of the anatomist. The lacteals had indeed been occasionally seen in ancient times, but their office was ( altogether unknown. In the year 1563 Eustachius discovered the thoracic duct, but did not perceive its use. About half a century afterwards, in the year 1622, the lacteals were again one day by chance seen by Asellius, in Italy, while investigating the function of certain nerves. Mistaking the lacteals for nerves, he at first paid no attention to them; but soon observing that they did not pursue the same course as the nerves, and "astonished at the novelty of the thing," he hesitated for some time in silence. Kevolving in his mind the doubts and controversies of anatomists, of which it chanced that he had been reading the very day before, in order to examine the matter further, " I took," he says, "a sharp scalpel to cut one of these chords, but scarcely had I struck it when I found a liquor white as milk, or rather like cream, to leap out. At this sight I could not contain myself for joy; but turning to the bystanders, Alexander Tadinus and the senator Septalius, I cried out EvpijKa! with Archi- medes; and at the same time invited them to look at so rare and pleasing a spectacle, with the novelty of which they were much moved. But I was not long permitted to enjoy it, for the dog now expired, and, wonderful to tell, at the same instant the whole of that astonishing series and congeries of vessels, losing its brilliant whiteness, that fluid being gone, in our very hands, and almost before our eyes, so evanished