228 rillLOSOPIIY OF llEAI/rH. gone on in the stomach just as when the choledoch duct was sound, but no chyle appeared to be contained either in the intestines or'in the lacteals. In the lacteals there was found only a transparent fluid, which was supposed to consist of lymph and of the watery portion of the chyme. Mr. Brodie's experiments seemed to be confirmed by those of ]\Ir. ]\Iayo, who arrived at the conclusion, that when the choledoch duct is tied, and the animal is examined at various intervals after eating, no trace whatever of chyle is discoverable in the lacteal vessels. But these experimentalists inferred that no chyle existed in the intestines or lacteals, because there v^'-as present no fluid of a milk- white colour, a colour not essential to chyle, but dependent on the accident of oily or fatty matter having formed a portion of the food. These experiments have been repeated in Germany l)y Tiedemann and Grmelin, and in France by Leuret and Lassaigne, who have invariably found, after tying the choledoch duct, nearly the same chylous jDrin- ciples, with the exception of those derived from the bile, as in animals perfectly sound; and the English physiologists have since admitted that their Grerman and French coUaborateurs have arrived at conclu- sions more correct than their own. The bile consists then of two different portions : a highly animalized portion, which combines with the chyme and exalts its nature by approximating it to the condition of the blood; and an excrementitious portion, which, after accomplishing certain specific uses, is carried out of the system with the undigested matter of the food. The excremen- titious portion of the bile, namely, the resin, the fat, the colouring principle, the mucus, the salts, constitute by far the largest portion of it. These constituents of the bile for the most part contain a very large proportion of carbon and hydrogen, and the reasons have l^een already fully stated which favour the conclusion that the elimination of these substances under the form of bile is one most important mode of maintaining the purity of the blood, and that the liver is thus a proper respiratory organ, truly auxiliary to the lungs. It is a beau- tiful arrangement, and like one of the adjustments of natm'e, that the bile, the formation of which abstracts from the blood so large a portion of carbon and hydrogen as to maintain the purity of the circulating mass and to counteract its putrescent tendency, acts on the excremen- titious portion of the food, always highly putrescent, as a direct and powerful antiseptic; that the very matter which is eliminated on account of the putrid taint it communicates to the blood, on its passage out of the body, stops the putrefaction of the substances which have been ministering to the replenishment of the blood. The chyle, thick, glutinous, and adhesive, attaches itself with some degree of tenacity to the mucous surface of the duodenum. Never- theless, by the successive contractions of the muscular fibres of the