148 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. lated vesicles it is a greenish fluid, partly coagnlable and abounding with organic particles under the form o'f globules. Its chemical com- position is now wholly clianged ; it consists of resinous matter, starch, gluten, and vegetable albumen. It is now thoroughly elaborated nutritive fluid; the proper food of the plant (cambium); rich in all the principles which are fitted to form vegetable secretions: it is to the plant what arterial blood is to the animal, and, like the vital fluid formed in the lung, the cambium elaborated in the leaf, is transmitted to the different parts and organs of the plant to serve for their nutrition and development. The formation of this nutritive fluid by the plant is a vital process, as necessary to the continuance of its existence, as the process of sanguification is necessary to the maintenance of the life of the animal. If the plant be deprived of its leaves, if the cold destroy, or the insect devour them, the nutrition of the plant is arrested; the development of the flowers, the maturation of the fruit, the fecundation of the seeds, all are stopped at once, and the plant itself perishes. The proper nutritive juice of the plant, completed by the process of respiration, is formed by the elaboration of organic combinations of a higher natm-e than those afforded by the sap. Acid, sugar, gum, are converted into the higher organic compounds, resin, gluten, starch, albumen, probably by chemical processes, the result of which is the inversion of the relative proportions of oxygen and carbon. In the organic matters contained in the sap, the proportion of oxygen, com- pared with that of carbon, is in excess; on the contrary, in the higher compounds contained in the cambium, the carbon preponderates: by the inversion of the relative j)roportions of these two elements, the organic compounds of a lower nature, appear to be changed into those of a higher; to be brought into a chemical condition nearer to that of the proper substance of the plant; a condition in which they receive the last degree of elaboration preparatoiy to their conversion into that substance. In the process of respiration in the animal, as in the plant, parts of the digested aliment mix with the air; parts of the air mix with the digested aliment; and by this interchange of principles, the chemical composition of the aliment acquires the closest afimity to that of the animal body; is rendered fit to combine with it; fit to become a con- stituent part of it. The extent and complexity of the respiratory apparatus in the animal, is in the direct ratio of the elevation of its structure and the activity of its function, to which the quantity of air consumed by it is always strictly proportionate. The process of respiration in the animal is effected by two media air and water; but the only real agent is tlie air; for the wat«r con-