13 r-Y LONGMANS ano CO. NKW WORKS PLui.isiir.D Iron Ship Building, its History and Progress, as comprised iu a Scries of Experimental Kescarclies on the Laws of Strain ; the Strengths, Forms, and other conditions of the Material; and an Inquiry into the Present and Prospective State of the tiavy, iucludin;? the Experimental Itesults on the Kesisting Powers of Armour Plates and Shot at High Velocities. By Sir W. FAiRBAtiix, F.R.S. With 4 Plates and 130 Woodcuts, 8vo. 18s. Encyclopaedia of Civil Engineer- ing, Historical, Theoretical, and I'ractical. By E. Cresy^ C.E. With above 3,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. '12s. The Ai'tisan Club's Treatise on the Steam Engine, in its various Applica- tions to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, Railways, and Agriculture. By J. Bourmc, <J.E. New Edition; with Portrait, 37 Plates, and 54G Woodcuts. 4to. 42s. A Treatise on the Screw Pro- peller, Screw Vesseb, and Screw Engines, as adapted for purposes of Peace and War ; with notices of other Methods of Propulsion, Tables of the Dimensions and Performance of Screw Steamers, and Detailed Specifica- tions of Ships and Engines. By John Boi"RNi:,C.E. Third Edition, with 54 Plates and 287 Woodcuts. Quarto, 63s. Catechism of the Steam Engine, in its various Ai>pli(iations to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, Railways, and Agricul- ture. By John Boi knk, C.E. New Edi- tion, with 89 Woodcuts. Fcp. 6s. Kecent Improvements in the Steam-Engine in its various applications to Mines, Mills, Steam Navi<ration, Railways, and Agriculture. By Joiix Boi une, C.E. being a Sui'pi.kjient to his ' Catechism of the Steani-Engiue.' New Edition, in- cluding many New Examples, among ■which are several of the most remarkable ExGiNES exhibited in Paris in 18G7 ; with 124 Woodcut.s. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. Bourne's Examples of Modern Steam, Air, and Gas Engines of the most Approved Types, as employed forPmnping, for Driving Machinery, for Locomotion, and for Agriculture, minutely and prac- tically described. Illustrated by Working Drawings, an I embodying a Critical Ac- count of all Projects of Reccntlmprove nent in Furnaces, Boilers, and Engines. In course (if publication, to be completed in Twenty- four Parts, price 2s. 6d. each, forming One Volume, with about 50 Plates and 400 Woodcuts. Handbook of the Steam Engine. By Joiix BouuNi-;, C.K. forming a Key to the Author's Catechism of the Steam Engine. With 07 Woodcuts. Fcp. 9s. A History of the Machine- Wroiiglit Hosiery and Lace Manufactures. By Wii.i.iAM Fki.icix, F.L.S. F.S.S. With 3 Steel Plates, 10 Lithographic Plates of Machinery, and 10 Coloured P.npressions of Patterns of Lace. Royal 8vo. 21s, Mitchell's Manual of Practical Assaying. Tliird Edition, for the most part re-written, with all the recent Discoveries incorporated. By W. Ckookes, F.R.S. ^Vith 188 Woodcuts. 8vo. 28s. Reimann's Handbook of Aniline and its Derivatives; a Treatise on the Manufacture of Aniline and Aniline Colours, Revised and edited by William Crookes, F.R.S. 8vo. with 5 Woodcuts, 10s. Gel. Practical Treatise on Metallurgy, adapted from the last German Edition of Professor Kerl's Metallurgij by W, Crooives, F.R.S. &c. and E. Rojirig, Ph.D. M.E. In Three Volumes, 8vo. with 025 Woodcuts. Vol. J. price 31s. 6rf, Vol. II. price 3Gs, Vol. III. price 31s. Q,d. The Art of Perfumery ; the History and Theory of Odours, and tlie Methods of I^xtracting the Aromas of Plants. By Dr. PiES.SE, F.C.S. Third Edition, with 53 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 10s. Gd. Chemical, Natural, and Physical Magic, for -Juveniles during the Holidays. B}- the same Author. Third I'^dition, enlarged with 38 Woodcuts. Fcp. Gs. Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Agri- culture: comprising the Laying-out, Im- provement, and Management of Landed Property, and tlie Cultivation and Economy of the Productions of Agriculture. AV^ith 1,100 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21s. Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening : comprising the Theory and Practice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arboriculture, and Landscape Gardening. With 1,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21s. Bayldon's Art of Valuing Rents and Tillages, and Claims of Tenants upon Quitting Farms, both at Michaelmas and Lady-Da\-. Eighth Edition, revised by J. C. INIoRTOx, 8vo. 10s. Gd.