PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 268 obtained, to produce fever of almost any type, endowed with almost any degree of mortal power. These facts, of which practical applica- tions of the highest utility are hereafter to be made, may suffice to show the importance of the pulmonary membrane as an absorbing surface. By the extent and energy of its absorbing power, it is one of the great portals of life and health, or of disease and death. The digestive surface is of r^uch less extent than the pulmonary; it is less vascular; it is further removed from the centre of the circu- lating system, and it is covered with a thick mucus, which is closely adherent to it; hence its absorbing power is neither so great as that of the pulmonary membrane, nor do noxious substances in contact with it affect the system so rapidly. An appreciable interval commonly elapses between the introduction of a poison into the stomach and its action upon the system. An emetic is commonly a quarter of an hour before it begins to operate: arsenic itself is generally half an hour*, and sometimes three quarters of an hoiu-, before it produces any decided effect on the system: but at length a noxious substance applied to any part of the digestive membrane, is introduced into the circulating mass and produces its appropriate efiects on the system, just as when it is in contact with the pulmonary tissue. Over the external sm-face of the body or the skin, there is spread a thin layer of solid, inorganic, insensible matter, like a varnish of India-rubber. The obvious effect of such a barrier placed between the external surface of the body and external objects, is to moderate the entrance of substances from without, and the transmission of substances from within, that is, to regulate both the absorbing and the exhaling power of the skin. Hence the comparative slowness with which sub- stances enter the system by the cutaneous surface; the impunity with which the most deadly poisons may remain for a time in contact with the skin, with which prussic acid, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, may be touched and even handled. The internal surface of the body is protected from the action of acrid substances introduced into the alimentary canal by a layer of mucus, through which an irritant must penetrate before it can pain the sentient nerve or irritate the capillary vessel; but were not a still denser shield thrown over the external surface, pain, disease, and death must inevitably result from the mere contact of innumerable bodies, which now are not only perfectly in- noxious, but capable of ministering in a high degree to human comfort and improvement. Immediately beneath the cuticle is a surface as vascular as it is sensitive, from which absorption takes place with, extreme rapidity. Poison in very minute quantity introduced beneath the cuticle kills in a few minutes. Arsenic applied to surfaces fr'om which the cuticle has been removed by ulceration produces its poisonous efiects upon the