363 CHAPTER XXVII. STRUCTUllE OF THE BEAIN. The brain is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis which is contained within the cavity of the skull. (Fig. 32). The like provisions are made for its protection and nourishment as for the spinal cord. Its chief protection, like that of the cord, is derived from the solid case in which it is enclosed. The figure, position, relation and mode of connection of the eight bones that com- pose the cranium, and the admirable adaptation of the whole for containing and defending the brain, have been already described. Within its solid case the brain, like the cord, is enveloped in three membranous coverings, the same in structure as those of the cord, and bearing the same names. 1. PiA Mater.—The pia mater of the brain, like that of the cord, closely envelops the nervous matter, dips down between all its convo- lutions, follows and covers its minutest fissures and windings, and gives an internal Iming to its larger cavities. The arteries of the pia mater, the carriers of nourishment to the brain, spread themselves out on this dehcate tissue, and divide upon it into very minute branches, before they enter the tender cerebral sub- stance, in order to temj)er and regulate the force of the current of the blood. The quantity of blood transmitted to the brain is very great. It is conveyed through four channels, by four large arterial trunks, termed the two internal carotids and the two vertebrals ; the two first entering the brain at the fore part of the head, through two canals made for then- passage in the substance of the temporal bone ; and the two last entering the brain at the back part of the head, by an imperfect osseous canal in the six upper cervical vertebrae. So large and frequent are the communications between these systems of vessels that, if an impediment to the circulation occur in any one of them, it scarcely at all mfluences the flow of the general current, because the blood readily finds its way through the unobstructed communicating branches. Thus, if a ligature be placed around all the great cerebral trunks on one side of the body, there is no interruption to the circulation ; but if the arteries on both sides are tied, the con- sequence is instant death. Extraordinary care is taken, by numerous and special provisions,