SEAT OF THE SENTIENT AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 387 on the mental faculties than that which naturally accompanies a dis- ordered state of the general health. On the other hand, the connection between disease of the brain and disorder of the mind is so close and intimate that no one can doubt it. Pressure upon the brain instantly annihilates all its faculties; inflammation of it produces delirium, often amounting to frenzy; softening of it causes imbecility, idiotcy, and so on. That the true seat of the sentient and intellectual faculties is some- where in the brain is further demonstrated by the facts brought to hght both by experiment and disease. In every case in which the connection between the brain proper and the organs of the body is interrupted, whether by du-ect section of the nerve-libres, as in experi- ment, or by their laceration in disease, the result is constant and mvariable, sensation and volition are instantly abolished in the parts Ihus mjured. On the other hand, the moment that connection is re-estabhshed both faculties are restored. This is occasionally seen in the effects of disease, the results of which are much more to be relied on than those of experiment. Thus, when the rupture of a blood- vessel takes place in the brain, and the nerve-fibres are consequently lacerated and torn asunder by an effusion of blood, as in apoplexy, either deep coma, including the total loss of sensation and volition, is produced, or those faculties are lost on one side of the body only, or in one half of it, according to the seat and severity of the malady; but when a reparative process takes place in the part thus injured, the progress to health is marked by a gradual return of sensation and volition; so, on dividing the trunk of a nerve either in experiment or for the cure of tlie painful disease called fascial neuralgia, sensation of the parts supplied by the nerve is at first lost; but when in the process of time the divided nerve reunites, a result which not unfrequently happens, sensation is re-established. 2. That the seat of the sentient and intellectual faculties is in the cerebral convolutions, is further shown by the origin, course, and termination of the nerve-fibres connected with the brain. The sen- tient and motor traits, as we have seen, take their origin from, and terminate in, the cerebral convolutions, apparently as then- source and centre. The peripheral nerve-fibres (sentient), arising from all parts of the body, ascend to the brain, and ultimately terminate m the cerebral convolutions, in the grey matter of which they are lost. On the other hand, the centrifugal nerve-fibres (volitional) spring du-ectly from the grey matter of the convolutions, and go out to the muscles of voluntary motion, in which they termmate. Here there is a distinct, a terminal apparatus, for the double purpose of receiving impressions and of transmitting motor force to a definite class of muscles—the muscles of voluntaiy motion. The structure suggests the function;