HELATION BETWEEN GANGLIONIC AND SPINAL NERVES. 331 of the spinal nerves, it is generally supposed that these ganglia also are, in some ^Yay or other, like those of the proper sympathetic, connected with nutrition. But this is not proved; and the fact that these ganglia are invariably placed on the sentient roots of nerves, and that on one at least of the nerves of special sense—the olfactory, the nerve of smell—there is a distinct ganglion, well seen in fishes, would rather indicate that the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves constitute a necessary part of the nervous apparatus of sensation than of nutrition. The jjreceding account of the anatomy of the ganglionic system demonstrates that all ganglia are supplied with sentient nerves, derived from the cerebro-spinal system, which ramify through their substance, intermuigle with their own fibres, and go out with them to the organs. Parts chiefly supplied by ganglia are, therefore, not altogether desti- tute of sensibility, but it is very obscure, exciting no distinct sensation. Their sentient nerves would appear to be too few in number to commu- nicate distinct feeling under the ordinary impressions they receive. In a state of health they carry on their processes without conscious- ness. Violent, long-continued irritation, indeed, rouses their latent sensibility, and then they produce mtense pain, as is too fully proved by the sufi'ering caused by diseases of the abdominal and other viscera. But even under these circumstances they give rise to no sensation ex- cepting that of pain. Anatomy further shows that the ganglia are supplied with motor fibres from the anterior roots of the spinal nerves: hence, organs chiefly supplied by ganglia are capable of movements which can be excited only by the cerebro-spinal centre. Passion instantaneously afiects the action of the heart by an influence transmitted directly from the brain through the cerebral fibres that join the ganglionic. Irritation of the spinal cord disturbs the action of the heart sometimes to such a degree as to simulate organic disease of the heart, as in spinal neuralgia, in which there is violent disturbance of the heart, though the seat of the disease is in the spine. So in children, irrita- tion of the intestinal canal by the presence of worms often produces violent conAnilsions. The irritation is transmitted by the nerves of the intestines to the spinal cord, and is thence reflected by the spinal nerves to the muscles, which are thereby excited to violent contrac- tions. All spasmodic afi'ections arising from local irritation of the abdominal and other viscera are produced in the same manner. The pecuhar relation thus established between the ganglionic and the cerebro-spinal system presents an adjustment which camiot be contemplated without admiration. The intermixture of the^ two systems which has been described, and the exact balance established between them, are essential to the well-being of moving and sentient