142 PHn.OSOPHY OF HEALTH. These experiments, -whenever repeated, afforded the same result, and they demonstrate that the capillaries are capable of being stimulated to contract upon their contents, and that they can contract with such force as to stop the current. It is manifest that the power by which they do this is vital, because after death all fluids, the mildest and the most acrid, pass through them with equal facility. Drs. Thompson, Philip, Hastings, and others in this country, have applied stimulants of various kinds to the capillary arteries, in order to obsei-ve with the microscope the changes which the vessels undergo. The results of these experiments, performed independently, agree with each other; and all the observers concur in stating that those results are so obvious and decisive as to admit of no question. Wedemeyer, fully aware of all that had been done on this subject by the English physiologists, repeated their experiments with his usual patience and care, vigilantly watching the effects with his microscope. His ob- servations completely coincide with those of our countrymen. The circulation being observed in the mesentery of the frog, and in the web of its foot, it was apparent that no change whatever took place in the diameter of the small arteries, nor in that of the caj^illaries, as long as the circulation was allowed to go on in its natural state; but as soon as stimulants were applied to them an alteration of their dia- meter was visible. Alcohol, without much apparent contraction of the vessels, stopped the flow of the blood. Muriate of soda, in the course of three or four minutes, caused the vessels to contract one-fifth of their cahbre, which contraction was followed by dilatation and gradual retardation and stoppage of the blood. Ammonia caused im- mediate and direct dilatation, and the effect of galvanism was still more striking. In a space of time varying from ten to thirty seconds, nay, sometimes immediately after the completion of the galvanic circle, the vessels contracted, some a fourth, others half, and others three-fourths of their calibre. The flow of the blood through the contracted vessels was accelerated. The contraction sometimes lasted a considerable time, occasionally several hours; in other instances the contraction ceased in ten minutes, and the vessels resumed their natural diameter. A second application of galvanism to the same capillaries seldom caused any material contraction. The evidence, then, is abundant that stimulants are capable of modifying, to a great extent, the action of the capillary arteries, some- times causing them to contract, at other times to dilate; sometimes quickening the flow of blood through them, at other times retarding it, and frequently altogether arresting its motion. This contractile power of the capillaries must be a vital endowment, for no such pro- perty is possessed by any substance destitute of life, and there is satisfactory evidence that it is communicated, regulated, and controlled