280 PHILOSOPHY OF health. Avitbout arresting its progress, to moderate and regulate its course, in order that time may be allowed for its absorption. The onward flow of the chyle through the course of the small intestines is effected by the action of the double layer of muscular filjres, the circular and the longitudinal fasciculi which compose its muscular coat (Fig. 90). The disposition of the muscular fibres of the alimentary canal in general, and of this part of it in particular, deserves special notice. The ordinary arrangement and action of mus- cular fibres would not have produced in this case the kind and degree of motion required. The muscular fibres that compose the ventricles of the heart are so accumulated and disposed, that their contraction originates, and communicates energetic impulse. The muscles of the Fiff. 90. \'ie\v uf tlic outer coats of the small intestine. 1, peritoneal coat retiected oil'; 2, mus- cular coat, consisting of—a, longitudinal fibres ; b, circular fibres. arm are so accumulated and disposed that their contraction originates the like energetic impulse. Muscles so accumulated in the alimentary canal would have produced motion, indeed, but motion not only not accomplishing the end in view, but directly defeating it. In order to obtain the kind and degree of motion in this case required, the firm and thick muscle is attenuated into minute, delicate, and thready fibres, not concentrated in a bulky mass, so as to obtain by their accu- mulation a great degree of force, but spread out in such a manner as to form a thin and almost transjmrent coat. The tender fibres com- posing this delicate coat, by their contraction, produce two alternate, gentle, almost constant motions, called the peristaltic, from its resem- blance to the motion of the earth-worm, and the antiperistaltic. By the peristaltic action motion is begun at once in several parts of the canal. Whenever the chyle is applied in a certain quantity to any part of the intestines, that part contracts, and makes a firm point, towards W'hich the portions both above and below are drawn, by means of the longitudinal fibres which shorten the canal, and at the same time dilate the under part. By the antiperistaltic action, which is the