389 LOBES AND CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRATN. and the rabbit, may be selected as the respective representations, a remarkable advance takes place. Each hemisphere is divided into two; in fact two new lobes are superadded; and now, for the fii'st time, convolutions begin to be formed. At first only a single convolution appears, which runs longitudinally along the surface of the hemisphere. Still higher in the scale the lobes not only increase in size, but the convolutions are multiplied. In the fox there are six convolutions, which, like the single one that first appears, rmi longitudinally from before backwards. This longitudinal direction of the convolutions is common to all the brains in which these folds first make their appear- ance. So also is the more important character that they are at first quite superficial, and do not penetrate deeply into the substance of the lobes. In the higher mammalia, as in the quadrumana, a third lobe is added, so that the brain now consists of three distinct lobes, an anterior, middle, and posterior; and transverse convolutions are added to the longitudinal. This new lobe, however, is as yet very imperfectly developed; it may almost be said to be rudimentary; and all the convolutions are superficial, penetrating only very little into the substance of the lobes. In the highest class, in man, an advance takes j)lace in the develop- ment of the brain, carrying it far beyond that of any other animal. This advancement is marked by a prodigious increase in the size of all the cerebral lobes, but particularly of the posterior, which now extend so hv backwards as completely to cover the cerebellum, thus distin- guishing the brain of man from that of eveiy other animal—a distinc- tion which is rendered still more striking by the number and depth of the convolutions, as shown in Figs. 109 and 113, which represent the appearance of a convolution in the human brain on making a per- pendicular section of it. It has been elsewhere stated that the great object of the convolutions is, by an enfolding of neurine, to pack the greatest quantity of cerebral matter in the smallest space; and this drawing shows how completely this purpose is accomplished. From the whole of what has been stated, it is clear that the pro- gressive building up of the brain through the animal series consists of a constantly-increasing development of the cerebral lobes and their convolutions, and the vast additions made to these masses in the human brain manifestly points to the seat of human intelligence. Comparative anatomy further shows a remarkable contrast in the diff'erent classes of animals, between the size of the central nervous masses and that of the nerves to which they give origin, significantly pointing to the true seat of the higher faculties. The bulk of the brain, as compared with that of the nerves that spring from it, is in- versely proportional to the intellectual powers of the animal; so that of all creatm-es man has the largest brain in proportion to his slender