PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 280 by evaporation becomes glue, and by combining with tannin and the extractive of oak bark is converted into leather. The thii-d portion of the skin, the cuticle, is a thin, elastic membrane spread over the external surface of the cutis, from which it is easily detached, by the action of a bhster in the living, and by the process of putrefaction in the dead body. It is without vessels and nerves, and consequently it is insensible. It is formed by the cutis, of cells which grow upon its outer sm'face : these are at first rounded and soft, but continually others more recent are growing beneath them so as to raise them fm^ther and further from the cutis, the common source of their nutriment; and as they thus are supplanted by younger, they flatten and mat together, at the same time losing all then- vital pro- perties, and growing horny to form an insensible covering to the tender cutis. When any portion of this covering is removed, it is renewed with great rapidity. Since it is subject to constant waste from friction, and is much increased by pressm-e, as is manifest in the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, its formation must be continual; yet even in the foetus it is thicker in the parts where pressm'e is ultimately to be made than in the other parts of the body. The cuticle is a sheath in which the body is enclosed for the j)urj)Ose of restraining the organic actions which take place at its surface, and for tempering the sentient impressions received there. For restraining the organic actions it is fitted by the cohesion of its parts, which is such as to receive and transmit any fluid very slowly, as is manifest from the dryness of its surface when it is raised in a blister, and from the extreme rapidity with which the cutis dries, until it becomes as hard as parchment, when the cuticle is removed from it in the dead body. Diflused over every part and particle of the cutis is the seat of com- mon sensation, that cognizance may be taken of the presence of external objects. Eestricted to particular points, the tip of the fin- gers is the seat of one of the special senses, that of touch. Had the nerves which communicate to this extended surface its acute sensibility been placed in direct contact with external bodies, intolerable pain would have been the result; but by covering this surface with an in- organic and insensible substance, yet so thin that it is a pelhcle rather than a membrane, the organ of sense is shielded, while the delicacy of sensation is not impaired. But the control of the organic process and the protection of the sentient nerve are not the only ofiices per- formed by the cuticle; it serves further to hide what it is undesirable to have constantly in view. All that is beautiful in the blood as an object of sense is rendered visible through the cuticle, in the bright and rosy hue of health, at the same time that every process, the si^^-ht of which would excite anxiety or terror, is efiectually concealed.