124 rHILOSOPIIY OF HEALTH. at its base, the heart is firmly held iu its situation, altliongh in the vaiied movements of the body it is capable of deviating to a slight extent from the exact position here described. When the interior of the heart is laid open there are brought into view four chambers, two for each circle. '^Jliose belonging to the pulmonic circle are on the right, those to the systemic on the left side of the body; hence the terms right and left are applied to these respective jmrts of the heart. The veins which carry the blood to the right or the pulmonic cham- bers are two, one of whicli brings it from the upper, and the other from the lower parts of the body: the first is called the superior, and the second the inferior vena cava (Figs. 47 and 70). Both pour their blood into the first chamber, termed the riglit auricle (Fig. 70) ; from the right am'icle the blood passes into the second chamber, denominated the right ventricle; from which springs the artery which carries the blood fi-om the heart to the Imig, the pulmonary artery (Fig. 70). This is the pulmonic circle. From the lung the blood is returned to the heart by four veins, termed the pulmonary veins (Fig, 70), which pour the blood into the third chamber of the heart, the left amicle (Fig. 70). From the left auricle it passes into the fourth chamber, the left ventricle (Fig. 70), from which springs the artery which carries out the blood to the system, termed the aorta (Fig. 70). This is the systemic circle. In the system the minute branches of the aorta unite with the minute branches that form the vena? cavae, which return the blood to the right auricle of the heart, and thus the double circle is completed. The two chambers called the auricles occupy the basis of the heart. The right auricle is situated at the basis of the right ventricle. It is partly membranous and partly muscular. At its upper and back part is the opening of the vena cava superior, which returns the blood to the heart from the head, neck, and all the upper parts of the bodv. At its lower part is the opening of the vena cava inferior, which returns the blood from all the lower parts of the body. The auricle communicates with its corresponding ventricle by a large opening, termed the auricular orifice of the ventricle. All around the opening is placed a thin but strong membrane (Fig. 48, Tricuspid valve), one margin of wliich is firmly attached to the wall of tlie ventricle, while the other is free. This membrane receives the name, and, as will be seen immediately, performs the office of a valve. The ventricle is much thicker and proportionally stronger than the auricle (Fig. 71). It is composed almost entirely of muscular fibre. Over nearly the whole extent of its internal surllicc are placed irregular masses of muscular fibi-es, many of which stand out from the wall of