90 PHIT.OSOrHY OF HEALTH. and are not attached to the sternum; these are called false ribs: all of them are connected behind to the sjiinal column (Fig. 49). The ribs -successively and considerably increase m length as far as the seventh, 1)y which the cavity they encompass is enlarged; from the seventh they successively diminish in length, and the capacity of the corresponding part of the cavity is lessened. The direction of the ribs from above downwards is oblique. Their external or anterior surface is convex; their internal or posterior surface is concave: by the fii'st, their strength is increased; by the second, the general cavity of the thorax is eiilarged. Their uj^per margin is smooth and romided, and gives attachment to a double layer of muscles, called the inter- costal, placed in the intervals that separate the ribs from each other (Fig. 41). Along the lower margin is excavated a deep groove, for the lodgment and protection of the intercostal vessels. The ribs are connected with the spinal column chiefly by what is termed the anterior ligament (Fig. 46), which is attached to the head of the rib (Fig 46), and which, dividing into thi-ee portions, firmly unites every rib to two of the vertebrse, and to the interver- tebral substance. This articulation is fortified by a second hgament (Fig. 46, 2), also attached to a head of the rib, termed the interar- ticular, and by three others, one of which is attached on the fore part, and the two others in the back part, to the neck of the rib. The cartilages of the seven su- Fig. 46. perior ribs are attached to the sternum by a double layer of liga- mentous fibres, termed the anterior and the ijosterior ligaments of the sternum. So strong are the bands which thus attach the ribs to the spinal column and the sternum, that the ribs cannot be dislocated without fracture. " Such at least is the case in experiments upon the dead body, where, though the rib be subjected to the appUcation of force by means of an instrument best calculated to detach its head from the articulation, yet it is Ligaments connecting tiie ribs to the spinal ^IwayS broken." column. 1, anterior ligaments; 2, inter- While thuS firmly attached to articular ligament; 3, ligaments of the necks ii • • , ^ , .-, oftheribsr t^eir pomts of support, the hga- ments which fix them are so disposed as to render the ribs capable of being readily moved upwards and downwards : upwards in inspuation, downwards in expiration ;