275 CHAPTEK XVII. OF THE FUNCTION OF EXCRETION. In wliat excretion differs from secretion—Excretion in the plant—Quiuitity excretcil by the plant compared witli that excreted by tiio animal—Organs of excretion in the human body—Organisation of the skin—Excretory processes performed by it— Excretory processes of the lungs—Analogous processes of the liver—Use of the deposition of fat—Function of the kidneys — Function of the large intestines— . Compensating and vicarious actions—Reasons why excretory processes are necessary —Adjustments. The various matters contained in organised bodies, and even those which enter as constituent elements into their composition, are con- stantly removed from the system, and thrown off into the external world. The matters thus rejected are called excretions; and the various processes by which their ehmination is effected constitute a common function termed excretion. Excretion is the necessary consequence of the deterioration which all organised matter undergoes by the actions of life. The matters removed by the process consist of the waste particles of the body, or the particles expended in the vital actions, as the aliment contains the particles which rei^lenish the waste, and compensate the expenditure. The excretions are separated from the common organised mass by processes perfectly analogous to those comprehended in the great function of secretion. Excretion is only a particular form of secretion : the difference between the two functions is, that, in the former, the matter eliminated being either noxious or useless, is separated for the sole purpose of being rejected; while, in the latter, the matter elimi- nated, is destined to perform some useful purpose in the economy. Accordingly, the products of excretion are termed excrementitious; and those of secretion, recrementitious. The chief matters excreted by the plant are oxygen, carbonic acid, air, water, in some few cases, under peculiar circumstances, ammonia and chlorine; and in still rarer cases, during the night, poisonous substances, as carburetted hydrogen, together with acrid, and even narcotic principles. The forms under which these excretions are ehminated are exceed- ingly various. Sometimes the matter excreted is in the shape of gas, at other times it is in that of vapour, and at others in that of liquid. The chief gaseous exhalations are oxygen and carbonic acid; the vaporous exhalations consist principally of water, in the state of vapour; and the liquid exhalations are either pure water, or water