CHYME—GASTRIC JUICE. 217 The dissolved and detiiclied portion of the food, from eveiT part of the stomach flows slowly but steadily towards the pyloric extremity. The fluid, which thus accumulates in this portion of the stomach, is a new product, in which the sensible properties of the food, whatever may have been the variety of substances taken at the meal, are lost. This new product, which is termed chyme, is a homogeneous fluid, pultaceous, greyish, insipid, of a faint sweetish taste, and slightly acid. The pylorus, obedient to the demand of the chyme, relaxes, opens, and aftbrds to the fluid a free passage into the duodemun. As soon as tbe whole of the duly-prepared chyme has passed out of the stomach, the pylorus closes, and remams closed, until two or three ounces more are accumulated, when the same succession of motions are renewed with the same result; and again cease to be again renewed, as long as the process of chymification goes on. When the stomach contains a large quantity of food, these motions are limited to the parts of the organ nearest the pylorus; as it becomes empty, they extend further along the stomach, until the great extremity itself is involved in them. These motions are always strongest towards the end of chymification. The stomach during chymification is a closed chamber: its cardiac orifice is shut by the valved entrance of the oesophagus, and its pyloric orifice by the contraction of the pylorus. The rapidity with which the process of chymification is carried on is difl'erent according to the digestibility of the food, the bulk of the morsels swallowed, the quantity received by the stomach, the consti- tution of the individual, the state of the health, and above all, the class of the animal—for it is widely different in different classes. In the human stomach in about five hours after an ordinary meal the whole of the food is probably converted into chyme. The great agent in performing the process of chymificati(m is the gastric juice. The evidence of this is complete ; for, 1. As soon as the food enters the stomach a large quantity of blood is determined to the arteries, which secrete the gastric juice ; and this fluid continues to be poured into the stomach in great abimdance dm-ing the whole time the process goes on. 2. The solvent power of this fluid is demonstrated by the fact that it sometimes dissolves the stomach itself, when death takes place suddenly diuing the act of digestion in a sound and vigorous state of the digestive organs. 3. On introducing into the stomach alimentary substances enclosed in metallic balls perforated with holes, or in pieces of porous cloth, it is found, on removing these l)odies from the stomach, after a certain time, that the alimentary substances contained in them are as com- pletely digested as if they had been in actual contact with the smface