62 I'HILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. formed from the food, it is obvious that too much or too little food, or too great or too little activity of the organs that digest it, may- render the quantity of the blood, absolutely or relatively, too abund- ant or deficient; while its quality may be vitiated by a disturbance in the balance of the ckcle of organs engaged in nutrition, as digestion, respiration, absorption, secretion, and so on. By the pro- cesses carried on by some of these organs, essential constituents of the blood are withdrawn from it; by others, hurtful ingredients are pom-ed into it, for the removal of which, organs called depurating are provided, as the lungs, liver, kidneys, and the like. If the lungs fail to eliminate carbon ; the liver bile ; the kidney urea; carbon, bile, urea, must accumulate ui the blood, contaminate it, and render it incapable of duly nomishing and stimulating the tissues and organs. But the blood is capable of being directly and fatally poisoned by external agents, with which it is of the highest practical importance to be acquainted. Liquids, as has been just stated, are immediately absorbed into the blood by minute vessels on the surface of the stomach; gaseous substances enter into and pass out of the blood through vessels spread out in the air-cells of the lungs. These imbibing vessels are wholly unguarded against gaseous sub- stances ; they exercise no choice; they are capable of none ; they take up equally whatever substances ai^e presented to them, whether noxious or salubrious. Hence the most deleterious matters find unchecked entrance into the blood. Water holding poisonous substances, in solu- tion or suspension, conveys them into the blood almost as soon as swal- lowed. Poisons suspended in the atmosphere enter the blood by every act of l)reathing, and are instantly diffused through the system. Noxious gases exhaled from cesspools or from the human body itself in over- crowded and unventilated dwelling and sleeping rooms, enter the blood by the same short route, and poison it with the same rapidity. When these poisons are concentrated the effects are instantaneous, and death is caused by a few respirations, instances of which occur every year in London and Paris. Under ordinary cii'cumstances, the mischief is slow in its operations, and the true agent is often unsuspected, and it may be denied ; but it is not the less active and powerful because it is un- recognized; and however its influence on individual and on public health may be doubted or disregarded in the present state of popular knowledge, it can hardly fail to be appreciated when the mechanism and action of the organs, which the Creator has made the safe-guards of life, are understood.