XI CONTENTS. PAGB Temperature c>f the liumau body—Power of maintaining that temperature at a fixed point whether in intense cold or intense heat—Experiments which prove tliat this power is a vital power—Evidence that the power of generating heat is connected with the function of respiration—Analogy between respiration and combustion—Phenomena connected with the functions of the animal body, which prove that its power of generating beat is proportionate to the extent of its respiration—Theory of tlic pro- duction of animal lieat—Influence of the nervous system iu maintaining and regulating the process—Means by wliich cold is generated, and the tem- perature of the body kept at its own natural standard during exposure to an elevated temperature . . . . . . .180 CHAPTEE XIV. Process of Assimilation in the plant; in the animal—Digestive apparatus ui the lower classes of animals; in the higher classes; in man—Digestive pro- cesses—Prehension, IMastication, Insalivation, Deglutition, Cliymification, Ohylification, Absorption, Fecation—Structure and action of the organs by wliich these operations are performed—Ultimate results—Powers by which those results are accomplished—Two kinds of digestion, a lower and a higher; the former preparatory to the latter . . . . 19G CHAPTER XV. Nature of Secretion—Why involved in obscurity—Basis of the apparatus consists of membrane—Arrangement of membrane into elementary secreting bodies—Crypta3, follicles, ca;ca and tubuli—Primary combinations of ele- mentary boilies to form compound organs—Piclation of the primary secreting organs to the blood-vessels and nerves—Glands, simple and compound— Tlieir structure and office—Development of glands from tlieir simplest form in the lowest animals to tlieir most complex form in the highest animals— Development in tlie embryo—Number and distribution of tiio secreting organs—How secreting organs act upon the blood—Degree in which the products of secretion agree with, and differ from, the blood—Modes iu which modifications of tlie secreting ajiparatus influence the products of secretion-Vital agent by which the function is controlled—Pliysieal agent by which it is effected ....... 243 CHAPTER XVI. Evidence of Absorption in the plant, in the animal—Apparatus general and special—Experiments which prove the absorbing power of blood-vessels and membrane—Decomposing and analysing properties of membrane— ' Endosmose and exosmosc—Absorbing surfaces, pulmonaiy, digestive, and cutaneous—Lacteal and lympliatic vessels—Absorbent glands - Motion of the fluid in the special absorbent vessels—Discovery of the lacteals and lymphatics—Specific oflice performed by the several parts of the apparatus of absorption—Condition of the system on which the activity of tlic process depends—Uses of the fimction ...... 259 CHAPTER XVII. In what excretion differs from gecretion—Excretion in the plant—Quantity excreted by tlie plant compared with that excreted by the animal-Organs