Til 10 LACTEALS. 231 exact reverse of tlic former, the chyle is turned over and over, and exposed to the orifices of the lacteal vessels; while, by the motion of the chyle forwards and backwards, and backwards and forwards, pro- duced by these two actions constantly alternating with each other, its slow, gentle, but ultimately progressive com-se is secured. The chyle thus gently moved along the extended surface of the jejunum and ilium, and still in its course acted upon in some degree by the secretions poured out upon the mucous membrane, successively disappears, until at the termination of the ilium there is scarcely any portion of it to be perceived. It is taken up by the vessels termed lacteals. The lacteal vessels arise in the villi, being, probably, continuous with the interstices between the blood-vessels, &g., which compose their substance. They are minute, pellucid tubes, wholly countless in number, are composed of membranous coats so thin and transparent that the milky colour of their contents, from which they derive their name, is visible through them, and yet they are firm and strong. They present a jointed appearance (Fig. 91). Each joint denotes the situa- tion of the valves with which they are provided, and which are placed at regular distances along their entire course. These valves, which are generally placed in pairs (Fig. 94), consist of a delicate fold of membrane of a semilunar form, one edge of which is fixed to the side of the vessel, while the other lies loose across its cavity. So firm is this membrane, and so accurately does it perform the office of a valve, that even after death it is capable of supporting a column of mercury of considerable weight without giving way, and of preventing a retro- grade course of the fluid. The lacteals are provided with muscular fibres, they are contractile, and it is perhaps partly by this contractile power that their contents are moved. If the mucous coat of the small intestines be examined some hours after a meal, the lacteals are seen turgid with chyle, covering its entire surface. These vessels, which are sometimes of such magni- tude and in such numbers as entirely to conceal the ramifications of the blood-vessels, unite freely with each other, and form a network, from the meshes of which proceed branches which, successively uniting, form branches of a larger size. These larger branches leave the mucous coat and pass for some way between the mucous and the muscular tunics: at length they perforate the muscular coat, when, from having been on the inside of the intestine, they get on the outside of it, and are included, like the intestine itself, between the layers of the mesentery. All the different sets of lacteals con- verging and uniting together, form an exceedingly complicated plexus of vessels within the fold of the mesentery. Radiating from this plexus, the lacteals advance until they reach the glands,