351 CHAPTEE XXVL STKUCTUKE OF SPINAL NEKVES. It has been shown (Fig. 105) that each spinal nerve consists of two roots, the anterior and posterior, which arise by dehcate filaments from their respective lateral fissures on the smface of the cord. The roots as they spring from the cord lie in the arachnoid pouches, sur- rounded by the arachnoid fluid, the ligamentum denticulatum inter- vening between them (Fig. 108). The posterior roots arise in a regular series along the sides of the cord, converge towards its sheath, and being collected together, are surrounded by the sheath, and just at the point where they are united to this envelope they form a ganglion. The filaments of the anterior roots arise in a similar manner, but somewhat less regularly, and from a broader surface; converge to- wards the sheath in which they are enveloped, and then join the posterior roots, close to the ganglion, which, however, they do not enter by a single fibre, but_ merely lie in contact with it (Fig. 105). Immediately after they pass the ganglion the two roots coalesce to form the nerves; so that each nerve is composed of both roots inter- mingled together. The nerve-roots are capable of being traced from the surface into the interior of the cord (Fig. 106). Minute dissection shows that each root consists of two roots, one of which, ascending, proceeds along the white column of the cord to the brain; while the other, taking a transverse du^ection, nearly at right angles with the cord itself, pursues its course to the grey matter in the interior of the cord. Every spinal nerve (including also certain cerebral nerves) being formed in the same manner, must necessarily present characters common to the class. They have all double roots; they have all a similar origin and distribution; they all go out in regular succession to every part of the body, so that there is not a tissue or a surface to which they do not give fibres in greater or less abundance; they all exercise the same function, and they are common to every class of animal, from the worm to the elephant, from the creeping thing to man. From their perfect regularity they have been termed the regular or symmetrical system of nerves. They are commonly enumerated as thirty-one pairs, which take their name from the vertebrae under