37 ISOMERIC SUBSTANCES. When albumen, fibrin, and casein are subjected to a chemical pro- cess Avhich removes from them all foreign substances, a snow-white flocculent matter is obtained, which is free from sulphur and phos- phorus. This substance is regarded as the common basis of the three albummous principles, which are conceived to be merely modifications of this peculiar matter with diff'erent proportions of sulphur and phos- phorus. It has accordingly received the name of Protein, (from TTpcorito^, "first in place,") in allusion to its alleged relation to the albuminous principles. On referring to the preceding chemical analysis it will be seen that the base of the vegetable proximate pruiciples, Carbon, remains in- variably the same through the entire series, while the diff'erences in the proportions of their hydrogen and oxygen range only from one to three. Thus, take away from sugar three portions out of twenty of hydrogen, and two of oxygen, the result is starch. Add to starch two of oxygen and two of hydrogen, and the product is gum. To ten parts of vegetable protein add one of phosphorus and one of sulphur, and the result is vegetable fibrin : add to the same parts of protein one of phosphorus and two of sulphur, and the result is vegetable albumen: abstract the phosphorus altogether, and add one part of sulphur, and the result is vegetable casein. So to animal albumen add two or three portions more of carbon and less of oxygen, the other constituents remaining in nearly the same proportions, and the result is animal fibrin. So close indeed is the relation between all these principles that when two analyses are made, one of fibrin and one of albumen, the results do not differ more than in two analyses of fibrin and two of albumen respectively. But it sometimes happens that all the ele- ments unite in identically the same proportions, and yet the products difier widely from each other in their external characters and proper- ties. Bodies of this kind form a distinct class peculiar to the organic kingdom. They are called Isomeric. Sugar is isomeric with gum, lignin with cellulose, and the albuminous principles with each other. The explanation of these remarkable phenomena appears to be that in all bodies of this kind, though the elements are the same, they have, as has been stated, a peculiar arrangement in each individual substance, which gives to each a peculiar constitution, and therefore special properties. So complete are the analyses which have led to the discovery of the facts now stated, that there is scarcely anything to be desired with respect to the knowledge attained of the ultimate composition of organic matter. Yet chemistry, which has so admirably displayed its analysis, has wholly failed to accomplish its synthesis. The che- mist can analyse organic matter, but he cannot make it; not even a