MOTION OF THE SPINAL COLUMN.—STERNUM. 89 bodies or their articular processes. The effects of each of these acci- dents would produce precisely the same injury to the spinal marrow, and symptoms of greater or less importance, according" to the part of the spinal column that is injured. Death is the immediate conse- quence if the injmy he above the third cervical vertebra, the necessary paralysis of the parts to which the phrenic and intercostal nerves are distributed, causing respu-ation instantly to cease. If the injury be sustained below the fourth cervical vertebra, the diaphragm is still capable of action, and dissolution Ls protracted. The symptoms, in fact, are less violent in proportion as the injury to the spinal marrow is further removed from the brain; but death is the inevitable consequence, and that in every case at no very distant period." So the object of the construction of the spinal column being to com- bine extent and freedom of motion with strength, and it being neces- sary to the accomplishment of this object to build up the column of separate pieces of bone, the connecting substances by which the different bones are united are constituted and disposed in such a manner as to prove absolutely stronger than the bones themselves. Such is the structure of this important portion of the human body, considered as a piece of mere mechanism; but om- conception of its beauty and perfection would be yiost inadequate if we did not bear in mind, that while the spinal column performs offices so varied and apparently so incompatible, it forms an integrant portion of a Hving machine : it is itself alive : every instant blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves, are nourishing, removing, renewing, and animating every part and particle of it. The anterior boundary of the thorax is formed by the bono called the sternum, or the breast bone, which is broad and thick at its upper and thin and elongated at its lower extremity (Fig. 41), where it gives attachment to a cartilaginous appendix, which being pointed and somewhat like a broadsword, is called the ensiform cartilage. Its position is obUque, being near the vertebral column at the top, and distant from it at the bottom. Its margins are thick, and marked by seven depressions, for the reception of the cartilages of the seven true ribs. Its anterior sm-face is immediately subjacent to the skin, and gives attachment to powerful muscles, which act on the superior extremities : its posterior surface is shghtly hollowed, in order to enlarge the cavity of the thorax. The thorax is bounded at the sides by the ribs, which extend like so many arches between the spinal column and the sternum (Figs. 41,49). They axe in number twenty-four, twelve on each side, of which the seven upper are united to the sternum by cartilage, and are called true ribs; the cartilages of the remaining.five are united with each other,