MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. 335 blood-vessels by which it is supplied. The arteries, four in number, do not, like the common arteries of the body—as they give off ])ranches in their course—become progressively smaller and smaller, but they continue of the same size throughout, because they receive reinforce- ments from the neighbouring arteries as they proceed all the way down the cord. At the base of the skull a large and free communication is esta- blished between the veins of the cord and those of the brain, the latter called, from their winding course, sinuses. Besides these, there are three special systems of veins proper to the cord, one placed ex- ternal to the vertebral column, another within the vertebral cavity, but external to the Dm-a Mater, and a third within that membrane, and lodged in the Pia Mater. The freest communication is established between all these systems of vessels, that no stoppage in the circula- tion may take place at any point, and that danger to the cord from their un- due turgescence may be obviated. Lying loosely upon the Pia Mater there is a second membrane, likened, for its extreme tenuity, to the spider's web, and so called the arachnoid membrane (Fig. 103), from apax^v, a spider. It is a serous membrane, and, like all mem- branes of its class, is reflected upon itself, and forms a closed sac, in the interior of which a minute quantity of fluid is secreted, merely sufficient to prevent the agglutination of its two surfaces. The third and external covering of the cord is derived from the Dura Mater (Fig. 103), which, after having given an internal lining to the bones of the skull, and an outer envelope to the brain, passes down into the vertebral canal, completely envelops the cord, and here takes the name of Theca Vertebralis, from the Latin, Theca, a sheath, because it envelopes the cord as in a sheath. The Theca Vertebralis differs from the Dura Mater in being more elastic, and, therefore, better fitted for its special office in relation to the cord, and in not giving an internal lining to the vertebrae, as the Dura Mater does to the bones of the skull. The vertebrae are covered by a periosteum of their own, like the bones of the body in general; and hence the Theca Vertebralis is devoted entirely to the cord. So Kig. 103. The spinal conl ami its meiiibnuies