86 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. regains its original bulk, and of course the spinal column its original length. I3ut the flexibility acquired through the combined properties of com- pressibility and elasticity, is exceedingly increased by the action of the puljjy and inelastic matter in the centre of the intervertebral sub- stance ; this matter servuig as a jjivot to the vertebrae, facilitating theii- motion on each other. Its effect has been compared to that of a bladder partly filled with water, placed between two trenchers: in this case, the approximation of the circumference of the two trenchers on one side, would instantly displace a portion of the water on that side, which would occupy the increasing space on the other, with the effect of facilitating the change, in every possible direction, of the posi- tion of the two trenchers in relation to each other. To this effect, however, it is indispensable that the matter immediately around this central pivot should be, not like itself, rigid and unyielding, but com- pressible and elastic. It is an interestmg fact, that since this illustra- tion was suggested, it has been discovered that this very arrangement is actually adopted in the animal body. In certain animals, in the very centre of their intervertebral substance, there has been actually found a bag of water, with a substance immediately surrounding the bag, so exceedingly elastic, that when the bag is cut, the fluid con- tained in it is projected to the height of several feet in a perpendicular stream. But besides securing freedom and extent of motion, the interverte- bral substance serves stiU another pm-pose, which well deserves atten- tion. Firmness and strength are mdispensable to the fundamental offices performed by the column; and to endow it ^vith these properties, we have seen that the external concentric layers of the intervertebral sub- stance are exceedingly tough, and that they are attached to the bodies of the vertebrae, which are composed of dense bone. But bone is well calculated to receive and transmit a shock or jar on the application of any degi-ee of force to the column. Yet such force must necessarily be applied to it in every direction, fi-om many points of the body dming almost every moment of the day; and did it actually produce a corresponding shock, the consequence would be fatal: the spinal cord and brain would be inevitably killed; for the death of these tender and dehcate substances may be produced by a violent jar, althoufyh not a particle of the substances themselves be touched. A blow on the head may destroy life instantaneously, by what is termed concus- sion ; that is, by the communication of a shock to the brain through the bones of the cranium. The brain is killed ; but on careful examination of the cerebral substance after death, not the slif^htest morbid appearance can be detected; death is occasioned merely bv