s 2 250 CHAPTER XVI. OF THE FUNCTION OF ABSORPTION. Evidence of the process in the plant, in the animal—Apparatus general and special— Exj^eriments which prove the absorbing power of blood-vessels and membrane—• Decomposing and analysing properties of membrane—Endosmose and exosmose— Absorbing surfaces, pulmonary, digestive, and cutaneoiis—Lacteal and lymphatic vessels—Absorbent glands—Motion of the fluid in the special absorbent vessels— Discovery of the lacteals and lymphatics—Specific office performed by the several parts of the apparatus of absorption—Condition of the system on which the activity of the process depends—Uses of the function. Absorption is the function by which external substances are received into the body, and the component particles of the body are taken up from one part of the system, and deposited in some other part. So universal and constant is the operation, that there is not a fluid nor a solid, not a sm-face nor a tissue, not an external nor an internal organ, which is not, in its turn, the seat and the subject of the process. By its action the component particles of the living body are kept in a state of perpetual mutation. If a quantity of water be injected into any of the great cavities of the body, as into that of the peritoneum, the whole of the fluid after a certain time disappears; it is spontaneously removed. If in the j^rogress of disease a fluid be poured into any cavity of the body, as often happens in dropsy, the whole of the fluid is removed, sometimes spontaneously and quite suddenly; but more often slowly, under the influence of medicinal agents. Certain sul)stances, whether applied to an external or an internal surface, produce specific eff'ects on the system, just as when they are received into the stomach or injected into the blood-vessels. Mercury in mere contact with the skin, but more rapidly when the application is aided by friction, produces the same specific action upon the salivary glands, and the same general action upon the system as when the preparation of the metal is received into the stomach. By the like external and local appHcation arsenic, opium, tobacco, and other narcotics produce their distinct and peculiar eff'ects on the nervous system, and their remote and general eff'ects on the other systems. If an organ or tissue be deprived of nourishment, it gradually diminishes in bulk, and at length wholly disappears from the system. By long-continued pressure, such as that occasioned by the pulsation of a diseased artery, as in aneurism, or by the growth of a fleshy tumor,