300 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. acetic acid, the shell is almost entirely dissolved, and these small nuclei, which are seen with great difficulty in human blood, remain, while those of the frog appear, very evidently the nuclei observed earlier in the blood corpuscles. In man, the nuclei within the cor- puscles are so small, that the diameter does not exceed the thickness of the flat corpuscles." The enveloping capsule is stated to be soluble in water, while the internal nucleus is insoluble; but the capsule is not soluble in serum ; the albumen and the salts contained in the serum probably rendering it insoluble. The colouring matter of the capsule, which gives the red colour to the blood, is called heematosin. Lecanu considers the cap- sular substance as a combination of a specific colouring matter, which he calls globulin, and of albumen; but Miiller regards it as fibrin, containing a quantity of iron. The latter physiologist states that the opinion of Brande, that the amount of iron in haematosin is not greater than in serum and other animal substances, has been refuted by Berze- lius and Engelhart. The iron is not an accidental ingredient obtained from the food; for iron has been found in the blood of a new-born animal that has never even sucked. According to Berzelius the colouring matter of the blood contains a quantity of iron corresponding to somewhat more than a half per cent, its weight of metallic ii-on, and he thinks it most probable that the iron exists in the blood in the metallic state, and not as an oxide. By carefully watching the development of the chick in the incubated egg, the first formation of the red particles can be distinctly seen. The blood in the new being, which is elaborated before the existence of the vessels that are to contain it, is formed from the substance of the germ, or from that of the germinal membrane, and is augmented by the blood of the egg, which is the substance of the yolk. First, a number of granules are produced from the substance of the yolk. These subsequently lose then- granular appearance, and become trans- lucent. On the translucent ring is produced the nucleus of the blood corpuscles. When completely formed, the blood corpuscles of the bird, as of all the animals below the bird in the scale of organisation, are of an elHptical figure, and quite flat; but when first produced they are rounded globules, not flat, and they gradually assume their proper and permanent form; it is only on the sixth day of incubation that they begin to be elliptical; by the ninth day they are all elliptical. The substance of the fluid yolk is thus changed into blood without the action of any special organ; for, as yet, no organs such as liver, spleen, or lungs, exist. When the formation of the blood has arrived at a certain point, it begins to be in motion. The blood is seen to be in motion before the heart can be observed to beat. The germinal membrane arising out of the enlarged germinal disk soon exhibits a