PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 286 inent, which was the second to which he was subjected, he lost no more than 2 lbs. 12 oz. In one case, when a man who had lost 2 lbs. 15 oz., the greatest quantity lost by any of the men examined during that day, was put into a hot bath at 95°, and reweighed on coming out of the bath, where he had remained exactly half an hour, it was found that he had gained half a pound. On the other hand, when a man who had lost 3 lbs. was put into a hot bath at 98°, and kept there for half an hour and reweighed, it was found that he had lost exactly half a pound. It had been our intention to have piu-sued these experiments, with the view of ascertaining the influence of the hygrometrical state of the air on transpiration, as well as the absorbing power of the skin, under circumstances so favom-able to the activity of that power, but the investigation was unavoidably discontinued. According to the prevalent opinion, the liver is the cause of a large pro- portion of the maladies which afflict and destroy human life. It certainly exercises an important influence over health and disease, the true reason of which is but little understood by those who attribute most to its agency. The liver is an organ of digestion and an organ of excretion. It is an organ of digestion in a twofold mode: 1, By the secretion of a peculiar fluid, through the direct action of which chyme is converted into chyle. The several phenomena attend- ing this operation have been fully described. 2. By subjecting ahmentary matters which have been partly acted on by the stomach and intestines to a second digestion. It has been shown that the veins which return the blood from the digestive organs, the stomach, the intestines, and the mesentery, together with the veins of the spleen, the omentum and the pancreas, instead of pursuing a direct course to the right side of the heart in order to transmit their contents by the shortest route to the lungs, as is the case with all the other veins of the body, unite together and form a large trunk termed the vena porta?, which enters the hver and ramifies through it in the manner of an artery. It has been further shown that the bile is secreted from the venous blood contained in this vessel by its capillary branches spread out on the walls of the biliary ducts, that the trunk of this vein, unlike that of any other, is encom- passed with organic nerves, which accompany its subdivisions, and are spread out upon its capillary branches just as an organic nerve is spread upon an artery, and that thus, as this vessel performs the function of an artery, it has the structure and distribution of an artery. The veins which unite to form the vena portffi take up, by their capillary branches, certain portions of the contents of their respective organs, and bear those contents directly into the venous current. The capillary veins of the stomach take up certain parts of the contents