ULTIMATE PROCESSES. 257 3. Dii-ect experiment proves that the stimuhis of galvanism may be made to produce in the Hving body precisely the same effect as the nervous influence. It has been stated, that the division of the par vagum, in the neck of a living animal, suspends the digestion of the food probably by stopping indirectly the secretion of the gastric juice. If after the division of the nerves, their lower ends, that is, that portion of the nerves which is still in communication with the stomach, but no longer in communication with the brain, be made to conduct galvanic fluid to the stomach, secretion goes on as fast as when the nerves are entire and conduct nervous influence. Dr. Wilson Philip having divided the par vagum in the neck of a living animal, coated a portion of the lower end of the nerves with tin foil, placed a silver plate over the stomach of the animal, and connected respectively the tin and silver with the opposite extremities of a galvanic apparatus. The result was that the animal remained entirely free from the distressing symptoms which had always before attended the division of the nerves, and that the process of digestion, which had been invariably suspended by this operation, now went on just as in the natural state of the stomach. On examining the stomach after death, the food. was found perfectly digested, and afforded a striking contrast to the state of the food con- tained in the stomach of a similar animal, in whom the nerves had been divided, but which had not been subjected to the galvanic influence. 4. On applying a low galvanic power to a sahne solution contained in an organic membrane. Dr. WoUaston found that the galvanic fluid decomposed the saline solution, and that the component parts of the solution transuded through the membrane; each constituent being separately attracted to the con-esponding wire of the interrupted circuit. This experiment, says this acute and philosophical physiologist, illustrates in a very striking manner the agency of galvanism on the animal fluids. Thus the quality of the secreted fluid may probably enable us to judge of the electrical state of the organ which produces it; as for example, the general redundance of acid in urine, though secreted from blood that is known to be alkaline, appears to indicate in the kidney a state of positive electricity; and since the proportion of alkali in bile seems to be greater than is contained in the blood of the same animal, it is not improbable that the secretory vessels in the liver may be comparatively negative. Considerations such as these afford us a glimpse into the mode in which Nature conducts some of her most secret and subtle operations ; or rather into the immediate agency by which she effects them; for, properly speaking, of the mode in which she works, we do not obtain the slightest insight, and even of her immediate agency our view, at least in the present state of our knowledge, is indistinct and vague. By the study of the apparatus which she builds up, we can trace back s