171 GENERAL RESULTS. 13. In the same space of time 24 hogsheads of blood are presented in the hnigs to this quantity of air. 14. In the mutual action that takes place between these quantities of air and blood, the air loses 15,757.9131 grains, or 328:^ ounces of oxygen, and the blood 10 oimces and 116 grains of carbon. 15. The blood, Avhile circulating through the lungs permanently retains and carries into the system—of oxygen, 2,648,809 grains ; and of azote, 2,267,104 grains. 16. The ultimate results are two:— 1st. While the chemical composition of the blood is essentially changed, its weight amidst all these complicated actions is maintained steadily the same; for the weight of carbon which is discharged by the blood is precisely compensated by the united weight of the oxygen and azote which it absorbs. 2ndly. The distribution of quantities is universally by proportions or multiples. Thus, of the air inspired, one measure is decomposed and three measures are returned unchanged : of the air decomposed at a single inspiration, there are always in store in the lungs precisely forty-eight measm-es; and so on in many other cases. The propor- tions are not arithmetical, but geometrical. When we comjDare arithmetical quantities with each other, we say that one quantity is by so much greater than another; when we compare geometrical quantities, we say that one quantity is so many times greater than another. From this adoption in the distribution of quantities of geometrical proportions it results that whatever be the size of the animal the ratios remain uniformly the same, and that thus one and the same law is adapted to the vital agencies of living beings under every possible diversity of magnitude and circumstance. Such are the interesting and important properties and relations deducible from the phenomena of respiration. The disappearance of oxygen and azote from the air inspired, and the replacement of the oxygen that disappears by the production of carbonic acid, and of the azote by the exhalation of azote, in which, as we have seen, the great changes wrought by respiration on the air consist, are essentially the same in all animals, whatever the medium breathed, and whatever the rank of the animal in the scale of organization. In all, the proportion of the oxygen of the inspired air is diminished;—in all, carbonic acid gas is produced. Comparing, then, the ultimate result of the function of respiration in the two great classes of living beings, it follows that the plant and the animal produce directly opposite changes in the chemical constitution of the air. The carbonic acid produced by the animal is decomposed by the plant, which retains the carbon in its own system and retiurns the oxygen to the air. On the other hand, the oxygen evolved by the plant is absorbed by the animal,