I'HILOSOrHY OF HEALTH. 218 of the stomach; the metallic ball and the cloth remaining wholly unchanged. This experiment, which has been often performed with the same uniform result, was the first that led to the discovery of the true nature of the digestive process. 4. Though it be impossilale to imitate out of the stomach all the circumstances under which the food is placed within it, yet, on pro- curing gastric juice from the stomachs of various animals, and mixing it with difterent alimentary substances, it is found not only to dissolve them, but to convert them into a pultaceous mass, closely resembling chyme. Gastric juice thus procured was put into a glass tube with boiled beef, which had been masticated ; the tube was then hermetically sealed, and exposed near the fire to a uniform heat: by the side of this tube was placed another, containing the same quantity of flesh im- mersed in water. In twelve hours, the flesh in tlie tube containing the gastric juice began to lose its fibrous structure ; in thirty-five hours it had nearly lost its consistence, being reduced to a soft homogeneous pultaceous mass. It experienced no further change during the two following days. On the other hand, the flesh that had been immersed in water was putrid in sixteen hours. Since alimentary substances under the action of the stomach present precisely the appearance exhibited by bodies exposed to the influence of chemical agents, it appears that the gastric juice not only dissolves the food, but dissolves it by a chemical agency. Its action bears no proportion to the mechanical texture of bodies, nor to any of their physical properties. It acts upon the densest membrane, dissolves even bone itself; and yet produces no effect on other substances of the most tender and delicate texture. On the skin of fruit, on the finest fibre of flax and cotton, it is incapable of making the slightest im- pression. In this selection of substances it perfectly resembles a chemical agent acting by chemical affinity. On certain substances its action is unquestionably of a chemical nature. It occasions the coagu- lation of albuminous fluids ; it prevents the accession of putrefaction ; it stops the process alter it has commenced. From the whole, it follows that the food in the stomach is converted into chyme by the agency of a fluid secreted by the inner surface of the stomach, and that this change is effected by a proper chemical action. It had been long ascertained that the gastric juice contains an uncombined acid, and that if carbonate of lime be placed in a tube and introduced into the stomach, the carlionate is dissolved just as if it were put into weak vinegar. Several years ago, it was discovered by Dr. Prout that this free acid is muriatic acid. Some time after the pubhcation of Dr. Prout's experiments, Chevreul and Leuret and Lassaigne in France obtained different results; but Tiedemann and Gmehn, professors in the university of Heidelberg, in an extended