RESPIRATORY APPARATUS IN THE ANOIAL. 149 tributes to the function only by the air contained in it. Respiration by water is termed aquatic, that by the atmosphere, atmospheric or aerial resiiiration. The quantity of air contained in water being small, aquatic is proportionally less energetic than aerial respiration; and, accordingly, the creatures placed at the bottom of the animal scale, having the simplest structure and the narrowest range of fimction, are all aquatic. Whatever the medium breathed, respiration in the animal is energetic in proportion to the extent of the respiratory surface exposed to the smTounding element. As the water-breathing animals successively rise in organisation, then- respiratory surface becomes more and more extended, and a proportionally large quantity of water is made to flow over it. It is the same in aerial respiration: the higher the animal, I the greater the extent of its respiratory surface; and the larger the bulk of air that acts upon it. Whatever the medium breathed, respiration is effected by the con- tact of fresh strata of the sm-rounding element with the respiratory surface. The mode in which this constant renewal of the strata is effected, is either by the motion of the body to and fro in the element; or by the creation of currents in it, which flow to the respiratory sur- face. A main part of the apparatus of respiration consists of the ; expedients necessary to accomplish these two objects; and that appa- ratus is simple, or complex, chiefly according to the extent of the mechanism requisite to effect them. ^ j Whatever the medium breathed, the organic tissue which constitutes the essential part of the immediate organ of respiration is the skin. In all animals the skin covers both the external and the internal surfaces of the body. When formmg the external envelope, this organ commonly retains the name of skin; when forming the internal lining, it is generally called mucous membrane; and in all animals, either in the form of an external envelope, or an internal linmg, or by both in conjunction, or by some localisation and modification of both, the skin constitutes the immediate organ of respiration. In different classes of animals it is variously arranged, assumes various forms, and is placed in various situations, according to the medium breathed, and the facility of bringing its entire surface into contact with the surrounding element. In man there are two respiratory organs, called lungs (Fig. 47), of nearly equal size, which, together with the heart, completely fill the large cavity of the thorax, their external surface being in immediate contact with the thoracic walls. One of these is placed on the right side of the body, constituting the right lung, and the other on the left, constituting the left lung. Each lung is divided by deep fissures, into large portions called lobes (Fig. 47), of which there are three belong-