PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 176 which respires by the less highly organised gill, and only in the medium of water, the proportionate size of the liver is still greater; but in the molhiscous animal, in which the lung or the giU is still less perfectly developed, the bulk of the hver is prodigious. 4. In all animals the quantity of venous blood which is sent to the liver increases, as that transmitted to the lung diminishes. In the higher animal the great venous trunk which ramifies through the liver (the vena portfe) is formed by the veins of the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas, which are the only organs that transmit their blood to the hver. In the reptile, besides all these organs, the hind legs, the pelvis, the tail, the intercostal veins forming the vena azygos, and in some orders of this class, even the kidneys also send their blood to the liver; but in the fish, in addition to all the preceding organs, the apparatus of reproduction likewise transmits its blood to the liver. The very formation of the venous system in the difierent classes of animals seems thus to point to the liver as a com- pensating and supplementary organ to the lung. 5. The permanent organs in the lower animal are a type of the transitory forms through which the organs of the higher animal j)ass in the progress of their growth. Thus the liver of the human foetus is of such a disproportionate size, as to approximate it closely to that of the fish or of the reptile. After the birth of the human embryo, respiration is efi'ected in part by the lung ; but before birth the lung is jnactive, no air reaches it; it contributes nothing to respiration; the decarbonising action of the blood is accomplished, not by the lung, but by the liver; hence the prodigious bulk of the foetal liver and its activity in the secretion of bile, and especially towards the latter months of pregnancy, when all the organs are greatly advanced in size and completeness. 6. Pathology confirms the evidence derived from comparative anatomy and physiology. When the function of the lung is inter- rupted by disease, the activity of the liver is increased. In inflam- mation of the lung (pneumonia); in the deposition of adventitious matter in the lung (tubercles), by which the air vesicles are compressed and obliterated, the lung loses the power of decarbonizing the blood in proportion to the extent and severity of the disease with which it is affected. In this case the secretion of bile is increased. In diseases of the heart the liver is enlarged. In the morbus cteruleus the liver retains through life its foetal state of disproportion. 7. In the last place, there is a striking illustration of the respiratory action of the liver, in the vicarious office which it performs for the lung, durmg the heat of summer in cold, and all the year round in hot climates. In the heat of summer, and more especially in the intense and constant heat of a warm climate, in consequence of the rarefaction