MOTIONS OF TIIK RADIUS. 100 extension of the forc-arni. Thus, the great extensors and flexors, grasping the same fixed points, draw upon the fore-arm, the former before the latter, behind the elbow-joint, each reversing the movement produced by the other. We have before seen how the radius carrying the hand rolls upon the ulna, so as to turn up the palm. The movement of turning the palm up is called supination: when the palm is turned down the action is termed pronation. The most powerful supinator is the biceps (Fig. 57), which rolls the radius before it raises it. There are two other supinators, both coming from the outer condyle of the humerus. The one, short and deeply-placed, encloses the upper third of the radius with its oblique fibres, which pass forward round the outside of the bone from be- hind, and above, so as in acting to roll it outwards. The long supi- nator (Figs. 57 and 58) is placed superficially, and comes from the outer side of the humerus to the lower end of the radius. It has scarce any action in supinating, but really flexes the fore-arm when the thumb is turned upwards and the biceps cannot act. The round pronator (pronator teres, Fig. 59), from before and above, passes round the outside of the radius backwards. Another small Scpare muscle lies in front of the lower end of the bones, passing from the ulna to the radius. The lower end of the bones of the fore-arm form the wrist-joint, with the bones of the carpus, to which the hand is attached (Fig. 31). Tliere are eight httle bones in the carpus, placed in two rows, Avith four to each row'. Every bone fits by its sides to the bones next it in its own row : and the bones of the upper row are so placed as to com- pose together a convex surface, which plays freely on the lower end of the radius, whilst they show a concave socket, with a convexity on the outside of it towards the bones of the lower row. These have their shapes so disposed that they fomi a convex ball to fit the socket, and a concavity to fit the convexity on the outer side : whilst the two rows can move pretty freely, they arc thus securely adapted by the interlocking of these eminences and pits. The carpus is fitted to the metacarpus (Fig. 31), which forms the l)ony frame of the palm of the hand, and consists of five bones, fom- of which support the fingers, whilst the fifth supports the thumb, and is able to move freely in any direction. They are large at the ends where they are jointed to the carpus. The upper ends are also adapted to each other by smooth flat sur- faces, the lower are rounded to the cup-like ends of the phalanges. The shafts are narrowed to increase the spaces for muscles that move the fingers laterally. The adjacent edges and sides of the bones of the carpus and of the metacarpus are closely fastened by short ligaments