SALIVAI^Y r;LANDy -TNSATJVA TION. 207 quantity of these fluids. But they are chiefly needed during the opera- tion of mastication, and two provisions are made for securing their flow in the greatest abundance at that time. First, the situation of the glands is such that they are all exposed to the action of the muscles of mastication, by which action the glands are excited, a large quantity of blood is determined to them, and the quantity of fluid they secrete is projiortionate to the quantity of blood they receive. Secondly, the glands are placed under the influence of the mind, so that the very thought, and still more the taste, of grate- ful food, acting upon them as an additional stimulus, causes an addi- tional secretion. The quantity of fluid formed from these difl'erent sources, and mixed with the food during the mastication of an ordinary meal, is estimated at half a pint. It must commonly be more than this, because, in a case described by Dr. Grairdner, of Edinburgh, in which the oesoi)hagus had been cut through, it was observed that from six to eight ounces of saliva were discharged during a meal, which consisted merely of broth injected through the divided CBSophagus into the stomach. Saliva is a frothy, watery fluid, in its healthy state nearly insipid, and of a slightly alkaline nature. It is composed of water, a peculiar animal substance called ptyalin, mucus, and several salts. It jjroduces important changes on the food. By the water, and the salts contained in it, it softens and dissolves the food; and thus, while it renders it easier to be swallowed, it prepares it for the subsequent changes it is to undergo. To this latter object, the assimilation of the food, it seems to communicate the first tendency by the azotised substances, the salivary, and the albuminous matter which it adds to it. From this, the commencement of the assimilative process to its completion, animalised substances are successively added to the food which have the property of converting the food more and more into the nature of animal substance. Comminuted by the teeth, and softened by the saliva, the food is reduced to a pulp. In this pulp there is a complete admixture of all the alimentary substances with the assimilative matter secreted from the blood, into the nature of which it is to be ultimately changed. The mass is at the same time brought to the temperature of the blood. As long as the operations of mastication and insalivation go on, the mouth forms a closed cavity from which the food cannot escape; for the lips enclose it before, the cheeks at the sides, the tongue below, and the soft palate behind, the inferior edge of which being applied in close and firm contact with the base of the tongue, prevents all com- munication between the mouth and the pharynx. When, by mastication, the food is sufficiently divided, and by insaH- vation softened and animalised to fit it for the future changes it is to