DIGESTIVE FUNCTION OP THE LIVER. 287 of the stomach, it would appear the fluid substances received with the aliment more especially; the capillary veins of the duodenum take up certain portions of the contents of the duodenum, and so on of the capillary veins of the spleen, intestines, and all the organs whose veins combine to fonn the vena portae. Certain products of digestion must, then, be constantly poured, by the capillary veins of the digestive organs, into the blood of the vena portse. Accordingly, on the exammation of animals soon after a meal, streaks of a substance hke chyle are often observed in the blood of the vena portJB. It is further established by numerous experiments, that if alcohol, gamboge, indigo, and other odoriferous and colouring matters, are mixed with the food, theii- presence is mardfest in the blood of the digestive organs, and more especially in the blood of the mesenteric veins and in that of the vena portae, while no trace of these substances is ever found in the lacteals. The lacteals, it has been shown, are special organs appropriated to the performance of a specific fimction, that of absorbing chyle. ♦To fit them for this ofiice, they are endowed with an elective power, by virtue of which they select, fi-om the alimentary mass, that portion of it only which is converted into chyle; in a natural and healthy state they would appear to be incapable of absorbing any other substance except- ing pure chyle. But in the digestive organs there is always present much nutritive matter not yet converted into proper chyle, and with this matter there are mixed foreign substances not strictly alimentary. These unassimilated matters and foreign substances, absorbed by the capillary veins or by the absorbent vessels, or by both, are conveyed directly into the vena portae, by which vessel they are transmitted to the liver, where they undergo a true and proper digestion. After under- going this digestion in the hver, they are sent by a short course to the heart, and thence to the lungs, where they are assimilated into, or at least commingled with, arterial blood, and, with arterial blood, are trans- mitted to the system. The substances subjected to this hepatic diges- tion, which is as real as that efifected in the stomach and duodenum, do not appear to enter the lacteals at all; they have therefore a shorter course to traverse, and probably a proportionately less elaborate pro- cess to undergo, before their transmission to the lungs and their final entrance into the arterial system. What the particular substances are for which this slighter digestive process suffices is not known with certainty. There is, however, reason to . suppose that they consist chiefly of liquids, while there is direct evidence that vinous and spirituous liquids enter the system tlirough this shorter course ; since these fluids are often abundantly manifest in the blood of the vena portae, when not the slightest trace of them can be detected in the lacteal vessels.