ORIGIN OP THE SPINAL NEEVES. 339 The arrangement of the grey matter throughout is definite and peculiar. It forms two semilunar masses, resembling two crescents placed back to back (Fig. 104), one horn being turned forwards and the other backwards, and hence they are called the anterior and pos- terior horns. The two crescents are joined together by a band of grey matter, which stretches across the median plane thus )—( . This commissure unites the grey matter on each side of the median plane, and is of special j^hysiological interest, since the grey neurine being the dynamic part, it establishes an active connection between the two sides of the cord, and, consequently, between the two sides of the body. A narrow canal runs through the entire course of the cord, occupy- ing its centre, and terminating superiorly in the fourth ventricle of the brain, into which it opens. It is lined throughout with epithelial cells, which proves that it is a definite structure, not an accidental product. Briefly, then, the spinal cord may be described as consisting of a nervous mass, divided by an anterior and posterior fissure into two lateral portions, connected together by commissures, through which a very narrow canal runs, the two halves consisting internally of grey matter, expanded into two anterior and posterior horns, which are covered and enclosed by white substances, the latter being arranged into longitudinal columns. The true origin of the spinal nerves is so intimately connected with the structure of the cord above described, that, although the details of these nerves will be given further on, it is desirable in this place to trace the complex communications of the nerve roots with the several component parts of the cord. On approaching the cord, each spinal nerve divides mto an anterior and posterior root (Fig. .105). On a pj^ superficial examination, these two roots appear to arise by delicate filaments from their respective lateral fissures on the surface of the cord. It is difficult to trace them beyond these points, into |g the interior of the cord, because tlie neurine so rapidly changes that in a few hours after death the soft and tender threads can no longer be distinguished. It is, therefore, extremely rare that an opportunity has been obtained of demon- strating their connection with the central Spinal cord-side view Plan of the o _ T 1 fissures and columns. grey matter in man. By repeated and skilfal dissection, however, this has been effected. According to z 2 .10 ^ r ■Median TitMu r/t L octoTi&Z J'lsaa.rt