855 SUPEKADDED NERVES. and the accessory have double roots. They are therefore compound nerves, and, though arising in the cerebrum, must be regarded as essentially spinal nerves. There is good reason to believe that the separate motor nerves, the third, fourth, sixth, and portio dura of the seventh are typically anterior roots, the portio major of the fifth being their posterior roots. A very remarkable and interesting distinction has been dra^Yn by Sir Charles Bell between these two classes of nerves. It has been stated that the regular, symmetrical, or spinal nerves, are common to all animals in which a nervous system exists at all, from the worm up to man, This, therefore, must be regarded as the original system. The others are superadded, to communicate new functions as additional organs are multiplied in the ascending scale. Universally the sym- metrical system communicates sensation and voluntary motion, and, in proportion as new endowments are given beyond these primary faculties, the superadded nerves increase in number and complexity in the entire animal series. " When an animal is endowed with mere sensation and locomotion," says Sir Charles Bell, " when there is no central organ of circulation, no organ of respiration but what is diffused over the frame, the nerves are extremely simple." They consist, as has been sho^vn, of two cords running the length of the body, with branches going off laterally to the several divisions of the frame. Hence there is no intricacy, no double supply of nerves; each portion of the frame has an equal supply. The central line of connection is sufficient to combine the action of the muscles, and to give them the concatenation necessary to locomotion. There is really the same uniform and symmetrical sys- tem in the human body as in the worm, but it is obscured by the variety of superadded nerves. These nerves belong to organs which gradually accumulate in the ascending series, until we arrive at the accumulation in the human frame. When these superadded nerves are separated, the original system in its simple constitution is pre- sented even in the human being. In the most highly organised body its several organs are supplied with nerves according to the offices they perform. No organ which possesses only one endowment has more than one nerve, however exquisite may be its sense or action. If two nerves coming from different sources are directed to one point, this is a certain sign that it performs a double function. If an organ has many distinct nerves, it has the power of exercising so many distinct offices, or of entering into so many different combinations. Nerves are not supplied to an organ from different sources to give it an accumulation of nervous power, as was long supposed by anatomists, but to give it new powers. Take, for example, the mouth. To all animals some process of 2 A 2