159 PLOW OF AIR TO THE BLOOD IN INSPIRATION. and every other muscle which is capable of still farther depressing the ribs and of elevating the diaphragm is called into intense action. By these forcible and extraordinary efforts the thorax may be enlarged or diminished double its ordinary capacitv. Such are the mechanism and action of the powers which communi- cate to the thorax the motions by which its capacity is alternately enlarged and diminished, and by which the requisite impulse is com- municated to the fluids which flow to and from the lungs in the different states of respiration ; that is, by which air and blood flow to the lungs in the action of inspiration, and from the lungs in the action of expiration. The mode in which air is transmitted to the lungs by the dilatation of the thorax, in the action of uispiration, is the following. The lungs are in direct contact with the inner surface of the thorax, and follow passively all its movements. When the volume of the lungs is reduced to its minimum by the diminished capacity of the thorax, in the state of expiration, they still contain a certain bulk of air. As their volume increases with the enlarging capacity of the thorax in the state of in- spiration, this bulk of air having to occupy a greater space expands. By this expansion of the air in the interior of the lungs, it becomes rarer than the external air. Between the rarefied air within the lungs, and the dense external aii*, there is a direct communication by the nostrils, mouth, trachea, larynx, and bronchi. In consequence of its greater density, the external air rushes through these openings and tubes to the lungs and fills the air vesicles, the current continuing to flow until an equilibrium is established between the density of the air within the lungs and the density of the external air; and thus there is established the flow of a current of fresh air to the air vesicles. The external air which, in obedience to the physical law that regulates its motion, thus rushes to the lung in order to fill the partial vacuum created by the dilatation of the thorax in inspiration, produces, in passing to the air vesicles, a peculiar sound. When the lungs are perfectly healthy, and the respiration is performed in a natural manner, if the ear be applied to any part of the chest, a slight noise can be distinguished both in the action of inspiration and that of expkation; a soft murmur, somewhat resembling the sound produced by the deep inspirations occasionally made by a person profoundly sleeping. This sound, though appreciable even by the naked ear, and though produced many times every minute, in every healthy human being from the first moment of the existence of the first man, had never been much attended to, until about the year 1816, when the stethoscope was discovered by accident. A physician, Dr. Laenuec, of Paris, having occasion to examine a young female laboui-- ing mider, as ha supposed, some disease of the licart, and scrupling to