MICROSCOPIC ORGANIC CELLS. 39 * part of nature was a seaM book. It is only within the present cen- tury, chiefly within the last quarter of it, that a bright beam of Hght has been thrown on this most interesting part of the Creator's works : it is by the concurrent and coinciding observation of the greatest physiologists of Germany, France and England, that the curious and extraordinaiy phenomena immediately to be described have been esta- blished, and it is by their united hands that the veil has been removed which shrouded in total darkness the wonders of this, till now, invisible world. CHAPTEE V. Of Cells. Within the period last referred to, a remarkable work appeared in Ger- many by a physiologist of the name of Schleiden, who published the result of an extended series of microscopical examinations mto the elemen- tary form and structm-e of vegetable tissues and organs. This was soon followed by his comitryman Schwann, who made the like laborious inves- tigation of the elementary structures of animal organisms. These works laid the foundation of a new branch of jDhysiological science, under the name of Histology, from /crro?, a web, and X0709, a discourse; the science which treats of organic forms and structures too minute to be visible to the naked eye. The subject has been subsequently investi- gated by the most distinguished physiologists both of our own country and abroad, and the general result must appear to every one who hears it for the first time the most surprising within the range of science, namely, that every plant and animal begins existence at the same starting point, by a particle of organic matter essentially the same in nature, and always the same in form; a microscopic cell, so similar throughout the organic kingdom, that the most skilful microscopists are unable to discover any characters by which this elementary body can be distinguished in the highest animal, and in the lowest plant. An organic cell consists of a film of organic matter, moulded into the form of a vesicle or bladder, sometimes called a utricle, from ufriculus, the diminutive of utei; a bottle. This film which forms the cell-wall is transparent, structureless, and so thin that it cannot be measured, yet it possesses some degree of firmness, for it holds within it the ele- mentaiy matter from which all organized beings take their origin. In vegetable cells, immediately within the cell-wall, there is a thin, delicate Iming of organic matter, which is easily detached from the proper membrane of the cell by water, acids, and tincture of iodine;