70 PHILOSOPHF OF HEALTH. may be divided, each portion retains the properties of the mass, and constitutes in itself a perfect existence; there being no relation between its individual parts, excepting that of physical attraction : on the contrary, each component part of an organised body, being en- dowed with some appropriate and specific power, on the exercise of which the powers of all the other parts are more or less dependent, the whole must necessarily suffer if but one part fail. From the whole, then, we see that the human body is a congeries of organs ; that those organs are constructed of a few simple tissues. But though by the analysis of its component parts, this machine, so complex in its construction, and so wonderfully endowed, may be reduced to this state of simplicity; and although this analytical view of it be highly useful in enabling us to form a clear conception of the nature of its composition; yet it is only by considering its individual parts such as they actually are, and by studying their situation, con- nection, structure, and action, that we can understand it as a whole, and apply our knowledge of it to any practical use. Viewing, then, the human body as a complicated whole, as a con- geries of organs made up of various combinations of simple tissues, it may be observed, in reference to its external configuration, that it is rounded. This rounded form is principally owing to the large pro- portion of fluids which enter into its composition. The roundness of the face, limbs, and entire surface of the child, are in striking contrast to the unequal and irregular surface of the old man, whose humom's are comparatively very much smaller in quantity. The form of the human body is symmetrical, that is, it is capable of being divided into two lateral and corresponding halves. Suppose a median line to pass from the vertex of the head through the centre of the spinal column (Fig. 31); if the body be well formed, it will be divided by this line into two equal and cori'esponding portions. This symmetrical disposition of the body is not confined to its external configm-ation. It is true of many of the internal organs; but princi- pally, as has been already stated, of those that belong to the animal life. The brain and the spinal cord are divisible into two equal halves (Fig. 32); the organs of sense are double and symmetrical: the muscles of one side of the body correspond to those of the other; the two hands and arms and the two lower extremities are alike; but for the most part, the organs of the organic life, the stomach, the intestines, the liver, the spleen, for example, are single, and not symmetrical. The human body is divided into three great portions, the head, the trunk, and the extremities. By the head is meant all that part of the body which is placed above the first bone of the neck. It is of a spheroidal figure broader and deeper behind than before, somewhat like an egg in shape with