I'JIfLOSOPHY OF HKAf/m. of changes, by wliicli it is progressively assimilated to the nature of animal substance. This assimilation, however, is never effected by the sole agency of the chambers themselves ; it is accomplished, to a great extent, by the influence of special organs placed in the neighbourhood of the digestive chambers. In the lowest anunal there is but one substance and one surface for every function; in the highest, even for the performance of the lowest function, there is the combination of many substances which are arranged in complex modes. In man, the digestive chambers are five; the auxiliary organs are many. The first of these chambers is the cavity called the mouth ; the second is the bag termed the pharynx; the pharynx commimicates by the oesophagus with the third chamber, the stomach; the fourth chamber consists of the convoluted tubes named the small intestines, and the fifth consists of the larger tubes, denominated the large intestines. The assistant organs are, first, numerous appendages to the mouth, namely, the tongue, the teeth, the salivaiy glands, and the muscles that work the jaws; and, secondly, certain aj)pendages to the small intestines, namely, the pancreas, the liver, the mesenteric glands, and the lacteal vessels. By the mouth the food is softened and reduced to a pulp; by the tongue, materially aided by the soft palate, this pulp, when duly prepared, is transmitted to the pharynx; received by the pharynx, it is sent on to the oesophagus; by the oesophagus, it is conveyed to the stomach; in the stomach, it is converted into a peculiar substance called chyme; the chyme, passing from the stomach into the first portion of the small intestines, is there converted into the substance called chyle; the chyle, carried slowly along the remaining portion of the small intestines, is successively absorbed by the lacteals; by the lacteals, it is conveyed through the mesenteric glands to the thoracic duct, and by the thoracic duct it is poured into the venous blood close to the heart. By the large intestines the refuse matter is conveyed out of the system. The function of digestion consists, then, of the following processes : 1. Prehension. 2. Mastication. 3. Insalivation. 4. Deglutition. 5. Chymification. 6. Chylification. 7. Absorption. 8. Fecation. Prehension is the reception of the ahment; mastication is the mechanical comminution of it; insalivation is the admixture of it with certain juices poured into the mouth; deglutition is the trans- mission of it, when duly moistened and divided, into the stomach • chymification is the conversion of it into chyme; chylification is the conversion of the chyme into chyle; absorption is the assumption of the chyle by the lacteals and the transmission of it into the blood and fecation is the separation and discharge of the refuse matter. Each