USES OF RESPIRATION. ]79 and there given off its nutrient and received excrementitions matter, is now returning to the lungs for depuration and renovation. These com- mingled fluids, on parting in the lungs mth carbonic acid and water, and on receiving in return oxygen and azote, are converted into arterial blood; that is, blood more coagulable than venous, and richer in albumen, fibrin, and red particles, the proximate organic principles of all animal structures. The rich and pure stream thus formed is sent out to the various tissues and organs, from which, as it flows to them, they abstract the materials adapted to their own pecuhar form, compo- sition, and vital endowments. By the reception of these materials the organs are rendered capable of performing the vital actions which it is their office to accomplish. And thus the processes of digestion, ab- sorption, secretion, nutrition, formation, reproduction—all the processes included in the great organic chcle, no less than muscular action and nervous energy—depend on receiving a due supply of arterial blood. All these actions, like the faculties of the animal life, cease totally and for ever in a few minutes after the formation of this vital fluid has been stopped by the suspension of respiration. In the last place, the depurating process effected by respiration is necessary to prevent the decomposition of the blood, and eventually that of the body. The first step in the spontaneous decomposition of animal matter consists in the loss of a portion of its carbon, which, imiting with the oxygen of the atmosphere, forms carbonic acid ; precisely the same thing that takes place in the process of respiration. The bodies of all animals, of worms, insects, fishes, birds, and mam- malia, deoxidate the an- and load it with carbonic acid after death, some of them nearly as much as during life; and this before any visible marks of decomposition can be traced. It is probable that the cause which more immediately operates in preventing the decomposition of the body is the abstraction of a part of the carbon of the blood ; that were these carbonaceous particles allowed to accimiulate, they would produce a tendency to decomposition, which would terminate in complete (hsor- ganisation; and consequently, that one main object of the process of respiration is to afford blood not only capable of nourishing and sustaining the organs, but of maintaining their integiity, by removing noxious matter, the presence of which would subvert their composition and lead to their entire decomposition. The ultimate object of respkation, then, is to prepare and to preserve in a state of purity a fluid capable of affording to all the parts of the body the materials necessary to maintain their vital endowments. By the exlialation of oxygen and water, and the absorption of carbon, under the agency of light, the plant elaborates such a fluid from its nutritive sap, and out of this elaborated sap forms ternary combinations, the organic elements of all vegetable solids. By the absoi-ption of oxygen