PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 348 Those by which certain passages to the interior of the body are closed against the entrance of particular substances, as the fibnn closure of the glottis on the inspiration of carbonic acid gas. By which other passages are opened for the entrance of certain sub- stances into internal receptacles, as the stomach, the intestines, the gall bladder, the urinary bladder, the rectum, the uterus, and so on. By which these receptacles are closed so as to retain within them the substances they receive for a given time. By which these receptacles are again opened so as to permit their contents to pass out of them. By which such contents are actually expelled either from the recep- tacles or from the body. These actions include, more especially, the muscular movements by which masses of matter are introduced into the system and expelled from it; by which food is conveyed to the stomach, and air to the lungs; by which these substances, the crude materials of nutrition, are transmitted to their appropriate receptacles, and retained there to imdergo the necessary changes ; and by which, when these have been accomphshed, the new-formed substances which are useful are sent out for distribution to the system, and those which are useless or noxious are expelled from the body. Decisive experiments, the results of some of which have been stated, prove that the spinal centre is the generator of the nervous force by which the muscles that perform this entii'e class of motions derive their motive power. This centre, therefore, in the language of Dr. Hall, presides over ingestion and exclusion, over retention and egestion; consequently its influence is exerted upon the muscles which belong to the entrances and outlets of the animal fr'ame, or in other words, upon the sphincters, the muscles of deglutition and of respira- tion. The guardian thus of all the entrances and exits of the animal frame, this centre, by one set of exciter nerves (the trifacial), guards the eye, the nostril, the ear, the fauces ; by another (the pneumo- gastric) it guards the larynx, the bronchia, the cardia, the ureter, and the gall-duct; by a third (the spinal) it guards the rectum, the bladder, the uterus, and so on. With each part of the series of exciter nerves there is connected a corresponding set of motor nerves—the motor to produce the motions requned, the exciter, under the influence of the nervous centre, to excite and control the actions. With this apparatus it is easy to understand how the most complex motions of the body may be performed ; how deglutition, for example, may be so ; how in the act of swallowing, when the morsel reaches the base of the tongue and fauces, the pharynx by one movement is