RESPIRATORY FUNCTION OF THE LIVER. 175 loaded with carbon. The great venous trunk which ramifies tlirongh the hmgs is the pulmonary artery, containing all the blood which has tinished its cu'cuit through the system. The great venous trunk which ramifies through the liver is the vena portfe, containing all the blood which has finished its circuit through the apparatus of digestion. The liver is a secreting organ, distinguished from every other secreting organ by elaborating its peculiar secretion from venous blood. Carbon is abstracted fr'om the venous blood that flows through the lungs in the form of carbonic acid ; carbon is abstracted fr'om the venous blood that flows through the liver in the form of bile. 2. All aliment, but more especially vegetable food, contains a large portion of carbon, more it would appear than the lungs can evolve. The excess is secreted from the blood by the liver, in the form of resin, coloming matter, fatty matter, mucus, and the principal constituents of the bile. All these substances contain a large proportion of carbon. After accomplishing certain- secondary purposes in the process of digestion, these biliaiy matters, loaded with carbon, are carried out of the system together with the non-nutrient portion of the aliment. In the decarbonizing process perfonned by the hmgs and the liver, the chief difi'erence would seem, then, to be in the mode in which the carbon that is separated is carried out of the system. In the lungs it is evolved, as has been stated, in union with oxygen in the form of carbonic acid; in the Hver, in union with hydrogen in the form of resin and fatty matter. • 3. Accordingly, in tracing the organisation of the animal body from the commencement of the scale, it is found that among the distinct and special organs that are formed, the hver is one of the very fii'st. It would appear to be constructed as soon as the economy of the animal requires a higher degree of respiration than can be effected by the nearly homogeneous substance of whicb, very low down in the scale, the body is composed. Invariably through the whole animal series, the magnitude of the liver is in the inverse ratio to that of the lungs. The larger, the more perfectly developed the lungs, the smaller the liver; and conversely, the larger the liver the smaller and the less perfectly developed the lungs. This is so uniform that it may be considered as a law of the animal economy. In the highly organised warm-blooded animal, with its large lungs, divided into numerous lobes, and each lobe composed of minute vesicles respiring only air, the magnitude of the liver compared with that of the body is small. In the less highly organised animal of the same class, with its smaller and less perfectly developed lung, respiring partly air and partly water, the liver increases as the lung diminishes in size. In the reptile with its httle vesicular lung, divided into large cells, the hver is propor- tionally of greater magnitude. In the fish which has no lung, but