326 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. of fibres, which differ from each other by broadly-marked characters, by colour, consistency, and distribution. The fibres of one set are smaller than those of the other, being scarcely more than half their size ; they are softer, almost transparent, their contents being apparently nearly uniform, and they are of a dark- brown, or, wdien collected in bundles, of a yellowish-grey colour. The other set besides being, as just stated, one half larger than the other, are much firmer, and of an opaque pearly white colour. The first are termed " fine fibres," or more commonly " grey fibres." They are the proper fibres of the ganglionic system. They are new fibres apparently generated in the ganglia. They are seen to arise from the caudate vesicles, and are, in fact, a prolongation of them. This is proved by tracing a caudate vesicle onwards (Fig. 98), when it is seen to be directly continuous with the tubule, the contents of the former flowing into the latter. But the nerve fibres thus formed are destitute of the solid medullary substance of the cerebro-spinal nerves, the white matter of Schwann. Hence their distinctive cha- racters, their comparative softness, their transparency, their fineness, and their grey colour, probably derived from the grey colour of the vesicular neurine itself. The grey efferent ganglionic fibres go out from the ganglia, and are distributed— 1st. To the viscera, as the heart, the stomach, the liver, the intes- tines, the kidneys, and so on. The nerve fibres are placed on the great arterial trunks that carry arterial blood to their organs, and nerves accompany the blood-vessels to their minutest ramifications. 2nd. In the manner already described, to the sj^inal and cerebral nerves, ydth. which they intermingle, and which they accompany in their coiurse to all the tissues and organs of the body. Thus the gangha form a system of gelatinous nerve fibres, which partly in company with blood-vessels, and partly with 'cerebro-spinal nerves, are distributed everywhere over the body. On the other hand, the large, firm, white fibres, which are found interspersed with the grey, are derived from the cerebro-spinal centre, from which latter they can be traced into the ganglia. On reaching the ganglia they undergo no increase, and they do not appear to have any intimate connection with the caudate vesicles, but merely pass between them. From the preceding account it is clear that the cerebro-spinal nerves which commimicate with the ganglia are derived from both their posterior and anterior roots ; so that the ganglia unquestionably receive both sentient and motor fibres The number of cerebro-spinal nerves which unite with the ganglionic is, however, so small that their natural silvery colour is obscured by the abundance of the grey; while