261 ABSORBING POWER OF MEMBRANE. external surface of either, the animal is killed in a few minutes, just as when the poison is injected into the blood-vessel itself. Analogous experiments on the minute blood-vessels not only show that they are endowed with the like absorbing power, but that their number, tenuity and extent, are conditions which greatly favour the activity of the process. Membrane is an organised substance abounding with blood-vessels. Whether the absorbing power possessed by this tissue be due only to these vessels, or whether it be assisted m the operation by other agents not yet fully ascertained, it is certain that the absorbing power it exerts is highly curious and wonderful. An animal membrane placed in contact with water becomes satu- rated with fluid: placed in contact with a compound fluid, as with water or spirit holding colouring matter in solution, the membrane actually decomposes the compound and resolves it into its elementary parts, just as accurately as can be done by the chemist. If one extremity of a piece of membrane be placed in a vessel containing the tincture of iodine, for example, and the other extremity be kept out of the fluid, that portion of the membrane which is in immediate contact with the tincture acquires a perfectly dark colour, because the iodine completely penetrates the substance of the membrane. This dark- coloured portion is bounded by a definite line, above which the mem- brane is penetrated by a different part of the solution, by a pearly colourless fluid, the alcohol in which the iodine was suspended. •Above this again there are traces of a still lighter coloured fluid, which is jjrobably water. In like manner, if strips of membrane are placed in glasses containing port wine, the same analytical process is effected by the membrane. The colouring matter of the wine is imbibed by the lower portion of the membrane; above this is the alcohol, and above this the water. These and many analogous experiments demonstrate that the pro- cess of absorption is accompanied with the fm-ther phenomena of de- composition and analysis; and that membrane, at the veiy moment it imbibes certain compound substances, resolves them into their con- stituent elements. It is further established by numerous experiments that different compound substances are decomposed and absorbed by membrane with different degrees of facility. If strips of membrane are placed in phials containing different kinds of fluids, one fluid rises only a line or two; others rise to the height of many inches. There is indubitable evidence that analogous properties are possessed by living membrane; that the mucous membrane of the stomach at the moment it imbibes, decomposes and analyses the alimentary and medicinal substances in contact with its surface; and consequently that in all animals mem-