371 NERVOUS BODIES AT THE BASE OF THE BRAIN. 3. On the outer side of the oHves are two eminences, which, from their cord-hke appearance, have received the name of restiform hodies, from the Latin restis, a cord (Figs. 109, 110, in section). 4. Passing to the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata, behind the restiform bodies, and at the sides of the median plane, are two small elongated cords, which, from their figure and position, are termed the posterior pyramids (Fig. 111). These bodies also contain some grey matter, described by Mr. Lockhart Clarke as the " post-pyramidal ganglion." 5. Still on the posterior surface, but deeper-seated than the posterior pyramids, are a number of distinct bmidles of fibres, to which atten- tion will be again du-ected. 6. Eetuniin": ac:ain to the anterior surface of the medulla oblon- gata, immediately above the anterior pyramids and the olives, and in contact with them, is a large thick mass of nemine, about an inch in width, stretching transvej'sely across the medulla oblongata (Figs. 107 and 109, in section). From its fancied resemblance to a bridge, expanded over the medulla oblongata, it has been called, after the name of the anatomist who first particularly described it, the bridge of Varolius (Pons Varolii). 7. At the side of the pons Varolii is placed the cerebellum (Fig. 107), a section of which displays in the interior of both its hemi- spheres a mass of grey neurine (Fig. 109), which, from the tooth- like edge of its very remarkable figure, is called the corpus den- tatum. 8. Emerging from the upper edge of the pons Varolii are two large rounded masses, aboiit half an inch in thickness (Figs. 107 and 109). The earlier describers of the brain thought these bodies bore some resemblance to legs, and therefore they called them, according to the fanciful nomenclature of those days, the legs of the brain—crura cerebri, from the Latin, crus, a leg. 9. Eesting on the upper and inner surfaces of the crura are two large oval masses, which, from their supposed resemblance to a bed or couch, have received the name of thalami, from 6aXafj,o<i, a bed. They consist of an intimate union of vesicular and tubular neurine, and consequently form ganglia. Accordingly they are called cerebral ganglia, and the term ])osterior is added to distinguish them from two still larger ganglia which are placed on the oiiter side of them ; namely— 10. The anterior cerebral ganglia. These latter masses are some- what pear-shaped in figm-e, the basis of the pear being forwards and inwards, and the apex, or small end, lying backwards (Fig. 109). When an incision is made through them, there are brought into view numerous white striae or streaks, and from this appearance 2 B 2