250 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. higher, the complexity of the gland increases, until at length it is comjDOScd of a countless number of follicles collected into clusters, the clusters disposed into lobes, the lobes subdivided into lobules, and the lobules iuto still smaller particles, the ultimate elements of the glandu- lar ap2)aratus. In like manner, when the first rudiment of the liver is discoverable, it consists of a single pouch or caecum; somewhat higher in the series, the organ is comjDosed of two or more caeca, distinct and free; and then, as its complexity increases with the perfection of the organisation, caeca are accumulated upon caBca; the aggregates so formed are closely compacted, disposed into lobes, divided into lobules, and subdivided into the ultimate particles of the glandular apparatus. So in a gland composed of tubuli, as the kidney, the organ in its rudi- mentary state consists of a few straight tubuli (Fig. 97) : as its structure advances more tubuli are added: next, the increasing tubuli super- imposed one upon another become tortuous; then the tubuli still ac- cumulating, beconte not merely tortuous, but convoluted; and last of all, countless numbers of tubuli are closely compacted into exceed- ingly convoluted masses (Fig. 97). Uniformly, the lower the animal and the simpler the organ, the larger and the more manifest are the elementary parts of the gland ; but in the higher animals these elementary bodies are so minute as to be altogether microscopical, and their arrangement is so complex that it can be unravelled only with extreme difiiculty. It is a striking confirmation of the correctness of this view of the structure of the glandular appa- ratus, that whenever in the ascend- Verticai section of kidney. ing scrics a gland appears for the first time in any class, the elementary bodies are so large, and are disposed in so simple a mode, that a slight examination is sufiicient to demonstrate their primitive form, and to render it manifest that they consist either of vesicles, follicles, cfeca, or tubuli, more or less aggre- gated. This is seen in the obvious structure presented by the liver, the pancreas, the salivary glands, and the mammae, in the simple animals in which these organs first appear. Thus the liver in animals low down in tlic scale is manifestly composed of simple clustering Fig. 97.