45 TRUE CART[LA(iE—FIBRO-CARTILAGE. Hiiiuau caitiliige-cells, tVoin the whitisli layer ot tlie cricoid cartiinge ; magiiilied 350 times. soft and supple wob, ^Yhicll connects the adjacent surfaces of organs. Thronghoiit these systems, though they differ much in their outward appearance at first sight, there runs a gradation in complexity of structure from cartilage, which is cellular, up to bone, ^Yhich presents to us an elaborate arrangement of calcified membrane, blood canals, and modified cells. True cartilage, such as is found on the ends of bone, and between the ribs and sternum, and such as foreshows and moulds the shape of the future bone in the earliest periods of life before the production of bone begins, consists of cells embedded in a clear translucent homogeneous material (Fig. 9). The cells are gene- ' ^' rally gathered into little groups, and con- tain a nucleus and nu- cleolus within them; they are separable from the little cavi- ties in which they are lodged. Thus cartilage proper much resembles the cellular tissue of plants (Fig. 1), the cells in both cases being surrounded by a substance differing from themselves, and from which tlieir own proper enclosing wall is separable. In some cartilages the intercellular material shows evidence of a sej)aration into fibres (Fig. 10). The evidence varies in degree in different cases; in some there is an exceedingly slight trace, such that we can just see delicate lines throughout it; in others, the fibrous' condition so prevails that the section presents us with filaments, interlacing into a close matted web, wdth meshes throughout it in which the cells are lodged : this kind of cartilagi- nous material, where the fibrous state predominates, is called " fibro-cartilage;" it is em23loyed in the formation of the nose, ears, air tube, etc., to give definite shape to the part, whilst a great degree of pliancy is allowed. From this struc- ture we easily pass to tendons and mem- brane. In these the minute fibres, in- stead of being felted together as in fibro-cartilage, are arranged l-isr. 10. piece of the human epiglottis; mas^iiilied 350 times.