NERVOUS INFLUENCE. 255 From a reservoir containing a quantity of substances in the state of vinous fermentation, draw off portions of the hquor at different stages of the process, and cause these to pass through tubes of various diame- ters and with various degrees of velocity, there will be obtained at one time an unfermented syrup, at another, a fermenting fluid, at another, wine, at another, vinegar. Out of the body place the blood in a state of rest, it will spontaneously separate into serum and crassamcntum, and the crassamcntum will further separate into fibrin and red particles. A.dd to the serum a certain portion of acid, it will be coagulated into solid albumen; add to this solid albumen another portion of acid, it will be converted into jelly. Add a certain portion of acid to fibrin, it will be changed into adipose matter; bring the acid into contact "with the red particles, they will be converted into a substance closely re- sembling bile. If by the rough chemistry which the art of man can conduct so great a variety of substances may be obtained out of a single compound, it is not wonderful that a far greater variety should be produced by the delicate and subtle chemistry of life. 3. But a third most important agent in the process of secretion is some influence derived from the nervous system, 1. It is proved, by direct experiment, that the destruction of the nervous apparatus, or of any considerable jjortion of it, stops the process of secretion. By experiments performed by Sir B. Brodie, it is ascertained that the secretion of the mine is suspended by the removal or destruction of the brain, though the circulation be maintained in its full vigour by artificial respiration. 2. The section, and still more the removal, of a portion of the sen- tient nerves of the stomach (the par vagum, or eighth pair), according to some experimentalists, deranges and impedes; according to others, totally arrests the process of digestion. 3. Other classes of phenomena illustrate in a striking manner the influence of the nervous system over the process of secretion. The sight, nay, even the thought of agreeable food, increases the secretions of the mouth. Pleasurable ideas excite, painful ideas destroy, the appetite for food ; probably, in the one case, by increasing, and, in the other, by suspending the secretion of the gastric juice: the emotion of grief instantly causes a flow of tears; the sight or thought of her child fills the Qiaternal breasts with milk, while the removal of the child from the mother diminislies and ultimately stops the secretion. It is probable that the vital agent by which the effect is produced on the secreting organs is the organic nerve. Though the sentient part of the nervous system may in many cases be the part primarily acted on, yet there is reason to believe that the ultimate effect is invariably produced on the organic part, the sentient nerves in this case acting on