VITAL ATTRACTION OF THE TISSUES. 143 by the organic nerves, which, as has been shown, increase as the size of the vessels and the thickness of their membranous tunics diminish. Tiie powerful influence of these nerves upon the capillary vessels is placed beyond doubt or controversy by the obvious local changes produced in the capillary circulation by sudden, and even by mental impressions, by the flush of the cheek and the sparkle of the eye, at a thought conceived or a sound heard ; changes which can be effected, as far as we have any knowledge, by no medium excepting that of the nerves. The part performed by electricity, the physical agent by which it is conceived the nerves operate, will be considered hereafter. Exerting u^wn each other a vital force of repulsion, under a vital influence derived from the organic nerves, urged by the vital con- traction of the heart, the particles of the blood reach the extreme capillaries. The tissues are endowed with a vital attractive force, which they exert upon the blood—an elective as well as an attractive force: for in every part of the body, in the brain, the heart, the lung, the muscle, the membrane, the bone, each tissue attracts only those constituents of which it is itself composed. Thus the common current, rich in all the proximate constituents of the tissues, flows out to cfich. As the current approaches the tissue, the particles appropriate to the tissue feel its attractive force, obey it, quit the stream, mingle with the substance of the tissue, become identified with it, and are changed into its own true and proper nature. Meantime, the particles which are not appropriate to that particular tissue, not being attracted by it, do not quit the current, but passing on, are borne by other capillaries to other tissues, to which they are appropriate, and by which they are apprehended and assimilated. When it has given to the tissues the constituents with which it abounded, and received from them particles no longer useful, and which would become noxious, the blood flows into the veins to be returned by the pulmonic heart to the lung, where, parting with the useless and noxious matter it has accu- mulated, and, replenished with new proximate principles, it returns to the systemic heart, by which it is again sent back to the tissues. But all that we can see, with the best aid we can get, does but bring us to the confines of the grand operations that go on, of which we are altogether ignorant. Arterial blood is conveyed by the arteries to the capillaries; but before it has passed from under the influence of the capillaries it has ceased to be arterial blood. Arterial blood is conveyed by the carotid artery to the brain; but the cerebral capil- laries do not deposit blood, but brain. Arterial blood is conveyed by its nutrient arteries to bone, but the osseous capillaries do not deposit blood, but bone. Arterial blood is conveyed by the muscular arteries to muscle, but the muscular capillaries do not deposit blood, but muscle. The blood conveyed by the capillaries of brain,