357 THE TRIFACIAL, A COMPOUND NERVE. the muscles of the iris so to contract or dilate its aperture as to regulate the clue admission of light to the eye. The Fifth, or Tkifacial Nerve.—Of the two branches of which this nerve is composed, one constitutes the portio major, and which, having a ganglion upon it, corresponds to the posterior root of a spinal nerve. It is purely sensitive, and commmiicates common sensation to the head and face. The minor portion corresponds to the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, but it also receives a branch, the semilunar ganglion, and so becomes a compound nerve of motion and sensation, supplying sentient parts, as the side of the head, the skin of the chin, the teeth, &c., and muscles, as the mylo-hyoid, &c., has no ganglion, and therefore corresponds to the anterior root of a spinal nerve. It is principally motor. It gives motor power to the large muscles that move the lower jaw; that is, to the muscles of mastication. To excite the pow'erful contractions necessary in this operation is its chief office, though it would appear from several ex- periments that it is also in some degree sensitive, probably deriving sensitive fibres from its other portion. Numerous observations and experiments prove that the two portions of this nerve exercise the functions here assigned to them. If its larger or ganglionic portion is irritated in a living animal, the slightest touch excites acute pain, but no motion; while if the smaller branch is irritated, violent contractions are produced in all the muscles of mastication, without the smallest indication of feeling. Comparative anatomy shows that in all classes of animals, from the lowest to the highest, wherever there is any trace of this nerve, it is the source of feeling in all parts corresponding to the head and face. " If," says Sir Charles Bell, " a feeler of any kind project from the head of an animal, whether the antenna of a lobster, or the trunk of an elephant, it is a branch of this nerve which supplies the member." In the human subject, a branch of this nerve, distributed to the lower jaw, takes its course under the roots of the teeth. A gi'inder of the lower jaw was extracted, and some of these nerve-fibres were injured. Immediately after the operation, on putting a tumbler of water to his lips, the patient said, " Why have you given me a broken glass ?" The glass was entire, but sensation in one half of the lower lip was gone, and this gave the impression that only half the glass was put to the lip. A gentleman falling, a sharp point entered his cheek, and divided a branch of this nerve (the infraorbitar) that supplies the upper lip. Sensation was lost, while the power of motion remained, and in this, as in the former case, when a cup was put to the lip, it appeared to be broken, and for the same reason—that part of the cup which was placed in contact with the insensible portion of the lip could not be felt, and therefore gave the impression of being broken off.