PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 358 Tumors sometimes press on the brandies of this nerve, in which case the sensibility of all the parts supplied by it is entirely lost, while their motion remains unimpaired. But the ganglionic portion of the trifacial nerve, though principally devoted to the communication of sensation, is not limited to that office. It exercises an important influence over the movements of all the parts to which it imparts sensibility : first, by giving that sensi- bility to the muscles themselves ; secondly, by conveying to the centre a perception of the position and actual condition of the muscles, with- out a knowledge of which the mind would be incajjable of influencing and controlling them in the actions of volition ; and thirdly, by maintaining their power of reflex action ; that is, of conveying im- pressions, by their joeripheral expansions, to the nervous centres, to be thence reflected. So, when this nerve is divided, irritation of the conjunctiva produces no closm-e of the eye; mechanical irritation of the nose excites no sneezing; the application of sapid substances to the tongue produces no flow of saliva; reflex actions constantly performed in the perfect state of the nerve. Lastly, the sensitive portion of this nerve influences materially the' organs of sense, inasmuch as it communicates to them their common sensibility, while they derive their peculiar sensations through their several special nerves. It is even conceived that, by one of its branches, it is itself a nerve of special sense ; that by its Imgual, or gustatory division, it endows the tongue with the sense of taste. It seems scarcely probable that a nerve of common sensation should also be a nerve of special sense, but this subject will be again referred to immediately. PoRTio DuEA OF THE Seventh Pair, OR Facial Nerve. This is the special motor nerve of all the muscles of the face, with the exception of those of mastication. Division of its trunk paralyses the whole of these muscles ; division of the branch going to one side of the face paralyses all the muscles on that side; the muscles on the side on which the nerve remains entire retaining their natural action. Numerous observations illustrate the effects of injury of this nerve. A pistol-ball entered the ear and tore across the portio dura at its root. All motion on that side of the face ceased, but its sensibility remained undiminished. A man was wounded by the horn of an ox. The point tore across the portio dura. That side of the face immediately lost all motion ; the eyelid remained open ; the nostril was motionless; and the mouth was drawn to the opposite side, from the force of the muscles on that, the uninjured side ; the sensibility remained iserfect. Thc^ portio dura was divided in the removal of a tumor behind the ear. The immediate effect was horrible distortion of the face by the