STRUCTURE OF THE GANGLIA. 325 sympathetic nerve (Fig. 102), which, from the fact of its having these ganglionic active masses, must of coui'se be distinguished fi'om the trunk of a common nerve. On this so-called trunk there is a pair of ganglia corresponding with each pair of cerehro-spinal nerves (Fig. 102). These taken together form a series of ganglia extending from the head to the pelvis (Fig. 102). From this accoimt it would follow that there should be a pair of ganglia to each vertebra; but owing to the fact that in certain regions several of the ganglia coalesce, this total number is proportionally reduced, so that it is usual to enumerate on each side of the body three cervical (Fig. 102) ; eleven thoracic ; fom' lumbar; and five sacral. In addition to the preceding are the ganglia connected vnth the nerves of the head and also several large ganglionic masses, centres of nervous force, as the cardiac ganglion, connected with the heart (Fig. 102); the semilunar ganglion, composed of numerous gangha, and these again of still smaller ones, placed in the abdomen (Fig. 102), and supplying its viscera. One of the main points in the anatomy of the sympathetic system relates to the mode of connection between the ganglia placed on the so-called trunk of the nerve and the cerebro-spinal nerves. This con- nection, which is complex, consists of four small fibres (Fig. 102), extending from each ganglion, a thoracic ganghon, for example, and the neighbouring spinal nerves. Of these, two are grey, consisting of the grey fibres immediately to be described, which pass between the ganglion and the anterior and posterior root respectively of the spinal nerve (Fig. 102) : the other two are ordinary white nerve fibres, passing between the anterior and posterior root of the spinal nerve respectively, and the adjoining ganglion. Each of these communicat- ing branches has its special office, as will appear when the physiology is considered. The structure of all the ganglia, as just stated, is essentially the same. They are all composed of an intimate union of vesicular and tubular neurine, and in this respect their organisation is strictly ana- logous to that of the other nervous centres. The vesicles of the grey matter of the ganglia, however, are smaller than those in the corre- sponding part of the cerebro-spinal system, varying in size from the ygLgth to the 2sW^^^ Grreat numbers of them, like those in the latter system, send off delicate prolongations, commonly one at each end, precisely similar to those described as caudate processes. These vesicles here take the name of ganglionic caudate vesicles. The fibrous portion of the ganglia is more peculiar than the vesicular. On examining under the microscope the fibres that enter into the composition, either of the communicating or main branches of the sympathetic, it is found that they consist of two distinct orders