PIllLOSOrHY OF HEALTH. 60 gravity of its several constituents should be maintained uj) to a certain point; for if the liquor sangumis, for example, were not always sus- tained at a given density, the red cells would immediately lose then* structure, their contents would be drawn out of them by exosmose, or they would imbibe water by endosmose, swell up, become globular, and ultimately burst. Temjjerature.—No vital process can go on in the animal blood after its temperatm-e falls below a given point. The temperature of the human body ranges in health from 96° to 99°. The mean is about 97° or 98°. This degree of heat is maintained with surprising uniformity under all the diversified circumstances and conditions in which the human body may be placed. It varies but very slightly at the equator and at the jjoles, but it is a little higher in some organs than in others. Thus, m the ventricles of the heart, it is generally 101° or 102°, and it is from 1° to 2° higher in the left than in the right ventricle. Fluids examined immediately after having been passed from the body, are generally found about the temperature of 101°. Quantiti/ of hlood in the tody.—It is impossible to determine the absolute quantity of blood in the body, because, after every effort to remove it from the vessels, a portion must remain in the tissues. Sup- pose that the circulation is completed in two minutes, that there are 75 pulsations in a minute, and that 2 ounces (troy) are propelled from the heart at each pulsation, this would give 25 pounds of circulating blood. Haller estimated it at 28 pounds, which in a man of ten stone would be one-fifth of the weight of the body, and this is generally con- sidered as pretty near the truth. Relative quantity of hlood in the organs.—This entirely depends on their activity ; they must, therefore, present great variations. The belly of a muscle, which is its active part, is quite filled with blood, and is consequently of a deep-red colour, while the tendon, which is merely to convey the result of contraction, being itself passive, has so few vessels that it is nearly white. The organs, arranged according to the quantity of blood they receive, stand in the following order :— 1. Lungs, which receive the largest amount, but not for their own use, the greatest part being for the aeration of the blood. 2. Glands or secreting organs. 3. Heart, which is always at work, and must, therefore, receive a large supply of blood to obtain the necessary nourishment; it must be replenished with adequate material to supply its waste, 4. Grrey matter of the nervous system. 5. External skin, and internal mucous membrane. 6. Fleshy belly of muscles.