I'JJILOSOPIIY OF HEALTH. CHAPTER XXIX. FUNCTIONS OF THE CEREBELLUM. Peculiar functions ijnperfectly known connected in some way bot.li with sensation and muscular motion-Cu-ordination of movements—Muscular sensibility—lieproductlon. The individual action of the cerebellum, apart from that of the spinal cord and cerebrum, has not yet been satisfactorily determined. It has been sought with great zeal and assiduity by some of the most emi- nent anatomists and physiologists, but hitherto without any veiy certain result. The similarity of its structure to that of the cerebrum, at least in the main pomts, and its intimate connection with the latter, by the inter-cerebral commissure, would appear to indicate that it performs analogous functions. Accordingly several facts, derived both from experiment and disease, favour the conclusion that it is connected in some way with sensation, which often becomes much disordered on any serious lesion of this organ. Yet it certainly is not sensible itself, any more than the cerebrum. It may be wounded deej^ly, it may even be sliced away in successive layers, without causing the slightest indication of pain. Nor does it appear to have any relation to the special senses, the intellectual faculties, or the psychical operations. It is clearly proved that sight, hearing, volition, memory, remain after its entire removal from the body. There is decisive evidence that it is intimately connected with muscular motion. It would appear that the force of muscular con- traction is diminished in the direct proportion of its lesion. However extensive its disease or mutilation, no stupor is induced; there is no diminution of the sensibihty of any part of the body, but the muscular movements are either impau'ed, disordered, or entirely lost. These movements are not merely rendered feeble, but the harmony of their action is destroyed. Violent, irregular contractions are excited, while the power of springing, flying, walldng, standing, and preserving an equilibrium—in other words, the faculty of combining the action of muscles in groups, is lost. Thus an animal laid upon its back cannot bring into operation the combination of muscles necessary to enable it to recover its former position. A bird flutters its wings, but cannot fly. Efibrts to retain an equilibrium are like those of a drunken man In some cases an animal in endeavouring to advance appears to be compelled by an inward, imcontroUable force, to retrograde or fly backwards. In other instances, it is brought under the influence of an internal, impelling force, causing it to roll over from side to side in-