STRUCTUKE OF COMPOUND NERVE-FIBRES. 317 inch in thicbiess; yet it possesses considerable firmness. Under the microscope its presence is indicated by a fine dark line bounding the tubule, and when the neurine is squeezed out of it, it is seen as a dis- tinct tube. It sustains and protects the nervous substance, and trans- mits to it nutrient matter through its porous walls. Immediately under the neurilemma there is a layer of whitish material, which gives to the fibre its white colour, and which is called, after the physiologist who first described it, the ivhite jmatte^- of Schwann. "Within this, again, occupying the veiy centre of the tubule, there is a transparent, flattened band of a grey colour, and extremely delicate, directly continuous with a caudate vesicle (Fig. 100). This is termed the central axis, or the axis cylinder. It is the essential part of the organ. The perfect distinctness of these two substances, a fact of prime import in the physiology, can be proved by chemical tests and other means. A primary nerve-fibre, then, is composed of an external membranous sheath, a layer of white matter immediately within the sheath, and an inner central axis of gi'ey substance. Fibres thus organised are associated together in vast numbers, bound up in cellular tissue, collected into packets, supplied with blood- vessels and absorbents, and the whole are enveloped in a common fibrous membrane or general sheath. The result of the union of all these parts taken together is the organ termed a nerve. The j)rimitive fibres difier considerably in size, not only in diflferent animals, but in different parts of the same animal. They are largest in the lowest animals. In fishes they vary from the j^^j^th to the 2 oVo^^^ of an inch ; in reptiles, from the 2oVo^^^ 1^00^ ' birds, from the 30-0 0^^ 2^Vo*^ j nmi, from the j^oooth to the ysVoth of an inch. The smaller the fibres, and the greater their number, the larger is the amount of nervous substance in a given mass. The primitive nerve-fibres lie side by side within their common sheath, close to, and parallel Avith each other; they are simply in apposition ; they never unite; they nejer fuse into each other's sub- stance ; they are in contact only by the external surface of their neurilemma, and they keep perfectly distinct in their entire course. Every primitive fibre is also uninterruptedly continuous from its origin to its termination. That extremity of a nerve which is in connection with its nervous centre is called its origin, or central extremity—centrifugal; that which is distributed to a tissue or organ is named its termination, or its peripheral extremity—centripetal. At its origin every nerve, by its primitive fibres, is in communica- tion wth grey matter, apparently in two modes. First, as just