372 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. the masses themselves are commonly designated the striated bodies (corpora striata). 11. From the whole outer margin both of the tlmlamic (Fig. 109) and of the striated bodies proceeds a mass of radiating fibres, forming a vast fan-like expansion (Fig. 109, fibres radiating to convolutions), the rays extending to the convolutions of the cerebrum. 12. Next, and last, in order are the convolutions, the general figure and relations of which have been already described. They are capable of being completely unfolded and spread out into a plane surface, without much apparent injury to the nervous substance. It has been sho^vn that they are packed into broad and deep folds, in order that the maximum of matter may be comprised in the minimum of space. When this unfolding is successfully accomplished, and they arc spread out to their full extent, the enormous amount of nervous matter com- posing the human brain becomes strikingly apparent. This appears equally surprising on examining the extent and depth of the convolu- tions, as exhibited in Fig. 109, which represents the appearance presented on making a transverse section of the human brain, taken from about its centre. Packed in these folds, the skull is capable of containing a vast mass of matter without being of unwieldy size, and without the compression of its contents. The structure of the convolutions, when carefully examined, is found to be far more complex than is apparent on a superficial view. Even by the naked eye, however, there can be distinguished three layers of neurine alternating with each other—an external grey, a middle white, and an internal grey layer, and occasionally, especially in the posterior convolutions, a second layer of white. But when a portion is brought under the microscope, it is seen to consist of six layers, three grey alternating with three white. The arrangement of the layers is such that the white are completely cogited by the grey. 13. In front of the pons Varolii, and connected ^vith the upper ■surface of the crura cerebri, are jilaced four rounded masses of grey substance, intermingled with white fibres, called corpora quadrigemuia (Fig. 109, corp. quad.), from quadrigeminus, four double, or optic tubercles, from then- connection vnth. some of the functions of the eye. 14. Lying in front of and between the upper quadrigeminal bodies, and connected with the thalami by two small bands of neurine, named peduncles, or foot-stalks, is a small mass of grey matter, called the pineal gland, which has acquired celebrity by its having been selected by Descartes as the seat of the soul. It is distinguished by the pecu- liarity of containing a collection of hard crystallme particles, some- times called " brain-sand," 15. There arc still two other distinct bodies belonging to the cere-