PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 10 Even the organs of the voice and of progression may perform their office while the sensorium is deeply locked in sleep. 4. The two lives are bom at difierent periods, and the one is in active operation before the other is even in existence. The organic is not only anterior to the animal, but it is by the action of the organic that existence is given to the animal life. The organic life is born at the first moment of existence; the animal life does not exist fimc- tionally until a period comparatively distant; the epoch emphatically called the period of birth, namely, the period when the new being is detached from its mother; when it first comes into contact with ex- ternal objects; when it carries on all the functions of its economy by its own organs, and consequently enjoys independent existence, 5. The functions of the organic life are perfect at once. The heart contracts, the arteries secrete, and the respiratory organs work as well the first moment they begin to act as at any subsequent period. They require no teaching from experience, and they profit nothing from its lessons. On the contrary, the operations of the brain, and the actions of the voluntary muscles, feeble and uncertain at first, acquire strength by slow degrees, and attain their ultimate perfection only at the adult age. How indistinct and confused are the first sensations of the infant! Before it acqmres accuracy, precision, and truth, how immense the labour spent upon perception! Sensations are succeeded by ideas; sensations and ideas coalesce; combinations thus formed suggest others previously united, and these a thkd, and the thii-d a fourth, and so is constituted a continuous train of thought. But the infantile associations between sensation and sensation, between idea and idea, and between sensations and ideas, are, to a certain ex- tent, incorrect, and to a still greater extent inadequate; and the misconception necessarily resulting from this early imperfection in the intellectual operations, is capable of correction only by sub- sequent and more extended impressions. During its waking houi's, a large portion of the time of the infant is spent in receiving im- pressions which come to it every instant from all directions, and which it stores up in its little treasury; but a large portion is also consumed in the far more serious and diflScult business of discrimination and correction. Could any man, after having attained the age of man- hood, reverse the order of the course through which he has passed; could he, with the power of observation, together with the experience that belong to manhood, retrace with perfect exactness every step of his sentient existence, from the age of forty to the moment that the air first came into contact with his body at the moment of his leaving his maternal dwelling, among the truths he would learn, the most interesting, if not the most sui-prising, would be those which relate to the manner ui which he dealt with his earliest impressions; with