VITAL ACTION OF THE ARTIilRIAL TUBES. 189 vessels, the numerous curves and angles formed by the branches in springing from the trunks, the tortuous course of the vessels in many parts of the body, and the increasing area of the arterial branches as they multiply and subdivide. Yet the extraordinary fact has been recently discovered, that the blood moves with the same momentum or force in every part of the arterial system, in the aorta, in the artery in the neck which carries the blood to the head (the carotid artery), in the artery of the arm (the humeral artery), in the artery of the lower extremity (the femoral artery) ; in a word, in the minute and remote capillaiy, and in the large trunk near the heart. That the arterial tubes do possess and exert a truly vital power, modifying the current of the blood they contain, is indubitably es- tablished. 1. If in a living animal the trunk of an artery be laid bare, the mere exposure of it to the atmospheric air causes it to contract to such a degree that its size becomes obviously and strikingly diminished. This can result only from the exertion of a vital property, for no dead tube is capable in such a manner of diminishing its diameter. 2. If during life an artery be opened, and the animal be largely bled, the arteries become progressively smaller and smaller, as the quantity of blood in the body diminishes. If the bleeding be continued until the animal dies, and the arteries of the system be immediately ex- amined, they are found to be reduced to a very small size; if again examined, some time after death, they are found to have become larger, and they go on growing successively larger and larger until they regain nearly their original magnitude, which they retain until they are decomposed by putrefaction. 3. M. Poiseuille distended with water the artery of an animal just killed. This water was urged by the pressure of a given column of mercury. The force of the reaction of the artery was now mea- sured by the height of a column of mercury which the water expelled from the artery could support. It was found that the artery reacted with a force greater than that employed to distend it, and greater than the same artery could exert some time after death; but since mechanical reaction can never be greater than the force previously exerted upon it, it follows that the excess of the reaction indicated in this case was vital. 4. If an artery be exposed, and a mechanical or chemical stimulus be applied to it, its diameter is altered, sometimes becoming larger and sometimes smaller, according to the kind of agent employed. The arterial trunks and branches are capable of enlarging and diminishing their diameter by virtue of a vital endowment. There is complete evidence that the exertion of this vital power on the part