Ill THE FTNOEES.—THE T,OWEIl EXTREIMITIES. to be inserted into eitlier side of the first phalanges of every finger: these serve, when acting separately, to move the fingers from side to side; when acting together, they steady the jihalanx, so that the others can move sm-ely on it in extension (Fig. 60). The upper extremity is covered by a tendinous expansion or fascia which envelops the whole arm, encloses its muscles as in a sheath, and affords them, in their strong actions, "that kind of support which workmen feel in binding their arms with thongs." This fascia like- wise descends between many of the muscles, forming strong partitions between them, and affording points of origin to many of their fibres, scarcely less fixed than bone itself. From the Avhole, it ap])ears that the first joint of the uj)per ex- tremities, that of the shoulder, is a ball and socket joint, a joint admitting of motion in every direction; that the second joint, that of the elbow, is partly a hinge-joint, admitting of flexion and extension, and partly a rotation joint, admitting of a turning or rotary motion; and that the joints of the wrist and of the fingers are likewise hinge- joints, admitting at the same time of some degree of lateral motion. When these various motions are combined, the result is that the hand can apply itself to bodies in almost eveiy direction, in any part of the area described by the arm, when all the joints are moved to their utmost extent. There is thus formed an instrument of considerable strength, capable of a surprising variety and complexity of movements, capable of seizing, holding, pulhng, pushing, and striking with great power, yet at the same time capable of apprehending the minutest objects, and of guiding them with the utmost gentleness, precision, and accuracy, so that there are few conceptions of the designing mind which cannot be executed by the skilful hand. The lower extremities consist of the thigh, leg, and foot. The osseous part of the thigh consists of a single bone, called the femur (Fig. 31), the longest, thickest, and strongest bone in the body. It sustains the entire weight of the trunk, and occasionally much heavier loads superimposed upon it. It is constructed in such a man- ner as to combine strength with lightness. This is effected by ren- dering the bone what is technically called cylindrical; that is, a bone in which the osseous fibres are arranged around a hoUoAV cylinder. There are two varieties of osseous matter (Chap, vi.)—the compact, in which the fibres are dense and solid, and the spongy, in which the fibres are comparatively tender and delicate. Both varieties are, indeed, combined, more or less, in every bone, the compact substance being always external, and the spongy internal; but in the cylindrical bones the arrangement is peculiar. Every long or cyhndrical bone