174 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. of the air burns wood in a common fire, the result of this combustion being the generation of carbonic acid, which is expelled from the system the moment it is formed. The theory of Dr. Crawford is essentially the same, wliich supposes that venous blood contains a peculiar compound of carbon and hydro- gen, termed hydro-carlion, the elements of which unite in the lungs with the oxygen of the air, forming water with the one and carbonic acid with the other. Mr. Cooper taught the same doctrine in his lectures, without any knowledge of the fact that Crawford had suggested a similar modification of his theory. It is now established that more oxygen disappears than is accoimted for by the amount of carbonic acid that is generated. The experi- ments of Dr. Edwards had already shown this in so decisive a manner that physiologists almost universally admitted it as an ascertained fact. The calculations of Mr. Finlaison, to whom the opinions of phy- siologists on this point were unknown, determined the precise amount of oxygen, and the probable amount of azote absorbed. By many physiologists it is supjDosed that the oxygen retained by the lungs, as long as it remains in this organ, enters only into a state of loose combination with the blood; that in this state of loose combination, it is carried from the lungs into the general system; and that it is only in the system that the union becomes intimate and complete. According to this view, the lungs are merely the portal by which the substances employed in respiration are received and dis- charged, the essential changes induced taking place in the system. That it is through the lungs that the oxygen required by the system is received, is an opinion founded on experiments no less exact than decisive; it is in accordance with the most probable theory of the production and distribution of animal heat (chap, xiii.); and the prepon- derance of evidence in its favour is so great that, in the present state of our knowledge, it may be considered as established; but it will appear hereafter that the lungs are by no means passive in the process, and that, physiologically considered, they as truly constitute a gland secreting carbonic acid gas as the Hver is a gland secreting bile. Such are the main facts which have been ascertained relative to respiration, as far as this function is performed by the lungs. But the liver is a respiratory organ as well as the lungs. It decarbonizes the blood. It carries on this process to such an extent, that some physio- logists are of opinion that the liver is the chief organ by which the decarbonization of the blood is effected. The following considerations show that whatever be the relative amount of its action, the liver powerfully co-operates with the lungs in the performance of a respiratory function. 1. The liver, like the lungs, is a receptacle of venous blood; blood