PHILOSOrilY OF HEALTH. 208 imdergo, it is collected by the tongue, and carried by that organ to the back part of the mouth. The soft palate (Fig. 81), obedient to the stimulus of the duly-prepared food, rises the instant it is touched by it, and affords it a free passage to the pharynx (Fig 81). In fi-ont are the two entrances from the nose with the mouth below them, on either side are the Eustachian tubes (Fig. 81), which open on a level between the nose and mouth above the soft palate, and below are the passages to the lungs and stomach called trachea and cesophagus (Fig. 81), the latter always open, and the former guarded by the valve-like epiglottis (Fig. 81), and by its active closing lips called glottis. Were the food to enter the Eustachian tubes or the nose, it would occasion great inconvenience; were it to enter the glottis, it would cause death. It is prevented from entering the Eustachian tubes and the nose by the soft palate (Fig. 81), which by the very act of rising to afford an opening from the mouth to the pharynx, is carried over the other ai)ertures so as completely to close them. By the varied direction of the muscular fibres which enter into the composition of this organ, it is enabled to execute the different and even opposite motions required in the performance of its important office. The food is prevented from entering the glottis partly by a cartila- ginous valve (Fig. 81), termed the epiglottis, placed immediately above the glottis, and attached to the rout of the tongue (Fig 81). In delivering the food to the pharynx the tongue passes backwards. In passing backwards it pushes in the same direction the epiglottis which is attached to it, and so necessarily carries it over the glottis, closing the aperture. It is deeply interesting to observe the part performed in these opera- tions by sensation and volition, and the boundary at which their in- fluence terminates and consciousness itself is lost. Mastication, a voluntary operation, carried on by voluntary muscles, at the command of the will, is attended with consciousness, always in the state of health of a pleasurable nature. To communicate this consciousness, the tongue, the palate, the lips, the cheeks, the soft palate, and even the pharynx, are sujjplied with a prodigious number of sentient nerves. The tongue especially, one of the most active agents in the operation, is supplied with no less than six nerves derived from three diff'erent sources. These nerves, spread out upon this organ, give to its upper surface a complete covering, and some of them terminate in sentient extremities visible to the naked eye. These sentient extremities, with which every point of the upper sm-face, but more especially the apex, is studded, constitute the bodies termed papillae, the immediate and special seat of the sense of taste. This sense is also diffused, though in a less exquisite degree, over the whole internal surface of the mouth.