299 STRUCTURE OF THE RED TARTICLES. Thus, by coagulation, the Hquor sanguinis separates into a portion which remains tiuicl, the serum; and into a portion -which becomes sohd, the fibrin; \Yhile the fibrin, as it is passing from the fluid to the sohd state, entangles the red particles, and both together form the clot; consequently the liquor sanguinis contains in solution two kinds of solid matter, fibrin and albumen; while the serum contains in solu- tion only one kind of solid matter, albumen. The solution of fibrin in the liquor sanguinis, and its spontaneous solidification during the process of coagulation, has been shown by Professor Miiller in the following mode. Having carefully collected blood from the femoral artery of the frog, and also from the heart laid bare and incised, and having brought a drop of this pure blood under the microscope, and diluted it with, serum, so that the red particles were separated from each other by distant intervals, he observed that there formed in those mtervals a coagulation of previously dissolved matter, by which the separated red particles were connected together. By raising, with a needle, the coagulum occupying the intervening spaces, this solid matter was obtained fi'ee from red particles. The blood corpuscles of the frog are rendered, by a powerful microscope, so large, that this operation may be perfonned with the greatest distinct- ness. In consequence of the minuteness of the red particles of human blood they pass, with the liquor sanguinis, through filtering-paper; but those of the frog, being fom* times larger, are kept back by the filter, while the liquor sanguinis percolates through as a clear fluid, and then coagulates. This colourless coagulum is so transparent that it is not even detected, after its formation, until it is raised out of the fluid with a needle. It gradually thickens and becomes white. It is the fibrin of the blood in its pm-est state. Professor Miiller's accoimt of the structure of the red particles differs in a material point from that given. He agrees that they are rounded bodies (Fig. 22), generally of the same size, though some are seen larger than common, but never double the mean diameter; that they are always quite flat; that in a certain light they look as if they were hol- lowed out from the edges to the centre; but, he adds, " that this spot is a real depression, as some think, appears to me in the highest degree im- jn'obablo; for I have at last convinced myself that the blood corpuscles of man and the mammaha contain a very small nucleus of the diameter of the flat corpuscle. My observations prove beyond doubt that the blood corpuscles of frogs and salamanders (Fig. 23) contain a nucleus entirely different in its chemical relations from the outer layer. With one of Frauenliofer's microscopes I have seen very distinctly, in the blood corpuscles of man, an exceedingly small, round, well-defined nucleus, yellower and brighter than the transparent circumference. When the blood corpuscles are mixed, under the microscope, with