318 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. stated, some fibres are, by their central axes, processes or prolonga- tions of caudate vesicles. (Fig. 100.) Secondly, many fibres twine between and around the simple spherical nerve-vesicles, thus, greatly increasing the extent of contact between the two elements. The white matter of the primitive fibres, however, stops at the external surface of the vesicles, and never penetrates their membranous wall, or passes into their interior. At its peripheral extremity, the main trunk of a nerve, as it ap- proaches the tissues and organs to which it is to be distributed, is seen to break up into a number of branches, which commonly plunge directly into the tissues and organs, dividing and subdividing as they proceed. At other times, while the main divisions of a parent trunk 2:)roceed in a direct course to the peripheral organs, a certain number of the branches connect themselves with branches from other nerves, unite with them, follow their course, and completely abandon their primary trunk; so that fibres possessing widely different, and even opposite properties, which they retain after the union, become bound up together in the same common trunk. The trunks themselves, as those of the arms, sometimes unite together, and thus form a complex network, termed a plexus. With respect to the individual nerve-fibres, it is supposed that they commonly terminate by single points. Sometimes, however, they fomi looj)s, and this looped termination has been recently proved to be more general than was formerly supposed. Eecent researches have led to the observation of still another mode of termination. Mr. Bow- man has shown that on carefully tracing, imder a high magnifying power, a fibre supplying an organ of sense, a papilla of the tongue, for example, the white matter, after going some way towards the papilla, suddenly stops, while the central axis proceeds onwards alone, and terminates at the very point of the papilla. The same remarkable fact is observed in certain bodies first described by an Itahan anatomist, Pacini, and called, after him, the Pacinian corpuscles. These are minute granules of nervous matter, attached by small pedicles or footstall^ to certain nerves, especially those of touch in the hand and foot; more sparingly to other spinal nerves; and found also in the plexuses of the sympathetic nerve: but in all cases, even in the latter, these bodies are exclusively restricted to the white tubular nerves. Each corpuscle appears to the naked eye as a small, oval, pellucid grain, but when viewed by the microscope, one of the most complex and remarkable structures of the whole nervous system is revealed. Each body so seen consists of about sixty or more concentric capsules, or laminae, enclosed one within the other, separated from each other by minute septa, and containing between them a transparent liquid. To the pedicle of each corpuscle a primary white