165 CHANGES PRODUCED UPON THE AIR. in the day in which the same individual expends precisely the same quantity. The nature and degree of the exercise taken during the observation, the condition of the mind, the state of the health, the kind of food, the temperatm-e of the air, and innumerable other causes materially influence the quantity of oxygen consumed. When, for example, the hourly consumption of oxygen, at the temperature of 54° Fahrenheit, amounted to 1345 cubic inches,* it fell, at the tempera- ture of 79°, to 1210 cubic inches. During the process of digestion more is consumed than when the stomach is empty ; more is requu-ed when the diet is animal than when it is vegetable, and more when the body and mind are active than when at rest. With regard to the carbonic acid. Dr. Prout made the re- markable discoveiy, not only that the generation of this gas differs according to different circumstances, and more especially according to particular states of the system ; but that the quantity of it which is produced regularly varies at particular periods of the day. The quan- tity generated is always more abundant during the day than during the night. About daybreak it begins to increase; continues to do so until noon, when it comes to its maximum, and then decreases until sunset. The maximum quantity generated at noon exceeds the mini- mmn by about one-fifth of the whole. If from any cause the relative quantity be eitlier increased or diminished above or below the ordinary maximimi or minimum, it is invariably diminished or increased in an equal proportion during some subsequent diurnal period. The absolute quantity generated is materially diminished by the operation of any de- bilitating cause, such as low diet, protracted fasting, or long-continued exercise, depressing passions and the like. Few cu-cumstances of any kind increase the quantity produced, and those only in a slight degree. The changes produced by respiration on the other constituent of the air, azote, appear at first view to be extremely variable. By numerous and accm'ate experiments it is established that the quantity of this gas is at one time increased; at another diminished, and at another imchanged. It is probable that there is a constant absorption and exhalation of it; and that the apparent irregularity is the result of the preponderance of the one process over the other. When absorption preponderates, a smaller quantity is found in the an- expired than in that inspired: when exhalation preponderates, a larger quantity is expired than inspired; and when the absorption and exhalation are equal, just as much is expired as inspired, and consequently there appears to be no absorption at all. Such are the phenomena of respiration, as far as the labours of physiologists have succeeded in ascertaining them. But as the estimates of the quantity of air and blood contained in the * The oi-aiuary consumption of oxygen is, for an adult, 190.") cubic inches per liour.