rillLO.SOPHY OF HEALTH. 272 and disappeared that hardly a vestige was left to my most diligent search." The next day he procured another dog, but could not dis- cover the smallest white vessel. " And now," he continues, " I began to be downcast in my mind, thinking to myself that what had been observed in the first dog must be ranked among those rare things which, according to Galen, are sometimes seen in anatomy." But at length recollecting that the dog had been opened "athirst and unfed," he opened a thhd " after feeding him to satiety; and now everything was more manifest and brilliant than in the first case." The zeal with which he followed out the clue he had obtained is mdicated by the number of dogs, cats, lambs, hogs, and cows which he dissected, and by the statement that he even bought a horse and opened it alive; but, he adds, " a living man, however, which Erasistratus and Hero- philus of old did not fear to anatomize, I confess I did not open," Nearly thirty years elapsed before the lacteals, which were long thought to terminate in the liver, were traced to the thoracic duct; and it was not until the year 1651, about eighty years after the dis- covery of Asellius, that the lymphatics were discovered, and that the whole of this portion of the absorbent system was brought to light. Taking together the whole of the apparatus of absorption, the specific ofiice performed by its several parts seems to be as fol- lows :— 1. It is established that the lacteals absorb chyle, and that they refuse to take up almost every other substance which can be presented to them. Experimentalists are uniform in stating that however various the substances introduced into the stomach, it is exceedingly rare to find in the lacteals anything but chyle. These vessels appear to be endowed with a peculiar sensibility, derived from the nervous system, by which they are rendered capable of exerting an elective power, readily absorbing some substances and absolutely rejecting others. 2. The lymphatics absorb a far greater variety of substances than the lacteals, but not all substances indiscriminately ; chiefly organised matter in a certain stage of purification; particles passing through successive processes of refinement. 3. The blood-vessels, and more especially the capillary veins, appear to absorb indiscriminately all substances, however heterogeneous their nature, which are dissolved or dissolvable m the fluids presented to them. 4. The absorbent glands appear by various modes, either by re- moving superfluous and noxious matters, or by the addition of secreted substances possessing assimilative properties, to approximate the fluid which flows through them more and more closely to the nature of the blood. Fatal effects result from the artificial infusion of minute portions even of mild substances into the blood. Hence the extended