rniLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 370 surface to another, may contain fluid in the interspaces. In licalth there is proLaLly merely sufficient fluid to prevent the aggkitinatiou of tlie surfaces, hut in disease this is capahle of heing greatly accumu- lated ; and when it is so, it constitutes one form of what is commonly called " Water in the Head." There remains to be described the course of the fibres, which form distinct, continuous tracts from the spinal cord to the convolutions of the brain. 1. Course of the Anterior Pyramids.—It has been shown that a fasciculus from the anterior nerve-roots unites with the longitudinal fibres of the cord, and that both ascend together into the anterior pyramid (Fig. 109). In the pyramids, a definite anatomical disposition of the fibres takes place, which must be re- garded as one of the most fundamental facts in the anatomy and phy- siology of the whole nervous system; consisting of a decussation of their fibres across the median ptlane, so that the fibres of the right anterior part of the cord pass over to the left side of the encephalon, and the left to the right, as is shown in Fig. 109. After their decussation, the fibres pass through the pons Varolii (Fig. 109), where they join the main bulk of the fibres of the olives (Fig. 109). On issuing from the pons Varolii they advance to the crura cerebri, of which they form the under and outer portion (Fig. 109). Thence, proceeding with a radiating course to the striated bodies, tliey penetrate these masses, receive large accessions of fibres from them, emerge from their outer border, diverge in every direction to form the great fan-hke expansion already described (Fig. 109), and thus radiating, pursue their way to the anterior and middle lobes of the cerebral hemispheres, in the grey matter of which they are lost. 2. The Olives.—The fibres of the olives, like those of the anterior pyramids, pass through the pons Varohi in a plane above that of the pyramids (Fig. 109) ; advance to the crm'a cerebri, of which they form the upper part; proceed to the thalami, into which they enter; and thence emerging, pursue the like radiating course to the posterior cerebral convolutions (Fig. 109) ; one portion of this tract also passes into the optic tubercles. 3. The Posterior Pyramids.—From the sides of the posterior median fissure, continuous with the posterior fasciculi of the spinal cord, in a plane deeper than the other tracts, two narrow columns (;alled the posterior pyramids, ascend and reach the medulla oblongata. Here they form a distinct decussation, precisely similar to that of the iinterior ]:)yramids ; an anatomical fact which had been long suspected by finatomists, and positively affirmed and even described by Bell but erroneously, as is shown by tlie subsequent researches of Mr. Solly,