ACTIONS PECULIAR TO ANIMALS. 6 necessity to the existence of animals. With the preparation of this matter plants accomplish the end of their bemg, and their life ter- minates ; but it is at this point that the life of the animal commences. By this relation between the two kingdoms, the higher orders of'beings are saved the fh'st step in the vital series; and, consequently, whatever complication is given to theii- higher organisation, can bo exclusively appropriated to the higher purposes of their being. 4. As there can be no function without an organ, so the addition of the two animal faculties, sensation and voluntary motion, of necessity complicates the structure of the animal body. To the organs for carrying on the organic processes, there must be superadded those which are required for the animal faculties. Hence the addition of the nervous and muscular systems; and in the entire animal series the complexity of these systems, as we shall see as we advance, becomes progressively greater as the range and energy of the faculties increase. The apparatus of sense is multiplied and elaborated as impressions become acute and varied ; the bulk and compactness of the muscle is increased in proportion to the power of its contractions, and the extent of its combinations. The wing of the eagle is as much more developed than the wing of the wren, as its flight is higher, and its speed swifter. The muscles which give to the tiger the rapidity and strength of its spring, possess a more intense organisation than those which slowly move on the tardigrade sloth. The structure of the brain of man is more complex than that of a fish, as his perceptions are more acute and capable of greater combination, comprehension, and continuity. Such are some of the more striking distinctions between inorganic and organic bodies, and between the two great classes of organized beings. There are other difierences, which will be better understood as we proceed, but those now assigned may suffice to convey a clear conception of the nature of theii- distinctive characters.