PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 28 in the highest degree to happiness, is moral excellence, or, in the definite and exact sense of the word, virtue. And in this sense it is that vii'tue is happiness. It is because it discriminates the true sources of happiness, that is, directs every other faculty into its proper course, and guides it in that course to the attainment of its ultimate object, that the moral faculty takes the high place it does among the faculties of the human mind. Supposing the operation of this faculty to be perfect, it is but an identical expression to say, that to follow its guidance im- phcitly is to follow the road that leads to the most perfect happiness. But there is another faculty which is as truly a part of the human mind as the moral faculty, and to the possession of which there is nothing in the sHghtest degree analogous in any other creature known to us. It is impossible for the human mind not to infer the existence of a Creator from the study of the creation. It is impossible to con- template the attributes of the Creator, such attributes at least as those ascribed to Him by the Christian Kevelation, without re- verence, trust, and love. But the ascription of such attributes to the Creator, the feeling of reverence, trust, and love towards Him, and the desire and endeavour to conform in heart and hfe to His law, as far as His wiU is known, is religion. And the exercise of the religious faculty, under the true and enhghtened guidance of the Christian Eevelation, is at once man's greatest privilege, and includes the highest happiness of which his nature is susceptible. Thus manifest it is, from every view that can be taken of the constitution of human nature, that every faculty with which it is endowed, from the lowest to the highest, not only affords its own proper and peculiar pleasure, but that each, as it successively rises in the scale, is proportionately the source of a nobler kind, and a larger amount of enjoyment. And the pleasure thus afibrded by the various faculties with which the human being is endowed is the immediate and direct result of their exercise. With the exception of the organic organs, and the reason for the exception in regard to them has been assigned, the action of the organs is dfrectly pleasurable. From the exercise of the organs of sense, from the operation of the intellectual faculties, from appetite, passion, and affection, pleasure flows as directly as the object for which the instrument is expressly framed. And pleasure is the ordinaiy result of the action of the organs; pain is sometimes the result, but it is the extraordinary, not the ordinary result. Whatever may be the degree of pain occasionally produced, or however protracted its duration, yet it is never the natural, that is, the usual or permanent state, either of a single organ, or of an apparatus or of the system. The usual, the permanent, the natural condition of each organ, and of the entire system, is pleasurable. Abstracting,