145 APPAIIATUS IN THE PLANT. Kis. 74. cal coiiclitioii of the proper nutritive fluid of the plant, undergoes in the leaf a double process; that of ])igestion and that of Kespiration. The upper surface of the leaf is a digestive apparatus, analogous to the stomach of the animal; the under surface of the leaf is a respi- ratory apparatus, analogous to the lung of the animal. For the performance of this double function, incessantly carried on by the leaf, its organisation is admirably adapted. The solid skeleton of the leaf consists of a net-work composed partly of woody fibres and partly of spiral vessels which proceed from the stem, and which are called veins (Fig. 74, 1, 3). In the interstices be- tween the veins is disposed a quantity of cellular tissue, termed the paren- chyma of the leaf (Fig. 74, 4): the whole is enveloped in a membrane, called the cuticle (Fig. 75, 1), which is furnished with apertures denomi- nated stomata, or stomates (Fig. 76). The cuticle consists of a layer of minute cellules, colourless, transparent, without vessels, without organic par- ticles of any kind, and probably filled with air (Fig. 75,1). These cellules open externally, at certain portions of the cuticle, by apertures or passages which constitute the stomates, and which present the appearance of areolae with a slit in the centre (Fig. 76), They form a kind of oval sphincters, which are capable of opening or shut- ting, according to circumstances, and they are disposed on both surfaces of the leaf, but most abundantly on the under surface, excepting in leaves which float on water, in which they are always on the upper surface only. The cellular tissue or jjarenchyma, immediately beneath the cuticle, when examined in thin slices, and viewed under a microscope with a high magnifying power, presents a regular structure disposed in per- fect order. It consists, on the upper surface, of a layer, and sometimes of two and even three layers, of vesicles of an oblong or cylindrical form, placed perpendicularly to the surface of the leaf, set close to each other (Fig. 75, 2), and filled with organic particles constituting the green matter which determines the colour of the leaf. On the L View of tlie net-work wliiih foriii.s tlie solid structure of the lenf, and whicii consists partly of woody fibres, and partly of spiral vessels. 1, vessels of the upper surface; 2, vessels of the under surface ; 8, distribution of the vessels through the substance of the leaf; 4, interspaces between the ves- sels occupied by jiarenchyma or cel- lular tissue.