394 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. sound. You cannot sco with the car nor hear with the eye. Every nerve-fibre is devoted to its own office, which cannot be transferred, and which admits of no substitution. Sensation is not in the periiiheral surfaces or external organs, to which it is commonly referred, but in the brain. It is difficult to believe that when we grasp a body we do not feel it vnth. our hands, though the points of the fingers are the special seat of touch; that the sensation of sight is not in the eye, nor of hearing m the ear, nor of taste in the tongue; but that the perception is in the brain, and the brain only. Yet that this is true is proved indubitably. 1. By the fact already stated, that a ligature placed around a sen- tient nerve, so as to cut off its communication with the brain, instantly destroys sensation; while on the removal of the ligature, and tho re-establishment of such communication, sensation is restored. 2. By the phenomena observed after the amputation of a limb. When a leg, for example, has been cut off from the body, above the knee-joint, sensation does not always cease, because the nerves have been merely divided ; they still remain *in the stump, and continue to exercise then' accustomed functions. When impressions are excited in these nerves, the sensations are always referred to the lost part. Long after the stump is healed, frequently through life, sensations are referred to single toes, to the sole of the foot, to the back of the foot, to the sldn covering it, and so on. The nerves of the stump, which came from those parts, are still in free commmiication with the brain, and when irritated by pressure, &c., convey to it the accustomed impres- sions, and, therefore, produce the corresponding sensations; a demon- stration that sensation is not in the part in which the nerves once had their peripheral terminations, for they are removed from the body, but that its true seat is in the brain. So, when a nose has been lost and a new one is formed, as is done in the Talicotian operation, by turning down a portion of skin from the forehead, moulding it into shape, and uniting it with what remains of the old nose, the new nose, as long as it retains its original connec- tion with the forehead, has the same sensations as if it were still on the forehead; that is, when it is touched the feeling is in the forehead, but when, by dividing the flap of skin, the communication with the fore- head is cut off, the sensations are no longer referred to the forehead. At fii-st, the division destroys all sensibility in the part, but by degrees this is restored, and now, having lost its old associations and acquired new ones, from the new union it has formed, it refers its sensations in accordance with its new position, the mind acquhing the habit of referring its sensations to the parts at which it receives its impres- sions. Though the bram is the sole seat of sensation tmd vohtion, yet it is