STRUCTUilE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. 235 like the italic letter S, is called the sigmoid flexure, which occupies the left ihac region (Fig. 92). The sigmoid flexure terminates in the Fig. 93. Portion of the huge intestine, showing the arrangement ot" tlie muscular fibres. 1, the longitudinal fibres collected into bands, and forming larger fasciculi; 2, the circular fibres arranged as in the other intestines. last portion of the alimentary canal, called the rectum (Fig. 92), which is placed in the hollow of the sacrum, and which follows the curvature of that bone. The circular fibres of the rectum are accu- mulated at the termination of the bowel to form the internal sphincter of the anus. External to this is placed another set of fibres, which constitute the external sphincter. The mucous membrane of the large intestines is disposed differently from that of the small intestines, and the mucous membrane of the colon still diff'erently from tliat of the rectum. In the colon the mucous membrane, instead of being disposed in the form of valvulse conniventes, is so arranged as to divide its whole surface into minute apartments or cells, by which the descent of the fecal matter is retarded still more than the descent of the chyle by the valvulse conniventes. Some particles of chyle do, however, continue to be separated from the fecal matter, even in the large intestines; and in order that nothing may be lost, a few valvulae conniventes, witli their lacteals, appear here also, while the cells of the colon, by retarding the descent of the fecal matter, allow time for the more complete separation and absorption of the chylous particles. In the rectum the mucous membrane is plaited into large transverse folds, which disappear as the fecal matter descends into the bowel, accumulates in it, and distends it; an arrangement which gives to this j)ortion of the mtestine its power of distension, so closely con- nected with our convenience and comfort. As soon as that portion of the alimentary matter which is trans- mitted to the large intestines reaches the colon it ceases to be alkahne, the distinctive character of the contents of the small intestines, and becomes acid, just as the whole alimentary mass is acid at the com- mencement of digestion in the stomach. It acquires albumen; it^