CIIANGKS PRODUCED UrON THE BLOOD. 173 sunshine and those which prefer the shade; in the aquatic as well as in those of a more complicated organization. How low in the scale of vegetable life this power extends is not yet exactly ascertained; the point at which it stops is probably that at which there ceases to be leaves. From the whole, then, it appears that the functions of the plant have a strict relation to those of the animal; that the plant, created to afford subsistence to the animal, derives its nutriment from principles which the animal rejects as excrementitious, and that the vegetable and animal kingdoms are so beautifully adjusted, that the very existence of the plant depends upon its perpetual abstraction of that, without the removal of which the existence of the animal could not be maintained. The changes produced upon the blood by the action of respiration are no less striking and important than those produced upon the aii'. The blood contained in the pulmonary artery, venous blood, is of a pui-ple or modena red colour: the moment the air transmitted to the blood by the bronchial tubes comes into contact mth it, in the rete mirabile, this pm-plc blood is converted into blood of a bright scarlet colour. Precisely the same change is produced upon the blood by its contact with the air out of the body. If a clot of venous blood be introduced into a vessel of air, the clot speedily passes from a purple to a scarlet colour; and if the air contained in the vessel be analysed, it is found that a large portion of its oxygen has disappeared, and that the oxygen is replaced by a proportionate quantity of carbonic acid. If the clot be exposed to pure oxygen, this change takes place more rapidly and to a greater extent; if to air containing no oxygen, no change of colour takes places. The elements of the blood upon wliich a portion of the air exerts its action are carbon and hydrogen. The oxygen of the air unites with the carbon of the blood and forms carbonic acid, and this gas is expelled from the system by the action of expiration. The constituent of the blood which affords carbon to the air would appear to be chiefly the red particles. The other portion of the oxygen of the air unites with the hydrogen which is expelled with the carbonic acid in the form of aqueous vapour. The direct and immediate effect of the action of respiration upon the blood is then to free it from a quantity of carbon and hydrogen. Physiologists are not agi-eed whether the union of the oxygen of the air with the carbon of the blood takes places in the lungs or in the system. Some experimentahsts maintain that the oxygen which dis- appears from the au', and that which is contamed m the carbonic acid, are exactly equivalent, so that no oxygen can be absorbed. According to this view, which has been clearly shown to be incorrect, the effect of respiration is merely to burn the carbon of the blood, just as the oxygen