rOWER OF RESISTING HEAT. 183 or three degrees. The attention of physiologists was first directed to this curious fact by some remarkable circimistancos related by the servancs of a baker at Kochefoucault, who were in the habit of going mto the heated ovens in order to prepare them for the reception of the loaves. In performing this service, the yomig women were sometimes exposed to a temperature as high as 278°. It was stated that they could endure this intense heat for twelve munites, without any material inconvenience, provided they were careful not to touch the surface of the oven. Subsequently Drs. Fordyce, Blagdeu, and others, with a view to ascertain the exact facts, entered a chamber, heated to a temperature much above that of boiling water, and some of the phenomena observed during these experiments are highly curious. In the first room entered by these experimentalists, the highest thermometer varied from 132° to 130°; the lowest stood at 119°. Dr. Fordyce having undressed in an adjoining cold chamber, went into the heat of 119° ; in half a minute the water poured down in streams over his whole body, so as to keep that part of the floor where he stood constantly wet. Having remained here fifteen minutes, he went into the heat of 130°; at this time the heat of his body was 100°, and his pulse beat 120 times in a minute. While Dr. Fordyce stood in this situation a Florence flask was brought in by his order, fiUed with water heated to 100°, and a dry cloth, with which he wiped the surface of the flask quite diy; but it immediately became wet again, and streams of water poured down its sides, which continued till the heat of the water within had risen to 122°, when Dr. Fordyce went out of the room, after having remained fifteen minutes in a heat of 130°: just before he left the room his pulse made 129 beats in a minute ; but the heat under his tongue and in his hand did not exceed 100°. In a subsequent experiment the chamber was entered when the thermometer stood above 211°. The air heated to this degree, says Dr. Blagden, felt unpleasantly hot; but was very bearable. Om^ most uneasy feehng was a sense of scorching m the face and legs; our legs particularly suflered very much, by being exposed more fully than any other part to the body of the stove, heated red hot by the fii'e within. Our respiration was not at all afiected; it became neither quick nor laborious; the only difierence was a want of that refreshing sensation which accompanies a full inspiration of cool air. But the most striking efiects proceeded from our power of preserving oiu: natural temperature. Being now in a situation in which our bodies bore a very diflferent relation to the surrounding atmosphere from that to which we had been accustomed, every moment presented a new phenomenon. Whenever we breathed on a thermometer, the quick- silver sank several degrees. Every expiration, particularly if made with any degree of violence, gave a very pleasant impression of cool-