204 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. euclosmometer, fitted with one of these vegetable membranes, havmg been filled with a solution of oxalic acid and then plunged into rain- water, the included fluid rose gradually in the tube of the endosmometer, so that the endosmose was from the water towards the acid, the reverse of that which takes place when the endosmometer is furnished with an animal membrane. Vegetable membrane, then, at least with fluids containing a preponderance of acid, produces a current, the direction of which is the exact reverse of that produced by animal membrane. The bodies of organised beings are composed in great part of various fluids of difi'erent density, separated from each other by thin septa, precisely the conditions which are necessary to the production of endosmose. But such conditions never concur in inorganic bodies, whence inorganic bodies never exhibit endosmotic phenomena. Vege- table tissue of every kind consists of vast multitudes of aggregated cells intermingled with tubes. The parietes of these hollow organs are exceedingly dehcate and thin ; the organs themselves are at all times filled with fluids, the densities of which are mfinitely various; consequently, by endosmose and exosmose, mutual interchanges of their contents incessantly go on; those contents brought into contact by cm-rents moving now m one direction and now in another, now rapidly and now slowly, intermingle, and in consequence of their ad- mixture, changes in their chemical composition take place. It is by these powers that water holding in solution nutrient matter diflfused through the soil penetrates the spongeolae of the capillary rootlets, always fiUed with a denser fluid than the water contained in the soil, —that the energetic motion by which the sap ascends is generated,— that the ascending sap is attracted into fruits, always of greater density than the crude sap,—that buds are capable of emptying the tissue that surrounds them when they begin to grow, and that almost all the phenomena connected with the motions of fluids in plants, and the chemical changes which those fluids undergo in consequence of this admixture, is efi'ected. And there cannot be a question that analogous phenomena take place in the various cells, cavities, and minute capillary vessels of the animal body. It is then estabhshed on mdubitable evidence that all animal tissues, without exception, possess an inherent property by which they are capable of transmitting through their substance certain fluids, and even solids, convertible into fluids; and that the great agent by which this transmission is effected is membranous tissue, whether in the form of blood-vessels or of proper membrane. By virtue of this property fluids and solids are absorbed, by the animal body, with whatever sui'- face or organ they are in contact, whether with an external or an internal surface, or with the eye, the mouth, the tongue, the stomach the lungs, the liver, or the heart. '