127 CIJAMBEES OF THK IIEART-AllTERIAL SYSTEM. is reduced to the greatest degree of thinness, a quantity of fat. Im- mediately beneath this lat are the fleshy fibres that compose the main bulk of the organ. These fibres are arranged in a peculiar manner. The arrangement is not perceptible when the heart is examined in its natural state, but after it has been subjected to long-continued boiling, which, besides separating extraneous matters from the fibres, hardens and loosens without displacing them, the manner in which they are disposed is manifest. Just at the point where the muscular fibres that constitute the septum of the auricles are set upon those which form the septum of the ventricles, and parallel with tlie origin of the aorta, the heart is not muscular but tendinous. The substance called tendon, it has been shown, is often employed in the body to afford origin or insertion to muscular fibres, performing, in fact, the ordinary office of bone, and substituted for it in situations where bone would be inconvenient. From the tendinous matter just indicated most of the fibres that constitute the muscular walls of the heart take their origin. From this point the fibres proceed in different du*ections : those which go to form the wall of the auricles ascend; those which form the wall of the ventricles pursue an oblique course downwards, and the arrangement of the whole is such, that a general contraction of tlie fibres must necessarily bring all the parts of the heart towards this central tendinous point. The object, and the result of this arrange- ment, will be manifest immediately. The internal surface of the chambers of the heart, in its whole extent, is lined by a fine transparent serous membrane, which renders it smooth and moist; and, like all other organs which have important functions to perforai, it is plentifully supplied with blood-vessels and nerves. Such is the structure of the organ that moves the blood. The arieiy, the tube that carries it out from the heart, is a vessel com- posed of three distinct flayers of membrane superimposed one upon another, and intimately united by delicate cellular tissue. These layers are termed tunics or coats. The outer coat differs but little from ordinary dense areolar tissue, and is somewhat elastic; it is attached loosely by its outer surface to the sheath, which is provided to surround and enclose the artery and accompanying veins, and by its inner surface is very closely adherent to the next or middle coat. This is the best characterized of the three coats, and consists of fibres dis- posed chiefly in an encircling manner around the calibre of tlie vessel. These fibres are of two sorts, some are yellow elastic fibres, such as were formerly described, and the others are muscular fibres of the plain unstriped sort. The fii-st of these confers on the arterial walls the property of resiliency, so that after being distended somewhat by the rush of blood