SPINAL COLUMN. 81 From the posterior surface of the column, which is eveiywhere irregular and rough, spring, along the medium lino, in regular series, strong, sharp, and pointed projections of bone (Fig. 42), which from bemg sharp and pointed, like elongated spines, are called spinous pro- cesses, and have given name to the whole chain of bones. These processes afford fixed points for the action of powerful muscles. Extending the wliole length of the column, from the base of the skull to the sacrum, on each side of the spinous processes, are deep excavations, which are filled up with the powerful muscles that maintain the trunk ' of the body erect. From the lateral surfaces of the column likewise spring short but strong projections of bone, termed transverse processes, which also give attachment to powerful muscles (Fig. 42). The separate bones of the series have a kind of turning motion on each other ; hence each is called a vertebra, and the name of vertebral column is often given to the entu-e series, as well as that of spinal column. That portion of the column which forms the neck consists of seven distinct bones, called cervical vertebras (Fig. 43, 2); that portion which forms the back consists of twelve, called dorsal vertebras (Fig. 48, 3); that portion which forms the loins consists of five, called lumbar vcrtebrfc (Fig. 43, 4). Between each of these classes of vertebras there are specific differences, but they need not be described here: all that is necessary to the present pm-pose is an account of the structure which is common to every vertebra. By inspecting Fig. 43, it will be seen that the upper and under edges of each vertebra consist of a ring of bone, of a firm and compact texture, rendering what may be called the body of the vertebra exceed- ingly strong. This ring of lx)ne forms a superficial depression (Fig. 43, 2), for the reception of a peculiar substance, immediately to be described, which is interposed between each vertebra (Fig. 44). The anterior sm-face of the body of the vertebra is convex; its posterior surface is concave; from the posterior sm-face springs a bony arch (Fig. 43, 5), which, together with the posterior concavity, forms an aperture of considerable magnitude, a portion of the canal for the passage of the spinal cord. Both the upper and under edges of the arch form a notch (Fig. 43, 7), which, together with a coiTesponding notch in the contiguous vertelDra, completes another aperture rounder and smaller than the former, but still of considerable size, the passage of the spinal nerves. From both the upper and under sides of the arch proceeds a short but strong projection of bone (Fig. 43, a), termed the articulating pro- cesses, because it is chiefly by these processes that the vertebra are connected together. From the beginning to the end of the series, the two upper processes of the one vertebra arc united with tlie two lower G