riilLOSOrHY OF HEALTH. 6 CHAPTEK II. Two distinct lives combined in the nnimal—Cliaracters of the apparatus of the organic life—Characters of the apparatus of the animal life—Characteristic differences in the action of each—Progress of life—Progress of death. Op the two sets of functions carried on by living beings, it has been 8llo^\•n, that a plant performs only one, while an animal exercises both. The two lives thus in continual play in the animal, differ from each other as much as the process of vegetation differs from that of thought. Each has its own apparatus and action, and though both are closely united, and work together in perfect harmony, they present, in several interesting circumstances, striking contrasts to each other, 1. In general, in the higher classes of animals, the organs that belong to the apparatus of the organic life are single, and not sym- metrical ; the organs that belong to the apparatus of the animal life are commonly double, and symmetrical. The heart, stomach, liver, and other instruments by which the organic functions are carried on, are single organs. The figure of each is more or less u-regular, so that if a line were carried through then centre, it would not divide them into two equal and corresponding portions. On the contrary, the organs of the animal hfe are symmetrical. The brain and spinal cord are divisible into two perfectly equal parts. The nerves which go off from them, for the most part, go off in pairs equal in size and similar in distribution. The muscular apparatus of one half of the body is the exact counterpart of that of the other; while the arms, hands, and lower extremities are double, and the organization of one is precisely similar to that of its fellow. 2. In general, the apparatus of the organic life is seated in the interior of the body, while that of the animal life is placed on the external surface. The organic organs are the instruments by which life is maintained. Their action cannot be suspended, even for a short space of time, without the extinction of hfe. But the animal organs are not so much instruments of life, as means by which a certain relation is established between the living being and external objects.. And this difference in their ofiice is the reason of the difference in their position. Life depending on the action of the organic organs, they are placed in the interior of the body; they are fixed firmly in their situation in order that they may not be disturbed by the movements of locomotion; they are enveloped m membranes, covered by muscles, placed under the shelter of bones, and every possible care is taken to secui*e them from accident and to shield them from violence. Existence not bein<^