390 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. nerves; while, on the contrary, animals with limited intellectual powers possess bulky nerves with a very small brain. This is most remarkably the case in the lower classes of animals, as in the amphibia, but it is also seen m the higher. The maximum weight of the horse's brain is 1 lb. 7 oz.; the minimum weight of an adult human brain is 2 lbs. 5i oz.: nevertheless, the nerves at the base of the brain are ten times thicker in the horse than in the human being. It is also veiy remarkable that neither the medulla oblongata, nor any of its prolongations within the cavity of the cranium, take part in the augmentations which have been traced. They do not increase vdth. the increase of the cerebral lobes ; they are not relatively larger in man than in any other animal; and some of them, as the corpora quadrigemina, are actually smaller in the human being in proportion to the size of the body than in other animals. It cannot be reasonably supposed, therefore, that the seat of intelligence is in any of these minor and subordinate masses: it is surely more probable that it is placed in the organ which these bodies contribute to form and to complete. 5. Additional evidence of the correctness of this view is afforded by the successive stages through which the human brain passes in the progress of its formation. The investigations of comparative anatomy, and the laborious inquiries that have been made into the processes of development, have led to the establishment of the surprising fact, that the human brain, from its fost appearance as a semi-fluid and shapeless mass, passes in succession through the several structures that consti- tute the permanent and perfect brains of fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammalia. At an early period of its formation the brain of the human embiyo is temporarily precisely what the brain of fishes is permanently; in another stage it becomes that of the reptile; then that of the bird, and ultimately that of mammalia. So tlefinite and regular is the transition of the human brain through these successive phases, that an anatomist, by examining the brain of one of the lower classes of mammalia, or other vertebral animal, can determine pre- cisely to what exact period of the foetal human cerebrum it cor- responds. But ultimately the human cerebrum passes beyond all these stnictm-es, and acquires an enormous development, not, as has been shown, of eveiy part of it, but of the cerebral lobes and convolutions. In the fii'st month of foetal life, the rudiment of the anterior lobe appears: quite towards the end of the third month the middle lobe makes its appearance. At this period the optic thalami, and after them the corpora quadrugemina, appear. It is not until the fifth month that the posterior lobe is added; but from this period this lobe together with the anterior and middle lobes, rapidly advance to com- pletion. These anatomical facts clearly point to the conclusion that