PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 150 ing to the right, and two to the left hmg. Each lobe is siilxlivided into inniinierahle smaller parts termed lobulas, while the lobules suc- cessively diminish in size until they terminate in minute vesicles that constitute the great bulk of the organ. The complete centraHzation of the respiratory function which takes place, renders the apparatus exceedingly complex both on account of the expedients which are necessary to obtain the requisite extent of surface, in the small allotted space, and to bring into contact within that space the fluids that are to act on each other. The apparatus consists of a vessel to carry the air to the blood; a vessel to carry the blood to the air; an organ in which the air and the blood meet; and an organization by which both fluids are put in motion. The vessel that carries the air to the blood is the windpipe (Fig. 77, 1, 2); the vessel that carries the blood to the air is the Fio View of tlie air tubes anil lung. 1, the larvn.x ; 2, tracliea ; .3, right iM onchus ; 4, left bron- chus ; 5, left lung; the fissures denoted by the two lines whicli meet at 6, dividing it into three lobes, and the smaller lines on its surface marking the divi.siou of the lobes into lobules ; 7. large bronchial tubes ; 8, minute bronchial tubes terminating in the air cells or vesicles. pulmonary artery (Fig. 71); the organ in which the blood and the air meet is the lung ; the organisation which puts the air in motion is the structure of bones, cartilage, and muscles, called the thorax (Fig. il), and the engine that commmiicates motion to the blood is the right ventricle of the heart (Fig. 70). The windpipe is a tube which extends from the mouth and nostrils to the lung (Fig. 77, 2). It is attached to the back part of the tongue, and passes down the neck immediately before the cesophao-us or the tube which leads to the stomach. ^ In the difi'erent parts of its course the windpipe is difterently con- structed, performs different ofiices, and receives different names accord- ing to the diversity of its structure and function. The first division of