rillLOROPHY OF HEALTH. 302 blood; and tlio blood of the fish is rapidly fatal to all the mammalia as well as to birds. It is manifest, both from ol;ser\'ation and experiment, that arterial blood is far more necessary to the support of the animal than of the orf^anic life. When in asphyxia the communication of atmos23lieric air with the lungs is suspended, the functions of the brain are abo- lished ; sensibility and voluntary motion are lost the moment venous blood circulates in the arteries of the brain. It has been shown, that if this state continue, the animal life is destroyed in a minute and a half; but that the organic life is not extinguished for many minutes, and sometimes not even for several hours. It sometimes happens that the communication between the pulmo- naiy arteiy and the aorta, and between the right and left auricle, which naturally exists in the fostus, is continued after birth. In persons having this state of the circulation, called ceruleans, some portion of venous blood is always mixed with arterial blood. In this case the various processes of secretion and nutrition, the entire circle of organic functions, are but little disturbed; while the animal functions are deranged in a remarkable degree. The mind is weak and inactive, and the muscular power is so feeble, that the least exertion produces a sense of suffocation ; and, if the muscular effort be continued, occasions fainting, and even suspei;dcd animation. But while venous blood is in no case capable of supporting sensation and voluntary motion, there are decided cases in which secretion is effected, at least in part, from venous blood, as the bile from the venous blood that circulates through the liver in man and all the mammalia, and the urine which is formed from venous blood in some of the lower orders of animals. The proper nutritive fluid of the human body is directly formed from chyle, lymph, and venous blood; that is, partly from new matter introduced into the system from the external world, and partly from matter which has already formed a constituent part of the body. The new matter, the white chyle, is prepared partly by the action of the digestive fluids upon the food, and partly by the addition to the digested food of highly animalised substances, endowed with assimi- lative properties, by which the product is progressively approximated to the chemical composition of the blood. The old matter consists partly of the clear lymph, contained in the lymph-vessels, and derived from the interior of the organised parts, particles which have already foraied an integrant portion of the tissues and organs; and partly of the dark venous blood, the residue of the proper nutritive fluid, after the latter has yielded to the system the new matter required by it, and has given off from the system its superfluous and noxious particles. In the duodenum and jejunum the new matter, the chyle, contains