66 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. the fibre is develoijecl. Fibres, uiihke the sarcous granules of which they are composed, vary much in bulk. The smallest fibres to which a mass can be reduced take the name of primitive or elemeritary fibres. These primitive or elementary fibres are in general large enough to be visible'to the naked eye; but, as just stated, they differ considerably m size in the difierent classes of animals, and even in different jmrts of the same animal. They are smallest in birds, and largest in fishes, in some tribes of which, as in the skate, they are of the size of a small pin. In mamniaha they are of an intermediate size, between that of birds and fishes. They are larger in man than ui any other class of mammalia. Theii' average width m the human subject is about the ^-pth of an inch ; in the male ^;5oth, in the female 45otii- In the human female their average diameter is upwards of one-fourth less than in the male. The absolute size of the fibres appears to be much more intimately connected with the endm'auce of their irritability than wdth theii" direct power. Thus they are largest where their irritability is most enduring, as in Crustacea, fishes, and rej)tiles ; and smallest where it is most evanescent, as in birds. In very minute and simple beings one single fibre, enclosed in its sarcolemma, may perha])s constitute an entire organ; but in general this is not the case. In all the higher classes the primitive fibres are aggregated into masses. They are packed in sets, often containing ten, twenty, thirty, or more. These are united into larger sets, and these again into still larger, mitil, in muscles of great magnitude, the entire muscle is composed of thousands, and even hmidreds of thou- sands of individual fibres. These packets are placed close and parallel to each other. Such is the arrangement of the elementary fibres in the complex mass that forms the basis of a muscle ; but in order to complete the composition of a muscle other tissues are superadded to the elementaiy fibres, either for their nutrition, for their mechanical connection and support, or for theii' more easy and efi'ective action. The superadded tissues are the areolar tissue, the white fibrous tissue, and blood- vessels, nerves, and absorbents. The organ termed a muscle is the result of all these parts united together. It is by these secondary, or superadded tissues that the complete organ is rendered sufficiently firm and cohesive for the performance of its office, notwithstanding that its active and essential part consists of a soft and tender pulp. SUPERADDED TISSUES. Areolar tissue.—A fine areolar tissue is freely distributed to the fibres, both of the striped and the unstriped variety, but by much the