PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 262 brane becomes a most important agent in carrying on the digestive process. But perhaps the most remarkable property possessed by membrane is that of estabhshing in fluids in contact mth its surfaces currents thi-ough its parietes, which proceed in opposite directions, according to the ditierent natures of the fluids, and more especially according to their different densities. If small bladders composed of membrane are filled with a fluid of greater density than water, and securely fastened, and then thrown into water, they acquire weight and become swollen and tense. If the experknent be reversed; if the bladders be filled with water and immersed in a denser fluid, the denser fluid flows inwards to the water, and the water passes from the interior outwards. M. Dutrochet, who was led by accident to the observation of these phenomena, and who saw at once the possible importance of this agency ia some organic processes hitherto involved in great obsciuity, commenced an extended series of experiments with a view to ascertain the exact facts. He took the CEeca of fowls, membranous bags already made to his hand, into which he introduced a quantity of fluid consist- ing of milk, thin syrup, or gum-arabic dissolved in water. Having securely tied the membranes, he placed the bags thus filled in water, and found that two opposite currents are established through the walls of the caeca. The first and strongest current, that fi.-om without inwards, is formed by the flow of the external water towards the thicker fluid contained in the caeca; the second and weaker current, that from within outwards, is formed by the flow of the thicker interior fluid towards the external water. The first or the in-going current is termed endosmose, from evSov, intus, and (oafjbo<;, impulsus, and the second or out-gomg current is termed exosmose, from a similar com- bination of Greek words signifying an impulse outwards. The velocity and strength of these currents are capable of exact admeasurement. The amount of endosmose is measnred by an appa- ratus termed an endosmometer, which consists of a small bottle, the bottom of which is taken out and the apertm-e closed by a piece of bladder. Into this bottle is poured some dense fluid ; the neck of the bottle is closed with a cork, through which a glass tube, fixed upon a graduated scale, is passed. The bottle is then placed in pure water. The water by endosmose penetrates the bottle in various quantities according to the density of the fluid contained in its interior throu"-h the membrane closing its bottom. The dense fluid in the bottle, in- creased in quantity by the addition of the water, rises in the tube fitted to its neck, and the velocity of its ascent is the measure of the velocity of the endosmose. The strength of endosmose is measured by a similar apparatus, in which a tube is twice bent upon itself, and the ascending branch con-