123 I'lIAMBKUS OF THE liKART. to tlie blood is termed a ventricle (Fig. 70, 4, ll), and is connected with a vessel termed an artery (Fig. 70, 7, 12). The vein carries blood to the anricle; the auricle transmits it to the ventricle; the ventricle propels it into the artery; the artery, carrying it out from the ventricle, ultimately sends it again into the vein, the vein returns it to the auricle, the auricle to the ventricle, the ventricle to the artery, and thus the blood is constantly moving in a circle hence the name of the process, the circulation of the blood. In nourislnng the tissues and stimulating the organs, the blood parts with its nutritive and stimulating constituents, and receives in return some ingredients \\hicli can no longer be usefully employed in the economy, and others which arc positively injurious. An apparatus is established for its renovation and depuration ; this organ is termed the lung (Fig. 47), and to this organ the blood must in like manner be conveyed. Thus the blood moves in a double circle, one from the heart to the body and from the body back to the heart, termed the systemic circle; the other from the heart to the lung and from the Imig back to the heart, termed the pulmonic circle. Hence in the human body the heart is double, consisting of two correspondmg parts the same in name, in nature, and in office; the one appropriated to the greater, or the systemic, and the other to the lesser, or the j)ul- monic circulation (Fig. 70). There is a complete separation between these two portions of the heart formed by a strong muscular partition which prevents any com- munication between them except through the mediimi of vessels. The heart is situated between the two lungs in the lower and fore- part of the chest, nearly in the centre, but inclining a little to the left side. Its position is obhque (Fig. 47). Its basis is directed upwards, backwards, and towards the right; its apex is directed do^\-n- wards, forwards, and towards the left, opposite to the interval between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs (Fig. 47). It is enclosed in a bag termed the pericardium (Fig. 48), which consists of serous membrane. The pericardium is considerably larger than the heart, allowmg abundant space for the action of the organ. One part of the pericardium forms a bag around the heart (Fig. 48) ; the other part is reflected upon the heart, so as to form its external covering, and is contmued for a considerable distance upon the great vessels that go to and fi'om the heart in such a manner that this bag, like all the serous membranes, constitutes a shut sac. Both that portion of the pericar- dium which is reflected upon the heart, and that which forms the internal surface of the bag around it, is moistened during life by a serous fluid. That portion of the pericardium wliich rests on the diaphragm is so firmly attached to it that it cannot be separated with- out laceration, and by this attachment, together with the great vessels