PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 134 regular succession. The interval between these alternate movements is, however, exceedingly short, and can scarcely be perceived when the heart is acting with full vigour ; but it is evident when its action is somewhat languid. When the ventricles contract, the apex of the heart is drawn upwards, and at the same time raised or tilted forwards. It is during this systole of the ventricles, and in consequence of this result of their action, that the apex of the heart gives that impulse against the walls of the chest which is felt in the natural state between the fifth and sixth ribs, and which just perceptibly precedes the pulse at the wrist. When the ear is appHed to the human chest, over the situation of the heart, a dull and somewhat prolonged sound is heard, which precedes and accompanies the impulse of the heart against the chest. This dull sound is immediately succeeded by a shorter and sharper sound: after this there is a short pause ; and then the dull sound and impulse are again renewed. The duller sound and stronger impulse are ascribed to the contraction of the ventricles, and the sharper sound and feebler impulse to that of the auricles. The movement of the heart is effected by the contraction of its muscular fibres. Those fibres rest, as upon a firm support, on the tendinous matter to which they are attached, from wliich they diverge, and towards which their contraction must necessarily bring all the parts of the heart. The result of their contraction is the powerful compression of all the chambers of the heart, and there- by the forcible ejection of their contents through the natural open- ings. But the chambers, alternately with forcible contraction, perform the action of forcible dilatation. This movement of dilatation is effected by the reaction of the elasticity of the tendinous matter on which the muscular fibres are supported. This highly elastic substance, by the contraction of the fibres, is brought into a state of extreme tension. The contraction of the fibres ceasing, that moment the tense tendon recoils with a force exactly proportionate to the degree of tension into which it had been brought. Thus the very agent that is employed forcibly to close the chamber, is made the main instrument of securing its instantaneous reopening. A vital energy is appointed to accomplish what is indispensable, and what nothing else can effect the origination of a motive power ; a physical agent is conjoined to perform the easier task to which it is competent; and the two powers, the vital and the physical, work in harmony, each acting- alternately, and each, with undeviating regularity and unfailing energy, fulfilling its appropriate office. When the chambers of the heart which open into each other