PROGRESS OF LIFE. 11 the mode in which he combined them, recalled them, laid them by for future use ; made his first general deduction; observed what subsequent experience taught to be conformable, and what not confonnable, to this general inference; his emotions on detecting his fii'st errors, and his contrasted feehngs on discovering those comprehensive] truths, the cer- tainty of which became confirmed by every subsequent impression. Thus to hve backwards would be, in fact, to go through the analysis of the intellectual combinations, and, consequently, to obtain a perfect insight into the constitution of the mind; and among the cmious results which would then become manifest, perhaps few would appear more surprising than the true action of the senses. The eye, when first impressed by Hght, does not perceive the objects that reflect it; the ear, when fii*st impressed by sound, does not distinguish the sonorous body. When the operation for cataract has been success- fully performed in a person born bhnd, the eye immediately becomes sensible to hght, but the impression of light does not immediately give information relative to the properties of bodies. It is gradually, not instantaneously; it is even by slow degrees that luminous objects are discerned with distinctness and accuracy. To see, to hear, to smell, to taste, to touch, are processes wliich appear to be performed in- stantaneously, and which actually are performed with astonishing rapidity in a person who observes them in himself; but they were not always performed thus rapidly: they are processes acquired, businesses learnt; processes and businesses acquired and learnt, not without the cost of many efforts and much labour. But the senses afford merely the materials for the intellectual operations of memory, com- bination, comparison, discrimination, induction, operations the progress of which is so slow, that they acquire precision, energy, and compre- hensiveness only after the culture of years. And the same is true of the muscles of volition. How many efforts are made before the power of distinct articulation is acquhed! how many before the infant can stand! how many before the child can walk! The organic life is bom perfect; the animal life becomes perfect only by servitude, and the aptitude which service gives. 6. The organic life may exist after the animal hfe has perished. The animal life is extinguished when sensation is aboHshed, and voluntary motion can be performed no more. But disease may abolish sensation and destroy the power of voluntary motion, while circulation, respiration, secretion, excretion, in a word, the enthe circle of the organic functions contmues to be performed. Apoplexy may reduce to fatuity the most exalted intellect, and render powerless and motion- less muscles of the gi'eatest strength ; while the action of the heart and the contractions of the involuntary muscles may not only not be weak- ened, but may act with preternatural energy. Apoplexy may even