PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 88 the second cervical vertebra, in its fore part, and extending tlie wliole length of the column to the sacrum, is a powerful ligament, composed of numerous distinct longitudinal filjres (Fig. 45), which are particu- larly expanded over the intervals between tlie bones occupied by the intervertebral substance. This hgament is termed the common anterior vertebral. Corresponding with the hgament on the anterior, is another on the posterior part of the spine, which takes its origin from the foramen magnum ; descends from thence, within the vertebral canal, on the posterior sm-face of the l)odies of the vertebrae, and extends to the sacrum. This ligament is termed the common ])osterior vertebral, which, besides addijig to the strength of the union of the bodies of the vertebrte, prevents the column itself I'rom being bent too much forward. Moreover, the bony arches of the vertebra) are connected by means of a substance partly ligamentous, and partly cartilaginous, which, while it is extremely elastic, is capable of resisting an extraorduiary degree of force. And in the last place, the articular processes form so many distinct joints, each being fm-nished vdth all the apparatus of a moveable joint, and thus possessing the ordinary provision for the articulation of bones, in addition to the whole of the foregoing securities, " In the most extensive motion of which the spinal column is capa- ble, that of flexion, the common anterior ligament is relaxed ; the fore part of the intervertebral substance is compressed, and its back part stretched; while the common posterior ligament is in a state of exten- sion. In the extension of the column the state of the ligaments is reversed; those which were extended being in then- turn relaxed, while the common anterior vertebral is now put upon the stretch. In the lateral inclination of the column, the intervertebral substance is com- pressed on that side to which the body is bent. In the rotarij motion of the column, which is very limited in all the vertebra?, but more particularly in the dorsal, in consequence of theu' attachment to the ribs, the intervertebral substance is contorted, as are hkewise all the ligaments. All the motions of the column are capable of being aided to a great extent by the motion of the pelvis upon the thighs." " The number and breadth of the attachments of these bones," says an accomplished anatomist and sm-geon,* " their firm union by liga- ment, the strength of their muscles, the very inconsiderable degree of motion which exists between any two of them, and, lastly, the obliquity of their articular processes, especially in the dorsal and lumbar ver- tebrae, render dislocation of them, at least ia those regions, impossible without fracture; and I much doubt whether dislocation even of the cervical vertebra? ever occurs without fracture, either through their * " Treatise on Ligaments.'" By Bransby B. Cooper, Esq.