248 CHAPTEK XV. OF SECRETION. Nature of the function—Why involved in obscurity—Basis of the apparatus consists uf membrane—Arrangement of membrane into elementary secreting bodies—Cr3'pta3 follicles, cajca and tubuli—Primary combinations of elementary bodies to form com- pound organs—Relation of the primary secreting organs to the blood-vessels and nerves—Glands, simjile and compound—Their structure and office—Development of glands from their simplest form in the lowest animals to their most complex form in the highest animals —Development in the embryo—Number and distribution of the secreting organs—How secreting organs act upon the blood—Degree in which the products of secretion agree with, and dilier from, the blood—Modes in which moditi- cations of the secreting apparatus influence the products of secretion—Vital agent by which the function is controlled—Physical agent by which it is etfected. Seceetion is the function by which a substance, gaseous, liquid, or sohd, is separated or formed from the nutritive fluid. It is a function as necessary to the plant as to the animal, and indispensable alike to the life of both. It is of equal imjDortance to the preservation of the individual and to the perpetuation of the species. In all living beings secretions are separated from the nutritive fluid, and added to the aliment to assist in converting it into nutriment, and are separated from the nutriment to maintain the composition of the nutritive mass in a state fit for the continued performance of the act of nutrition, and to form the germ on the development of which the continuance of the species depends. The secretions of the plant, varied and abundant, are indispensable to its nourishment, growth, and fructification. The secretions of the animal, more diversified, and far more constantly performed, increase in number and elaborateness in proportion to the range and intensity of the vital endowments and actions. In all animals high in the scale of organisation, and especially in man, the products of secretion are exceedingly complex in nature; some are specially produced, in order to perform a definite purpose in the economy; whilst some substances are separated from the mass, and carried out of the system ■on account of their uselessness or their noxious properties: all are derived from the nutritive fluid, the blood, and are formed from it by the process of secretion. In this function are included the most secret and subtle processes of the vital economy,—the ultimate actions of the organic life. Of the real nature of those actions nothing definite is known; and they are modified by agencies over which the art and skill of the experi- mentalist can exert no adequate control. It is not wonderful therefore