PHILOSOPHY OF HEA.LTH. 2 liquid, or solid; but in every organised being there is an intermixtm-e of solids and fluids; and so intimate is their union that there is no organic fluid which does not hold solid matter in solution, and no solid that does not contain fluid; while each readily passes from one into the other. In passing from a hquid to a solid state, few organic fluids assume a crystalline stracture. Inorganic compounds m becoming solid com- monly take a ciystalline form; but in organised beings this is extremely rare; and there are special provisions for preventing it. Extensive crystallization would be incompatible with the processes of life. Nor is there any living being whose form is geometrically regular, like a crystal. There is no known living form whose faces are plane faces. They are all more or less curved and irregular. Living beings increase in bulk by a peculiar process, termed growth; in which extraneous matter is taken into the body, and converted into the true and proper substance of the creature that absorbs it. In a growing body all its parts enlarge proportionally and relatively. The root, stem, and branch; the bone, muscle, and nerve, all acquire ad- ditional size in fixed and appropriate relation to each other, and to the whole. And the process stops at a definite point. After a certain size is attained no further enlargement of the body takes place—all which circumstances present a marked contrast to the mode in which inorganic substances increase in bulk; which is simply by the apposi- tion of particle to particle, to the extent of which there is commonly no defmite limit. Organised beings are in a state of perpetual motion and mutation: inorganic bodies, some great geographical phenomena excepted, are in a state of rest. When once the elements composing a crystal are combined, they remain, often for ages, in a state of perfect quiescence. Disturbance of that state of rest, new motions set up among its com- ponent particles, involves its destruction. On the contraiy, the con- stituent particles of organised beings are always in motion, always undergoing decomposition and re-combination, and when these trans- formations stop, life is at an end. Life and change are one. The peculiar mode in which these incessant motions are excited and maintained in a living creature is equally distinctive of it. Air, water, heat, light, electricity, food, excite and mamtain definite actions. The exciting bodies are called stimulants, and the actions they pro- duce, since they take place only in organised and living structures, are called vital. Without the structure, without the stimulus, there is no action: both must combine and co-operate. Life consists of vital actions, sustained in organised structures by the excitement of stimu- lants.