PHILOSOPHY OK HEALTH. 222 same manner, either in large pieces or finely divided, the same gentle contraction and grasping motions were excited, and continued from fifty to eighty seconds, so as to prevent more from being introduced, without considerable force, till the contraction was at an end. When the position of the Ijody was such that the cardiac portion of the stomach was brought into view, and a morsel of food was swal- lowed in the natural mode, a similar contraction of the stomach, and closing of its fibres upon the bolus was invariably observed to take place; and till this was over, a second morsel could not be received without a considerable effort. Hence, in addition to the other pur- poses accomplished by mastication, insalivation, and deglutition, it is probable that these operations answer the furtlier use of duly regulat- ing the time for the admission of successive portions of the food into the stomach* On watching the phenomena that take jjlace on the contact of a portion of food with the stomach, the cij;cumstances described are seen ; the change in the mucous coat from a pale-pink to a deep-red colour, in consequence of the enlargement of the bipod-vessels and their ad- mission of a greatly increased number of red particles ; the undulating motion of the stomach, in consequence of the contraction of its muscular fibres, excited by the stimulus of food; the distillation of the gastric juice from the enlarged and excited papillae; the continuous flow of this fluid until the complete solution of the food, when food is present; and, on the contrary, the cessation of this discharge in a short time when it is produced by a mechanical irritant, as the bulb of a thermo- meter, although at first the gastric juice distil from the papillae, from the contact of such an irritant, just as when excited by the contact of food. On collecting the gastric juice and placing it in contact with an alimentary substance out of the stomach, its solution takes place more slowly, but not less comj)letely, than when retained in the stomach. An ounce of this fluid was placed in a vial with a piece of Ijoiled, recently salted beef, weighing three drachms; the vial was then tightly corked, and immersed in water, raised to the temperature of 100°, previously ascertained to be the ordinary heat of the stomach. In forty minutes the process of solution had commenced on the surface of the beef. In fifty mmutes the textiu'e of the beef began to loosen and separate. In sixty minutes an opaque and cloudy fluid was formed. In one hour and a half the muscular fibres hung loose and uncon- nected, and floated about in shreds in the more fluid matter. In three hours the muscular fibres had diminished about one half. In five hours * Sec Dr. Andrew Combe .011 tlic "Physiology of Digestion," in whose work a full detiiil of iliis instnictive case is given. See also " Mayo's Outlines of Phv- .siology."