STRUCTURE, OFFICE, AND DEVELOPMENT OF GLANDS. 251 follicles: in the fish the pancreas is composed of simple branched follicles: in the bird, the salivary glands are composed of simple parallel tulmh; and in the cetacea the breasts are composed of simple branched tubuli. But the microscope, by bringing the snccessive development of the compound gland in the embryo of the higher animal nnder the cogni- zance of sense, perfectly discloses the nature of its composition. In the development of the incubated egg eveiy step of the progressive formation of the compound gland is rendered visible to the eye. When this process is carefully watchal, it is seen that the part of the gland first formed is the excretory duct, which springs from the blas- tema, the common mass of matter out of which all the organs are formed. From this duct the elementary parts of the gland bud just as bunches of grapes bud from the stalk. The buds, at first at consider- able distances from each other, approach nearer as they increase by new growths, until at length they come into actual contact. The growth continuing, and the compactness of the substance of the gland proportionally increasing, the primitive form of the elementary bodies which compose it is ultimately lost. The substance of the gland now appears to consist of compact solid matter, w^hicli is commonly termed pai'enchyma. The component particles of this parenchymatous and apparently solid substance present a clustered or grape-like appearance, from which they early obtained the name of acini, from the Latin word acinus, a beny. In its embrj^o state the compound gland of the highest animal con- sists of mere excretoiy ducts, wonderfully similar to the simple secret- ing bodies of the lowest classes. But in the higher animal this simple form of the gland is transient: gradually, with the progressive evolu- tion of the embryo, it passes into a more complex structure; while in the lower animal the simple form of the gland remains permanently the same through the whole teim of life. Such are the main points which have been ascertained relative to the structure of the secreting apparatus, which enters in one or other of its forms, as a constituent element, into almost every part of the animal body. How immense the number of these organs in the hmnan body! Every point in the interior of the walls that bound the great cavities is a secreting surface. Every point of the secreting siu'face that lines the ahmentary canal, from its commencement to its termination, is studded with distinct secreting organs. Every point of the skin is still more thickly studded with distinct secreting organs. By the naked eye, and still more distinctly with a lens, may be seen the pores through which the vapour that constitutes the insensible perspiration incessantly exudes. Next are the open mouths of myriads of sebaceous follicles that pour out upon the skin the oily matter wliich