PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 316 to simultaneous and combined contractions, by which the requii'ed motions are produced. A ray of light falls upon the peripheral expansion of the optic nerve, the retina. The ray of light is a stimulus, which, being trans- mitted by the sensory fibres to the brain, produces a change in its state of consciousness; produces, that is, an impression, and this is followed by a perception, in this case a perception of light. I press the point of my finger on the table. The sensory fibres of the skin, receiving this mechanical stimulus, transmit it to the brain, where it produces another impression, which is followed by a new perception, that of touch. The different kinds and action of stimuli will be considered here- after, when we treat of the properties of nerves. What has now been stated may suffice to convey a conception of the properties and powers inherent in nervous matter in general. But this matter is built up into structures, more or less complex, forming organs, or a series of organs combined into an apparatus. The simplest of these organs is a nerve, the structure and functions of which are next to be stated. CHAPTEE XX. STRUCTUKE OF NERVES. Constituents of nerves—Structure of compound fibres—Primitive fibres—Disposition and relation of fibres to each other—Origin and termination of fibres—How fibres possessing difierent properties are bound up in the same trunk—Ultimate termina- tion of fibres, A NERVE is a cord-like substance connected by one extremity with a nervous centre, and by the other with an organ or tissue. To the naked eye it is seen to consist of a nimiber of fibres enveloped in a common membranous sheath. When examined fui'ther by the microscope it is found that each of the coarse fibres visible to the naked eye is in reahty composed of a multitude of extremely dehcate thi-eads, the primitive fibres, each consisting of soft, pulpy neurine, enclosed in a tube of membrane, called from its minuteness a tubule. The membrane that forms the tubule is termed neurilemma, from vevpov, nerve, and Xe/ji/xa, harh or tegiLment; nerve harh or tegument, because it encloses the nervous matter, as the bark encloses the trunk and branches of a tree. It is estimated that it is not more than the twenty-thousandth part of an