178 rHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. state of insensibility air be readmitted to tlie lungs, tbe dark colour of the blood rapidly changes to a bright scarlet, and instantly sensation and consciousness return. But if, on the contrary, the exclusion of the air be continued for the space of three minutes from the first closing of the trachea, the animal not only remains to all appearance dead, but in general no means are capable of recovering him from the state of insensibility; and if the exclusion of the air be protracted to four minutes, apparent passes into real death, and recovery is no longer possible. It follows that one of the conditions essential to the exercise of the function of the brain is, that this organ receive a due supply of arterial blood. The second use of the function of respiration is to afford blood capable of maintaining the muscles in a condition fit for the perform- ance of their peculiar office, that of contractility. The closm-e of the trachea not only abolishes sensation, but the power of voluntary motion : sensation and motion are lost at once: on the readmission of air to tlie lungs, both functions are regained at once : it follows that the process of respiration is as essential to the action of the muscle as to that of the brain. " By arterial blood," says Young, " the muscles are furnished with a store of that unknown principle by which they are rendered capable of contracting." " The oxygen absorbed by the blood," says Spallanzani, " unites with the muscular fibres and endows them with their contractility." It is more correct to say, respiration takes carbon from the blood and gives it oxygen, and by this means endows the blood with the power of maintaining the contractility of the muscular fibre. But resphation is as essential to the action of the organs of tho organic life as to those of the animal. In a short time after the respi- ration ceases, the circulation stops. When the blood is no longer changed in the lungs, it soon loses all power of motion in the system ; because venous blood paralyses the muscular fibres of the heart as of the arm. When the left ventricle of the heart sfends out venous blood to the system, it propels it mto its own nutrient arteries, as well as into the other arteries of the body; into the coronary arteries, as well as into the other branches of the aorta. The heart loses its contractihty for the same reason as every muscle under the like privation; because venous instead of arterial blood flows in its nutrient arteries; and the circulation stops when the heart is no longer contractile, because the engine is destroyed that works the current. Venous blood consists of chyle, the nutritive fluid formed from the aliment; of lymph, a fluid composed of organic particles, which, having already formed an actual part of the solid structures of the body, are now returning to the lungs to receive a higher elaboration; and of blood which, having completed its circuit through the system.