209 POINT AT WHICH CONSCIOUSNESS CEASES. Close to the sense of taste is placed the seat of the kindred sense of smell. The business of both these senses is with tlie qualities of the food. Mastication at once brings out the qualities of the food, and puts the food in contact with the organs that are to take cognizance of it. Mastication, a rough operation, capable of bemg accomplished only by powerful instruments which act Avith force, is carried on in the very same spot with sensation, an exquisitely delicate operation, having its seat in soft and tender structures, with which the appro- priate objects are brought into contact only with the gentlest impulse. The agents of the coarse and the delicate, the forcible and the gentle operations are in close contact, yet they work together not only Avithout obstruction, but with the most perfect subserviency and co- operation. The movements of mastication are produced, and, until they have accomplished the objects of the operation, are repeated by successive acts of volition. To induce these acts, grateful sensations are excited by the contact of the food with the sentient nerves so liberally dis- tributed over almost the whole of the apparatus. To the provision thus made for the production of pleasurable sensation, is superadded the necessity of dhect and constant attention to the pleasure included in the gratification of the taste. It is justly observed by Dr. A. Combe, that without some degree of attention to the process of eating, and some distinct perception of its gi-atefulness, the food cannot be duly digested. When the mind is so absorbed as to be whoUv unconscious of it, or even indifferent to it, the food is swallowed without mastica- tion : then it lies in the stomach for hours together without being acted upon by the gastric juice, and if this be done often, the stomach becomes so much disordered as to lose its power of digestion, and death is the inevitable result: so that not only is pleasurable sensation an- nexed to the reception of food, but the direct and continuous conscious- ness of that pleasurable sensation during the act of eating is made one of the conditions of the due performance of the digestive function. With the operation of mastication and one part of the process of deglutition, immediately to be noticed, the agency of volition and sensa- tion cease. Beyond this the function of digestion is wholly an organic process. In addition to the reasons assigned why all the organic pro- cesses are placed alike beyond the cognizance of sense and the control of the will, there is this special reason why, in the function of diges- tion, they cease at the exact boundary assigned them. Every time the act of deglutition is performed, the openings to the windpipe and to the nose are closed, so that during this operation all access of air to the lungs is stopped ; consequently it is necessary that the passage of the food through the pharynx should be rapid. Masti- cation, a voluntary process, n\ay be performed slowly oi- lapidly, per-