187 RESPIRATION AND COMBUSTION. These facts sufficiently show the depeudeuce of the faculty of gene- ratmg heat and of producing cold on the powers of life. But the processes by which, under the agency and control of the vital powers, these different results are effected, are various, and even opposite. The power of generating heat is connected in the closest manner with the function of respiration, and is directly dependent upon it. The evidence of this is indubitable. For— 1. Respiration is combustion, and, like ordinary combustion, is attended with the production of heat. In ordinary combustion oxygen disappears, and a new compound is formed, consisting of oxygen combined with the combustible matter; that is, an oxidized body is generated. On burning a piece of iron wire in oxygen, the oxygen disappears, and the iron increases in weight. The oxygen combines with the iron, forming a new product, oxide of iron, and the weight of this new substance is found on examination to be exactly equal to the weight of the wire origLaally employed, added to the quantity of oxygen which has disappeared. It is precisely the same in respiration. In this process oxygen combines with combustible matter, carbon : the oxygen disaj^pears, and a new body, carbonic acid, is generated. 2. One phenomenon which invariably accompanies the combination of oxygen with combustible matter is the extrication of heat. When- ever a substance passes from a rarer into a denser state; when, for example, a gas is converted into a liquid or solid, or when a liquid solidifies, heat is evolved; because, according to the ordinary theory of combustion, the denser substance has a less capacity for caloric than the rarer, and consequently in passing from a rare into a dense state, a quantity of caloric previously combined or latent within it is set free. The combined or latent caloric contained in a body is termed its specific caloric ; the caloric which is evolved on its change of state is named free or sensible caloric. The combination of oxygen with carbon, as in the combination of oxygen with combustible matter in every other instance, must be attended with the evolution of heat. Though the product of the com- bustion, in the present case, be a gaseous body, carbonic acid, still, according to the ordinary theory of combustion, carbonic acid has less specific caloric, or less capacity for caloric than oxygen ; and therefore in combining with carbon, a portion of its specific caloric becomes free or sensible, that is, heat is evolved. But whatever theoiy of combus- tion be adopted, the fact is certain, that whenever oxygen combines with carbon to form carbonic acid, heat is evolved; not only in the rapid union which takes place in ordinary combustion, but also in the slow combination which occurs in fermentation, putrefaction, and germina- tion : in the latter of which processes, as in the malting of barley, the