THE HEART NEVER FATIGUED; ITS VITAL FORCE. 137 the heart, different portions of it must finish their circle at very different periods, depending in part upon the length of the course which they have to go, and in part upon the degree of resistance that obstructs their passage. A part of the stream, it is obvious, finishes its corn-so in circulating through the heart itself; another portion takes a longer circuit through the chest; another extends the circle round the head ; and another visits the part placed at the remotest distance from the central moving power. Such is the velocity with which the current sometimes goes, that, in the hoi"se, a fluid injected into the great vein of the neck, on one side, has been detected in the vein on the opposite side, and even in the vein of the foot, -snthin half a minute. It has been shown that the different chambers of the heart have a tendency to perform their movements in a miiform manner, and in a successive order; that they contract and dilate in regular alternation, and at equal intervals ; but, moreover, they continue these movements equally without rest and without fatigue. On go the motions, night and day, for eighty years together, at the rate of a hundred thousand strokes every twenty-fom- hours, alike without disorder, cessation, or weariness. The muscles of the arm tire after an hour's exertion, are exhausted after a day's labour, and can by no effort be made to work beyond a certain period. There is no appreciable difference between the muscular substance of the heart and that of the arm. It is true that the heart is placed under one condition which is peculiar. Muscles contract on the application of stimuli; and different muscles are obedient to different stimuli,—the voluntary muscles to the stimulus of volition, and the heart to that of the blood. The exertion of volition is not constant, but occasional; the muscle acts only when it is excited by the application of its stimulus: hence the voluntary muscle has considerable intervals of rest. The blood, on the contrary, is conveyed to the heart without ceasing, in a determinate manner, in a successive «rder ; and this is the reason why through life its action is uniform: it uniformly receives a due supply of its appropriate stimulus. But why it is unwearied, why it never requires rest, we do not know. We know the necessities of the system which render it indispensable that it should be capable of untiring action, for we know that the fu'st hour of its repose would be the last of life ; but of the mode in which this wonderful endoAvment is communicated, or of the relations upon which it is dependent, wo are wholly ignorant. The force exerted by the heart is vital. In the best-constructed machineiy there is no real generation of power. There is merely concentration and direction of it. In the recoil of the spring, in the reaction of condensed steam, the energy of the expansive impulse is