PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 344 system in general, and of the spinal cord in particular, is mainly founded. The plan on which the animal body is constructed is that of binding up different structures, performing widely different offices in one com- mon mass. It is impossible to arrive at a knowledge of any distinct function without separating such a mass into its several constituents, and examining each apart from the rest. The difficulty of doing this constitutes the main obstacle to the advancement of physiology. When this isolation has been successfully accomplished in any in- stance, a single well-considered, well-devised experiment is sometimes sufficient to obtain a decisive answer to the interrogation. Such an answer has been obtained to several highly important questions relative to the functions of the spinal cord. If the brain be entirely removed from the body, an animal retains the power of producing definite and combined muscular movements when the external surface of the skin is touched. If the spinal cord be destroyed this power instantly ceases. It is concluded, therefore, that this power resides in the spinal cord. When the spinal cord is divided, the influence of the brain below the section is wholly cut off, because the cerebral fibres are severed; while the spinal cord below the division and the spinal fibres attached to it remain entire. In every instance of this kind the functions of the brain are annihilated, but those of the spinal cord remain unim- paired ; no indication of sensation or voluntary motion can be elicited, but irritation of the skin excites decided and often violent contraction of the voluntary muscles. Individual segments of the cord are endowed wdth the same power. If the cord be cut through in the neck,»or in the back, irritation of the skin in either part produces convulsive action in the muscles of that part alone. Paralysis of the lower part of the body instantly follows a division of the lower part of the cord; but if the skin covering the heel of a leg thus paralysed be irritated, the toes are extended, the heel is raised, and both legs are moved. In parts capable of this combined action, so completely is all sensibility lost, that the legs may be cut off, without the animal attempting the least motion, or indicating by any other means the shghtest degree of sensation. The same results are obtained if the head be removed from the body. A horse received a violent blow on the fore-part of the head immediately over the anterior lobes of the brain; it instantly fell, and lay perfectly motionless. After a short time it began to breathe, and continued to breathe freely by the diaphragm. When lacerated on the face, or pinched in any other part of the surface of the body, it remained totally motionless, manifesting no indication of sensation'or