21G FHILOSOl'HY OF HEALTH. system. Gratification of appetite is a secondary and subordinate office of the stomach, and its sentient nerves enable it to produce the state of pleasurable consciousness when its organic function is duly per- formed. By the double office thus assigned it, the stomach is rendered what Mr. Hunter named it, the centre of sympathies. From the whole length of the great arch of the stomach, and partly also from the commencement of the duodenum (Fig. 89), the peritoneal coat of the stomach is produced, forming a thin, delicate membranous bag, called the omentum, or cawl (Fig. 89, 7). The omentum extends from the great arch of the stomach to below the umbilicus, and completely covers a large portion of the anterior surface of the abdominal viscera (Fig. 89, 7). Between the two fine mem- branous layers of which it is composed is contained a quantity of fat, of which substance it serves as a reservoir. Soon after the food has entered the stomach a remarkable change takes place in the mucous membrane of the stomach. The blood- vessels become loaded with blood; the minute cells between the rugae overflow with fluid. This fluid is the gastric juice, which is secreted by the arterial capillaries now turgid with blood. The abundance of the secretion, which progressively increases as the digestion advances, is in proportion to the indigestibility of the food, and the quietude of the body after the repast. In the food itself no change is manifest for some time; but at length that portion of it which is in immediate contact with the surface of the stomach begins to be slightly softened. This softening slowly but progressively increases until the texture of the food, what- ever it may have been, is gradually lost; and ultimately most of the solid portions of it dissolved. When a portion of food thus acted on is examined, it presents the appearance of having been corroded by a chemical agent. The white of a hard-boiled egg looks exactly as if it had been plunged in vinegar or in a solution of potass. The softened layer, as soon as the soften- ing is sufficiently advanced, is, by the action of the muscular coat of the stomach, detached, carried towards the pylorus, and ulti- mately transmitted to the duodenum; then another portion of the harder and undigested food is brought into immediate contact with the stomach, becomes softened in its turn, and is in like manrer detached ; and this process goes on until the whole is dissolved. The solvent power exerted by the gastric juice is most apparent when the stomach of an animtil is examined three or four hours after food has been freely taken. At this period the portion of the food first in contact with the stomach is wholly dissolved and detached • the portion subsequently brought into contact with the stomach is in the process of solution, while tlic central part remains very little chano-ed.