nilLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 270 lunar form, and are com})Osed of a fold of the inner coat of tlie vessel. The convex side of the valve, in the lacteals, is towards the intestines; in the lymphatics towards the surfaces; in both towards the origins of the vessels. The valves allow the contents of the vessels to j^ass freely towards the main trunk of the system, but prevent any retro- grade motion towards the origins of the vessels. By continued pressure the resistance of the valves may be over- come, so that mercury may be made to pass from the trunk into the branches. When this is done in an absorbent trunk proceeding from certain organs, such as the liver, it is seen that the absorbents are distributed, arborescently, in such vast numbers that the surface of the viscus appears as if it were covered with a reticular sheet of quicksilver. The internal coat of the small intestines has been sho\vn to present a fleecy surface, crowded with minute elevations called villi, which give this surface an appearance closely resembHng the pile of velvet. Each villus consists of an artery, a vein, a nerve, and a lacteal, united and sustained by delicate cellular tissue. After a meal the lacteals become so turgid with chyle that they completelj^ conceal the blood-vessels and nerves, so that the surface of the intestine presents to the eye only a white mass, or a surface thickly crowded with white spots. These lacteals commence in the villi and pass up through the mesentery into the thoracic duct. In the human body every vessel that can be distinctly recognised either as a lacteal or a lymphatic, passes, in some part of its course, through a conglobate or lymphatic gland (Fig. 91). These glands, small, flattened, circular or oval bodies, resembling beans in shape, are enclosed in a distinct membranous envelope. Their intimate structure has been already fully described. They are of various sizes, ranging from three to ten lines in diameter: they are placed in deter- minate parts of the body, and are grouped together in various ways, being sometimes single, but more often collected in masses of con- siderable magnitude. Numerous absorbent vessels, termed vasa in- ferentia, enter the gland on the side remote from the heart; a smaller number, called vasa efierentia, leave it on the side proximate to the heart. If mercury be injected into the vasa inferentia, it is seen to pass into a series of cells of the corresponding gland, and then to escape by the vasa efierentia; but if the gland be more minutely injected, as by wax, all appearance of cells vanishes; the whole sub- stance of the gland seems then to consist of convoluted absorbents, irregularly dilated, and communicating with each other so intimately that every branch that leaves the gland appears to have been put in communication with every branch that entered it. The motion of the fluid within the absorbent vessels, though not