PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. .140 Mr. Grainger, who was the first to estabhsh this anatomical fact, and whoso dissections have removed the doubts which pre"\^onsly existed on the subject, the course of the nerve roots to their termination in the white and grey matter is this. As soon as the two roots have perforated the Theca VertebraHs, and have thus reached the surftice of the cord, the fibres of each root separate from each other; some of the diverging threads curve upwards, and proceed in a continuous com-se to the brain, along with the columns of the cord, while another set take an opposite course, and proceed transversely through the cord, until they reach the grey matter in which they are lost. It is only with extreme care that these most delicate filaments can be traced. As they proceed inwards they lose their rounded figure, become flattened, and before they are lost in the grey matter they appear merely as exceedingly delicate striae, several of which may be counted from a single root. When the string meet the grey matter, tliey become encrusted by it, in accordance with a general rule. The dissections and figures given by Mr. SoUy, from his own examinations, are in perfect accordance with the descriptions and drawings of Mr. Grainger. What the scalpel and the naked eye were thus able to demonstrate, the microscope has fully confii-med. Dr. Julius Budge, of Bonn, aiding his researches by this Ught to science, states that the filaments of each root, immediately they penetrate the cord, divide into two fasciculi, one superficial and the other deep seated. The superficial become for some distance twisted or curved, and then directly ascend in the white substance towards the brain. The deeper-seated take a trans- verse course through the substance of the cord, until they reach the grey matter, into which they plunge, and where they are lost. Mr. Solly states that Mr. Grainger and himself have together repeatedly and carefully followed Dr. Budge's dissections, and that they can both speak decidedly as to their accuracy. A further fact was noticed by Budge, and is confirmed by Grainger and Solly, to which an anatomist attaches much significance; that is, a particular disposition of the fibres of each nerve root, just as they are about to penetrate into the cord, consisting of an incurvation, or rather actual crossing, of the component fibres, preparatory to the division into the two bundles just described. This disposition is evi- dently of the same character, though not so marked, as that of the whole nerve itself when it divides into its anterior and posterior roots ; and it may, therefore, be justly inferred that as the latter division in- dicates a distinction of function, the former has the same significance The great German microscopist K5lliker, in his very elaborate account of the disposition of the nerve roots, agrees, with some modi- fications, with these views. "The anterior roots," he says "are