INTRODUCTION, xiv who engage in the undertaking, some degree of knowledge ; know- ledge of the physical and mental constitution of the individual to be influenced; knowledge of the mode, in which circumstances must be so modified in adaptation to the nature of the individual being, as to produce upon it, with uniformity and certainty, a given result. The theory of human society, according to its present institutions, supposes that this knowledge is possessed by the mother; and it supposes, further, that this adaptation will actually take place in the domestic cu'cle through her agency. Hence the presumed advantage of having the eye of the mother always upon the child; hence the apprehension of evil so general, I had almost said instinctive, whenever it is proposed to take the infant, for the purpose of systematic physical and mental discipline, from beyond the sphere of maternal influence. But society, which thus presumes that the mother will possess the power and the disposition to do this, what expedients has it devised to endow her with the former, and to secure the formation of the latter ? I appeal to every woman whose eye may rest on these pages. I ask of you, what has ever been done for you to enable you to understand the physical and mental constitution of that human natm'e, the care of which is imposed upon you ? In what part of the course of your education was instruction of this kind introduced ? Over how large a portion of your education did it extend ? Who were your teachers ? What have you profited by their lessons ? What progress have you made in the acquisition of the requisite information ? Were you at this moment to undertake the guidance of a new-born infant to health, know- ledge, goodness, and happiness, how would you set about the task ? How would you regulate the influence of external agents upon its delicate, tender, and highly-irritable organs, in such a manner as to obtain from them healthful stimulation, and avoid destructive excitement ? What natural and moral objects would you select as the best adapted to exercise and develop its opening faculties ? What feelings would you check, and what cherish ? How would you excite aims ? how would you apply motives ? How would you avail yourself of pleasm-e as a final end, or as the means to some fm-thcr end ? And how would you deal with the no less formidable instrument of jiain? What is your own physical, intellectual, and moral state, as specially fitting you for this ofiice ? What is the measure of your own self-control, without a large portion of which no human being ever yet exerted over the infant mind any considerable influence for good ? There is no philosopher, however profound his knowledge, no instructor, however varied and extended his experience, who would not enter upon this task with an apprehension proportioned to his knowledge and experience; but knowledge which men acquire only after years of study, habits