385 CO-ORDINATION OF MOVEMENTS. cessantly. Magendie states that he counted sixty of such revohitions in a minute, and has seen the revohitions continued for a week without intermission. These movements are not exactly convulsive, hut seem as if they were jn-oduced hy vertigo. The same results are observed in all classes of animals. From the whole it may he inferred that the cerebellum is connected rather with motor than sentient phenomena; but to what exact extent, or of what natm-e, is at present undetermined. Still, however, many physiologists conceive that the cerebellum has the faculty of combin- ing muscular movements for the pui-poses of locomotion, the faculty, that is, of co-ordmating these movements. " If this view be correct," says Miiller, " the cerebellum must con- tain a certain mechanism adapted to the excitement of the combined action of muscles, so that disturbance of its structure destroys the harmony between this central organ of combined actions and the cor- responding groups of muscles with their nerves." Opposed to this view, however, are the facts detailed as to the power of the spinal cord in the co-ordination of motion. We have seen that the action of the toes, feet, and legs, are all properly combined, as in regular progression, when no influence can be com- mmiicated to them but that derived from the spinal cord ; as when the spinal cord is divided, and when, therefore, all communication below the section, between these muscles and the cerebellum, must be cut off. It has been suggested that the cerebellum is the organ for the per- ception of muscular sensibility; that is, of the sensations derived from muscles, through which the mind acquires a knowledge of their actual state and position, which is essential to the action of the will upon them. The very close connection between the cerebellum and the spinal cord favours this hypothesis, which is perhaps, upon the whole, the most probable that can at present be formed. Phrenologists regard the cerebellum as the organ of the sexual im- pulse. Certainly some facts have been observed in disease which appear, at first view, to favour this opinion, but they do not really prove much. Miiller justly observes that the coincidence of disease of the spinal cord with the affection of the reproductive organs is much more fre- quent. On the other hand, the development of the cerebellum in the animal scale presents no relation whatever with the energy of the sexual impulse; while in the human being the most formidable and extensive disease of the cerebellum, nearly amounting in some cases to its entire destraction, appears to have increased rather than diminished feelings of this class. 2 c