PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 194 processes of niitiitiou. Each hypothesis is maintained by able physio- logists ; but the balance of evidence (as will appear hereafter) is greatly in favour of the opinion that the influence of the nervous system over this process is altogether indirect. A beautiful illustration of this is afforded in the following operation, which is going on, without ceasing, eveiy instant during life. The skin which forms the external covering of the body is com- posed essentially of gelatin. No gelatin is contained in the blood; but the albumen of the blood is capable of being converted into gelatin by the addition of oxygen. Albumen is received by the capillary artery of the skin; the blood, of which albumen foims so important a consti- tuent, contains a quantity of oxygen which it receives at the moment of inspiration, and which it retains in a state of loose combination. Under the influence probably of the organic nerve, the capillary artery chemically combines a portion of the free oxygen with the albumen of the blood, and gelatin is the result. In this process the albumen gives off carbon ; the blood affords oxygen; the two elements unite ; carbonic acid is formed ; and, as in every other instance in which carbonic acid is formed, heat is evolved. In this manner a fire is kindled, and is kept constantly burning, where it is most needed to counteract the influence of external cold, at the external surface of the body. Such are the main points which have been established in relation to the production and distribution of animal heat. But it has been shown that the living body is capable of bearing without injuiy a temperature by which it is rapidly consumed when deprived of life. By what means does the vital power enable the body to resist the influence of such intense degrees of heat ? Two circumstances are observable when the body is placed in a temperature greatly higher than its own. First, it can endure such a temperature only m the medium of an:. Air can easily be borne at the temperature of 260째 : aqueous vapoui' at the temperature of 130째 few Europeans are capable of enduring longer than twelve minutes; the peasants of Finland appear to be able to sustain it, for the space of half an hour, as high as 167째: but the hottest liquid water-bath which any one seems to have been able to bear for the space of ten minutes, is the hottest spring at Bareges, the temperature of which is 113째. But in heated air, the quantity of heat m actual contact with the body is much less than in the other media; because in proportion as the air is heated it is expanded, and in proportion as it is expanded the pafticles are diminished that come into contact with the body. In the second place, the afflux of the colder fluids from the central parts of the system to the surface may for a time exert some influence