365 NKIlVOUiS SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN. The structure .and disposition of these powerful membranes, the arrangement of which it is impossible to follow by a verbal description, show that they form admirable mechanical contrivances for the office assigned to them ; namely, to steady, support, and protect from pressure the large, but tender masses that make up the brain. It has been shown that the dura mater serves as a periosteum to the inner surface of the bones of the cranium. Externally the cranium is covered by a true peiiosteum like the other bones of the body. Both membranes are highly vascular, and there is a direct communication between the one and the other; for the vessels of the external perios- ttaim, piercing the substance of the bones, are continuous with those of the dura mater, and so indirectly with those of the pia mater. Hence it may be said that the arteries of the external skin are in direct communication with those of the dura mater, and ultimately even with those of the pia mater—a most important relation, which explains why a blow upon the scalp so often produces disease of the brain, and why a dangerous turgescence of blood-vessels wdthin the brain may, in certain instances, be relieved through blood-vessels on the outside of the cranium. The brain consists of an assemblage of different masses of nervous substance, the form, position, magnitude, structure, and relation of which are definite and invariable. They have been recognised as distinct portions of the nervous system from the earhest days of anatomy. They have received names which have been handed down from remote antiquity, derived generally from their supposed resem- blance to some familiar object—a resemblance commonly fanciful, and often misleading. Inexpressive and even objectionable, however, as some of these names may be, it is now difficult to alter them, and they must be retained, at least to some extent. The principal masses that make up the brain are the medulla oblon- gata (Fig. 107) ; the cerebrum (Fig. 107, middle and anterior lobe); and the cerebellum (Fig. 107): the whole taken together is often called the enceplialon, from ev, within, and Kej)a\ri, the head. 1. The Medulla Oblongata.—The medulla oblongata is a direct continuation of the spinal cord, the latter taking the name of medulla oblongata immediately it emerges from the vertebral canal and passes tlirougli the foramen magnum into the skull. (Fig. 85). The Latin term medulla (marrow), has been given to it, from the erroneous notion that it partakes of the nature of that substance: it is called oUongata from its oblong figure. Compared with the spinal cord, the medulla oblongata is of large size. It acquires its greater magnitude partly in consequence of entirely new bodies, hereafter to be described, being added to it, and partly in consequence of the deposition of a large quantity of vesicular