PLEASURES FROM MORAL AND RELIGIOUS FACULTIES. 27 fellow-men; and in this consciousness there is happiness : but this is another source of happiness perfectly distinct from that arising from the performance of beneficent actions; it is a new happiness super- added to the former, and, if possible, still more exquisite. Thus manifold is the beneficent operation of the sympathetic affection: thus admirable is the provision made in the constitution of our nature for the excitement and extension of this affection, and, through its instru- mentality, for the multiplication and exaltation of enjoyment! In affections and actions of this class, and in the pleasm-es that result from them, there is much of the natm'e which is commonly termed moral. The moral faculty is the power to regulate voluntary conduct by a prescribed rule, fi-om a given motive. The rule is the moral code, whatever that may be; the motive is that which induces obedience to the rule, as praise or blame, reward or punishment. On the power thus to regulate his conduct, a power possessed by no other creature but man, are based law and government. It is by the opera- tion of this power that he is capable of obedience to law, and that he can become the subject of government. This power of his nature is higher than any of the preceding, for it is their regulator and guide ; it is that by which they attain their proper and ultimate object. Of whatever pleasure human nature is capable in sensation, in idea, in appetite, in passion, in emotion, in affection, in action; whatever is productive of real pleasure, in contradistinction to what only cheats with the false hope of pleasure; whatever is productive of pure plea- sure, in contradistinction to what is productive partly of pleasure and partly of j^ain, and consequently productive not of pure, but of mixed pleasm-e; whatever is productive of a great degree of pleasure in con- tradistmction to what is productive of a small degree of pleasm'c; whatever is productive of lasting pleasure, in contradistinction to what is productive of temporary pleasm-e; whatever is productive of ultimate pleasure, in contradistinction to what is productive of immediate plea- sure, but ultimate pain; this greatest and most perfect pleasure it is the part of the moral faculty to discover. In the degree in which the operation of this faculty is correct and complete, it enables the human being to derive from every faculty of his nature the greatest, the purest, the most enduring pleasure; that is, the maximum of felicity. This is the proper scope and aim of the moral faculty ; to this its right exercise is uniformly conducive; and this, as it is better cultivated and directed, it will accomphsh in a higher degree, in a continual progression, to which no limit can be assigned. But if the proper operation of this faculty be to render every other in the highest degree conducive to happiness, conformity to the course of conduct required by it, must be the highest happiness. Conformity to the course of conduct pointed out l)y the moral faculty as conducive