30 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. point of wretchedness beyond which life is not desirable, so there is a point beyond which it is not maintainable. The man who has reached an advanced age cannot have been, upon the whole, an unliappy being; for the infirmity and suffering which embitter life cut it short. Every document by which the rate of mortality among large numbers of human beings can be correctly ascertained contains in it iiTesistible evidence of this truth. In every country the average dm-ation of life, whether for the whole peoj)le or for particular classes, is invariably in the dii-ect ratio of their means of fehcity ; while, on the other hand, the number of years which large portions of the population survive beyond the adult age may bo taken as a certain test of the happiness of the community. How clear must have been the per- ception of this in the mind of the Jewish legislator when he made the promise, that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God hath given thee—the sanction of every religious observance, and the motive to every moral duty! Deeply, then, are laid the fountains of happiness in the constitution of human nature. They spring from the depths of man's physical or- ganisation ; and from the wider range of his mental constitution they flow in streams magnificent and glorious. It is conceivable that from the first to the last moment of his existence, every human being might drink of them to the full extent of his capacity. Why does he not ? The answer will be found in that to the following question. Wliat must happen before this be possible ? The attainment of clear and just conceptions on subjects, in relation to which the knowledge liitherto acquired by the most enlightened men is imperfect. Physical nature, every department of it, at least, wliicli is capable of influencing human existence and human sensation ; hmnan natui'e, both the physical and the mental part of it; institutions so adapted to that nature as to be capable of securing to every individual, and to the whole community, the maximum of happiness with the minimum of sufiering—this must be known. But knowledge of this kind is of slow growth. To expect the possession of it on the part of any man in such a stage of civilization as the present, is to suppose a phenomenon to which there is nothing analogous in the histoiy of the human mind. The human mind is equally incapable of making a violent discovery in any department of knowledge, and of taking a violent bound in any path of improvement. What we call discoveries and improvements are clear, decided, but for the most part gentle, steps in advancement of the actual and immediately-preceding state of know- ledge. The human mind unravels the great chain of knowledge, link by link; when it is no longer able to trace the connecting link, it is at a stand: the discoverer, in common with his contemporaries, seeino- the last ascertained link, and from that led on by analogies wliich are