180 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. and azote, and the exhalation of carbonic acid and water, probably mider the influence of electricity, conducted and regulated by the nervous system, the animal elaborates such a fluid from its ahment, and out of this elaborated fluid forms quaternary combinations, albumen, and fibrin, the organic elements of all animal sohds. CHAPTEB XIII. Of the temperature of living bodies—Temperature of plants—Power of plants to resist cold and endure heat—Power of generating heat—Temperature of animals—Warm- blooded and cold-blooded animals—Temperature of the liighor animals—Tempera- ture of the different parts of the animal body—Temperature of the human body- Power of maintaining that temperature at a fixed point whether in intense cold or intense heat—Experiments which prove that this power is a vital power—Evidence that the power of generating heat is connected with the function of respiration- Analogy between respiration and combustion—Phenomena connected with the functions of the animal body, which prove that its power of generating beat is proportionate to the extent of its respiration—Theory of the production of animal ]ieat—Influence of the nervous system iu maintaining and regulating the process— Means by which cold is generated, and the temperatui-e of the body kept at its own natural standard dm-ing exposure to an elevated temperature. Closely connected with the function of respiration, is the power which all hving beings possess of resisting within a certain range the influence of external temperature. The plant is warmer than the surrounding air in winter, and colder in summer. A thermometer placed at the bottom of a hole bored into the centre of a li^ong tree, precaution being taken to keep ofi" as much as possible aU external influence either of heat or cold, does not rise and fall according to the changes of external temperature; but rises when the external air is cold, and falls when it is warm. Thus, in a cold day in spring, the wind being north, at six o'clock in the evening, the temperatm^e of the external air being 47°, that of a tree w^as 55°. On another cold day in the same month, there being snow and hail, and the w^ind in the north-east, at six o'clock in the evening, the external temperature being 39°, that of the tree was 45°. On the contrary, in one experiment, when the tempe- rature of the air was 57^°, that of the tree was only 55°; and when the temperature of the air was 62°, that of the tree was 56°. These experiments afibrd an explanation of circumstances familiar to common observation. Every one has noticed that the snow which falls on grass and trees melts rapidly, while that on the adjoining gravel walks often remains a long time unthawed. Moist dead sticks are constantly found frozen hard in the same garden with tender growing twigs, wliich are not in the least degree afiected by the frost. Every winter in our own climate tender herbaceous plants resist degrees of cold which freeze large bodies of water. But the colder, and the warmer the cHmate, the more strikingly