PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 214 The qimntity of blood sent to the stomach is greater than is spent upon any other organ except the brain. The vessels of the stomach Fig. 88. \'ie\v of the stomach, showing the number and magnitude ot its blood-vessels, and tlie mode of their disti ibution. (Fig. 88) form two distinct layers, of which the external is distributed to tlie peritoneal and muscular coats, while the internal, after rami- fying on the fine cellular tissue which unites the muscular and mucous tunics, penetrates the mucous coat, and is spent upon the villi, where it forms an exquisitely-delicate network. There is, moreover, an inti- mate vascular connexion between the spleen, pancreas and liver, and the stomach. The arteries which supply all these organs sjiring from a common trunk, and there is the freest communication between them by anastomosing branches. Equally abundant is its sujjply of nerves, some of which are derived from the organic or non-sentient system, and otliers from the animal or sentient system. The organic nerves are spread out in countless numbers upon the great trunks of the arteries, so as to give them a complete envelop (Fig. 89, 3); these nerves, never quitting the arteries, accompany them in all their ramifications, and the fibril of the nerve is ultimately lost upon the cai)illary termination of the artery. It is by these organic nerves that the stomach is enabled to perform its organic functions, which, for the reason assigned, is placed beyond volition, and is without consciousness. By the nerves derived from the sentient system which mingle with the organic, the function of nutrition is brought into relation with the percipient mind, and is made part of our sentient natm-e. By the commixtm-e of these tw^o sets of nerves, derived from these two portions of the nervous system, though we have no direct consciousness of the digestive process con- sciousness ceasing precisely at the point where the agency of volition stops, yet pleasurable sensation results from the due performance of