GANGLIONIC CONDUCTION INVOLUNTARY. 329 own contents, as is seen in tlie flow of the bile along the biliary ducts to fill the gall-bladder, when there is no food in the duodenum; and when food is there, and the contents of the reservoir are needed, it is excited to yield them up by a stimulus propagated from the intestine along the ducts of the gall-bladder. In the case of the stomach, the stimulus of the food excites the secretion of the gastric juice, which flows as long as the stimulus is present, but no longer. In this instance, the pouring forth of a solvent fluid is caused by the irritation of the identical substance to be acted upon—the food, which thus becomes the producer of its own solvent. In some instances the surface destined to be in contact with the sti- mulus is endowed with a peculiar ii-ritability. This seems to be espe- cially the case with the heart, for if opium or strychnine be applied to the external surface of the heart, little or no efi'ect is produced; but if a small quantity be brought into contact with the inner surface of the auricle or ventricle, the movements of the organ are permanently arrested in a few seconds; hence the rapidity of narcotic poisoning when once the poison has entered the blood and reached the heart. 5. Lastly, in this respect also, like the movements under the influ- ence of the spinal centre, those dependent on the ganglionic centre are involuntary. The purposes they answer in the economy could not be fulfilled unless they were constant, unless they were unfailing; but the will is inconstant, unstable. They are, therefore, withdi-awn from its influence. They are made independent of it. On the contrary, the muscles excited by the cerebral centre are the servants of the will, whose commands they receive and execute with the rapidity of the electric current. How is this difference of action produced ? Why does the deltoid contract on a thought of the mind ? Why can no voluntary efibrt of the mind produce the slightest change in the orderly contraction of the intestines ? We see, first, that there are manifest differences of structm-e between the nerves and muscles of the two respective systems, indicative of a difference of function ; and wo know, further, that the two classes of muscles are placed under dif- ferent centres. The deltoid contracts at the command of the will because it is under the control of the brain ; the intestines do not con- tract at the command of the wiU because their muscular fibres arc under the control of the sjonpathetic, not the cerebral system. The reason, or final cause, of this fundamental difference in then- modes of action wll be seen immediately. The special function of that portion of the ganglionic centre which comprises the proper sympathetic appears to be to excite and regulate the movements which convey the material of nutrition—arte- rial blood—to the nutritive organs. The mass of its fibres, those assemblages which we have seen connected with the great ganglia in