CONDUCTION OF NERVOUS FORCF:. neiTG-fibre is attached: this penetrates all the capsules, and so reaches the central cavity, where it lays aside tlie Avhite matter of Schwann, whilst the grey axis cylinder runs in a straight direction through this cavity, till, arriving at its more remote part, the grey axis becomes fixed to the most internal capsule. These bodies are well supplied vnth. blood, and, in their minute disposition of capsules and septa, strikingly resemble the electric apparatus of the torpedo, as Pacini himself suggested. CHAPTER XXI. FUNCTIONS OF NERVES. Grey matter is the source of nervous force; nerves are the conductors of it. For the office of conduction two conditions are necessary in the instrument—uninterrupted continuity and insulation. The anatomical structure of a nerve fitting it for the accomplishment of these objects, was first demonstrated by Sir Charles Bell, the great founder of scientific nem-ology, who has so clearly expressed the facts and exMbited the clue to the physiology, that it would be an injustice to the subject to use any language but his own. After describing a nerve enveloped in its sheat]i. Sir Charles Bell says : " If we take up a nerve to examine it, we find that it consists of distinct filaments; but there is nothing in these filaments to dis- tinguish them from each other, or to declare their offices. One filament may be for the purpose of sensation ; another for muscular motion ; a third for combining the muscles in the act of respiration. But the subserviency of any one of these filaments to its proper office must be discovered by following it out, and observing its relations, and especially its origin in the brain and spinal marrow. In their substance there is nothing particular. They all seem equally to contain a soft pulpy matter enveloped in cellular membrane or pia mater, and so surrounded with a tube of this membrane as to j^resent a contiimous track of pulpy nervous matter, fi-om the nearest extremity in the brain to the ex- tremity which ends in a muscle or in the skin. " Previous to the obseiTations which I have made, such a nerve as I have described was supposed to have all its threads alike; they were supposed to be branches from the same root, and all capable of exciting a muscle or conveying a sensation, " The key to the system will be fomid in the simple proposition.