190 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. the diminution of the respu-ation, is the reduction of the power of generating heat; so that when the state of hybernation is established, the temperature of the external parts of the body sinks nearly to that of the surrounding medium; while the internal parts, the blood, and the vital organs are only a degree or two higher. In experiments made to reduce an hybernating animal to a torpid state by cold artifi- cially produced, De Saissy found that he could not bring on the state of hybernation by the reduction of temperature alone, without also constraining the respiration. These and other analogous facts abundantly establish the relation between the function of respiration and that of calorification, and lead to the general conclusion that the generation of animal heat is in the direct ratio of the quantity of air and blood which are brought into contact, and which act on each other in a given time. But if the production of animal heat be really the result of combustion, if that combustion take place in the lung, and if the lung be thus the focus whence the heat radiates to every other part of the body, wliy is not the heat of this organ and of the parts in its immediate neighbourhood higher than the temperature of the rest of the body ? Some of the internal organs are indeed a degree or two hotter than the general mass of the circulating blood, and among these the lung is admitted to rank perhaps the very highest. But how can a quantity of caloric sufficient to maintain the heat of the body in a temperature of forty degrees below zero radiate from an organ the temperature of which is only two or three degrees above that of the body itself ? It is esti- mated that, in every minute, during the calm respiration of a healthy man of ordinary stature, 26-6 cubic inches of carbonic acid, at the temperatm-e of 50° Fahr. are emitted, and that an equal volume of oxygen is withdrawn from the atmosphere. From these data it is calculated tliat, in an interval of twenty-four hours, not less than eleven ounces of carbon are consumed. Why is the lung, the seat of this combustion, not only not greatly warmer than any other organ, but why is it not even consumed by the fire which is thus incessantly burning within it. It has been shown that when the carbon of the blood imites in the lung with the oxygen of the air, the nature of the blood, in conse- quence of the abstraction of carbon, undergoes an essential change, passing from venous into arterial. By an elaborate series of experi- ments, conducted with extraordinary care and skill, it would appear that arterial has a greater capacity for caloric than venous blood, in the proportion of 114'5 to 100. In consequence of this difference in the constitution of the two kinds of blood, the heat generated in the luno- by the combustion of carbon, instead of being evolved or becoming sensible, and so raising the temperature of the organ, goes to satisfy