FUNCTIONS OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 379 inspiration is excited by the stiuinlus of carbonic acid gas momentarily accumulated in the ultimate bronchial tubes, in the intervals between each respiration, acting on the peripheral extremities of the pnenmo- gasiric nerve; and that the impression so excited passes to the medulla oblongata, on the reception of which this dynamic centre transmits its nervous force to that portion of the spinal cord where the nerve of tlie diaphragm arises, by which conductor this great muscle is stimulated to action, inspiration being the -result. And this process may be regarded as a typical representation of the excito-motory action. The following cases illustrate the fatal results of injiiry to this vital portion of the nervous system :— A man fell from a height, and lighted on the ground upon both shoulders; the violence of the fall fractured the first vertebra of the spinal column, the atlas, and the tooth-like process of the second ver- tebra, the dcntatus (Fig. 42). The fractured bones, no longer capable of retaining their natural position, pressed on the medulla oblongata ; the instant that pressure took place the breathing ceased. A man full upon his head and fi'actured the occipital hole through which the medulla oblongata passes into the cranium (Fig. 35), He lay in the hospital for some time without exhibiting a symptom to create alarm. He chanced during this period to make no movement of the head to displace the broken pieces of bone. He had given thanks to the assembled governors of the hospital, and had retm-ned into the ward for his bundle. He turned round to bid adieu to the other patients. By that motion the pieces of fractured bone were forced upon the medulla oblongata, and crushed it. He fell and exj^ired in an instant. A patient had a deep ulcer in the back part of the throat, which destroyed the transverse ligament that holds the tooth-like process in its place. The moment this support was gone, the process was thrown back, so as to compress the medulla oblongata : the head fell suddenly forward, and the patient expired without taking another breath. From all these facts we may correctly regard the medulla oblongata as the primum mobile of life. But phenomena have been observed in relation to this organ which have led some physiologists to attribute to it a still more extensive range of function, and to regard it as the true seat of sensation and volition. And the evidence of this appears, at first view, to be irresistible. For it is proved, both by experiment and disease, that the entire cerebrum and cerebellum may be wantuig, or may be removed part by part, and yet the powers of feeling and of willmg seem to remain entire. When no other part of the nervous system is left but the medulla oblongata and the vertebral portion of the spinal cord, an animal seems to give precisely the same manifesta- tion of feelmg as it would do were it in a perfectly natural state.