PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 22 duction of sensation, and, in the second place, the production of pleasure. The pleasui'e is as much the result as the sensation. This is true of the eye in seeing, the ear in hearing, the hand in touching, the organ of smell in smelling, and the tongue in tasting. Pleasure is Imked Avith the sense; hut there might have been the sense without the pleasui'e. A slight difference in the construction of the organ, or in the intensity of the agent, would not merely have changed, it would even have reversed the result; would have rendered the habitual con- dition of the eye, the ear, the skin, not such as it now is in liealth, but such as it is in the state of inflammation. But the adjustment is such as habitually to secure that condition of the system in which eveiy action that excites sensation produces j^leasure as its ordinary con- comitant ; and the amount of enjoyment which is thus secured to every man, and wliich every man actually experiences in the ordinary course of an ordinary life, it would be beyond his power to estimate were he always sensible of the boon; but the calculation is altogether impossible, when, as is generally the case, he merely enjoys AAithout ever thinking of the provisions by which he enjoys. But if the pleasm'cs that arise from the ordinary operations of sense form, in the aggregate, an incalcidable sum, how great is the accession brought to this stock by the endowments next in order in the ascending- scale, namely, the intellectual faculties ! There is one effect resulting from the operation of the intellectual faculties on the senses that deserves particular attention. The higher faculties elevate the subordinate in such a manner as to inake them altogether new endowments. In illustration of this, it will suffice to notice the change wrought, as if in the very nature of sensation, the moment it becomes combined with an intellectual operation, as exem- plified in the difierence between the intellectual conception of beauty, and the mere perception of sense. The grouping of the hills that bound that magnificent valley which I behold at this moment spread out before my view; the shadow of the trees at the base of some of them, stretching its deep and varied outHne up the sides of others ; the glancing light now brightening a hundi'ed different hues of green on the broad meadows, and now dancing on the upland fallows; the ever-moving, ever-changing clouds; the scented air; the song of birds ; the still more touching music which the breeze awakens inl^he scarcely-trembhng branches of those pine-trees,—the elements of which this scene is composed, the mere objects of sense, the sun, the sky, the air, the hills, the woods, and the sounds poured out from them, im]3ress the senses of the animals that graze in the midst of them • but on their senses they fall dull and emotionless, exciting no perception of their loveliness, and giving no taste of the pleasm-es they are capable of affbrdmg. Nor even in the human being, whose intellectual faculties