PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 100 follow his first impulse to apply his ear to the chest, chanced to recollect that solid bodies have the power of conducting sounds better than the ah*. Thereupon he prociu'ed a quii-e of paper, rolled it up tightly, tied it, and then applied one extremity to the patient's chest and the other to his ear. Profiting by the result, which was, that he could hear the beating of the heart much more distinctly than he could possibly feel it by the hand, he substituted for this first rude instrument a wooden cylinder, which he called a stethoscope or chest inspector. The attentive and practised use of this instrument is found to be capable of revealing to the ear all that is passing in the chest almost as clearly and certainly as it would be visible to the eye, were the walls of the chest and the tissues of its organs transparent. Besides the entrance of the air into the lung in inspiration, and its exit in expiration, even the motion of the blood m the heart, and in the great blood-vessels, are rendered by this instrument distinctly manifest to sense ; and as the ear which has once become familiar with the natural sounds produced by these operations in the state of health, can detect the slightest deviation occasioned by disease, the practical application of this discovery has effected for the pathology of the chest, what the discovery of the circulation of the blood has accomplished for the physiology of the body. We are thus able to form a clear conception of the mechanism and action of both parts of the complicated function of respu'ation. Almost allthepomts connected with the systemic cii-culation were established upwards of three huncbed years ago, but many points connected with the pulmonic circulation have been established only recently. Our knowledge of the phenomena of both, and of then- mutual relation and dependence, has been slowly increasing, and is at length tolerably complete; and now that we understand the exact ofiice and working of each, we see that the action of the one is not only in harmony with that of the other, but co-operates with it, and renders it perfect. From experiments performed by Dr. Dill and myself to ascertain the relation of respiivation to circulation, it follows— 1. That the state of inspiration is favourable to the passage of the blood through the lungs. In the dilatation of inspiration they trans- mitted nearly double the quantity that passed in the collapse of expiration ; or, as four ounces and five di'achms are to two ounces and seven drachms. 2. That no degree of collapse to which the lungs can be reduced is capable of wholly stopping the fiow of the blood through them. In tlie collapse of suspension and submersion they transmitted as much blood, with the exception of two drachms, as when death was produced by a blow on the head. In the greatest degree of collapse capable of