PHILOSOPPIY OF HEALTH. 256 tte organic, as in other cases the organic act on the sentient, in con- sequence of that intimate connexion which, for the reason assigned, is estahhshed between lx)th parts of this system. For, 1. The true object of the sentient part of the nervous system is to estabhsh a relation between the body and the external world ; the object of the organic part is to preside over the functions by which the body is sustained and nourished, tliat is, over the processes of secretion. 2. The nerves which are distributed to the secreting arteries are, for the most part, derived from the organic portion of the nervous system (Fig. 89, 3). This anatomical arrangement clearly points to some physiological purpose, and indicates the closeness of the relation between the function of the organic nerve and the ultimate action of the capillary artery. The existence of the organic nerve is probably simultaneous with that of the secreting artery : from the first to the last moment of life the nerve regulates the artery; the influence of the one is indispen- sable to the operation of the other; and, by their conjoint action, the sentient nerve itself, as well as every other organ, is constructed. There is reason to believe that the physical agent by which the organic nerve influences secretion is allied to electricity. The nerve appears to be the medium by which electrical fluid is conveyed to the secreting organs, and the nerve probably influences secretion by influencing chemical combination, through the intervention of this most powerful chemical agent. This is rendered j)robable by the observation of various phenomena, and by the result of direct experiment. 1. It is proved that galvanic phenomena may be excited by the contact of the nerve and muscle in an animal recently dead. A galvanic pile may be constructed of alternate layers of nervous and muscular substance, or of nervous substance and other animal tissues. A secreting organ liberally supplied with organic nerve is probably then in its physical structure a galvanic apparatus. It is certain that some animals, as the raia torpedo, possess "a special electrical apparatus composed essentially of nervous matter ; that the nerves which compose this apparatus correspond strictly with the organic nerves of the human body; that they are distributed princi- pally to the organs of digestion and secretion,, and that they exert a powerful influence over these processes; for, when the animal is frequently excited to give shocks, digestion appears to be completely arrested; so that, after tlie animal's death, food swallowed some time previously is found wholly unchanged. 2. It is universally admitted that the nerves in all animals possess an extreme sensibility to the stimulus of electricity, and more especially to that form of it which is termed galvanism.