rUlLOSOPHY OF HEAL'iH. 210 fectly or imperfectly, without serious mischief; but life depends on the passage of the food through the pharynx with extreme rapidity and with the nicest precision. It is therefore taken out of the province of vohtion and intrusted to organs which belong to the organic life, organs which carry on their operations with the steadiness, constancy, and exactness of bodies whose motions are determined by a physical law. No sooner does the duly-prepared food touch the soft palate, than the whole apparatus of deglutition is instantly in motion. This moveable partition suddenly rises to afford to the food a free passage to the pharynx. The pharynx itself, at the same instant, rises to receive the morsel tln-ust towards it by the pressm-e of the tongue ; and one muscle, the stylo-pliaryngeus, which concurs in producing this movement, seems specially intended, in addition, to expand the pharynx. Three muscles throw their fibres around the pharynx, termed its upper, middle, and lower constrictors, which^ the moment the morsel reaches the pharynx, contract upon it, and embrace it fiinnly. At the same instant the larynx, closing its aperture, springs forward towards the base of the tongue, under which it is in a manner concealed, the additional shield of the epiglottis being simultaneously thrown over the glottis. By this movement of the lai-ynx, upwards and forwards, the course of the morsel across the dangerous passage is shortened. All these motions take place with such rapidity that Boerhaave said the action is convulsive. And now the food, firmly pressed by the pharynx, cannot return to the mouth, for the root of the tongue is there stopping up the passage; it cannot euter the Eustacliian tubes or the nose, for the soft palate is there closing the apertures; it cannot enter the larynx, for a double guard is placed upon the glottis securing its firm closure. The food can advance in one direction only, the direc- tion required, that which leads to the cesophagus. Well, therefore, on the contemplation of these complex structm*es and the consent and harmony with which they act, might Paley say, " In no apparatus put together by art do I know such multifarious uses so aptly contrived as in the natural organisation of the human mouth and its appenda^-es. In this small cavity we have teeth of diff'erent shape ; first, for cutting; secondly, for grinding; muscles most artificially disposed for carrying on the compound motions of the lower jaw by which the mill is worked; fountains of saliva springing up in different parts of the cavity for the moistening of the food while the mastication is going on ; glands to feed the fountains; a muscular contrivance in the back part of the cavity for the guiding of the prepared aliment into its passao-e towards the stomach, and for carrying it along that passage. In the mean time, and within the same cavity, is going on other business wholly different, that of respiration and of speech. In addition, there-