PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 276 holding in combination sugar, mucilage, and other proximate vegetable principles. Even the peculiar products formed by the vital actions of the plant, as the volatile oils, the fixed oils, the balsams, the resins, and perhaps, with the exception of gum, sugar, starch, and lignine, all the substances formed out of the proper juices of the plant, are true excretions ; for these substances are fixed immoveably in the cells, sacs, or tubes which secrete and contain them: they are not consumed in the growth of the plant; they do not appear to be applied to any useful purpose in the economy; they are injurious, and even poisonous to the very plant in which they are formed when taken up by the roots and combined with the sap: as long as they remain in the plant they are isolated in the individual parts in which they are first de- posited, until with the advancing age of the plant they lose their aqueous particles, and are finally dried up; they, therefore, possess all the essential characters of excrementitious substances. The organs by which these matters are excreted are the leaves, the flowers, the fruits, the roots, and certain bodies called glands. The gaseous and vaporous exhalations are efiected chiefly by the leaves, which it has been shown, under the influence of the solar ray, are always pouiing out a large quantity of oxygen, and still larger quantities of fluid in the state of vapour. Similar matters are exhaled by the flowers either in the form of vapour or of liquid ; and this exhalation commonly bears with it a peculiar odour, which proceeds from an essential oil, sometimes evapo- rated with the pollen, and at other times secreted by glandular bodies which have their seat in the petals. Fruits, and especially green fruits, as raspberries, pears, apples, plums, apricots, figs, cherries, gooseberries, and grapes, pour out oxygen during the day, and carbonic acid gas during the night, and thus co-operate with leaves in carrying on the function of excretion. The more elaborate excretions contained in special receptacles, and formed by diverse organs from the proper juices of the plant, descend chiefly by the bark, and are poured by the roots into the soil. These excretions, if reabsorbed by the roots, and reintroduced into the sys- tem of the plant that has rejected them, poison that plant. Conse- quently, two processes of deterioration are always going on in the soil; first, the absorption of the nutrient matter contained in it; and, secondly, the accumulation of excrementitious matter constantly pom-ed into it by the growing plant. By the addition of manm-e, the soil is replenished with fresh nutritive materials ; by a rotation of crops, it is purified from noxious excretions. It is a remarkable and beautiful adjustment, that excrementitious substances which are de- structive to plants of one natmval family, actually promote the growth of plants of a different species. Thus, if wheat be sown upon a tract