PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 64 Fig. Unstrijjed Variety of Fihres—These consist of flattened bands of a i^ale colour. They differ very remarkably from the striped variety; as their name im- plies, they are without the peculiar mark- ings of the latter. They appear to be destitute of sarcolemma.* They often seem to interlace with one another, but this is regarded as a deceptive appearance. On careful examination it is found that they do in fact all run parallel. They are peculiar to the organs of organic life, which, as has been stated, are for the most part hollow, as the stomach, the intestines, the bladder, and the uterus. They are distributed over these organs as a circle more or less complete; where one passes only jmrtially around, the rest of the circle being completed by others. Their ordmary diameter is from ^(yooth to 2 oVo^^ of an inch. 1. Intimate Structure of the Voluntary or IStrijyed Variety of Muscles.—When a fibre taken from a muscle belonging to this '"fi'rSo^ri!^!;"^"::; das3 is carefully examinrf tmder a high tiie bundle offibriiiaj (6) is torn, magnifying jDower, first, the sarcolemma is afem^ty "ut""' " distinctly Seen enveloping the tender sar- cous substance (Fig. 25, a). Secondly, there are brought into view innumerable dark lines, whose delicacy and regularity cannot be surpassed. These dark Imes take a trans- verse direction across the fibres (Fig. 26); other lighter coloured ones take a direction lengthways to the fibre (Fig. 26). These lines are not superficial; they penetrate through the entire substance of the fibres. Each set of lines would, therefore, appear to divide the fibres into portions. The portions which lie between the transverse lines have received the name of discs (Fig. 26) ; those which take a longitudinal direction, presenting an appearance of minute tlu'eads, are called fibrils (fibrilla?) (Fig. 27). By careful management, these fibrils may be isolated, and the cause of the appearance of transverse bands is then found out, for the little fibril is seen to be made up of similar cubical particles, that so refract the light in their middle part as to produce a dark spot under ordinary circumstances : then, when many such dark spots lie on the same level, as they always do in the fibre, they o-ive rise to a dark line: of course to produce such line, the adjoining * See p. 6.5.