t ULTBIATE OBJECT OF EXCRETION—ADJUSTMENTS. 295 it into the chemical condition which constitutes the proper juice of the plant; the lung removes the superfluous water of the chyle, concen- trates its organic principles, and completely assimilates its chemical natm-e into that of the hlood. It is the same with every other process of excretion ; its uniform result is to alter the chemical composition of the nutritive fluid, to restore it to a state of concentration and purity. Excretion, then, is appropriately termed a depurating process. The effect of the suppression of excretion, when the suppression is complete, is appalling. Stop the respiration, that is, suspend the depurating action of the lungs, carbon accumulates in the venous blood; carbon mixes with the arterial blood; in half a minute the blood flowing in the arteries is evidently darkened; in three-quarters of a minute it is of a dusky hue ; in a minute and a half it is quite black; every particle of arterial blood has now disappeared, and the whole mass is become venous. With the first appearance of the dusky hue great disturbance is produced in the system; the instant it becomes dark sensibility is abolished; in a few minutes after it is black the power of the heart is so enfeebled that it can no longer carry on the circulation, and in a few minutes more its action wholly ceases, and can never again be excited. The brain feels the poison first, and is first killed; but the heart cannot long resist the fatal influence. Stop the excretion of the kidney by the extirpation of the organ, or the suppression of its secretion, urea accumulates in the blood; the poison, after a short time, begins to work; fever is excited, and then, with fearful rapidity, fever is followed by coma, and coma by death. Stop the secretion of bile, a poison accumulates in the blood as potent, producing insensibility and death as rapidly, as that generated by the suppression of the depurating action-of the Iddneys. Only obstruct the secretion of bile, merely prevent its due elimina- tion from the blood, just in proportion to its suppression does the system suffer from languor, lassitude, and inaptitude for every muscular and mental exertion. How do the internal organs suffer when the excretion of the skin is deficient, and how numberless and hideous are the diseases of the skin when the depurating process of the alimentary canal is suspended ! "Wlien, on the contrary, all these excretions are well and duly per- formed, how regular and tranquil, yet how full and strong the flow of tlie circulating cm-rent; how rich the stream poured by it into every organ; how healthfully exciting its influence on them all; how gentle, how efficient, every organic action ; how complete the absence of all note or sensibb mtimation that any such action is going on, yet how delicious the consciousness produced by its soundness and vigour; how