LICiAMKN're OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 117 Strong ligaments maintain in their proper position the bones tliat form the ankle-joint (Fig. 64), connect the bones of the tarsus and metatarsus with one anotlier (Fig. 64), and articulate the 1 several phalanges of the toes. The joint of the hip, like that of the shoulder, is capable of flexion, I extension, and rotation; but its rotary motions are to a nuich i less extent, on account of the gi'eater depth of the acetabulum, and the stronger and shorter fibrous capsule. When the femur ' is flexed, the thigh is bent upon the pelvis, and its inferior ex- I tremity is carried forwards. When i it is extended, the thigh is carried I backwards. The two thighs may be separated from each other later - ally (abduction), or brought near to each other (adduction), or the one may be made to cross the other, I and they may be rotated outwards General view of tlie- ligaments of the knee- or inwards. The apparatus of muscles that ] produces these varied motions is I seated partly on the tnmk and j partly on the pelvis. Thus, the powerful muscle that flexes the thigh, or that cames it forwards, termed the psoas (Fig. 66, i), arises from the last vertebra of the back, and successively from each vertebra of the loins, and is inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Its action is assisted first by a large and strong muscle named the iliacus (Fig. 66, 2), which occui)ies the ■whole concavity of the ilium, and which, like the psoas, is inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur (Fig. 66, 3). The muscles that extend the thigh, or that carry it backwards, named the glutei, the most j^owerful muscles of the body, are placed in successive layers, one upon the other (Fig. 67, 9), on the back part of the ilium, and are inserted into the luiea aspera of the femur. Their powerful action in drawing the thigh backwards is assisted by several other muscles. Their action is never perfectly simple and direct \ for those which move the thigh forwards sometimes carry it inwards, and sometimes outwards; and, in like manner, those which move end of tlie tibia ; 3, U])i)cr end of the libula; 4, the patella ; 5, united tendons of the e.\- tensoi- muscles ; G, ligaments of the patella ; 7, the capsular investment of the knee; 8, the internal lateral ligament; 9, the external lateral ligaments; 10, the poyterior liga- ment ; 11, the ligament connecting the tibia and libula; 12, a portion of the interosseous ligament.