234 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. Fisr. 92. these different fluids are converted into one substance, arterial blood, to be by the left heart sent out to the system for its support. While these processes are going on, another and a veiy important function is performed by the remaining portion of the alimentary canal. It is the office of this part of the apparatus to carry out of the body that jjortion of the aliment which is incapable of being converted into chyle. The preparation of the excrementitious part of the aliment for its expulsion constitutes the process of fecation. The organs in which this process is carried on, and by which the excrementitious matter, when duly prepared for its removal, is conveyed from the body, are the large intestmes. The large intestines (Fig. 92, ascending and descending colon) con- sist of the cfecum, the colon, and the rectum. The caecum varies in length from two inches to six; the colon is about five feet in length, and the rectum is about eisfht inches. The ilium opens into the caecum, just as the oesophagus 023ens into the stomach. At this point the ilium is elongated, forming two concentric folds which join at their horns, and between the folds are placed a number of muscular fibres. In this manner is constructed a valve, which is termed the valve of the colon. It is placed in a transverse direction across the intestine, and its action as a valve is very complete. It admits of the free passage of the contents of the small intestines into the large, but it prevents the return of any View of the abdonniK.i puitiou of ti-.e portion of the contcnts of the latter gestive organs. ], a?soi)hagus; 2, sto- intO the former. mach; 3, spleen; 4, liver; 5, gall- ,n, i • -,■ ■ i -, ■, bladder with its ducts; 6, paiim-as with ^'^^ ^'^^^^ distmguislied by its its duct; 7, duodenum; 8, small intes- capacious size, its great lenirth, and tines; 9, large intestines dividing into, -i ■> t ^ t ^ i • i 10, «ecum; 11, ascending colon; 12, lOllgltudmal bands, whlch COllSlst arch of the colon ; 13, descending colon ; qf strongmUSCukr faScicuH (Fig. 92). 14, sigmoid Hexure, here imyjerfectiy re- • t • i i ■ , t presented; 15, rectum. divided luto an ascouding por- tion which occupies the right iliac and hypochondriac regions (Fig. 92); the transverse portion, called its arch, which is placed directly across the epigastric region, a descending portion which occupies the left hypochondriac region (Fig. 92), and a fourth portion, which, being curved somewhat