80 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. equal proportions. Both together fonii the walls of a cavity in Avhich are placed the central organs of circulation and respiration. The chief boundaries of the cavity of the thorax before, behind, and at the sides, are osseous (Fig. 41); being foimed before, by the sternum or breast-bone (Fig. 31); behind, by the spinal column or back bone; and at the sides, by the ribs. Below, the boundary is muscular, being formed by the diaphragm (Fig. 41, c, g, h), while above the thorax is so much contracted, that there is merely a space left for the passage of certain parts which will be noticed immediately. The figure of the thorax is that of a cone, the apex being above (Fig. 41), through the aperture of which pass the tubes that lead to the lungs and stomach, and the great blood-vessels that go to and from the heart (Fig. 47). The base of the cone is slanting, so that the thorax is considerably shorter before than behmd, like an obHque sec- tion of the cone. The osseous portion of the walls of the thorax is formed behind by the spinal column, a range of bones common indeed to all the divisions of the trunk ; for it constitutes alike the posterior boundary of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis (Fig. 42). The spinal column is com- posed of thirty distinct bones, twenty-four of which are separate and moveable on one another, and on this account are called true vertebrae (Fig. 43, 2, 4) ; the other five, though separate at an early period of life, are subsequently united uito a single solid piece, called the sacrum (Fig. 31). The bones composing this solid piece, as they admit of no motion on each other, are called false vertebrae. To the extremity of the sacrum is attached the last bone of the series, termed the coccyx (Fig. 42.) From above dowmvards, that is, from the first bone of the neck to the first bone of the sacrum, the separate bones forming the column progressively increase in size ; for this column is the chief support of the weight of the head and trunk, and this weight is progressively augmenting to this point. From the sacrum to the coccyx, the bones successively diminish in size, until, at the extremity of the coccyx, they come to a point. The spinal column may, therefore, be said to consist of two pyramids united at their base. The superior pyramid is equal in length to about one-thnd of tEe height of the body, and it is this portion of the column only that is moveable. The two surfaces of the spinal cohmm, the anterior and the posterior, present a strikuig contrast. The anterior surface, which in its whole extent is rounded and smooth, is broad in the region of the neck, narrow in the regions of the back, and again broad in the region of the loins. It presents three curvatures (Fig. 42); the convexity of that of the neck being forwards, that of the back backwards, and that of the loins again forwards.