345 EXCITO-MOTORY POWER. volition. But when the eyelash was touched with a straw, the eyehd was forcibly closed; when the cornea was touched the eyeball revolved outwards, and when another part of the skin was touched, the tail was raised. On destroying the spinal cord all these motions mstantly ceased. Here a blow annihilated the cerebral functions, but the spinal still remained. Deep lacerations produced no evidence of the former; the touch of a straw induced a full manifestation of the latter. The destruction of the cord removed all trace of the spinal phenomena. In the human body disease often performs a nicer dissection than the most skilful anatomist can accomplish, and separates the cerebral from the spinal functions more definitely and completely than the best experimentahst can do. In apoplexy, when a blood-vessel bursts, and a stream of blood is forced into the soft and tender substance of the brain, the cerebral fibres are torn asunder, and of course all communi- cation is immediately cut oft between the brain and those parts of the body to which the lacerated fibres were distributed. Under these circumstances, when one side of the body is senseless and powerless, as in hemeplegia, or when all the lower part of the body is paralysed, as in paraplegia, if the legs are pinched, and especially if the sole of the foot is tickled, the legs are contracted with great force, though the patient is wholly unconscious of the motion. It is clear, then, that there is inherent in the spinal cord a power distinct from that of the brain, and independent of it, capable of producing motions as complex in their combinations and as definite in their object, as any which are the undoubted results of consciousness. This power has received the name of excito-motory, because its action is always an excited one, and because the result of the action is invariably the production of muscular motion. The action is two-fold, consisting of the transmission of two nervous currents in opposite directions : one centripetal, from the surface of the body, or of the particular organ excited, to the centre; and the other centrifugal from the centre back to the organ. The carbonic acid of the venous blood coming in contact with the nerve fibres "expanded on the surface of the air-cells of the lungs pro- duces on them a certain effect, called an impression. This impression is transmitted to the nervous centre, the spinal cord, on the reception of which the latter sends out a force to the muscles of respiration which causes them to contract, the result of their contraction is the expansion of the chest. Hero there are two nervous currents proceeding in definite but opposite directions, the one from the organ impressed to the centre, and the other from the centre to the muscles which are to be excited. The fibres which transmit the first are termed the incident fibres.