PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 44 \Yas cellular in the beginning. Yet the last traces of the primitive form are rarely, we may say never, totally obliterated, A sufficiently attentive inspection with a powerful microscope will show, in all the tissues, the nucleus of the original cells remaining. The nucleus, which in the early cell seemed to be the centre wherefrom the vital processes were governed, and wherein the power of self-nurture had its site, appears in all the succeeding history, however much the cell may change, to exercise some of its old influences ; to radiate to its close vicinity the creative power which it displayed when the cells were originally transformed, in producing from indifferent material the substance of muscle, or aught else, according to its kind. The tissues which arise by this development from cells are very various in their character; each kind is endowed with physical and vital powers suitable to its use in the body. In some of the substances of which the body is composed the cellular form is perma- nent, being retained at all periods of life; such are cartilage, clothing and lining cuticle, blood, and some others. In the class of connective and supporting tissues, which includes bone, tendon, and membrane, part of the cells remain m a modified shape, whilst others are transformed into fibres. In yet a third group of structures, as muscular and nervous fibre, the nuclei of the original cells alone remain in the fully-developed tissue. These elementary tissues enter into different combinations with each other to constitute the organs of the body; each tissue brings its proper characters and powers, its rate of vital change, and liabili- ties to disorder and decay. Many of them are very generally distributed through the body, and the entire quantity of any tissue, when regarded as a whole, is called a system; thus all the nervous tissue in the body taken together is called the nervous system, all the muscles the muscular system, all the vessels the vascular system, and so forth. Everywhere in the lx)dy the component parts of any system present the same structure, but there are some organs, as for instance the eye and ear, which contain tissues peculiar to themselves. These special tissues are however very small in amount, compared with the quantity in which any of the tissues composing systems are present. Some of the systems offer mutual resemblances both in structiu'e and properties, so as to prove then- affinity to each other: such a relation exists m that group of systems to whose part falls the perfomiance of the more strictly mechanical offices in the body. The osseous system- for support; the ligamentous system for con- necting the bones; the cartilages whicli supply elasticity in such situations as they occupy; the tendons and membranes which o-nide the muscular power to the bones ; and lastly, the areolar tissue, a