HEAT rROPOIlTIONATE TO RESPIRATION. 189 slow and feeble, tlie quantity of oxygen consumed is small, and the temperature low; when, on the contrary, the circulation is rapid, and the respiration energetic, the quantity of oxygen consumed is large, and the temperature proportionably high. Whatever diminishes the quantity of air that flows to the lungs, and the quantity of blood that circulates through them, diminishes the temperature. Malformation of the heart, in consequence of which a quantity of blood is sent to the system without passing through the lungs^ as in the individuals termed Ceruleans—disease of the lungs, by which the access of air to the air vesicles is obstructed, as in asthma—are morbid states invariably attended with a diminution of the temperature. When a warm-blooded animal is placed in an elevated temperature, its consumption of oxygen is comparatively small; when it is placed in a cold atmosphere, and the production of a large quantity of heat is necessary to maintain its temperatm-e at its natural standard, its consmnption of oxygen is proportionably large; accordingly, it is established by direct experiment that the same animal consumes a much larger quantity of oxygen in winter than in summer. Due allowance being made for the difference in their bulk, young- animals consume less oxygen than adults ; and they have a less jiower of generating heat. Different species of young animals differ from each other in their power of generating heat, and the closest relation is observable between the difference in their power of consuming oxygen and that of generating heat. Puppies and kittens require so small a quantity of oxygen for supporting life, that they may be wholly deprived of this gas for twenty minutes, without material injury, while adult animals of the same species perish when deprived of it only for four minutes. As long as these young creatures retain the power of sustaining life for so protracted a period without oxygen, they are wholly incapable of maintaining their own temperature; on free expo- sure to air, even in summer, the heat of their body sinks rapidly, and if this exposure be continued long, they perish of cold. In like manner, young sparrows and other birds which are naked when hatched, con- sume little oxygen, and are incapable of maintaining their temperature; but can support life when deprived of oxygen much longer than adult birds of the same species; while young partridges which are able to retain their own temperature at the period of quitting the shell, die when deprived of oxygen as rapidly as the adult bird. The state of hybernation illustrates in the same striking manner the relation between respiration and the generation of heat. One of the most remarkable phenomena connected with this curious state, is the reduction, sometimes even the apparent suspension, of respiration; and in all cases of hybernation, the respiratory function is performed in a feeble manner, and only at distant intervals. Exactly in proportion to