PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 182 medium may change. Hence animals are divided into two great classes, the cold-blooded and the warm-blooded. The temperature of the cold-blooded is lower than that of the warm-blooded, and it varies .with the heat of the surrounding medium; the temperature of the warm-blooded is higher than that of the cold-blooded, and it remains nearly at the same fixed point, however the heat of the surrounding medium may change. The temperature natural to the higher animals differs somewhat according to their class. The temperature of the bird is the highest, and is pretty uniformly about 103° or 104° ; that of the mammiferous quadruped is 100° or 101°; that of the human species is 97° or 98°. The temperature of the animal body is not precisely the same in every part of it. The ball of the thermometer introduced within the rectum of the dog stood at 100-2° ; within the substance of the liver at 100f° ; within the right ventricle of the heart at 101°, and within the cavity of the stomach at 101°. In the brain of the lamb it stood at 104° ; in the rectum at 105°; in the right ventricle of the heart, and in the substance of the liver and of the lungs, at 106°; and in the left ventricle of the heart at 107°. The temperature natural to the human body is 98°. When the human body is surrounded by an atmosphere at the temperature of 30°, it must have its heat rapidly extracted by the cold medium; yet the temperature of the body, however long it remain exposed to such a degree of cold, does not sink, but keeps steadily at its o^mi standard. But animals which inhabit the polar regions are often exposed to a cold 40° below zero. The temperature of Melville Island is so low dming five months of the year that mercury congeals, and the temperature is sometimes 46° below zero; yet the musk oxen, the rein deer, the white hares, the polar foxes, and the white bears which abound in it maintain their temperature steadily at their own natm-al standard. The power which the higher animal possesses of resisting heat is still more remarkable than its power of resisting cold. On takin<y rabbits and guinea-pigs from the temperature of 50°, and introducing them very rapidly to the temperature of 90°, it was found that the animals acquired only two or three degrees of heat. How different the result when the cold-blooded animal is subjected to the same experi- ment ! The temperature of the surrounding air being 45°, a ther- mometer introduced into the stomach of a frog rose to 49°. The frof>- being then put into an atmosphere made warm by heated water, and allowed to stay there twenty minutes, the thermometer on bemg now introduced into the stomach rose to 64°. But the human body may be actually placed in a temperature of 60° above that of boiling water, not only without sustaining the slio-htest injm-y, but without having its own temperature raised excepting by two