rniLosorHY ov health. ]28 forced into them from the heart, tlie walls of the arteries recoil by their elasticity returning upon the current within them the same amount of force as was employed in their distension. By this beautiful contrivance, the suddenness and violence of the heart's impulse upon the smaller and weaker vessels is most favourably mitigated, for a moiety of the force of the heart is expended in dilating the greater arteries. This force is not wasted, but returns to reinforce the circulating power just when in the interval between the heart's beats it is most needed. It will be plainly seen that elarticity is required principally in the neighbourhood of the heart; for in pro- portion as the wave passes on further from the heart, will the sudden- ness and force of its impulse be brought down through the elasticity of the vessels already traversed, so that when the current arrives at the small arteries, it has become almost uniform, and by the time it reaches the thin-walled and delicate capillaries its flow is even and equable. In accordance with this decrease in the requirement of elasticity, the arteries, as they diminish in size, have in their middle coat a smaller iind smaller proportion of elastic fibres; meanwhile, how^ever, the j)ro- portion of the muscular fibres of the middle coat increases as the vessel's size lessens, so that the middle coat of small arteries still maintains a substantial thickness. The muscular part of the arterial wall, by its contraction and relaxation, narrows or widens the channel of the vessel, so as to admit a larger or smaller volume of blood into the territory nourished fi'om it. Such alterations of the calibre of arteries are rendered necessary by the variation in the activity of organs fed through them; for the organs consume blood in proportion as they are active, and they demand blood in proportion as they consume it; so that in its full w^ork an organ will need much more blood than when in repose. To accommodate the greater flow of blood, the arteries of an active organ dilate through the relaxation of the muscular fibres of the middle coat, and when the organ resumes the quiet state, those fibres contracting close the calibre of the vessel in upon the diminished current. To convey the influence which in this way duly adjusts the size of the vessel to the temporary requirements of its field of distri- bution, there are Httle nerves which follow the arteries, and branch into their substance to reach the muscle in their wall: these nerves belong to the sympathetic system. The inner coat of the artery is thin, and made of elastic membrane, lined in the greater arteries by a covering of epithelium, such as is found where much friction exists; it is tougher than the other coats, so that vfhen the surgeon ties an artery, the tightened string will divide the outer and middle coats, but the inner will resist successfully. The vein, the tube that carries back the blood to the heart, is com-