CONSEQUENCES TO THE DISCOVERER OF ^^IIE CIRCULATION. K{3 arc moral truths to be discovered, expounded, and enforced, wliicb, if any man bad now penetration enough to see them, and courage enough to express them, would cause him to be regarded by the present generation with horror and detestation. Perhaps, during those eight years of re-examination, the discoverer of the circulation sometimes endeavoured in imagination to trace the effect which the stupendous fact at the knowledge of which he had arrived would have on the progress of his favourite science; and, it may be, the hope and the expectation occasionally arose that the inestimable benefit he was about to confer on his fellow-men would secure to him some portion of their esteem and confidence. What must have been his disap- pointment when he found, after the publication of his tract, that the little practice he had had as a physician, by degrees fell off. He was too speculative, too theoretical, not practical. Such was the view taken even by his friends. His enemies saw in his tract nothing but indications of a presumptuous mind that dared to call in question the revered authority of the ancients; and some of them saw, more- over, indications of a malignant mind, that conceived and defended doctrines which, if not checked, would undermine the very founda- tions of morality and religion. When the evidence of the truth became irresistible, then these persona suddenly turned round and said, that it was all known before, and that the sole merit of this vaunted discoverer consisted in having circulated the circulation. The pun was not fatal to the future fame of this truly great man, nor even to the gi-adual though slow return of the public confidence during his own time; for he lived to attain the summit of reputa- tion. It is then indubitably established that the whole blood of the body in successive streams is collected aiid concentrated at the heart. The object of the accumulation of a certain mass of it at this organ is to subject it to the action of a strong muscle, and thereby to determine its transmission with adequate force and precision through the different sets of capillary vessels. In the accomplishment of this object the heart performs a twofold action ; that of contraction and that of dilatation. The auricles contract and thereby diminish their cavities, then dilate and thereby expand them, and the one action alternates with the other. There is the like alternate contraction and dilatation of the ventricles. The "first action is termed systole, the second diastole, and both are performed with force. When the heart is laid open to view in a living animal, and its movements are carefully observed, it is apparent that the two auricles contract together; that the two ventricles contract together; that these motions alternate with each other, and that they proceed in