18 PIIILOSOrHY OF HEALTH. adjustment in tlie constitution of oui- frame which is well deserving of attention. - The principal organs by which the organic processes are performed, are placed in the cavities of the chest and abdomen. They are presided over by that portion of the nervous system which is termed the ganglionic, or organic system. Among the peculiarities of this system, one of the most remarkable is, that it is, in itself, destitute of feeling. Sensibihty is inseparably associated with the idea com- monly formed of a nerve. But the nervous system consists of two portions; one presiding over sensation and voluntary motion, hence called the sentient and motor portion; the other destitute of sen- sation, but presiding over all the movements by which the organic processes are carried on, hence called the organic portion. The influence of the organic nerves is essential to the organic processes. If the communication between an organic nerve and an organ be interrupted, the function of the organ, whatever it be, is arrested. Without its organic nerves the stomach cannot secrete gastric juice; the consequence is, the aliment is undigested. Without its organic nerves the liver cannot secrete bile ; the consequence is, that the process of digestion stops, and the nutritive part of the aliment is incapable of being separated from its excrementitious portion. The organic nerves encompass the great trunks of the blood-vessels that convey the material of nutriment, that is, arterial blood, to the organs. In all its ramifications through an organic organ, an arterial vessel is accompanied by its organic nerves, so that, wherever the arterial capillary branch goes, secreting and nourishing, there goes, inseparably united with it, an organic nerve, exciting and governing. But this nerve neither feels nor communicates feeling; hence it can impart no consciousness to the operation of any process dependent upon it. Yet there is not one of these processes that does not exert, during every moment we are awake, an influence over consciousness. How? By a special process, as curious in its nature as it is im- portant in its result. Branches of sentient nerves are transmitted from the animal to the organic system, and from the organic to the animal; and an mtimate communication is established between the two classes. The mode in which this communication is efiected is clearly shown by the communicatmg branches that unite the two great nervous centres, the sentient and the non-sentient. Each sentient (spinal) nerve before it goes out to the animal organs, to which it is destined to communicate sensation, sends off two branches to each ganglion of the sympathetic or organic (non-sentient) system. Branches are equally sent off from the ganglionic to the spinal system. The sentient mix and mingle with the insentient nerves, accompany