PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 4 to a jjlant. In a plant the roots are spread out in the soil. In an animal they are spread out over the inner surface of the alimentary canal. The plant fixed to one spot must have aU its food brought to it, since it cannot move fi'om place to place in search of it. It spreads its roots in the soil, it extends its branches verdant with leaves to the sun, air, and rain. In thfe manner it is always in contact with its food, and with the physical agents, or stimuli, which enable it to convert its food into nourishment. But the animal endowed with sensation, and with the power of moving from place to place at the impulse of its feeling, could not in this manner be put in contact with its food. The possession of these higher faculties imposed the necessity of modifying the position of its vegetative organs. It became indis- pensable to reflect its roots inwards, and to provide an internal cavity for the reception of its food, over the surface of which its internal roots might expand. By this contrivance the animal, in the exercise of its faculty of locomotion, is kept as constantly and completely in contact with its food as the plant which is fixed to one spot. Wherever it goes it carries a supply of nutriment about with it, and no change of place interrupts or suspends the contact of its roots with its food. Hence the possession of an internal stomach, in connection with an external aperture or mouth, is a general and distinctive character of an animal. Nor is the value of this distinction lessened, by the uncertainty of the mode of nutrition in certain beings low in the organic scale. The dis- tinction holds with regard to all creatm-es, whose organisation is sufficiently unequivocal to bring them indubitably within the animal kingdom. 3. The substances which sustain life in the two classes are so widely difierent, as to aff"ord another fundamental distinction between them. Plants subsist on inorganic substances, which they convert into organic matter; animals, on the matter thus prepared for them. No animal can live on inorganic elements or compoimds ; it must have organisms or parts of organisms. Carbonic acid, ammonia, and water, are the essential constituents of the food of ^ilants. The food of animals consists of substances elaborated out of these inorganic compounds, by the vital processes of the plant. Standing on the confines of the organic world, plants absorb inorganic elements, and convert them into organic compounds. They are the creators of organic matter. Animals cannot create such matter. They can appropriate and modify it when formed; they can carry on with it a series of advancing combinations far beyond the powers of plants; but they cannot take a single step in the process, for they cannot take the first, without the previous assistance of the plant. The vegetable kingdom, then, is a vast laboratory, in unceasino- operation, for the creation and elaboration of substances of primary