MU8CLES OF THE TOES-ADJUSTMENTS. 1-21 of preserving steadily their relative situation to tlie heel. The weight of the body is thus sustained on a series of arches, from which it is, in succession, transmitted to the ground, where it ultimately rests upon a tripod: forms known and selected as the best adapted to afford support, and to give security of position. Columns of compact bone superimposed one upon another, and united at different i)oints by bands of prodigious strength, form the pillars of support. But these bony columns never touch each other; are never in actual contact; are all separated by layers of elastic matter which, while they assist in binding the columns together, enable them to move one upon another, as upon so many pliant springs. 'J'he layers of cartilage interposed between the several vertebra?; the layer of cartilage interposed Ijetween the vertebral column and the pelvis; the layer of cartilage that lines the acetabulum and that covers the head of the femur; the layer of cartilage that covers the lower extremity of the femur and the uj^per extremity of the tibia and fibula and the tarsus; the successive layers of cartilage interposed between the several bones of the tarsus; and, finally, the layer of cartilage that covers both the tarsal and the digital extremities of the metatarsal bones; are so many special provisions to prevent the weight of the body from being transmitted to the ground with a shock; and, at the same time, so many barriers established between the ground and the spinal cord, the brain and the soft and tender organs contained in the thoracic and abdominal cavities, to prevent these organs from being injured by the reaction of the ground upon the body. The excellence of this mechanism is seen in its results ; in contemplating " from what heights we can leap—to what heights we can spring—to what dis- tances we can bound—how s^^dftly we can run—how fii'mly we can stand—how nimbly we can dance—and yet how perfectly we can balance ourselves upon the smallest surfaces of support!" It is necessary, in order to complete this general view of the structure of the human body, and of the combination and arrange- ment of its various parts, to denote the several regions into which, for the purpose of describing with accuracy the situation and relation of its more important organs, the body is divided. It is not needful to the present purpose to describe the regions of the head, because its internal cavity contains only one organ, the brain, and its external •divisions do not differ materially from those which are common and familiar; but the abdomen is mapped out into regions, of which it is very important to have an exact knowledge, which may be acquired by the study of Fig. 89.