MOTIONS OF RESPIEATION. 155 of the cells in exchange : through this capillary web the blood reaches the fine commencing roots of the pulmonary vein, which rises from the web just as the arteries sink into it, and by uniting and reuniting gather themselves up into two great trunks, which come out of each lung (Fig, 48, pul. vein) close to where the artery enters, and at once go into the left auricle in readiness to be again diffused through the body. In this way the air meets the blood. The object of the remaining portion of the respiratory apparatus is to produce those movements which must diive out the exhausted air and bring a fi'esh supply. This is accomplished by the mechanism and action of the thorax and diaphragm (Fig. 41). These organs, which act in concert, are so constructed and disposed, that when in action they give to the chest two alternate motions, one that by which its capacity is enlarged ; and the other that by which it is diminished. These alternate movements are called the motions of respiration. The motion by which the capacity of the chest is enlarged is termed the action of inspiration, and that by which it is diminished the action of expiration. The action of inspiration, or that by which the capacity of the chest is enlarged, is effected by the combined movements of the thorax and diaphragm; by the expansion of the thorax and by the descent of the diaphragm. The osseous portion of the thorax has been fully described. The chief boundaries of the cavity of the thorax before, behind, and at the sides, are osseous; below the boundary is muscular, being formed by the diaphragm (Fig 41). Externally tlie thorax is convex, and enveloped by muscle and skin ; internally it is concave, and lined by a continuation of the same mem- brane which envelops the lungs, the plem-a. But that portion of the pleura which lines the internal wall of the thorax is called tJie costal pleura (pleura costalis), in contradistinction to that which envelops the lungs, which is termed the pulmonary pleura, or pleura pulmonalis. By the costal pleura, a thin but firm and strong membrane, smooth, polished, and like all the membranes of its class, kept in a state of perpetual moistiu-e and suppleness, by a fluid secreted at its sm-face, the movements of the thorax are facilitated, at the same time that they are prevented from injuring the delicate organs contained it it. The moveable parts of the osseous portion of the thorax are the ribs and sternum. The ribs form a series of moveal)le arches, the convexity of the arches being outwards, and the whole being generally disposed in an oblique direction (Fig. 41), though the first rib springs from the ver- tebral column at nearly a right angle. The others slope downward suc- cessively more and more, and theii' forward ends are tui'ned up, whilst