PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 226 is borne along the surface of the duodenum is perfectly analogous to that by which it is transmitted from the stomach to the duodenum, irregular, sometimes in one direction, and sometimes in another, at one time commencing in one part of the organ, at another time in another, always slow, hut ultimately ijrogressive. As the chyme slowly advances through the upper part of the duodenum, the biliary and the pancreatic juices slowly distil into the lower portion of the organ. No appreciable change takes place in the chyme until it reaches the orifice of the clioledoch duct; but as soon as it comes in contact with this portion of the duodenum, the chyme suddenly loses its own sensible properties, and acquires those of the bile, especially its colom* and bitterness. But these properties are not long retained; a sjDonta- neous change soon takes place in the compound. It separates into a white fluid and into a yellow pulp. The white fluid is the nutritive part of the aliment; the yellow j)ulp is the excrementitious matter. This white fluid, the proper product of the digestive process, as far as it has yet advanced, is called chyle. If any portion of oil or fat have been contained in the food, the chyle is of a milk-white colour; if not, it is nearly transparent. It is of the consistence of cream, and it bears a close resemblance to cream in its sensible properties. It differs from chyme in being of a whiter colour, more pellucid, and of a thicker consistence : it differs also in its chemical nature, for, whereas chyme is acid, chyle is alkaline. Three fluids are mixed with the chyme in the duodenum, each of which contributes to the conversion of the chyme into chyle. First, the secretion of the duodenum itself, a solvent analogous to the gastric juice. Secondly, the secretion of the pancreas, a watery fluid holding in solution highly important principles, namely, a large quantity of albumen, a matter resembling casein, and different salts. Thirdly, the secretion of the liver, a compound fluid, consisting of water, mucus, and several peculiar animal matters, namely, resin, cholesterine, saponaceous soda, salts of the proper biliary acids (tam-o and glyco-cholic), colouring matters, osmazome, casein, and many salts. There cannot he a question that the secretion of the duodenum has a solvent power over the chyme analogous to that of the gastric juice. Some physiologists indeed maintain that the juice poured out from the inner surface of the duodenum is as powerful a solvent as the gastric juice. It is certain that substances which have escaped chymification in the stomach undergo that process in the duodenum, and that there is the closest analogy between the action of the duodenum on the chyme and that of the stomach on the crude food. The pancreatic secretion contains an animal substance very like the