PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 154 cessful, bears along with it the annoying matter. Of course, if the annoyance arises from the presence of an excess of mncus poured out by tlie hning membrane of the tubes, or by blood or other substances from within the lung, the intent and method of the proceedings are the same as in the case of unwelcome particles from without. The trachea then divides to form the bronchial tubes, much as the trunk of a tree spreads into branches (Fig. 77, 3, 7, 8) ; and as the root of a tree buries itself in smaller and smaller rootlets through- out the soil in which it grows, so the broncliial tubes by successive sub- divisions spread in the lung and carry air everywhere throughout its substance. This is parcelled out into small portions called lobules, separated from each other by a little areolar tissue, and each of these receives one of the smallest divisions of the bfonchial tubes, which upon entering the lobule loses all its proper structure ; the muscle, elastic tissue, and ciliated membrane disappear, and the continuation of the little tubes widening slightly opens freely on all sides into passages like itself, and they again open freely into bubble-like cells, the shape of which is made polyhedral by their mutual coaptation and pressure. The walls of the passage and cells are extremely thin, and upon them is spread out a close web of minute vessels, the surface of which is exposed to the air, always filling the cells of the lung. Though each cell is so small as to be only just -sdsible to the naked eye, yet their number is so vast that their united surface would, it is calculated, extend over the body thirty times. It is in these cells that the blood is purified from the volatile refuse which it has collected in its course through the body. The bronchial tubes are mere air channels, wonderfully fitted with means of defending themselves from the presence of hurtful substances, first by an ever-w^atchful guard at the entrance, which has power instantaneously to close the strong gates of the glottis, and then by an admirably contrived apparatus for sending back such minor intruders as are not significant enough to provoke the glottis to close. The blood, after circulatmg through the body, arrives exhausted and impure at the auricle of the right ov pulmonary side of the heart (Fig. 70), and passes from this receptive cavity into the right ventricle (Fig. 70), from whence it is driven through the pulmonary artery into either lung : the great trunk of this artery parts into two large branches, one of which runs close to the bronchial tube into each lung, where the blood-vessel follows the air-vessel (Fig. 48), dividing along with it, and reaching with it in smaller and smaller branches away to the air cells; all roimd these the blood- vessels spread in a close web of delicate capillaries, the walls of which are so thin that the vital air freely permeates them, and gains access to the blood, whilst the volatile impurities of the blood escape to the air