87 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. the jar. A special provision is made against this evil, in the structure of the bones of the cranium, by the interposition between its two com- pact plates of the spongy substance called diploe, and this is sufficient to prevent mischief in ordinary cases. A great degree of violence applied directly to the head is not common : thousands of people pass through hfe without ever having suffered from it on a single occasion: but every hom, in the ordinary movements of the body, and much more in the violent movements which it occasionally makes, a degree of force is applied to the spinal column, and through it transmitted to the head, such as, did it produce a proportionate shock, would inevitably and instantly destroy both spinal cord and brain. The evil is obviated 23artly by the elastic, .and partly by the non-clastic properties of the matter interposed between the several layers of compact bone. By means of the elastic property of this matter, the head rides upon the summit of the column as upon a pliant spring, while the canal of the spinal cord remains secure and uninvaded. By means of the soft and pulpy portion of this matter, the vibrations excited in the compact bone are absorbed, point by point, as they are produced : as many layers of this soft and pulpy substance, so many points of absorj)tion of the tremors excited in the compact bone; so many barriers against the possibility of the transmission of a shock to the delicate nervous substance. Alike admirable is the mechanism by which the separate pieces oi' the column are joined together. If but one of the bones were to slip off its corresponding bone, or to be displaced in any degree, in- curable paralysis, followed ultimately by death, or instantaneous death, would happen; for pressure on the spinal cord in a certain part of its course is incompatible with the power of voluntary motion, and with the continuance of life for any protracted term; and in another part of its course, with the maintenance of life beyond a few moments. To prevent such consequences, so great is the strength, so perfect the attachment, so unconquerable the resistance, of that portion of the intervertebral substance i, Common antuTim- lig.-.nKnt; /•11T PI ^' inteiveitebial substance, whicll surrounds the edge OI the bodies OI the The anterior ligament is re- vertebraj, that it will allow the bone itself to nioveJ to exhibit (;5) the or,, - ' • 11 -rr 1-1 "o"''^'^ passnig under it. give way rather than yield. Yet such is the importance of seciuity to this portion of the frame, that it is not trusted to one expedient alone, adequate as that might seem. Be- sides the intervertebral substance, there is another distinct provision for the articulation of the bodies of the vertebrcT. Commencing at