34 riilLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. to the numLer of definite substances they are callable of generating, each marked by a perfect individuahty of its own. These elements in combining are fm-ther distinguished by the pecuHar mode of then* association, which is altogether difierent from that of inorganic bodies. They are characterized by what may be termed a binary plan of combination: union takes place between pairs of elements; the compounds so produced again imite themselves to other bodies in the same manner, so that the most complicated organic compounds are constructed by this repeated pairing on the part of their constituents. No such arrangement can be traced in inorganic bodies, the elements of which are bound up together into a single whole, which can enter into combination with other substances, and be thence disengaged with properties unaltered. The power of tlms forming complex combinations is greatly aided by the action of the Incidental Elements, which exert an all-unportant influence over the chemical unions and disunions of organic substances. It is conceived that these elements are endowed with a jjower of repulsion, and that, being universally diffused through organic matter, they retain it by virtue of this power in a state of fluidity, or of solubility, and in the same way they prevent it from assuming a crystalline structm"e. Thus in the familiar process of cheese-making, the curd which contains the casein, or cheesy matter, is separated from the whey, in consequence of the forma- tion of a little acid derived from the milk sugar in the whey, just sufficient in quantity to neutralise the alkaline matter which holds the casein in solution, and the alkali being thus withdrawn, the casein is no longer capable of maintaining its fluid state, and is precipitated as a solid substance. Mr. Rainey has also shown that the presence of phosphate of lime is necessary to prevent the carbonate from assuming a crystalline form. Proximate principles are either vegetable or animal, the distinctive characters of which may be thus briefly stated:— Vegetable Proximate Principles.—These consist for the most part of three only of the essential elements, namely, carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen; they are therefore ternary compounds, composed generally of carbon combined with the elements of water. Not that the fourth element, nitrogen, is absent from the vegetable kingdom. It exists in every plant, and is absolutely essential to its health and vigour, and to the performance of some of its most important functions ; but still as a constituent it forms but a small part of vegetable substance. Animal Proximate Principles.—These are generally composed of all the four essential elements. They are therefore quaternary