I'HiLosoiMiY OF hi<:alth. 206 be the most advanced in the smallest pieces, which are often completely softened, while the larger are scarcely acted upon at all. At the same time that, by the operation of mastication, the aliment undergoes mechanical division, it imbibes a quantity of fluid derived from various sources, 1. From the membrane which lines the internal surface of the mouth, and which affords a covering to all the parts contained in it. 2. From numerous minute glands placed in clusters about the cheeks, gums, lips, palate, and tongue. Each of these glands is fur- nished with its own little duct, which, piercing the mucous membrane, opens into the cavity of the mouth. From these glands is derived the fluid with which the interior of the mouth is lubricated. It consists of a glutinous, adhesive, transparent fluid, of a Kght-grey tmt, salt taste, and shghtly alkahne nature, termed mucus. Fig. 85. C 5 4» View of the parotid gland, witli the muscles of the face. 1, parotid gland; 2, parotid duct; 3,masseter muscle; 4, buccinator ; 5, triangularis, or depressor of the angle of the mouth ; 6, depressor of the lower lip; 7, orbicularis, or circular muscle of the mouth ; 8, great zygomatic, or the distorter of the mouth, as in laughing; 9, elevator of the angle of the mouth ; 10, elevator of the upper lip, and wing of the nose; 11, compressor of the airtilage of the nose ; 12, orbicularis, or circular muscle of the eyelids; 13, occipito-frontalis; elevator of the eyelids ; motor of the scalp, &c., an important muscle of expression ; 14, tendinous portion of the occipito-frontalis; 15, elevator of the ear. 3. From six large glands placed symmetrically, three on each side, termed the salivary glands, namely, the parotid (Fig. 85, l), situated before the ear ; the submaxillary, situated beneath the lower jaw ; and the sublingual, situated immediately under the tongue. Each of these glands is provided with a duct (Fig. 85, 2), by which it pours the fluid it elaborates, called saliva, into the mouth. The other fluids of the mouth are always mixed with the saliva, and are all commonly included under that name. The secretion of these fluids is unceasing, and they pass into the stomach by successive acts of deglutition at nearly regular intervals ; so that the stomach, after it has been some time without food, contains a considerable