USES OF THE BILE. 227 ptyalin of saliva, and which possesses the same power of dissolving starchy matter; it further acts on the fatty matter of the chyme, emiihifijinfjf or diwiiimg the fat into exceedingly fine particles so minute that the high powers of the microscope are unable to detect them individually; these diffused give the milkiness to the chyle, and through their smallness they can pass within the absorbent villi. The bile, the most complex secretion in the body, accomplishes manifold purposes. 1. Like the j)ancreatic juice, bile has the property of emulsifying fat; consequently, when oily or fatty matters are contained in the food, it powerfully assists in converting these substances into chyle. 2. The excrementitious portion of the bile is highly stimulant. The contact of its bitter resin with the mucous membrane of the intestines excites the secretion of that membrane; hence the extreme diyness of the excrementitious matter when the choledocli duct of an anunal has been tied; and hence the same dryness of this matter in jaundice, when the bile, instead of being conveyed by its appropriate duct into the duodenum, is taken up by the absorbents, poured into the blood, and distributed over the system. 3. The bitter resin of the bile stimulates to contraction the fibres of the muscular tunic of the intestines : by the contraction of these fibres the excrementitious matter is conveyed in due time out of the body; hence the constipated state of the bowels invariably induced when the secretion of the bile is deficient, or when its natural course into the intestines is obstructed. 4. The excrementitious portion of the bile exerts an antiseptic in- fluence over the excrementitious portion of the food during its passage through the intestines. In animals in which the choledoch duct has been tied, the excrementitious portion of the food is invariably found much fui-ther advanced in decay than in the natural state. This is also uniformly the case in the human body in proportion as the secre- tion of the bile is deficient, or its passage to the intestine is obstructed. Such appear to be the real purposes accomplished by the bile in the process of digestion. Several uses have been assigned to it, in pro- moting this process, which it does not serve. Seeing the instantaneous change wrought in the chyme on its contact with the bile, it was reasonable to suppose that the main use of tlie bile was to convert chyme into chyle, a purpose apparently of sufficient importance to account for the immense size of the gland constructed for its elabora- tion. The soundness of this conclusion appeared to be established by direct experiment. Mr. Brodie placed a ligature around the choledoch duct of an animal: after the operation the animal ate as usual: on kiUing the animal some time after it had taken a meal, and exammmg the body immediately after death, it was clear that chymification h.d