DIFFEKENCES IN ACTION OF ORGANIC AND ANIMAL LIFE. 9 receive pure atmospheric air, and emit a noxious gas generated by the processes of life; and the action of the skin, which is always tran- spii-mg and always absorbing; and the action of the nutritive organs, which are always at work to compensate the loss which the system is always sustaining. Of a continuity of action hke this the organs of the animal hfe are incapable. No voluntary muscle can maintain its action beyond a given time; no effort of the vnR can keep it in a state of uninterrupted contraction ; relaxation must alternate with contraction; and even this alternate acticm cannot go on long without rest. No organ of sense can continue to receive impression after impression without fatigue. By protracted exercise the ear loses its sensibility to sound, the eye to light, the tongue to savour, and the touch to the qualities of bodies about which it is conversant. The brain cannot carry on its intellectual operations with vigour beyond a certain period; the trains of ideas with which it works become, after a time, indistinct and confused; nor is it capable of reacting with energy until it has remained in a state of rest proportioned to the dm'ation of its preceding activity. And this rest is sleep. Sleep is the repose of the senses, the rest of the muscles, then- support and sustenance. What food is to the organic, sleep is to the animal life. Nutrition can no more go on without ahment, than sensation, thought, and motion without sleep. But it is the animal life only that sleeps; death would be the consequence of the slumber of the organic life. If, when the brain betook itself to repose, the engine that moves the blood ceased to supply it \vith its vital fluid, never again would it awake. The animal life is active only during a portion of its existence ; the activity of the organic life, with the exception just stated, is never suspended ; and in order to endow its organs with the power of continuing this constant action, they are rendered iacapable of fatigue : fatigue, on the contrary, is inseparable fi'om the action of the organs of the animal life; fatigue imposes the necessity of rest, rest is sleep, and sleep is renovation. 3. Between all the functions of the organic life there is a close relation and dependence. Without the circulation there can be no secretion; without secretion, no digestion; without digestion, no nu- trition ; without nutrition, no new supply of circulating matter, and so through the entire circle. But the functions of the animal life are not thus dependent on each other. One of the circle may be disordered without much disturbance of the rest; and one may cease altogether, while another continues in vigorous action. Sensation may be lost, while motion continues; and the muscle may contract though it cannot feel. One organ of sense may sleep while the rest are awake. One intellectual faculty may be in operation while others slumber. The muscle of volition may act, while there is no consciousness of will.