WHITE MATTER—ACTION OF STIMULI. 315 the convolutions are only in a very early stage of their formation : they are merely mapped out by superficial fissm-es almost confined to the surface of the brain. At this time the relative proportion of grey matter in the spmal cord is nnich larger than it is in the brain. At this period the fvmctions of the true spinal cord are in full activity, building up and developing the structures of the body, while the true intellectual faculties are only just beginning to indicate their existence. As these latter progressively increase, and at last predominate over the former, the quantity of grey matter in the two centres is reversed; that in the spinal cord proportionally diminishes, that in the brain increases enormously. 4. The quantity of arterial blood with which the grey matter is supphed is a further confirmation of its relative unportance. An invariable test of the activity and energy of an organ is afforded by the quantity of arterial blood which is sent to it. The grey matter is so much more abundantly supplied with arterial blood than the white, that in minute injections of the cerebral sub- stance the grey becomes pink, while the white is only slightly tinged. 5. The white or fibrous matter of the nervous centres constitutes, on the other hand, an apparatus of conduction. When nervous force is generated in the grey matter, there must be some means of carrymg it out to the difierent parts of the body. This is the ofiice assigned to the white matter, the fibres of which are merely carriers, analogous in this respect to the electric vidres. 6. All the nervous centres are independent of each other. The ganglionic centre is independent of the spinal cord, and both are inde- pendent of the brain. Each has its own definite and strictly limited ofiice to perform, which it cannot give to another, and which cannot be supplied by another. 7. Yet they all mutually and most powerfully influence each other. They are placed in the closest union, and special, one might almost say anxious, provisions are made to cause them to work together, which they do in harmony so complete that the due action of one con- tributes to that of all the others, and one cannot sufier without a cor- res2)onding disturbance of the rest. 8. Nervous force cannot be developed without the presence of a stimulus. Some agent capable of making an impression upon, that is, exciting the powers of the nerve-fibres, must be in contact with them. These fibres are charged with force, but it is not set in action- until stimuli are applied. I will to move my arm. My vohtion is a sti- mulus, which, exciting the bram to action, causes it to send out by the volitional fibres a nervous force which they transmit to the voluntary muscles, on the reception of which these muscles arc mstantly roused