EXPIRATION AND INSPIRATION. 157 the inner ran downwards and backwards: in their action they pull towards that end which is nearer to the spine; and thus the external mtercostals, whose upper end is nearer the spine, pull the lower rib upwards, and so act in inspiration ; whilst the internal intercostals, whose lower end is nearer the spine, pull the upper rib downwards, and so act in expiration. Besides the muscles that move the ribs, and enlarge the circum- lerence of the chest, a great agent in respiration is formed by the moveable floor of the thorax, which is called diaphragm or midriff" (Fig. 4:1, g, c, h). This is a great expanded muscle, so disposed as to form an arched roof to the abdomen, the convexity of which extends up into the chest. It is firmly attached to the spme by long descending fleshy colunms (Fig, 41, /(), and also all round the lower border of the bony thorax to the ends of the ribs by fleshy fibres. Its middle part is a sheet of strong membrane, and with its edges the muscle from the spine and ribs is continuous, so that altogether the arch is fleshy at the circumference and tendinous in the middle: when the muscular l)orders relax and lengthen, they allow the middle tendon to rise as high into the thorax as the fifth rib (see Fig. 41), and by this means they decrease the vertical capacity of the cavity of the chest; but when the muscular borders contract and shorten, they draw down the central tendon towards the edge of the ribs, and thus enlarge greatly the capacity of the chest. The pericardium or bag which contains the heart is firmly fixed to the upper surface of the diaphragm (Fig 47), and so is drawn down with it: thus the heart, \\ hich lies between the lungs and below their root, is made to accommodate by its descent the expanding lungs : when the diaphi'agm descends it presses on the contents of the abdomen. These make room for themselves by distending the soft walls, the muscles of which, when the diaphragm has finished acting, and has relaxed, come into play in their turn, and forcing back the viscera return them upon it, and so push it up into the thorax, whence to descend again at the next insi)iration. The abdominal muscles then counteract the diaphragm, and they operate in forcing the air out of the chest not only so, but also by pulling down the ribs, to which they are directly attached: in thus emptying the thorax they are aided by the elasticity of the lungs and bronchial tubes, and also by that of the cartilages of the ribs, wliich are twisted in the inspiratory eiibrt and recoil at its cessation. Such is the mechanism by which the capacity of the thorax is alternately enlarged and diminished in the two alternate states of inspu-ation and expiration, and the mechanism thus adjusted works in the following mode. Expiration succeeding to the state of inspii-ation, the ribs descend,