1() PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. CHAPTEK III. Ultimate object of organisation and life—Sources of pleasure—Special provision by which the organic organs influence consciousness and afford pleasure—Point at which the organic organs cease to aftect consciousness, and why—Tlie animal appetites: tlio senses: the intellectual faculties: tlie selfish and sympathetic affections : the moral and religious faculties—Pleasure the direct, the ordinary, and the gratuitous result of the action of the organs—Pleasure conducive to the develop- ment of the organs, and to the continuance of their action—Progress of human knowledge—Progress of human happiness. The object of structure is the production of function. Of the two functions combined in the living animal, one is wholly subservient to the other. To build up the apparatus of the animal life, and to maintain it in a condition fit for performing its functions, is the sole object of the existence of the organic life. What then is the object of the animal life ? That object, whatever it be, must be the ultimate end of organisation, and of all the actions of which it is the seat and the instrument. Two functions, sensation and voluntary motion, are combined in the animal life; of these the latter is subservient to the former: voluntary motion is the servant of sensation, and exists only to obey its com- mands. Is sensation, then, the ultimate object of organisation ? Simple sensation cannot be an ultimate object, because it is invariably at- tended with a further result; for sensation is either pleasm-able or painful. Every sensation terminates in a pleasure or a pain. Pleasure or pain, the last event in the series, must then be the final end. All sentient beiugs are thus placed under the dominion of two great powers, pleasure and pain. During eveiy moment of consciousness they are under the influence of one or the other of these powers. We cannot conceive of a sentient being who, as long as he is sentient, is not, in a greater or less degree, either enjoying or sufibring. The state of pleasure or of pain, then, being that in which every other state of consciousness terminates, must be the ultimate object of sentient existence. Is a state of pain the ultimate object designed and secured ? Is this state the ordained and the actual result of the action of sentient organs ? That cannot be; for the production of pain is the indirect, never the direct, the extraordinary, never the ordinary, result of the actions of life. It is clear therefore that the dominion over sentient existence is not given to pain: it must then have been assigned to