ir)2 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. pints. The latter is about the average quantity caj^able of being inspired by pubHc singers. But these measurements relate to the greatest volume of air which the lungs are capable of receiving, on the most forcible inspiration which it is possible to make, after they have been emptied by forcible expi- ration, and consequently express the quantity received in extraordinary, not in ordinary inspiration. The quantity received at an inspii'ation easy, natural, and free from any great effort, may be two pints and a half; but the quantity received at an ordinary inspiration, made without any effort at all, is, according to former observations which referred to the old Winchester measure, about one pint. The quantity of air expelled from the Imig by an ordinary exj^iration is probably a very little less than that received by an ordinary inspiration. No one is able by a voluntary effort to expel the whole contents of the lungs. Observation and experiment lead to the conclusion that the lungs, when moderately distended, contain at a mediiun about twelve pmts of air. As one pint is inhaled at an ordinary inspbation, and somewhat less than the same volume is expelled at an ordinaiy expiration, there remain present in the Imigs, at a minimum, eleven pints of air. There is one act of respiration to four pulsations of the heart; and, as in the ordinary state of health there are seventy-two pulsations, so there are eighteen respirations in a minute, or 25,920 in the twenty-four hours. About two ounces of blood are received by the heart at each dilata- tion of the auricles; about the same quantity is expelled from it at each contraction of its ventricles ; consequently, as the heart dilates and contracts seventy-two times in a minute, it sends thus often to the lungs, there to be acted upon by the air, two ounces of blood. It is estimated by Haller that 10,527 grains of blood occupy the same space as 10,000 grains of water, so that if one cubic inch of water weigh 253 grains, the same bulk of blood will weigh 266^ grains. It is ordinarily estimated that on an average one circuit of the blood is performed in 150 seconds; but it is shown that the quantity of air always present in the lungs contains precisely a sufficient quantity of oxygen to oxygenate the blood, while flowing at the ordmary rate of 72 contractions of the heart per mmute,^for the exact space of 160 seconds. It is therefore highly probable'that this interval of time, 160 seconds, is the exact period in which the blood performs one cncuit, and not 150 seconds, as former observations had assigned. If tliis be so, then 540 circuits are performed in the twenty-four hours; that is, there are tlu'ee complete cu'culations of the blood through the body in every eight minutes of time. But it has been shown that the weight of the blood is to that of