138 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. never greater than the force employed to compress or condense, and the moment this power is expended all capacity of motion is at an end. But the heart produces a force equal to the pressure of sixty pounds by the gentlest application of a bland fluid. Here no force is communicated to be again given out, as in every mechanical moving power; but it is new power, power really and properly generated; and this power is the result of vital action, and is never in any case the result of action that is not vital. The heart projects the blood with a given force into the arterial tubes. The arteries in the living body are always filled to distension by the quantity of blood that is in them. It has been shown that the elasticity of their coats is such as to give to them, even after death, the form of open hollow cylinders. By virtue of their elasticity they react upon their contents with a force exactly proportioned to the degree of their distension, that is, with a force at least adequate to keep them always open and rigid. These open tubes, already filled to distension, and somewhat beyond it, receive at every contraction of the heart a forcible injection of a new wave of blood. The first efiect of the injection of this new wave into a tube previously full to distension, is to cause the current to proceed by jerks or jets, each jerk or jet corresponding to the contraction of the heart. And, accordingly, by this jet-like motion, the flow of the blood in the artery is distinguished from that in the vein, in which latter vessel the current is an equal and tranquil stream. The second efiect of this new wave is to occasion some fui-ther distension of the already distended artery, and accordingly, when the vessel is exposed in a living animal, and its action carefully observed, a slight augmentation of its diameter is distinguishable at every contraction of the heart. This new wave while it distends must at the same time slightly elongate the vessel; cause its straight portions to bend a little, and its curved portions to bend still more; and consequently, in some situations, to lift it a Httle from its place, giving it a shght degree of locomotion;—and these two causes combined produce the pulse. When the finger is pressed gently on an artery, at the in- stant of the contraction of the heart, the vessel is felt to bound against the finger with a certain degree of force : this, as just stated, is owing to a slight distension of the vessel by the new wave of blood, together with a slight elongation of it, and a gentle rising fi'om its situation. The blood, in flowing through the arterial trunks and branches to the capillaries, through the arterial to the venous capillaries, and through the venous branches and trunks back to the heart, is exposed to numerous and powerful causes of retardation: such, for example, as the friction between the blood and the sides of the