207 DIGESTIVE ABSORBING SURFACE. exhibits its effects in the system more rapidly than if it had been taken into the stomach, and thence absorbed. Vegetable and animal matter in a state of decomposition generates a poison, which when diffused in the atmosphere, and transmitted to the lungs in the inspired air, produces various diseases of the most destructive kind. The exhalations arising from marshes, bogs, and other uncultivated and undi-ained places, constitute a poison of a vegetable natm-e, which produces principally intermittent fever or ague. Exhalations accumulating in close, ill-ventilated, and crowded apartments in the coniSned situations of densely-populated cities, where no attention is paid to the removal of putrefying and excremen- titious matters, constitute a poison chiefly of an animal natm'e, which produces continued fever of the typhoid character. It is proved by fatal experience that there are situations in which these putrefying matters, aided by heat and other peculiarities of climate, generate a poison so intense and deadly that a single inspiration of the air in w^hich they are diflfused is capable of producing instantaneous death; and that there are other situations in which a less highly concentrated poison accumulates, the inspiration of which for a few minutes pro- duces a fever capable of destroying life in from two to twelve hours. In dirty and neglected ships, in which especially the bilge-water is allowed to remam uncleansed; in damp, crowded, and filthy gaols; in the crowded wards of ill-ventilated hospitals filled with persons labom-ing under mahgnant sm-gical diseases, or some forms of typhus fever, an atmosphere is generated which cannot be breathed long, even by the most healthy and robust, without producing highly dangerous fever. The true nature of these poisonous exhalations is demonstrated by direct experiment. If a quantity of the air in which they are diffused be collected, the vapour may be condensed by cold and other agents, and a residuum of vegetable or animal matter obtained, which is found to be highly putrescent, constituting a deadly poison. A minute quantity of this concentrated poison applied to an animal previously in sound health, destroys life with the most intense symptoms of malig- nant fever. If, for example, ten or twelve drops of a fluid containing this liighly-putrid matter be injected into the jugular vein of a dog, the animal is seized with acute fever; the action of the heart is inor- dinately excited, the respiration is accelerated, the heat increased, the prostration of strength extreme, the muscular pow^er so exhausted, that the animal lies on the gimmd wholly unable to stir or to make the slightest effort; and, after a short time, it is actually seized with the black vomit, identical, in the nature of the matter evacuated, with that which is thro\vn up by an individual labouring under yellow fever. It is possible, by varying the intensity and the dose of the poison thus