225 PANCREATIC AND BILIARY JUICES. in the first. It is assisted in the performance of its function by two organs of considerable magnitude, the pancreas and the Hver. The pancreas is a conglomerate gland (Figs. 51 and 92), of an elon- gated form, placed in the epigastric region, lying transversely across it, immediately behind the stomach, and resting upon the spinal column. Its right extremity is attached to the duodenum, and its left to the spleen. In external appearance it resembles the salivary glands, but it is of much larger size, and its weight, from fom* to six ounces, is three times greater than that of all the salivary glands together. It secretes a peculiar fluid called the pancreatic juice, which is carried into the duodenum by a tube named the pancreatic duct (Fig. 87), which opens into the duodenum about four- or five inches from its pyloric end. The liver, the largest and heaviest gland in the body, weighing about four pounds, is placed chiefly in the right hypochondriac region (Fig. 89); but a portion of it extends transversely across the epigas- tric, into the left hypochondriac region. Its upper surface is in contact with the diaphi'agm; its under surface with the pyloric extremity of the stomach (Fig. 92), and its margin can be felt under the edges of the ribs of the right side. It has been stated that the fluid secreted by the liver, unlike that formed by any other organ of the body, is elaborated from venous blood, derived from the veins of the digestive organs, and that these veins uniting together, form a common trunk called the vena porta), which penetrates the liver and ramifies through it in the manner of an artery. Galen long ago compared this venous system to a tree whose roots are dispersed in the abdomen, and its branches spread out through the liver. A comparatively small artery, called the hepatic, nourishes the liver; the ultimate divisions of these arteries hkewise terminate in the vena portae. The ultimate branches of the vena porta3 terminate in a system of veins, called the hepatic, which like ordinary veins return the blood to the right side of the heart; a system of tubes, termed the biliary ducts, receive the fluid secreted by the capillary branches, of the vena portai. This fluid is the bile. The biliary ducts uniting from all parts of the liver by mnumeraljle branches, at length fonn a single trunk termed the hepatic duct (Fig. 87, hep. duct), which carries the bile partly to the gall bladder (Fig. 87) by a duct called the cystic, and partly to the duodenum (Fig. 87) by a duct named the choledoch, a common trunk formed by the union of the cystic with the hepatic. The choledoch duct opens into the duodenum at the same point as the pancreatic (Fig. 87), and generally by a common orifice. The duodenum, on receiving the chyme from the stomach, transmits it slowly along its surface. The kind of motion by which the chyme Q