18G rniLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. life. No sucL phenomena take place excepting in living bodies. This is illustrated in a striking manner by a series of experiments performed by Mr. Hunter. A part of the living human body was immersed in water gradually made warmer and warmer from 100° to 118°; ])Te- cisely the same part of the body, dead, was immersed in the same water, and both parts, the living and the dead, were continued in this heat for some minutes. The dead part raised the thermometer to 114° ; the living part raised it to no higher than 102^°. On applying the thermometer to the sides of the living part, the quicksilver immediately fell from 118° to 104°; on applying it close to the dead part, the thermometer did not fall above a single degree ; the living part actually produced a cold space of water around it. Hence in bathing in water, whether colder or warmer than the heat of the body, the water soon acquires the same temperatm-e with that of the body ; and, consequently, in a large bath the patient should move from place to place, and in a small one there should be a constant succession of water of the intended heat. A fresh, that is, a living egg was put into cold water at about zero, frozen, and then allowed to thaw. By this process its vitality was destroyed, and consequently its power of resisting cold and heat lost. This thawed egg was next put into a cold mixture with an egg newly laid: the time required for freezing the fresh egg was seven minutes and a half longer than that reqmred for freezing the thawed egg. A new-laid egg was put into a cold atmosphere fluctuating between 17° and 15°; it took about half an hom^ to freeze; but when thawed and put into an atmosiDhere at 25° (10° warmer), it froze in half the time. A fresh egg and one that had been frozen and thawed were put into a cold mixture at 15°; the thawed one soon came to 32°, and began to swell and congeal; the fresh one sunk to 29|^°, and in twenty-five minutes after the dead one, it rose to 32°, and began to swell and freeze. The result of this experiment upon the fresh egg was similar to that of analogous experiments made upon the frog, eel, snail, &c., where life allowed the heat to be diminished 2° or 3° below the freezing point, and then resisted all further decrease ; but the powers of life ha^^ng been expended by this exertion, the parts then fi'oze hke any other dead animal matter. The heat of the buxl is increased somewhat when it is prepared for incubation. Some eggs were taken from under a sitting hen whose temperature was 104°, at the time when the chick was about three- parts formed. A hole was broken in the shell and the bulb of a ther- mometer introduced ; the quicksilver rose to 99^° ; but in some eggs that were addled it was proved that their heat was not so high by two degrees, so that the life of the living egg assisted to support its own temperature.