119 MUSCLES THAT MOVE THE LEG. Fig. 67. siderablc portion of the back part of the thigh, constitute the great tiexor of the thigh. This enormous mass of muscle arises partly from the ischium and partly from the upper part of the femm- (Fig. 67, 7), and is all inserted into the patella (Fig 67, 8), which constitutes a pulley for the purpose of assist- ing the action of these powerful muscles. The muscles which bend the toes and extend the foot, termed the gastrocnemii (Fig. 68, 1, 2), are placed on tlie back part of the leg, and form the mass of muscle which constitutes the calf of the leg (Fig. 68, 1, 2). They arise partly from the lower extremity of the femur and partly from the upper and back part of the fibula and tibia ; and they form the largest and strongest tendon in the body, termed the tcndo achillis (Fig. 68,3), which is implanted into the heel. The muscles which extend the toes and bend the foot are seated on the fore-part of the leg; split into tendons like the analogous muscles of the fingers, and are bound down by a hgament, exactly the same in name, disposition, and office, as that which belongs to the hand. Numerous minute muscles are placed in the sole of the foot, which act on the toes as the small muscles in the palm of the hand act on the fingers. Such are the moving powers which put in action the complicated mechanism provided for the func- tion of locomotion. And these powers are adequate to their office : but they are what may be termed expensive powers ; agents requiring a high degree of organization and the utmost resom'ces of the economy to support and maintain them. Hence, in the constraction of the frame-work of the machine which they have to move, whatever mechanical contrivance may economize \'iewof tlie tiexor and extensor muscles of tlie leg. l,tlie bicejis of the leg; 2, tendon of the biceps, inserted into the head of the fibula; 3, the .senii-nieinbranosus, passing to be inserted into the head of the llbula; 4, tendon of the seini-membranosus forming the inner, and 5, tendon of the biceps form- ing the outer, hamstring; 6, upper part of the gastrocnemius muscle; 7, the four large muscles which unite to form the great extensor muscle of the leg, inserted into 8, the patella; 9, a portion of the glutacus inaximus concealing the other muscles of the hip.