PLEASURE THE RESULT OP ORGANISATION AND LIFE. 17 pleasure the opposite power, for there is no other of whicli it is pos- sible to conceive. The end of organic existence is animal or sentient existence; the end of sentient existence is pleasurable existence; the end of life therefore is not simple consciousness, but pleasurable consciousness; not mere being, but well-being; in other words, such a state as we commonly- express by the phrases " a state of pleasure " or "a state of enjoy- ment ;" and it is in this sense that these words are here employed throughout, the term "pleasure" being used as opposed to "pain," and "enjoyment" as opposed to "suffering." It is affirmed, then, that every organ in the animal body is so con- structejl as to bring about, directly or iudii-ectly, a state of pleasurable consciousness or well-being; that to this object the action of every organ is subservient, and that in this every such action, when natural and sound, ultimately terminates. No other evidence of this is necessary than the fact, if it can be established as a fact, that, in the entire sentient creation, the higher the organised structure the greater is the range of function; and, as an invariable consequence, the higher and more varied becomes the enjoyment, mediately or immediately, connected with it. From its most simple to its most complex state every successive addition to structure, by which function is elevated and made more perfect, pro- portionally increases the exquisiteness of the pleasure to which the function ministers, and in which it terminates. Such is the constitution of the animal organisation that— Pleasure is the result of the action of living organs. Pleasure is the direct, the ordinary and the gratuitous result of their action. Pleasure is conducive to their complete development, and thereby to the increase of their capacity for affording enjoyment. Pleasure is equally conducive to the perpetuation of their actions, and consequently to the maintenance of hfe. It follows not only that enjoyment is the end of life, but that it is the means by which life is prolonged. Of the truth of each of these propositions it will be interesting to contemplate the plenitude of the proof. 1. In the first place, pleasure is the result of the action even of the organic organs, although it has been shown that one character by which they are distmguished is, that they are unattended with con- sciousness. How, then, can they be the soui'ces of pleasure ? By a special provision, consciousness is indirectly connected with the processes of this class, limited in extent indeed, and uniformly terminatmg at a certain point, but the extent and the limitation alike conducing to the pleasurableness of its nature. And this is an c