VITAL ACTION OF THE CAntiLARY ARTERIES. 141 After a similar prei)aratioii of a, limb, a ligature was placed around the vein; a tube was then inserted into it; it was found that the blood ascended in the tube from the obstructed vein just as high as from the artery. Thus we are able to trace the action of the heart from the beginning to the end of the circle. Of this circle it is the great moving power; but it is a living engine, acting in combination with living vessels. The force it exerts is a vital force, economized by the agency of a vital property communicated to the vessels, by virtue of which they re- move physical obstruction to the progress of tlie stream through its channels. In this account of the powers that move the blood, no notice has been taken of the physical agents supposed to act as auxiliaries to the heart, in carrying on the circulation, such as the suction power of the thorax, and of the aiuicles of the heart, and the capillary attraction oi the vessels ; because, without questioning the existence of such agents, or denying that advantage may be taken of them, it seems pretty clear that their influence is but trivial, and that they assumed importance only when the vital endowments of the tissues were not well understood. The vital power, which it has been shown is possessed by the arterial trunks and branches, is still more intense in the minute ca- pillaries. If alcohol, strong acetic acid, naphtha, and other stimulating fluids be injected into the arteries of a hving animal, it is found that they are not transmitted through the capillaries at all, or, at all events, that they make their way through them with extreme diffi- culty ; whereas mild, unu'ritating fluids pass with rapidity and ease. Wedemeyer exposed and divided the main artery in the fore-leg of a horse, together with the corresj)onding vein in the shoulder. Several syringes-full of tepid water were now injected into the lower end of the artery. The gentlest pressure was sufficient to force the fluid through the capillaries. At each injection the water issued in a full stream from the aperture of the vein, the flow of the fluid ceasing as soon as the injection was stopped. Next, instead of water, four syringes-full of pure cold brandy were injected. To propel this fluid through the capillaries, so as to render its smell and taste perceptible at the aperture of the vein, required a great degree of pressure ; and when at last the fluid issued from the vein it merely trickled in a feeble stream. The experiment being repeated on another horse, with vinegar, six syringes-full of which being injected in rapid succession, at first this fluid passed as easily as water, afterwards it flowed with greater diffi- culty, and in a small stream; before long the force requked to propel it was extreme, and at last the obstruction to its passage became com- plete, so that no fluid whatever issued from the vein.