•290 miLOSOPHY OP HEALTH. loped in prodigious quantities of fat. Where the accumulation of this substance would produce deformity or interfere with function, fis in the eyelids, within the skull, &c., not a particle is ever deposited'. About the joints it would impede motion; in the eyelids it would render the face hideous and obstruct vision; and within the skull, a ca^^ty completely filled with the brain—an organ impatient of the slightest pressure—had a substance been placed, the quantity of which is liable to be suddenly trebled or quadrupled, changes in the system which now produce no inconvenience would have been fatal. Thus, while provision is made at once to exonerate the system from too great a load of nourishment, and to lay up the superfluous matter, as in a ma- gazine, to be ready for future use, the most extreme care is taken to deposit the store in safe and convenient situations. The excretory organs and processes, hitherto considered, have for their object the removal from the blood of its superfluous carbon and hydrogen; the element peculiar to the animal body, azote, is elimi- nated by the kidneys—glandular organs which possess a highly com- plex structure. (Fig. 99.) But besides the removal of the superfluous azote, the fluid secreted Fig. 99. Siiuctnve of the ki(liKy>.—A, vertical spc- lion of a kidney, a, corti(-al sii1)stanco ; b, tnI)iilMr subs-t-mco ; c, calyx ami pnlvis; d, canal of the ureter. /?, intimate struc- ture of this glanil. n, terminal portion of the urinary tubes; 6, meilullary portion of tliese same tubes; c, their termination in the caly.v. by the kidneys would appear to be a general outlet for whatever is not required in the system, and for the removal of wliich no specific appa- ratus is provided. Chemical analysis shows that, in diflbrent states of the system, the following substances are contained in this fluid: water, free phosphoric acid, phosphate of lime, pliosphat^^ of ma*^- nesia, floric acid, uric acid, benzoic acid, lactic acid, urea, gelatiii,