EXCRETION IN THE PLANT. 277 of land proper for that grain, it may produce a good crop the first, the second, and perhaps even the thu-d year, as long as the ground i^ what the farmers call in good heart. But, after a time, it will yiel 1 no more of that particular kind of corn. Barley it may still bear, and, after this, oats, and perhaps after these, peas, or some other species belonging to a different family. The excrementitious matter deposited in the soil by a preceding is absorbed by a succeeding crop; the matter excreted by the former serving as nutriment or stimulus to the latter. But though in this mode all noxious matter is removed from the soil, yet the ground at last becomes quite barren, in consequence of having parted with all its nutrient particles, and then it will yield no more produce until it is supplied with a new fund of matter. This new matter is afforded by vegetable or animal substances, in which, the piinciple of Hfe having become extinct, the pecuUar bond that held their particles together is dissolved. Leaves, flowers, fruits, bark, roots; hair, skin, horns, hoofs, fat, muscle, bone, the blood itself, whatever has formed a part of the organised body, now dead, and re- passing through the process of decomposition, back to the simple phy- sical elements, all its forms of beauty gone, and exhaling only matters highly deleterious to animal life, mixed with the soil, are recombined into new products, spring up into new plants, and thus reappear under new forms of beauty, and afford fresh nutriment to myriads of animals. The very refuse of the matters which have served as food and clothing to the inhabitants of the crowded city, and which, allowed to accumulate there, taint the air, and render it pestilential, promptly removed, and spread out on the surface of the surrounding country, give it healthfulness, clothe it with verdure, and endow it with inex- haustible fertility. The quantity of matter excreted by the plant is proportionate to the energy of its vital actions. Hence it is always greatest in spring, when the tender leaves are beginning to shoot; gradually diminishes as autumn approaches; and, at last, as the leaves turn yellow, and the vessels which connect the leaves with the stalk dry up and are closed, it almost wholly ceases. It is copious in proportion to the number of the leaves, and to the extent of the surface they present. From experiments performed as long ago as the year 1699, by Woodward, it appears that, of the whole quantity of water absorbed by the plant, the least proportion exhaled to that retained is as 46 or 50 to 1; m many cases it is as 100 or 200 to 1, and in some above 700 to 1. In one experiment, a plant which imbibed 2501 grains of water, increased in weight only three grains and a half: hence the dampness and humidity of the air in all places in which trees and the larger vegetables abound; more especially when the leaves are young, and most numerous and active ;