35 ANIMAL PllOXIMATK riUNCIPLES. compounds, and thus exliibit a high complexity of composition in their very elemental forms. The remarkable fact that some Proximate Principles, both vegetable and animal, are destitute of nitrogen, affords a well-defined character by which they may be divided into two groups, the non-nitrogenised, and the nitrogenised. Non-Nitroge7med Proximate Princi]}les.—Among the chief of these are the familiar substances sugar, starch, gum, cellulose, lignin, &c. Sugar, composed of Carbona^Hydrogeno.Oxygen^.,, is foimd in the juices of plants, in the sap of trees, and in many roots, particularly in fleshy roots, as the beet. Cane sugar forms large, transparent, colourless crystals; it is very soluble in water ; it is capable of undergoing fer- mentation ; it is nearly always in a state of solution in plants, and is especially abundant in growing parts, such as buds and germinatmg seeds; it is an organic substance, but close on the confines of the inorganic kingdom, as is mdicated by its tendency to crystalhzation ; it performs highly important uses in the vegetable economy, and is an essential ingredient in the processes of imtrition and maturition. Starch, C24H.,(|0.j„, is perhaps the most important and widely diffused of all the \'egetable Proximate Principles. It exists in every plant, but it is most abundant in the roots and tubers of certain plants, as in the potato, and in general in soft stems and in seeds. It is insoluble in cold, but soluble in boiling water; to the naked eye it presents the appearance of a soft, white, glistening powder; under the microscope it is seen to be destitute of crystalline structure, and to be made up of httle, rounded^ transi)arent bodies, upon each of which a series of depressed, parallel rings, surrounding a central spot, or hilum, may often be traced. This principle is of somewhat higher organic character than sugar, since it is no longer capable of the crystalline structure ; it even indicates some traces of organisa- tion ; it is the chief material of vegetable nutrition, and for this purpose it is stored up in cotyledons, buds, tubers, &c., to be ready when required. Gum, C^H^iO.a, forms white or slightly yellowish irregular masses, destitute of crystalline structure. It is soluble in cold water, forming a viscid, adhesive, tasteless solution, called mucilage. It is nutritive, and forms a nidus for the reception and development of the simplest veo-etable organisms, to the structure of which it contributes the chief material. Cellulose, C24H,o02o. This substance, which forms the external walls of cells, and constitutes cellular membrane in general, is tough, elastic, colomdess, transparent, and insoluble in any known menstrua. It is readily permeable by fluids. It is closely allied in composition to starch, and is convertible into it. D 2