PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 54 A. 21). be provided against, that the flattened "pavement" cells just described are grown; the smooth shining serous membranes, which line the caAdties that contain the viscera, and cover the viscera which those cavities contain ; the interior of joints ; the inside of the arteries and veins ; the mouth, &c., are protected by such a covering of pavement cuticle, which is called epithelium when it is placed on the interior sm-faces. The air passages are the chief seat of a beautiful form of cuti- cular lining (Fig. 20), whose cells do not flatten as they grow towards the surface, but elon- gate, and take the shape of co- lumns compressed at the sides by their neighboui-s: they are at- tached by one end, and at the other fui-nished each one with a multi- tude of httle fleshy hairs called cilia, which during life are in incessant motion. This motion. Ciliated epithelium, from the human trachea; j^y ^q^q mVSterioUS aCfreement, magnihed 350 times. a, innermost part .'' _i ii i_ ii i • of the eln.stic longitudinal fihi es; h, homo- geneous innermost layer of the mucous mem- brane ; c, deepest lound cells; d, middle elongated; e, superficial, bearing cilia. Fig. 21. is SO governed, that the hairs in moving bend sharply down all in the same direction, and raise tliemselves more gently to repeat the act: this direction is upwards along the air tube, so as to waft particles of dust, or excess of secretion, towards the mouth. ("See Fig. 81). _ The cuticular lining of the alimentary canal (Fig. 21) is formed of cells, whose shapes, like the last, are columnar, but they are devoid of vibratile cilia. The secreting glands are formed on a simple plan: in the construc- tion of any of them a tube opening on the surface is at the other end, either simply closed, as in the mi- Kpithelium of the intestinal villi of the rabbit, uute SWeat-glands and the micro- magnified 300 times. . , • , t i i scopic gastric tubules that pour out the digestive juice, or else, as in the greater glands, such as the pancreas and salivary glands, the tube—called duct—is divided, and subdivided, and divided again, until its divisions become a vast number and excessively fine: the fine divisions end in closed dilatations, and around these is spread a rich network of blood-