244 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. that they should be involved in obscnrity: nevertheless, when all the phenomena are collected and compared, much of the mysteriousness in which the function appears at first view to be involved vanishes. The apparatus of secretion is infinitely varied in form: when examined in its complex combinations it appears inextricable in structure, but the diligence and skill of modern research have unfolded much of its mechanism, and enabled us to trace the successive steps by which it passes from its simple to its complex condition. To form an organ of secretion there must be an artery, a vein, a nerve, an absorbent, and a sufficient quantity of cellular tissue to allow of the free expansion of these vessels and of their complete intercom- munication. Membrane constitutes such an organ; for membrane is composed of arteries, veins, nerves, and absorbents sustained and con- nected by cellular tissue. Hence membrane constitutes a secreting organ, in its simplest form. The most important secreting membranes are the serous, the cutaneous, and the mucous. Serous membrane, which lines the great cavities of the body, and which gives an external covering to the organs contained in them, forms an extensive secreting surface. Synovial membrane, or that which covers the internal surface of joints, and which constitutes an important portion of the apparatus of locomotion, is essentially the same in structure and office. Cutaneous membrane, or the skin, which forms the external cover- ing of the body, is an organ in which manifold secretions are constantly elaborated; but the skin is only a modification of the membrane which lines the interior of the body, the mucous. Mucous membrane forms the basis of the secreting apparatus placed in the mouth, fauces, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines in their whole extent; of the secreting apparatus auxiliary to that of the alimentary canal, namely, the pancreas and the hver; probably also of the mesenteric, or lacteal glands, together with the vast system of lymphatic glands, and certainly of the glands of the larynx, trachea, bronchi and air vesicles of the lungs. Hence, while membrane forms the basis of the secretino- apparatus in general, mucous membrane is far more extensively em^ ployed in its construction than any other form of membrane. 1. In the construction of the secreting apparatus, membrane dis- posed m the simplest form, constitutes merely a uniform, smooth extended surface. Serous membrane is always disposed in this simple mode. The costal pleura which lines the internal surface of the walls of the chest; the pulmonary pleura which is continued from the walls of the chest over the lungs; the peritoneum which lines the internal surface of the cavity of the abdomen, and which is reflected over the viscera contained in it; the synovial membrane which covers all the articular surfaces; the arachnoid membrane which envelops the