53 CHAPTEE VIL OF CUTICLK. Fio;. 19 All tlie free surfaces of the body, external or internal, are protected by a tegument comj^osed of cells, which being itself devoid of blood- vessels and nerves, forms an insensible inert covering, that is fitted to come into contact with extraneous bodies without injury or pain. On the exterior surface of the hody it forms the scarf-skin, cuticle, or epidermis, the true skin or dermis, with its rich supply of vessels and nerves, being under it. The cuticle-cells grow upon the delicate basement membrane which bounds the surface of the true skin : they originate close to this membrane, in the deeper part of the cuticle, and then are borne towards the surface by the production of other younger cells beneath them, whilst the older cells on the exterior die, and are rubbed ofl' durmg contact with whatever may happen to touch the body. When the' cells are young and deep-seated, they lie separate from each other, and are albuminous in their composition, and delicate in their texture; but as they grow older, they change in shape, first coming in contact with their neigh- boui'S all round, so as to be flattened on as many sides as there are contiguous cells: as they increase in age, and progress towards the surface, they be- come firmer, and even horny in textui-e; whilst they now are composed of gela- tine chiefly: at the same time they flatten out parallel with the surface, meeting at their edges ; the cavity of each is obliterated and their vitality lost; at length they lose their mutual cohesion, and are worn easily off by the touch of any ordinarily rough substance. It is not alone upon the exterior of the body that such a covering is ^ ^(,^^^1^. p.,^,;,,,^^ several vessels ot found ; all the cavities and passages epithelium, fVom the gums of a child; v 11 , masriiiKeJ 250 times. within the body are lined by a tegu- ment of the like structure (Fig. 19), which, however, is softer and thinner than the cuticle of the skin. It is only when friction is to