THE MOUTH AND APPENDA(iKS. 211 fore, to all that has heen mentioned, we have a passage opened from this same cavity of the mouth into the hmgs for the admission of air, for the admission of air exclusively of every other suhstance; "we have muscles, some in the larynx, and, without number, in the tongue, for the purpose of modulating that air in its passage, vnth. a variety, a compass, and a precision of which no other musical intrument is capable; and, lastly, we have a specific contrivance for dividing the pneumatic part from the mechanical, and for preventing one set of functions from interfering with the other. The mouth, with all these intentions to serve, is a single cavity; is one machine, with its parts neither crowded nor confined, and each unembarrassed by the rest." It should be added, the mouth is also the immediate seat of one of the senses, and is in intimate communication with a second sense; both these senses are always excited while the principal business performed by the machine is carried on, and are necessarily excited by the very working of the machine, and the sensations induced in the natural and sound state of the apparatus are invariably pleasurable. The food is delivered by the pharynx to the oesophagus (Fig. 81), a tube composed partly of membrane and partly of muscle. Its muscular fibres consist of a double layer, an external and an internal layer; the external has a longitudinal direction; the internal describes portions of a circle around the tube. By the contraction of the longitudinal fibres the length, and, by the contraction of the circular fibres, the diameter, of the tube is diminished. Cellular membrane envelops these kyers Fisr. 86. \ icw of tlie stonincli, with its muscular coats displayed. 1, the cesophagus terminating in the stomach; 2, the cardiac orifice; 3, the pylorus; 4, the commencement of the duodenum ; 5, the large curvature of the stomach ; 6, the small curvature; 7, the large extremity; 8, the small extremity ; 9, the longitudinal muscidar fibres ; 10, the circular muscular fibres. of fibres externally, and mucous membrane covers them internally. When the tube is contracted, the mucous membrane is disposed in folds, which disappear when it is dilated, and these folds allow of the expansion of the tube without injury to the delicate tissue that lines