328 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. appreciable distance of time between the act of volition and the action of the voluntary muscles; but if a stimulus be applied to the stomach, or the intestines, the result is not immediate; there is no action for some seconds; and when it does take place it is slowly progressive, attaining its highest degree of force a considerable time after the exciting cause has been removed. If the injfluences of volition on mus- cular action were not instantaneous, the object of volition would be lost; if the gastric and intestinal movements were thus sudden and raj)id, the object of their motions would be defeated. 2. It is more diffusive than cerebro-spinal conduction. A stimulus applied to a ganglionic fibre going to a particular part of the intestines, for example, produces its characteristic movement over a considerable extent of the alimentary canal: applied to a cerebro-sj^inal fibre, it excites the action of that particular muscular fasciculus only to which such fibre is distributed. 3. It is more regular and measured. The movements of respiration, which is a mixed function, are regular indeed, but the motions prin- cipally under the government of the ganglionic centres are so orderly and successive, that they are justly termed rhythmical. The action of the heart is strictly rhythmical. Its aiuicles and ventricles alter- nately contract and dilate at measured intervals of time. A nervous cm-rent is periodically transmitted to it from its centre, and the periodic action that results is continued uninterruptedly from the first to the last moment of life. The motion of the intestines is equally periodic and rhythmical. This singular movement, sometimes termed vermicular, or worm-hke, and at others peristaltic, from TrepicrreWoi, to contract, consists of con- tractions which succeed each other, like waves, from above downwards; a second wave commencing before the first has traversed the whole intestine. There is no apparent motion directly downwards, yet on the whole the motion is downwards; the object being not only to carry downwards the ahmentary mass, but while thus transmitting it ultimately in that direction, so to move it as fully to expose it, in its progress, to the mouths of the absorbents. 4. Ganglionic, like spinal conduction, is incapable of exciting any movements without the presence of a chemical or physical agent. In this respect, both these centres difi'er widely from the cerebral centre. A thought, a volition, can excite a voluntary muscle, but unless some foreign body, some physical or chemical stimulus be in contact with a ganglionic organ, that is, with the nerve fibres spread out upon its surface, there can be no action. Naturally every such organ is pro- vided with its own appropriate stimulus, by which it is ordinarily influenced; the heart and blood-vessels by the blood ; the stomach by the food; the intestinal canal by the food; the secretmg ducts by their