rHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 84 dura mator, -which, passing out of the opening in tlic occipital bone called the foramen magnum (Fig. 35, J), afibrds a smooth covering to the canal throughout its whole extent. The spinal cord itself, continuous with the substance of the brain, passes also out of the cranium through the foramen magnum into the spinal canal, enveloped in the delicate membranes that cover it, and surrounded by the aqueous fluid contained between those membranes. The size of the spinal canal, adapted to that of the spinal cord, which it lodges and protects, is of considerable magnitude, and of a triangular shape in its cervical portion, smaller and rounded in its dorsal portion, and again large and triangular in its lumbar portion. The spinal column performs several different, and apparently incom- patible, offices. First, it affords a support and buttress to other bones. It sustains the head (Fig. 31) ; it is a buttress to the ribs: through the sternum and ribs it is also a buttress to the superior, and thi'ough the pelvis, to the lower, extremities. Secondly, it affords a support to powerful muscles, partly to those that maintain the trmik of the body in the erect posture against the force of gravitation, and partly to those that act upon the superior and inferior extremities in the varied, energetic, and sometimes long-contmued movements they execute. Thirdly, it forms one of the boimdaries of the great canities that contain the chief organs of the organic life. To the support and pro- tection of those organs it is specially adapted ; hence the surface in immediate contact with them is even and smooth; hence its diff'erent curvatures, convexities, and concavities, have all reference to their accommodation; hence in the neck it is convex (Fig. 42), in order to afford a firm support to the oesophagus, the windpipe, the aorta, and the great trunks of the venous system: in the back it is concave, in order to enlarge the space for the dilatation of the lung in the act of inspiration ; in the loins it is convex, in order to sustain and fix the loose and floating viscera of the abdomen; in the pelvis it is concave, in order to enlarge the space for lodging the numerous delicate and highly-important organs contained in that cavity. Fom-thly, it forms the osseous walls of a canal for the lodgment and protection of the soft and tender substance of the spinal cord, one of the great central masses of the nervous system, the seat of the animal life. Fifthly, it affords in its osseous walls secure apertm-es for the passage of the spinal nerves (Fig. 32), by which impressions are transmitted from the organs to the spinal cord and brain, in the func- tion of sensation; and from the spinal cord and brain to the organs in the function of volition. For the due performance of these offices, it is indispensable that