rillLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. They uevor do. lu the organic body tliese sahne and earthy jiarticles are always so arranged that they are diffused through the nicmbranoiis fibres or cells, never concentrated in crystals. On the other hand, the elements containing tlie peculiar matters of excretion are generally in such a state of combination as readily to assume the crystalline form, either alone or in the simplest further combinations of which they are susceptible. It seems probable that this circumstance may be, at least in part, the cause which necessitates their expulsion, and it is certain that some such general principle must determine the incompatibility of the matters of excretion with the hfe of the structures. The ultimate object of the processes included in the function of excretion is to maintain the nutritive fluid in a certain chemical condi- tion. Into the combination of the blood there must enter certain con- stituents, and these must be in certain relative proportions, and in no others. If the salts be diminished or in excess, if the fibrin, or the red particles, or the serum be abundant or defective beyond a certain degree, either the necessary chemical elements are not present, or not present in the form necessary to their entering into the requisite com- binations ; the result is, that a proper nutritive fluid is not formed, and consequently due nourishment is not afforded to the textures nor due stimulus to the moving powers; there is either too much nutri- ment and stimulus or too little; in the one case the machine is exhausted and worn out, and in the other it is clogged and stopped. The capillary arteries of the skin, and of all the other tissues into the composition of which gelatin enters as a constituent, necessarily pour carbon into the capillary veins at the moment they convert albu- men into gelatin. The veins, receiving in their coui'se more and more carbon from the arteries, at length become loaded with this element, and in order to get rid of the excess they bear it to the lungs, where it is expelled by the act of expiration under the form of carbonic acid gas. On the other hand the chyle, gradually becoming fii'mer and more condensed by the series of changes which it undergoes from its first formation in the duodenum to its admixtm'e with the lymph in the receptacle of the chyle, and with the blood in the subclavian vein, is liurried to the heart and thence to the lungs, where it gives off a large portion of its watery particles, also by the act of expiration, under the form of aqueous vapour. This excretion of its watery par- ticles is a necessary part of the process of completion by which the weak albumen of the chyle is converted into the strong albumen of the blood. How completely analogous then is this excretory process in the plant and in the animal! How precisely the same is the action of the leaf and of the lung! The leaf dissipates the superfluous water of the crude sap, concentrates its organic prmciples, and brings