PIIILOSOrilY OF HEALTH. 240 solves the food, combines it with water, reduces it from a concentrated sohd to a dikite fluid; and thus brings it into the condition pro^Der for the subsequent part of the process, 2. A converting power. Since whatever be the varieties of food, the chj^me invariably forms a homogeneous fluid, the digestive appa- ratus must be endowed with the power of transforming the simple alimentary princijiles into one another; the saccharine into the oily, and the oily into the albuminous. The transformation of the saccha- rine into the oleaginous principle is traceable out of the body in the couvei-sion of sugar into alcohol, which is essentially an oil. That the same transformation takes place within the body is indubitable. The oleaginous and the albuminous principles are already so nearly allied in nature to animal substance that they do not need to undergo any essential change in their composition. 3. A completing power. When the alimentary substances have been reduced and formed into chyme, when the chyme has been con- verted into chyle, and when the chyle absorbed by the lacteals is transmitted to the mesenteric glands, it undergoes during its passage through these organs a process the direct reverse of that to which it is subjected in the stomach; for whereas it is the office of the stomach to combine the alimentary substances with water, it is one office of the mesenteric glands to remove the superfluous water of the chyle; to abstract whatever particles of matter may be contained in the com- pound which are not indispensable to it, and to concentrate its essentifil constituents; and consequently these organs exert on the digested aliment a completing, in contradistinction to a reducing j)ower. 4. A vitalizing power. When sugar is converted into oil, when oil is converted into albumen, when albumen, by the successive processes to which it is subjected is completed, that is, when the alimentary sub- stances are made to approximate in the closest j)ossible degree to the nature of animal siibstance, they must undergo a still further change, more wonderful than any of the preceding, and far more inscrutable; they must be endowed with vitality; must be changed from dead uito living matter. Living substance only is capable of forming a con- stituent part of living substance. The ultimate action of the digestive organs is the communication of life to the food, to which last and crowning process the reducing, converting, and completing processes are merely subordinate and preparatory. Of the agency by which this process is effected we are wholly ignorant; we know that it goes on ; but the mode in which it is accomplished is veiled in inscrutable darkness. Blood is alive; blood is formed from the food; life is communicated to the food before it is mixed with the blood. The blood is essentially albmnen, which it contains in the form of albumen properly so called