PREFACE. vi established, and his public labours ceased, he at once commenced revising the " Philosophy of Health," a corrected edition of which had been long urgently demanded. The labours which had postponed an earlier revision of the work, were of a Idnd to increase rather than to diminish the Author's conviction of the importance of a more generally diffused physio- logical knowledge. It seems that, had he lived to see the publi- cation of this edition, he had intended to enlarge on this point, for among his manuscripts I find this note :— " My introduction will consist of an argument to show that a knowledge of the structure and functions of the human body, irrespective of the pleasure arising from the study as a most inte- resting branch of science, is necessary to a rational care of health; and that it is absolutely indispensable to those who have the charge of the health and well-being of others, from the mother and the nurse to the educator—^to the heads of families—to the heads of large establishments, whether public or private—most especially to officers, generals, &c., as the guardians of the health and efficiency of the soldier—to local authorities—and last, but by no means least, to the legislator, as the framer of laws for the regulation and administration of Public Health." The task of preparing the new edition proved to be more onerous than it had at first seemed. Modern investigations, aided by the now greatly improved microscope, had brought to light so much that was before hidden in relation to the primary animal and vegetable tissues, that a large portion of the book required, not mere correcting, but re-writing. The Author became once more a student, while consulting the authorities of late physiolo- gical research. He was enchanted with the new world opened before his eyes, and more imbued than ever with the desire to make his own work a complete one,—to make it simple enough for the unlearned, whilst thoroughly scientific in all points. Tliis labour occupied the last years of his life, and formed its delight. Death stopped his hand before it was quite finished. The most important portions of the work were, however, done.