PHILOSOPHY OP HEALTH. 184 ness to our nostrils, scorched before by the hot aii' rushing against them whenever we inspired. In the same manner our now cold breath agreeably cooled our fingers whenever it reached them. Upon touching my side, it felt cold hke a corpse; and yet the actual heat of my body, tried imder my tongue, and by applying closely the thermometer to my skin, was 98°, about a degree higher than its ordinary temperature. When the heat of the air began to approach the highest degree which this apparatus was capable of producing, our bodies in the room prevented it from rising any higher; and when it had been previously raised above that point, invariably sunk it. Every experiment fm-nished proofs of this. Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander each found that his single body was sufficient to smk the quicksilver very fast, when the room was brought nearly to its maximum of heat. In a third series of experiments the temperature of the chamber was raised to the 260th degree. At this time, continues Dr. Blagden, I went into the room, with the addition to my common clothes of a pair of tliick worsted stockings drawn over my shoes, and reaching some way above my knees. I also put on a pair of gloves, and held a cloth constantly between my face and the stove (necessary precautions against the scorching of the red-hot iron). I remained eight minutes in this situation, frequently walking about to all the different parts of the room, but standing still most of the time in the coolest spot near the lowest thermometer. The air felt very hot, but by no means so as to give pain. I had no doubt of being able to bear a much greater heat; and all who went into the room w^ere of the same opinion. I sweated, but not very profusely. For seven minutes my breathing- remained perfectly good; but after that time, I began to feel an oppression in my lungs, attended with a sense of anxiety; which gradually increasing for the space of a minute, I thought it most prudent to end the experiment. My pulse, counted as soon as I came into the cool air, for the uneasy feeling rendered me incapable of examining it in the room, beat at the rate of 144 pulsations in a minute, which is more than double its ordinary quickness. In the course of this experiment, and others of the same kind by several of the gentlemen present, some cn-cumstances occurred to us which had not been remarked before. The heat, as might have been expected, felt most intense when we were in motion; and on the same principle, a blast of the heated air from a pair of bellows was scarcely to be borne : the sensation in both these cases exactly resembled that felt in our nostrils on inspii'ation. It was observed that our breath did not feel cool to our fingers imless held very near the mouth; at a distance the cooling power of the breath did not sufficiently compensate the effect of putting the air in motion, especially when we breathed with force.