PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTPI. 172 wliich in its tm-n exhales carbonic acid for the reabsori^tion of the plant. Thus the two great classes of organized beings renovate the air for each other, and maintain it in a state of perpetual purity. The plant, it is true, absorbs oxygen during the night as well as the animal; but the quantity which it gives off in the day more than compensates for that which it abstracts in the absence of hght. This interesting fact was estabhshed by an extended series of experiments instituted by Professor Daubeney* for the express purpose of investigating this point. From the general tenor of these experiments, it appears that, in fine weather and as long as the plant is healthy, it adds to the atmosphere an amount of oxygen not only sufficient to compensate for the quantity it abstracts in the absence of light, but to counterpoise the effects i:)ro- duced by the respiration of the whole animal kmgdom. The result of one of these experiments will convey some conception of the amount of oxygen evolved. A quantity of leaves about fifty in number were enclosed in a jar of air; the surface of all the leaves taken together was calculated at about three hundred square inches; by the action of these leaves on the carbonic acid introduced into the jar, there was added to the air contained in it no less than twenty-six cubic inches of oxygen. As there was reason to conclude that the evolution of oxygen, in the chcumstances under which this experiment was per- formed, was considerably less than it would have been in the open air, several plants were introduced into the same jar of air in pretty quick succession: the amount of oxygen now evolved was increased from twenty-one to thhty-nine per cent., and probably had not even then attained the hmit to which the increase of this constituent might have been brought. From the proportions of the constituent elements of carbonic acid gas it necessarily follows that, by the mere process of decomposition, out of every eleven grains of carbonic acid gas eight grains of oxygen must be liberated, three grains of carbon being retained by the plant, and consequently that eight grains of oxygen must be restored to the atmosphere, less only by so much as the plant itself may absorb. How great, then, must be the production of oxygen by an entire tree under favom-able circumstances; that is, when animal respu'atiou and animal putrefaction present to it an abundant supply of carbonic acid on which to act! This influence, says Professor Daubeney, is not exerted exclusively by plants of any particular kind or description. I have found it alike in the monocotyledonous and dycotyledonous; in such as thrive in * " Oa tbe Action of Leaves upon Plants, and of Plants upon the Atmosphere." By Charles Daubeney, M.D., F.E.S., Professor of Chemistiy and Botany in the Uni- versity of Oxford. Philosophical Transactions of the Eoyal Society of London, for the year 1H3G. Part I.