382 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH, matter, so that besides forming a part of the apparatus of union and conduction, this body must also be an active nervous centre. What its precise action is, is unknown. 2. Crura Cerebri.—The fibres that ascend from the spinal cord, in their course to the cerebral hemispheres, after passing through the Pons Varolii, are connected together in the Crura Cerebri, and thus form the greater part of these large nervous masses. These fibres consist of two distinct jjlanes, constituting two sejDarate tracts of nervous force. The lower plane (Fig. 109), formed by fibres from the anterior pyramids, proceed in a direct course to the striated bodies (Fig. 109), but they are joined by a few fibres from the olives (Fig. 109), which latter seem to pass into the thalami. The course of this assemblage of fibres through the striated bodies, their progressive enlargement by a constant accession of new fibres, as they ascend towards the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and their ultimate termination in the grey matter of the convolutions of these lobes, have been already fully described. There is good reason to conclude that these fibres are all conductors ; that they constitute, at all events, the principal channels by which the nervous centre, whatever that may be, communicates nervous force to the entire class of voluntary muscles: consequently, that it is through this tract that the mind transmits its commands to the servants of its will; hence it has received the name of the great motor tract— the tract for the conduction of volition, the exciter of voluntary motion. The fibres of the upper plane (posterior pyramid) ascending and diverging as they advance, pm-sue a direct course to the thalami, and thence radiate to the convolutions of the posterior lobes of the brain. Though the fibres now described are the principal conductors to and fi'om the cerebrum, yet as a considerable quantity of grey matter is mixed with them, and even some pigmentary matter, constituting the locus niger, the crura themselves must be regarded as forming also nervous centres, but their special functions are imperfectly known. It is, however, ascertained that the locus niger having the attachment of the thhxl, or occulo-motor nerve (Fig. 107, 3), is the dynamic centre of the excited action by which the pupil is contracted. Thus, it has been shown by experiment that if the hemispheres of the brain be removed in a living animal, and the optic nerve be divided, leaving entire its connections with the optic tubercles, the crura cerebri, and the third nerve, on pinching or otherwise irritating the divided optic nerve, contraction of the iris follows, though, a.s is evident, all sensa- tion has been annihilated. 3. Optic Tubercles (Corpora Quadrigemina).—These, as just stated, are specially connected with the excited action of the iris. If they are removed from the body, the pupil no longer contracts; but