THE BRAIN THE SEAT OF INTELLECTUAL IMrRESSIONS. 395 itself wholly insensible, and incapable, by mechanical irritation, of exciting motion. No amount of laceration, or of any other mode of injury, induces in it the least indication of feeling, or produces the slightest muscular contraction. " Who could have believed," says Magendie, " that the hemispheres may be pricked, torn, cut, and even burnt by the actual cautery in the living animal without producing the slightest feeling; yet all observation and experience concur in proving that this is unquestionably the fact." Motor fibres obey the same laws as the sentient. The influence of volition is propagated along motor nerves in a manner analogous to that of the transmission of impressions along a sentient nerve, but the process takes place in an inverse direction. It is always centrifugal, in the direction of the nerve going from the brain to the muscle, and never in a retrograde course. If a stimulus be applied to the trunk of a motor nerve, it excites contractions only in those muscles which are supplied by the branches of that nerve. Nay, if a stimulus be applied to a part of the fibres of a trunk, it does not affect the whole ti'unk, but only those fibres which immediately receive the stimulus ; and consequently those muscles only are excited to contraction which are in direct communication with these particular fibres. So that every primary fibre of a motor nerve is as distinct and isolated in its entire course as the fibres of a sentient nerve, and volition sends out its commands to the muscles, or groups of muscles, under its control, by channels as definite and as insulated as those which con- vey sentient impressions to the brain. On a dissection of the human brain there is brought into view an extended surface of the cerebral convolutions where the two forms^f cerebral substance, the tubular and vesicular neurine, meet. This probably constitutes the Common Sensorium, where all impressions are received and consummated by being converted into sensations; where all volition arises, and whence it proceeds to the muscles of voluntary motion; and where all the intellectual faculties meet, com- bine, compare, co-operate.