PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 130 a flood-gate not only well constructed as far as regards the mechanical arrangement, hut so endowed as to he ahle to act with additional force whenever additional force is requisite ; to put forth on every occasion, as the occasion arises, just the degi-ee of strength requii-ed, and no more. The contraction of the heart is the power that moves the blood; and this contraction generates a force which is adequate to impel it through the circle. From experiments performed by Dr. Hales, it appears that if the artery of a large animal, such as the horse, be made to communicate with an upright tube, the blood Avill ascend in the tube to the height of about ten feet above the level of the heart, and will afterwards continue there rising and falling a few inches with each pulsation of the heart. In this animal, then, the heart acts with a force capable of maintaining a column of ten feet. Now a column of ten feet indicates a pressure of about four pounds and a half in a square inch of surface. Suppose the human heart to be capable of supporting a column of blood eight feet high, this wall indicate a pressure of fom- pounds to the square inch; but the left ventricle of the heart, while it injects its coluuni of blood into the aorta, has to overcome the inertia of the quantity of blood projected; of the mass already in the artery, and of the elasticity of the vessel yielding to a momentary increase of pressure: it is probable, therefore, that the heart acts with a force of six pounds on the inch. The left ventricle, when distended, has about ten square inches of internal surface; consequently the whole force exerted by it may be about sixty pounds. According to the calculation of Hales, it is fifty-one and a half. Now, it is proved by numerous experiments, that, after death, a slight impulse with the syringe, certainly much less than that which is acting upon the blood in the same arteiy during life, is sufficient to propel a solution of indigo, or fresh-drawn blood, from a large artery into the extreme capillary. If, therefore, after death, a slight force will fill the capillaries, a force during life equal to sixty pounds must be adequate to do so. ■ The heart, with a force equal to the pressure of sixty pounds, propels into the artery two ounces of blood at every contraction. It contracts four thousand times in an hour. There passes through the heart, therefore, every hour, eight thousand ounces or seven liundred pounds of blood. It has been stated that the whole mass of blood in an adult is about twenty-eight pounds : on an average the entire circulation is completed in two minutes and a half; conse- quently a quantity of blood equal to the whole mass passes through the heart from twenty to twenty-fom- times in an hour. But though the average space of time requisite to accomplish a complete circula- tion may be two minutes and a half, yet when a stream of blood leaves