PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 330 the abdomen, and which may be regarded as the centre of the system, are placed on the trmiks of the arteries which sujiply the pelvic, abdo- mmal, and thoracic viscera, all organs which mmister directly or indi- rectly to the processes of nutrition. The nerve fibres are distributed to the muscular or contractile coat of the arteries, and accompany them in all their ramifications as far as their muscular coat extends, that is, to their capillary divisions, where both the nerve and the muscular fibres definitely cease together. Everywhere the ganglionic nerve accompanies its nutrient artery inseparably, and everywhere their action is mutual and synchronous : the nerve, the governing power, exciting and controlling the action of the artery, regulating the number and force of its contractions, determining the quantity of blood delivered to each organ in a given time, and the mode of its delivery, and thus exerting an all-powerful influence over the essential conditions of vital chemical action and reaction—that is, nutrition. The controlling power of the ganglionic nerve over the supply of arterial blood, is strikingly shown on separating such a nerve from its corresponding artery. If the nerve be divided, the arterial branches supplied by it are instantly paralyzed. They can no longer perform their office. On the other hand, the entire destruction of the spinal cord and brain does not arrest the cu'culation; for in the web of the frog's foot the blood is seen to flow long after the S2:)inal cord and brain have been removed from the body, in which case the circulation must be maintained by ganglionic nerves, for there are no others left. The nerves give to the arteries their carrying power, but probably they do nothing more. On delivering the blood to the apparatus in which it is to be used, the office of the nerve appears to be fulfilled ; on the use of it, on the process it has probably no influence. That process in the animal, as well as in the plant, is a purely physico- chemical action. Nerves and muscles are superadded to the animal body, engrafted on the structural basis of the plant; but the vege- tative processes in the animal obey the same physical laws as in the plant. The new organs are additions, not substitutions ; and evidence will be adduced hereafter to show that they directly act and react on each other only, however they may indirectly modify the organic pro- cesses. The ganglionic centre, then, is so far the governing power of nutri- tion that it is the source of the vital actions by which the physical elements of nutrition are brought into actual contact, or into sufficient proximity to enable them to act and react on each other; a function which is indeed essential to nutrition in the animal body, but which is still only the minister to the function, not the function itself. With respect to the functions of the other portion of the gano-lionic centre, namely, of the ganglia which are placed on the posterior roots