PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 310 is transparent, from the solution of albumen by the alkali. The wave jiroceeding from the positive or zinc pole, particularly in its circum- ference, is opaque, and white from the acid it contains. Both waves encounter, and exactly in the line of contact a linear coagulum is immediately produced, which assumes the form of the line of con- tact, and is cm-led at times as the edges of the waves are meeting. The meeting of both waves takes place with a lively motion, in the line of contact, when the deposition of coagulum takes place; but as soon as the deposition of coagulum has occurred, all is tranquil, and not the least trace of motion is observed. It is therefore inconceivable how an observer of the first rank, like Dutrocliet, can pronounce this coagulated albumen to be contractile muscular fibre, generated by gal- vanism; it is nothing but coagulated albumen. This coagulum, besides, like the albumen which is deposited by galvanism round the zinc pole, has no consistence, but is composed of globules easily separated by stirring, and only precipitated in the line where the two waves meet without cohesion." But though science has not yet succeeded in ascertaining with cer- tainty the physical agency to which the ultimate changes that take jjlace in organised matter are to be referred, there cannot be a question that they are dependent on physical agents; and the legitimate object of scientific mquiry is to discover what those agents are, and to ascer- tain the modifications they undergo by those vital afiinities to the influence of which they are subjected. The discoveries which science has already made relative to the mfluence of certain physical agents on particular organs, and to the influence of the whole circle of physical agents on the whole living- economy, have added not a httle to human power over human health and disease. But these agents also exert an influence scarcely less momentous on the entire apparatus and action of the animal life, so inseparably linked with the organic. An account will there- fore be next given of the structm'e and function of the nervous and muscular systems.