POWER OF RESISTING HEAT AND COLD. 18.3 Oil going undressed into the room, the impression of the air was much more disagreeable than before; but in five or six minutes, a profuse sweat broke out, which instantly relieved me. Dm-ing all the experiments of this day, whenever I tried the heat of my body, the thermometer always came very nearly to the same point (the ordinary standard), not even one degree of difference, as in our former experiments. To prove that there was no fallacy in the degree of heat shown by the thermometer, but that the air which we breathed was capable of producing all the well-known efiects of such heat on inanimate matter, we put some eggs and a beef-steak upon a tin frame, placed near the standard thermometer, and farther distant from the stove than the wall. In about thirty minutes the eggs were taken out roasted quite hard. In about foi-ty-seven minutes the steak was not only dressed, but almost dry. Another beef-steak was rather overdone in thirty- three minutes. In the evening when the heat was still greater, we blew upon a third steak with the bellows, which produced a visible change on its siu-face, and hastened its dressing ; the greatest part of it was pretty well done in thirteen minutes. The human body, then, may be exposed to a temperature of 50° below 'zero, without having its own heat appreciably diminished ; it may be exposed to a temperature 60° above that of boiling water, without having its own heat increased beyond two or three degrees ; or, as appears from experiments subsequently performed expressly to ascertain this point, from three to five degrees. In the former case, the body must generate a degree of heat sufficient to compensate the great quantity of caloric which is eveiy moment abstracted from it by the intensely-cold surrounding medium. In the latter case it must generate a degree of cold sufficient to counteract the great quantity of caloric which is every moment communicated to it by the intensely-hot surrounding medium. Powers so wonderful and so opposite appeared to the physiologists of former times to be involved in such profound mysteiy, that they did not even attempt to investigate their nature, or trace their mode of operation; but satisfied themselves with referring them to some innate quality of the body, and with considering them as essential attiibutes of hfe. And difficulties connected with the subject still remain, which the present state of knowledge does not permit us wholly to surmount; but we are able at least to refer these powers to their proper seat, and to trace some steps of the processes by which they produce results so wonderful and beautiful. It is certain that, whatever be the ultimate physical processes by which the generation of heat and the production of cold are effected in the animal body, the phenomena are dependent on the condition of