311 CHAPTER XIX. NERVOUS SYSTEM. Defiuition of the term nervous system—Constitution of nervous substance—Functions of nervous substance—Action of stimuli. The nervous system comprehends nervous substance, nerves, and nervous centres. The name given to this system—from vevpov, nervus, nerve—appears to have been derived originally from a Greek word, signifying to extend; because nei-ves were conceived to be prolonga- tions of the medullary substance of the brain. The term nerve, in its restricted sense, signifies the cord of nervous matter which is com- monly known under that name; used adjectively, nervous, it has a more comprehensive use, and is applied to the whole system. Nervous Substance.—Nervous substance constitutes a distinct form of organic matter, often called neurine. It is quite peculiar in its chemical composition, structm-e, and endowments. Its existence is limited to the animal organism. No trace of it is found in the vege- table kingdom; nor has it been found in the lowest forms of animal life. It is the only known form of matter which stands in direct relation to the mind; the only one on which the mind directly acts, and through which it is acted upon. The basis of nervous substance is the proximate principle albumen. It is a proteine compound, united with a peculiar fatty matter, which, unlike other oleaginous substances, contains nitrogen, and some fatty acids, as the cerebric and oleophosphoric. In 100 parts, 7 consist of albumen, 5 of fatty matter, and 80 of water; the remaining 8 being made up of osmazome, phosphorus, sulphur, and salts. Regarded che- mically, therefore, nervous substance is an emulsive admixture of albu- men, fatty matter, and water, intimately combined with a small pro- portion of certain incidental, that is, saline and mineral elements. It consists of two forms of matter, chemically and anatomically dif- ferent from each other; one being of a grey, the other of a white colour. The grey matter differs chemically from the white, in con- taining more albumen and water and less fat, the white consisting of so large a proportion of fat as to derive from it its white colour. Anatomically, the grey substance consists of very fine molecular matter, in which are embedded delicate transparent vesicles, termed nerve-vesicles or corpuscles. They are all essentially nucleated cells (Fig. 100). They vary in size from the jt}-^q to the of an inch, and contain, within their delicate membranous walls, extremely fine gra-