320 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. tliat each filament or trunk of nervous matter has its peculiar endow- ment independently of the others which are bound up along with it; and that it continues to have the same endowment throughout its whole length. If we select a filament of a nerve, and if its ofiice be to convey sensation, that power shall belong to it in all its course wherever it can be traced; and wherever in the whole course of that filament, whether it be in the foot, leg, thigh, spine, or brain, it may be bruised or pricked, or injured in any way, sensation and not motion will result; and the perception arising from the impression will be referred to that part of the skin where the remote extremity of the filament is distributed." The two conditions of nervous conduction so clearly indicated in this passage, namely, that each primitive fibre presents " a continuous track from one extremity to the other," and that it performs one single office only, which it cannot transfer, and which cannot be substituted for another, constitute the two fundamental conditions of nervous con- duction, which, in honour of the illustrious man who discovered and established them, it has been agreed by common consent to call the Lex Bellena. What Bell thus by the penetration of his genius and without ocular demonstration discovered, subsequent microscopic observation has con- firmed ; and there is not in the whole range of human knowledge a more exquisite instance of what has been well termed " anticipations of science." • It is like the mental view obtained by Copernicus of the phases of the planet Venus, and which he declared would be manifest to every eye if ever the telescope should become sufficiently powerful to display them. " It liad been objected to the doctrine of Copernicus," says Sir John Herschel, " that were it true, Venus should appear sometimes horned like the moon. To this he answered by admitting the conclusion, and averring that, should he ever be able to see its actual shape, it would appear so. It is easy to unagine with what force the application would strike every mind when the telescope confirmed this prediction, and showed the planet just as both the philosopher and his objectors had agreed it ought to appear. The history of science affords perhaps only one instance analogous to this. When Dr. Hutton expounded his theory of the consoHdation of rocks by the application of heat at a great depth below the bed of the ocean, and especially of that of marble by actual fusion, it was objected that, whatever might be the case with others, with calcareous or marble rocks, at least, it was impossible to grant such a cause of consolidation, since heat decomposes their substance, and converts it into quicklime, by driving off the carbonic acid, and leaving a substance perfectly infusible, and incapable even of