8 PHILOSOPHY OF HExYLTH. tion of the sense of touch, which though placed especially at the extremities of the fingers, is also diflfused over the whole external sur- face of the frame, all the senses have their several seats in the head, the most elevated part of the body, of an ovoid figiu^e, capable of moving independently of the rest of the fabric, and which, being sup- ported on a i)ivot, is enabled to describe at least two-thhds of a circle. Such is the difference m the structure and position of the apparatus of the two lives, but the difference in their action is still more striking. 1. The action of the apparatus of the organic life, when sound, is without consciousness; the object of the action of the apparatus of the animal life is the production of consciousness. The final cause of the first is the maintenance of existence; that of the second, the pro- duction of conscious existence. Organic processes go on unceasmgly within a sentient being, yet they are as unconscious in character in the animal as in the plant, showing the unity of the great laws of organisa- tion. Consciousness is communicated not by giving sensibility to the organic processes, but by constructing a new apparatus, the sole object of which is to produce and maintain a state of varied and extended consciousness. We do not know when the heart dilates to receive the vital current, nor when it contracts to propel it with renewed impetus through the system, nor when the blood flows to the lungs to give out its useless and noxious particles, nor when the air rushes to the blood to take up those particles, to replace them by others, and thus to purify and renovate the vital fluid. Of these processes we have no more consciousness than has a blade of grass of the motion of the fluids that pervade it. On the other hand, when an external object produces, in a sentient nerVe, that change of state which we denote by the words " an impressionwhen the sentient nerve transmits this impression to the brain; when the brain is thereby brought into the state of per- ception, the animal life is in active operation, and percipient or conscious existence takes place. Consciousness does not belong to the organic, it is the animal life. 2. The functions of the organic life are performed with uninterrupted continuity; to those of the animal life, rest is indispensable. The action of the heart is unceasing ; it takes not, and needs not rest. On it goes for the space of eighty or ninety years, at the rate of a hundred thousand strokes every twenty-four hours, having at every stroke a great resistance to overcome, yet it continues this action for this length of time without intermission. Individual parts of it indeed repose for a moment. The auricles rest while the ventricles contract; and the ventricles repose during the systole of the auricles. But this alternate action they continue night and day without ceasing. Alike incessant is the action of the lungs, which, at measured periods, definitely fixed,