THE TEETH. endowments; that is, the exact point in the scale of organisation to which the animal belongs, merely by the inspection of the teeth. In man, the several classes of the teeth are so similarly developed, so perfectly equalized, and so identically constructed, that they may be considered as the true type from wliich all the other forms are deviations. For the accomplishment of their office, the teeth must be endowed with prodigious strength: for the fulhlment of purposes immediately connected with the apparatus of digestion, it is necessary that they should be placed in the neighbourhood of exceedingly soft, delicate, irritable, and sentient organs. That they may possess the requisite degree of strength, they are constructed chiefly of a kind of bone, the hardest organised substance. (Chapter VI.) Had a highly-organised and sensitive body been made the instru- ment of cutting, tearing, and breaking down the food, every tooth, every time it comes in contact with the food,' would produce the exquisite pain now occasionally experienced when a tooth is inflamed. Yet a body wholly inorganic and therefore insensible, could not perform the office of the instriunent: first, because a dead body cannot be placed in contact with living parts without producing irritation, disease, and consequently pain; and, secondly, because such a body being incapable of any process of nutrition, must speedily be worn away by friction, and there could be no possibility of repairing or of replacing it. The instrument in question, then, must possess hardness, dura- bility, and, to a certain extent, insensibility; yet it must be capable of forming an intimate union with sentient and vital organs, must be cajmble of becoming a constituent part of the living system. To communicate to it the requisite degree of hardness, the hard substance forming its basis is rendered much harder than common bone. When a vertical section is made in the tooth, it is found to contain a cavity of con- siderable size, termed the dental cavity, which, large in the body of the tooth, gradually diminishes through the whole length of the root. The dental cavity is Magnified section of a tooth, to lined throughout with a thin, dehcate, and illustrate the anangement of vascular membrane, continued from that which lines the jaw. It contains a pulpy substance. This pulp, highly vascular and exquisitely sensible, is composed almost en- tirely of blood-vessels and nerves, and is the som-ce whence the bony part of the tooth derives its vitahty, sensibility, and nutriment. The Fig. 8;]. the fibrous crystals compos- ing the enamel. 1, cavity of the tooth ; 2, bony substance ; ,'?, enamel showing the crys- tals disposed in radii.