riiiLOSoriiY OF health. 94 ments of tlie diapliragm ; and in the varied postures of the hody the lieart deviates to a certain extent from the exact position here described. The second division of the trunk, the abdomen, is Iwunded above by the diaphragm (Fig. 49, 2), below by the pelvis (Fig. 49, 3), behind and at the sides by the vertebrae and muscles of the loins, and before by the abdominal muscles. The organ which forms the sn- perior boundary of the abdomen, the diaphragm (midi-iff), is a circu- lar muscle, placed transversely across the trunk, nearly at its centre (Fig. 49, 2). It forms a vaulted par- tition between the thorax and the abdomen. All around its border it is fleshy ; towards its centre it is tendinous ; the surface towards the abdomen is concave ; that towards the thorax convex; while its middle tendinous portion ascends into the thorax as high as the fourth rib. The diaphragm is perforated by several apertures, for the trans- mission of tubes and vessels, which , , pass reciprocally between the thorax View of the diaphragm. 1, cavity ot tlie thorax; 2, diaphragm separating the cavity anCi atXlOmen. of the thorax from that of the abdomen; I ^ separate aperture is formed 3, ca\ity of the pehis. afford an exit from the thorax of the aorta, the common source of the arteries, and an entrance into the thorax of the thoracic duct, the tube that bears the digested ali- ment to the heart. 2. A little to the left of the former there is another aperture, through which passes the oesophagus or gullet, the tube that conveys the food from the mouth to the stomach. 3. On the right side, in the tendinous portion of the diaphragm, very carefully constructed, is a third aperture for the passage of the vena cava, the great vessel that retmns the blood to the heart from the lower parts of the body. The partition formed by the diaphragm between the thorax and abdomen, though complete, is moveable; for, as the diaphragm descends m inspiration and ascends in expiration, it proportionally enlarges or diminishes the canities between which it is placed; consequently, the actual magnitude of these cavities varies every