DEMANDS FOK nf.OOD; ITS RENEWAL. Gl 7. Nerves. 8. Bones. 9. Tendons. There are a few parts which seem to receive no blood-vessels at all, and which are, therefore, said to be extra vascular, as the cuticle or scarf skin, nails, hair, horn, and cartilage. Demands for Uoocl.—In the living system there is a constant demand for fresh supplies of blood. 1. To sustain the molecular change which is incessantly going on in the body—that is, to aftbrd materials for the repair of waste. 2. To furnish the materials for gi'owth. 3. To afford the materials for secretion. 4. To maintain animal heat. 5. To afford the requisite stimulus to the muscular system and the nervous centres. Sources from which the hlood is renewed.—These are— 1. The chyle, prepared by the process of digestion from the food. 2. The contents of the lymphatic vessels. 8. Liquids absorbed du-ectly from the stomach by the veins. 4. Gaseous substances mtroduced into it as it circulates through the lungs. From the preceding account, it is evident that the blood contains in it all the materials necessaiy for nutrition, either as elements, or as substances already formed, and capable of numberless transformations, and of being ultimately converted into tissues and organs. The blood comj^osed of the most heterogeneous matters is as truly organised as any organ that is formed out of it, all its constituents having definite properties existing in definite proportions, and bearing definite relations to each other, none of which can be changed except within narrow limits, without impairing its structure and disturbing its functions. Provision is made, in the fundamental constitution of the blood, for the maintenance of the due balance between all the parts of the l^ody. If, for example, the fluid parts are deficient, thirst is produced : part of the fluids taken into the stomach, as water, tea, wine, and the like, pass directly into the blood by venous absorption, until the equilibrium is restored, and if there be no means of accomplishing this by drinking, rapid absorption takes place by the skin and lungs. If, on the other hand, the solids are deficient, hunger is excited: the gratification of appetite introduces food into the stomach; rapid digestion commenceH with predisposition to rest and sleep, and during this state of the system it is placed under the most favourable conditions for the pro- •liiction and deposition of the new substances required. Since the chief source from which the blood is replenished is chyle