DIArilUAO M.—rEEITONEUM. 95 moment, and the size of the one is always in the inverse ratio of that of the other. Between the abdomen and tlie pelvis there is no separation; one cavity is directly continuous with the other (Fig. 50); but along the inner surface of the expanded bones, which form a part of the lateral boundary of the abdomen,;there is a prominent line, termed the brim of the pelvis, marking the point at which the abdomen is supposed to terminate and the pelvis to commence. Behind and at the sides the walls of the abdomen are completed, partly by the lumbar portion of the spinal column, and partly by the lumbar muscles, and before by the abdominal muscles. The inner surface of the walls of the abdomen is lined throughout by a serous membrane, termed the peritoneum. From the walls of the abdomen, the peritoneum is reflected upon the organs contained in the cavity, and is continued over them so as to form their external coat. The peritoneum also descends between the several organs, con- necting them together, and holding them in their situation; and it likewise forms numerous folds, in which are embedded the vessels and nerves that supply the organs. It secretes a serous fluid, by which its own sm-face and that of the organs it covers is rendered moist, polished, and ghstening, and by means of which the organs glide smoothly over it, and over one another in the various movements of the body, and are in constant contact without growing together. In structure, distribution, and function, the peritoneum is thus perfectly analogous to the pleura. Like the thorax, the abdomen is always completely full. When the diaphragm is in action, it contracts. When the diaphragm is in the state of contraction, the abdominal and lumbar muscles are in the state of relaxation. By the contraction of the diaphragm, the organs con- tained in the abdomen are pushed downwards, and the anterior and lateral walls of the cavity being at this moment in a state of relaxation, they readily yield, and, consequently, the viscera are protruded forwards and at the sides. But the abdominal and lumbar muscles, in their turn, contract, the diaphragm relaxing; and, consequently, the viscera, forced from the front and sides of the abdomen, are pushed upwards, together with the diaphragm, into the thorax. A firm and uniform pressure is thus, at all times, maintained upon the whole contents of the abdomen: there is an exact adaptation of the containing to the contained parts, and of one organ to another. No space intervenes either between the walls of the abdomen and the organs they enclose, or between one organ and another; so that the term cavity does not denote a void or empty space, but merely the extent of the boundary within which the viscera are contained. The contents of the abdomen consist of tlie organs which belong to