289 EXCRETION, AND USES, OF FAT. ordinary mode, by tlie pulmonary artery tlirough the lungs, under the form of carbonic acid gas, is excreted by the vena portae, through the Irv'er, under the form of bile, while the superabundant hydrogen is re- moved by the increased quantity of perspiration; and thus the accu- mulation of these inflammable matters in the system is effectually prevented. By the deposition of fat in the adipose tissue material assistance is afforded to the excretory action of the skin, the lungs, and the liver. Fat is composed essentially of carbon and hydrogen; it contains no nitrogen and very little oxygen. It is deposited whenever an excessive quantity of nutritive matter is pom-ed into the blood, and especially when at the same time the different secretions and excretions ordinarily formed from the blood are diminished. The primary object of this deposition is to relieve the circulation of a load which would embarrass and ultimately stop the actions of life. It serves, however, a secondary purpose, that of forming a storehouse of nutritive matter, duly pre- pared for supplying the wants of the system, in case the body should be placed under circumstances in which the digestive organs can no longer receive food or no longer convert it into chyle. Thus hybernating animals, which pass many months without taking food, accumulate a store of fat before they fall into the state of torpor. Marmots and dormice sub-^ist on this store during the winter, and hence, when spring awakens them from their torpor, they are always in a state of extreme emaciation. Birds and other animals which live on food procured with difficulty in the winter, become unusually fat in the autumn. During fever and other acute diseases, when little food is received, and still less converted into chyle, the extreme emaciation which the body undergoes is owing partly to the disappearance of the fat, which is taken up by the absorbents and carried into the blood, in order to compensate for the deficiency of nutrient matter supplied by tlie digestive organs. The chief depositories of the fat p,re those interstitial spaces of the body in which a certain quantity of soft but tenacious substance is required to obviate pressure or to preserve symmetry. A large quan- tity is also placed immediately beneath the skin; in the interstices of •muscles ; along the com-se of blood-vessels and nerves; in the omentum, where it is spread like a covering over the viscera of the abdomen; in the mesentery and around the kidneys. Fat is a bad conductor of heat; consequently the layer which is sprdad over the "external surface immediately beneath the skin, and that which is collected in the interior of the omentum, must be useful in preserving the heat of the body. Fat persons bear cold better than lean persons. Animals which inhabit the northern climates are enve- * u