PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 144 l)one, and muscle is the same, all comes alike from the systemic heart, and is alike conveyed to all the tissues ; yet in the one it becomes brain, in the otlier bone, and in the third muscle. Out of one and the same fluid these living chemists manufactui'c cuticle, and membrane, and muscle, and brain, and bone; the tears, the wax, the fat, the saliva, the gastric juice, the milk, the bile, all the fluids, and all the solids of the body. The practical applications of those phenomena are numerous and most important; but they can be clearly and impressively stated only when the operation of the physical agents which influence the cir- culation, and which proportionally afl'ect life and health, has been explained. CHAPTEE XII. OF EESPIRATION. RospiiTition in tlio plant; in tlio animal—A(iuaticand aerial respiration—Appamtus in man—'J'rachea, Jimnchi, Air Vesicles—Pulmonary ait^ry—Limy—Respiratory motions: insjjiration ; expiration—How in tlic, former air and blood flow to the lung; how in the latter air and blood flow from the lung—Relation between respiration and circulation—Quantity of air and blood employed in each res[)iratory action— Calculations founded on these estimates—Changes producetl by animal resiMmtion on the air: diangcs produced by vegetable respiration on the air—Changes pi'o- duced by resi^iratiou on the blood—Respiratory function of the liver—Uses of respiration. No organized being can hve without food, and no food can nourish without air. In all creatures the necessity for air is more urgent than that for food; for some can live days, and even weeks, without a fresh supply of food, but none can enjoy active life without a constant renewal of the air. The food having undergone the requisite preparation in the appa- ratus provided for its assimilation, is brought mto contact with the air, from which it abstracts certain principles, and to which it gives others in return. By this interchange of principles the composition of the food is changed: it acquires the qualities necessary for its com- bination with the living body. The process by which the air is brought into contact with the food, and by which the food receives from the air the qualities which fit it for becommg a constituent part of the living body, constitutes the function of respiration. In the plant, the air and the food meet in contact and react on each other in the leaf. The crude food of the plant having in its ascent from the root through the stalk, received successive additions of organic sulistances, by which its nature is assimilated to the chemi-