109 THE MOUTH—THE rHAllVNX. part of this extended apparatus is modified m structure so as specially to lit it for the performance of the office which is appropriated to it. The mouth is not merely the opening between the two lips, but consists of an oval chamber, bounded above by the upper jaw and the palate; below by the tongue and the lower jaw; laterally by the cheeks; behind by the soft palate; and before by the Hps. The upper and lower jaw, the palate bones, and the teeth, constitute the hard or the bony parts of the mouth. The soft jDarts consist of the lips, the cheeks, the soft palate, the tongue, and the mucous mem- brane which lines the whole. The lips and cheeks are composed principally of muscles, covered on the outside by the skin, and lined on the inside by the mucous membrane of the mouth. In the interspaces between the muscles is disposed a quantity of fat, which gives form to the face, facilitates the movements of the muscles, and protects the glands, blood-vessels, and nerves, with which all these organs are most abundantly supplied. The roof of the mouth, called the palate (Fig. 81), consists partly of bony and partly of membranous substance. The bony part of the palate forms an arch in the upper jaw, the position of which in the erect posture is horizontal: the membranous part of the palate con- sists of the mucous membrane of the mouth, which affords a covering to the bony part of the palate. From the posterior part of the bony arch of the palate is suspended, transversely, a moveable partition, called the soft palate (Fig. 81), which is composed of muscular fibres enclosed in the mucous mem- branes of the mouth. No less than ten distinct muscles enter into the composition of the soft palate. These muscles are disposed in such a manner that they render the organ capable of descending and of applying itself against the tongue (Fig. 81), so as completely to close the passage between the mouth and the pharynx (Fig. 81), and of ascending and carrying itself obliquely backwards towards the posterior wall of the pharynx, so as completely to close the passage between the pharynx and the nose (Fig. 81, nasal fossae); hence this moveable partition performs the office of a double valve, closing the passage from the mouth to the pharynx, and from the pharynx to the nose. From the centre of the soft palate hangs pendulous the conical- shaped body called the uvula (Fig. 81), which consists of a small muscle enveloped in the mucous membrane of the mouth. The uvula assists in completing the valve formed by ther soft palate; it is also an important organ in the modulation of the voice. When destroyed by disease, both the deglutition of the food and the sound of the voice become imperfect. The lateral edges of the soft palate separate into two layers, which