CONDITION OF EXCKEMENTITIOUS MATTER. 293 out of the system by the liver in an augmented secretion of bile. If the action of the liver be diminished, that of the kidney is increased; and if the secretion of urine be suppressed, the secretion of bile is augmented. When the absorbents are oppressed by the quantity of fluid poured into the stomach, or when the system is at the point of saturation, and no absorption can go on, the veins take up the super- fluous Hquids, pour them into the circulating current, and bear them to the kidneys, by which organs they are rapidly separated from the blood, and carried out of the body. The weakness of one organ is compensated by the strength of another ; the diminished activity of one process is equalised by the increased energy of some other to which it is allied in nature and linked by sympathy; and thus the evils which would result from the partial and temporary failure of an important function are obviated by some vicarious labour, until the enfeebled organ has recovered its tone, and the natural balance of the functions is restored. The condition acquu-ed by the elementary particles of organised bodies, fronj their long continuance in the system, which induces the necessity for their excretion, is not known. The chemical elements of the excretions are the very same as those which constitute the organ- ised textures and the nourishment by which they are sustained. Carbon is the basis of the organised body; yet all living bodies, without exception, excrete carbon. Oxygen, hydrogen, and azote, also, without which life cannot be maintained, if retained in the system beyond a given time, are incompatible with the continuance of life. During the chemical changes which these elementary particles undergo, in tlie course of the vital processes, they appear to enter into some combination, which is no longer compatible with the peculiar mode in which they are disposed in organised and living structures. And one such change, of a very remarkable nature, has been observed, which, it is conceived, has a considerable share in rendering their con- stant expulsion and renovation indispensable. Out of the condition of life the component elements of organised bodies readily combine so as to form crystals; the peculiar combina- tions by which they form the constituent textures of organic structures are never crystalline. No crystal is ever seen in the seat of a living and growing vegetable cellule; no crystal is ever found as a constituent part of animal membrane, Wlienever a crystal occm's in an organised body it is always the result either of disease or of some artificial pro- cess, or else it is an excretion separated from the nourishing fluid and the useful textuiTS, Every one of these textures contains, even in its minutest parts, saline and earthy, as well as vegetable or animal, matter. ^Vhy do not these saline and earthy particles as readily com- bine to foi-m crystals in the organic as they do in the inorganic body ?