riilLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 20G food mtroclucetl in this manner. On one occasion the tube, instead of being passed through the oesophagus to the stomach, was introduced into the trachea down to the division of the bronchi. Several injections of soup were actually thrown into the lungs before the mistake was discovered; yet no fatal, and even no dangerous consequences ensued. Since that period, in various experiments on animals, several substances of an innoxious nature have been thrown into the lungs without pro- ducing any inconvenience beyond slight disturbance of the respiration and cough. The reason is, that after a short time the substances are absorbed by the membrane composing the au-vesicles, and are thus removed from the lungs and borne into the general circulating mass. At every point of the pulmonary tissue there is a vascular tube ready to receive any substance imbibed by it, and to carr}"" it at once into the general current of the circulation. Hence the instantaneousness and the dreadful energy with which poisons and other noxious substances act upon the system when brought into contact with the pulmonary tissue. A solution of nux vomica injected into the trachea produces death in a few seconds. A single inspiration of the concentrated prussic acid kills with the rapidity of a stroke of hghtning. This acid in its concentrated foim is so potent a poison, that it requires the most extreme care in the use of it, and more than one physiologist has been poisoned by it through the want of proper precaution while employing it for the purpose of experiment. If the nose of an animal be slowly passed over a bottle containing this poison, and the animal happen to inspire during the moment of the passage, it drops down dead instantaneously, just as when the poison is appHed in the form of liquid to the tongue or the stomach. The vapour of chlorine possesses the property of arresting the poisonous effects of prussic acid, unless the latter be in- troduced into the system in a dose sufiieiently strong to kill instantly ; and, hence, when an animal is all but dead from the effects of prussic acid, it is sometimes suddenly restored to life by holding its mouth over the vapour of chlorine. Examples of the transmission of gaseous bodies through the pul- monary membrane have been already fully described in the account of the passage of atmospheric air to tlie lungs, and of carbonic acid gas from the lungs, in natural respiration. But foreign substances may be mixed with or suspended in the atmospheric au', which it is the proper office of the pulmonary membrane to transmit to the lungs, and may be immediately carried with it into the cnculating mass. Thus, merely passing through a recently-pamted chamber gives to the urine the odour of tiu-pentine. The vapoui' of turpentine diffused through the chamber is transmitted to the lungs with the inspii-ed air and passing into the circulation through the pulmonary membrane'