PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 48 in " Elastic Tissue. Kig. 13. when supported by the containing cells and surrounding web, the proper consistence of the fat of the body at ordinary temperature. Plentifully as fat is distributed in a well-nourished person, it has in all parts of the body the same structure. It is well known how commonly it disappears under conditions of ill-health. The wasting of the lat is efiected by its absorption from the hiterior of the cells, where its place is taken by a watery fluid. When we were considering the microscopic structure of areolar tissue we found it composed of wavy tough fibres and cells; there is further, in addition, a small proportion of fibres of an elastic kind, which beneath the microscope are well defined in outluie and yellowish in colour, whilst they branch and unite with each other: these are met with in a separate condition ' This substance, in its pm^e state, is scarce in the body; it is found in the walls of arteries (Fig. 13) in the back-bone, forming ligaments between the spines of the vertebrae; and in some other ligaments it is also present, particularly in the vocal cords, where its elasticity allows the length of them to be increased and lessened. But the most elaborate of the structures which are comprised in the class of connective or me- cJianical tissue is bone. In this substance, though at first sight it is so unlike the rest, the micro- scope shows still the fibrous basis here charged with lime salts, and the cellular bodies spread throughout it. These are disposed with great regularity about the numerous blood channels, of the horse, with which form a uetwork in the whole substance. In holes in the. fibres : ,i •■• n ■, t i n i n inngnified 350 times. ^"^^ compositiou ot Doue, as displa^^cd by the highest powers of the microscope (Fig. 14) we discover very minute lamellae of calcified membrane, groAvn con- centrically round hollow channels (Fig. 15, a) which run parallel to each other in the com-se of the long axis of the bone, so that these channels thus come to have very thick stony walls built up of layers round the central tube ; all these hollow channels are short, and end by opening into two or three of their neighbours on either side, so that every one of these channels thus communicates with the rest. The result of this arrangement is to establish a network of hollow channels throughout the bony substance. The network when it reaches the surface, both externally and in the marrow-canal, opens upon it by numerous little orifices, which can be detected with the aid of a pocket lens. The little channels are called Haversian canals, after their discoverer; and when surrounded Klastic notuoik, from the (nnicii media of