INFLUENCE OP THE RED PARTICLES. 301 tliin upper layer (serous membrane) and a thicker under layer (mucous membrane). There is also formed in the middle of the germinal mem- brane aroimd the appearing trace of the embryo a translucent space, the area jpellucicla. The exterior of the germinal membrane remains opaque, and this opaque portion becomes divided by a definite boundary into an external and internal annular space in from sixteen to twenty hours. This separation encloses one part of the opaque portion of the germinal membrane, which smTOunds the interior or translucent space of the genninal membrane, and is termed area vasculosa, because the blood and vessels form the inner half of this space. far as the area vasculosa extends, a granular layer is presented between the two layers of the germinal membrane, which soon divides into numerous granular isolated particles with translucent intervals, in which the blood collects, first in the form of a yellowish, and then of a reddish fluid; first distinctly in the periphery of the area vasculosa, from which it is seen to flow towards the heart before the heart beats. The blood exerts its vivifying influence chiefly by the red particles. If an animal be bled to fainting, and pm'e serum be injected into its vessels, reanimation does not take place; but if the blood of another animal of the same species be injected, the animal which was ap- parently dead acquii'es new life at every stroke. The fibrin may be removed from the blood vdthout injuring the red particles. If the fibrin be abstracted, and a mixture of the red par- ticles and the serum be brought to a proper temperature, and injected into the veins of an animal bled to fainting, reanimation is effected. If the blood of an animal of another species be injected whose red particles are of the same form, but of a different size, reanimation is indeed effected, but the restoration is imperfect; the organic functions are oppressed and languish, and death takes place generally within the sixth day. The same effects follow, if a mixture of serum and red particles of the blood of a different species be injected. If blood with circular particles be injected into the vessels of an animal whose blood corpuscles are elliptical, the most violent effects are instantly produced ; such blood acts upon the nervous system like the strongest poisons; and death usually follows with extreme rapidity after the injection of a very small quantity. Thus, if a few drojis of the blood of the sheep be injected into the vessels of the bird, the bird is killed instantaneously. It is very remai-kable, that the blood of the mammalia should be thus fatal to the bird. The effect cannot be dependent on any mechanical principle. The injection of a fluid with particles the diameter of which is greater than that of the capillary blood-vessels would of course destroy life by stopping the circulation; but the blood corpuscles of the mammalia are much smaller than those of the bird; yet the pigeon is killed by a few drops of mammiferous