PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. motion to the limb; an unspeakable advantage when the limb has sustained injury, or is suffering from disease. It does not seem possible to construct a joint of great strength, capable, at the same time, of the degree of motion possessed by the joint of the shoulder. So shallow is the socket of the scapula, and so large the head of the humerus, that it seems as if the slightest movement must dislodge it from its cavity. For sustaining heavy weights or resisting a great amount of pressure, applied to it sud- denly and in various directions, the arm is obviously unfitted. But this is not its office. The superior extremities are the organs of apprehension—the instruments by which the mind executes the commands of the will. They do not need the strength required by the organs that sustain the weight of the body and that perform the function of locomotion; but they do need freedom and extent of motion: to this strength may be sacrificed, and so it is; yet what can be done to combine strength with mobility is eff'ected. Large and strong processes of bone, proceeding, as has been shown, from the convex surface of the scapula (Fig. 52) overhang, and to a considerable extent surround, the head of the arm-bone, especially resisting the force that would dislodge it from its socket, and drive it upwards, inwards, and backwards (Fig. 52), the direc- tions in which force is most commonly applied to it. By these processes of bone the joint is greatly protected, especially in those directions. Moreover, a strong ligament, termed the fibrous capsule, envelops the joint. This ligament, arising from the neck of the scapula (Fig. 59), expands itself in such a manner as com- pletely to surround the liead of the humerus (Fig. 59) ; and then again contracts in order to be inserted into the neck of the bone. This ligament is strengthened by the tendons of no less than four muscles which are expanded over it. In addition to all these expedients for fortifying the joint, it receives a further security from the mobility of the scapula, which slides easily over the ribs upon its cushion of flesh ; and thus obtains, by facility of yielding, some compensation for its want of strength, giving way before the force which it cannot resist. The arm consists of numerous and powerful muscles, and of a single bone, the humerus, which belongs to the class of bones termed cylindrical. The upper end of the humerus terminates in a hemispherical head (Fig. 52, 9 ), which is received into the socket of the scapula (Fig. 52, 9, 7 ) termed, as has been stated, its glenoid cavity. The middle portion of the bone, or what is termed its shaft (Fig. 52, g), diminishes considerably in magnitude, and becomes somewhat rounded while its lower end is flattened before and behind, and ends below in a smootli grooved surface resembling one moiety of an ordinary hinge.