NUTRITION. 307 2. The constituents of the blood abstracted by a tissue, identical in chemical composition ^Yith its own, are immediately incorporated into its substance. 3. The constituents of the blood abstracted by a tissue, as they are incorporated into its substance, are not disposed fortuitously, but are arranged according to the specific organisation of the tissue, and thus receive its own peculiar structure. 4. The constituents of the blood which thus receive the peculiar organisation and structure of the tissue by which they are appropriated, acquire all its peculiar vital endowments. It is manifest, then, that the tissues assimilate the blood just as the digestive fluids assimilate the aliment. And this is nutrition, the assi- milation of the blood by the tissues and organs. Digestion is the con- version of the food into blood; nutrition is the conversion of blood into living fluids and solids. For the reasons assigned, it is probable that the living fluids and solids, formed from the blood by the act of nutrition, are not generated at the parts of the body where they appear, but that, pre-existing in the blood, they are merely evolved at those parts. Hence the variety and complexity of the processes for the elaboration of the blood which have been described, and all of which appear to be indispensable to bring the blood to a proper state of purity and strength. The great effort of the system is put forth in effecting the constitution of the blood. When the blood is once formed, all the rest of the work appears to be easy; because, before it reaches any part of the organi- sation which it is destined to support, the blood is already adapted, mechanically, chemically, and vitally, to afford that support. Still since there are cases, as in the production of gelatin, in which the substance does not appear to be pre-existent in the blood, we are under the necessity of supposing that a material change is effected in the constituents of the vital fluid at the time and place of their escape from the circulation. How the constituents of the blood escape from the circulation and incorporate themselves with the substance of the tissues there can be no difficulty in conceivmg, wherever the capillaries terminate in mem- braneless canals, channels worked out for the reception of the nutrient stream by the force of the current itself; and in every case in which the capillaries, retaining their membranous tunics, remain true and proper vessels, their contents escape through their dehcate walls by the process of endosmose, for which their structure appears to be ad- mirably adapted. But in the capillary vessels there exists only blood. Universally and invariably before the blood passes from under the influence of the capillary vessels it has ceased to be blood. Arterial blood is conveyed X 2