354 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 5. The fifth pair, trifacial, arise from the medulla oblongata, pass through the pons varolii (Fig. 107, 5), and form three large branches, whence their name. It has two roots, like a spinal nerve, and on one of them is placed a large ganglion, termed the ophthalmic or len- ticular, from its shape. This nerve is mainly distributed to the head and face. 6. The sixth pau', the abductors, arise from the commencement of the medulla oblongata (Fig. 107, e), and, like the fourth, are dis- tributed entirely to certain muscles of the eyeball, the abductors, the action of which is to di*aw the eye fi'om the nose towards the temples. 7. The seventh pair arise from the medulla oblongata (Fig. 107, 7), and consist of two portions, one termed the portio mollis, and the other the portio dura. The first is the auditory nerve, and is dis- tributed entirely to the internal parts of the ear, forming the organ of hearing. The second is a motor nerve, and is distributed to the muscles of the face; hence it is often called the facial nerve (Fig. 107, 7). 8. The eighth pah: arise from the medulla oblongata at the sides of the olives (Fig. 107, s), and consist of two portions, termed the glosso-pharyngeal and the vagus. The glosso-pharyngeal, which is often numbered separately, and termed the ninth pair, is spent chiefly upon the pharynx and the tongue; hence 4ts name fi'om yXcoaaa, a tongue, and (^epeuv, to convey, because the pharynx conveys the food into the stomach. The vagus, so termed fi'om its wandering course, is also called the pneumo-gastric, from -rrvevficov, a lung, and yacrrrjp, a stomach, be- cause, widely spread as are its branches, its principal distribution is to the lungs and stomach. 9. The ninth pair, the linguales, from lingua, a tongue, is "also called hypoglossal, from viro, under, and jXcoaaa, a tongue, because it is distributed principally to the under part, that is, the muscles of the tongue. Both pairs arise fi'om the sides of the pyramids (Fig. 107, 9), on the forepart of the medulla oblongata, and are distributed as indi- cated by the name. 10. The tenth pair, the accessorii, because they are regarded as appendages to the eighth pair, arise from the upper part of the spinal cord, and are distributed to the muscles of the shoulder. The Cerebral Nerves.—The ten so-called cerebral nerves just enumerated consist of two classes, the true cerebral and the spinal. The true cerebral nerves are those which arise from the cerebrum by single roots, and have no ganglion. They are simple nerves, and are seven in number, namely, the olfactory, the optic, the motores occuli, the trochleares, the abductors, the portio dura and mollis of the seventh pair, and the linguales. The remaining three, the trifacial, the vagus