no PHILOSOrilY OF HEALTH. (Fig. 60), and the difterent ^•o^Y.s are attached to each other, and the upper rows to the radius, hy ])ands, which render the joint very strong. Though hut Httle motion is allowed id each articulation, the sum of all the movements is considerahle. The presence of so many little joints, allowing movement throughout the wrist, gives sujDpleiiess and pliahility, with a capacity for yielding to shocks, whilst yet all its parts are strong and firmly united to resist displacement. Each finger is composed of three hones, called phalanges, the thumb has only two. The phalanges are smooth and rounded behind to increase strength, and are hollowed hi front to fit the tendons that pass along them ; they fit to each other, so that a double head on the nearer fits to a double cup on the farther little bone ; the last bone is arrow-head shaped, expanding to supjDort the nail and the sensi- tive tip of the finger. The phalanges are tied together by strong lateral ligaments, which only allow flexion and extension. The movements of the wrist and hands are caused by muscles which occupy the fore-arm and palm of the hand. Those, with, the supinators and extensors before mentioned, form its thickness over the surface of the bone. Some of the flexors are attached to the bones of the palm (flexor carpi radialis and f. c. ulnaris, Fig. 60), and serve to bend the wi'ist; others act on the fingers and thumb. These are very powerful muscles (f. sublimis digitorum. Fig. 60), and give two tendons to each finger, one to its last bone and one to the last but one. A beautiful piece of adaptation is seen here (Fig. 60). One of the flexor tendons overlies the other, and that W'hich is superficial, Avhen close to insertion, divides to let the deeper run through it beyond, to reach the last joint. The former thus serves to bind down the latter securely to its place. From each of the deep flexor tendons in the palm a small worm- like muscle (lumbricalis, Fig. 60), rises, and runs to be inserted into the first phalanx. The thumb and little finger have additional muscles (Fig. 60), which form the swelling on the inner and outer side of the palm of the hand : these muscles are flexors, and much increase the diversity of the movements and the grasping power of the thumb and little finger. Long extensor muscles come down from the back of the fore-arm to the wrist and hand. Three of them (Fig. 61, ext. carp. rad. longior and brevier and e. c. ulnaris) end on the metacarpal bones, and act upon the wrist, whilst the remainder (ext. com. digitorum, Fig. 61) run into the finger, spreading over the back and attached to the bone. The index and little fingers have each an additional extensor, which confers more indejiendence on their movements. Small muscles (Fig. 60) placed between the metacarpal bones run