THE AIR VESICLES. 153 of tlie incomplete rings; its action is to lessen the calibre of the tube. The elastic fibres, on the contraiy, are chiefly disposed along the length of the tube according to the requirements of their office, which is to shorten the extended trachea when the hmgs with their roots ascend in expu-ation. The trachea runs dovm in the middle line of the neck close in front of the oesophagus or gullet, and passes into the chest, descendmg as low as the level of the third dorsal vertebra. Arrived thereabouts, it parts into two trunks (Fig. 79), quite like it in structure, each of which passes outwards in the root of the lung on its own side. Each enters the lung in company with the great blood- vessels by which that organ is copiously supplied (see Fig. 48), and soon commences a process of subdivision into successively smaller and smaller portions, which radiate away from the roots towards the circum- ference of the lung, some reaching up nearly to its surface, others losing themselves in the substance between the branching tubes. These smaller tubes within the lung have essentially the same struc- ture as the trachea, except that the cartilage is no longer disposed in even rings, but is found in irregular-shaped pieces, and gradually dis- appears in the smaller tubes, except as a httle patch at the spots of division to keep the mouths of the tubes patent; even these at length cease, and are lost in the minutest tubes, where they pass into the air- cells. The whole of these air passages are lined throughout with a mucous membrane, the surface of which is covered with ciliated epithelium (Fig. 20), the moving filaments of which are so set to their work that they act in concert to waft the mucus, and any particles of dust that happen to have gained entrance, always upwards to the throat: if these are small enough, the upward current which the cilia on the surface pro- duce, gently but steadily moves them back, floating on the superfluity of that mucus which the lining membrane is constantly yielding; if larger, or more irritating or hurtful, then the breathing powers unite in a concerted effort to drive out the enemy of their comfort and peace. This effort is called coughing, and it is executed by a very nicely- timed combination of distinct and widely separate organs disposed within the brain and m the face, in the chest, and in the abdomen. First the chest is filled with air; then the gates of the glottis (Fig. 78, o) are closed whilst the muscles of expiration exert themselves to force the air out of the chest; in the mean time the encircling muscular fibres of the bronchial tubes contract and narrow their calibre. The air is compressed by the efforts of the expiratory muscles until the glottis suddenly opens and lets it out, its velocity being the greater for the narroAving of the tubes : just at this instant the soft palate (Fig. 81), which usually droops in the throat, is lifted, and closes the way to the nose, so tliat the air rushes out of the mouth, and if the cough is sue-