2U<S nilLOSOPHY OF IIExVLTII. CHAPTER XVIII. OF NUTRITION, Coni])o.sition of tl.c blood—Liquor saiij^uiiiis—Ri cont account of the .stnictnrc of Iho ivil ijuiiiclos—Forinatiou of tlio ird particles in the incubatud egg—rriiuary motion of the blood—Vivifying influence of the red particles—Influiiice of arterial niid venous blood on animal and organic life—Foriuation of huiuan blooil—Course of tlie new constituents of the blood to the lungs-Space of time required for Ihc complete conversion of chyle into blood after ils tirst transmission tlirough the lungs—Distribution of blood to the capillaries when duly concentrated and ]>urified —Changes wrought upon the blood while it is traversing the capillaries—JCvitlcnee of an intcircliange of particles between the blood and the tissues—Phenomena attend- ing the interchange—Nutrition, what and liow distinguished fnjm digestion—IIow the constituents of the blood escape from the circulation—Designation of the gcneial j)ower to wliicii vital phenomena are referrible—Conjoint influence of the capillaries and absorbents iu building up structure—Influence of the organic nerves on the l)rocess—Piiysical agent by which the organic nerves operate. The object of the greater part of tlie processes hitherto descrihed is to form the nutritive fluid, and to bring it to the requisite state of purity and strength. Eecent researches into the composition of the nutritive fliiid confirm the general correctness of the account ah-eady given of it. When examined as it is flowing in the finest vessels of a transparent part of the body, or immediately after it is abstracted from the trunk of a vein or arteiy, before coagulation takes place, the blood is seen to consist of a colourless fluid, through which is diffused a countless number of minute solid particles of a red colour. The colourless fluid is called the liquor sanguinis, and the sohd particles the blood cor- puscles or the red particles. By the process of coagulation, the phenomena of which have been fully described, the blood spontaneously separates into a clear fluid of a yellow colour called serum or blood-M^ater, and into a solid mass termed the clot or the crassamentum. The serum, which must be carefully distinguished from the liquor sanguinis, is the fluid formed from the blood by coagulation; the liquor sanguinis is the fluid part of the blood which exists before coagulation. The liquor sanguinis contains in solution a large quantity of animal matter, fibrin, which separates spontaneously in a solid form on coagu- lation ; the serum also contains a quantity of animal matter in solution, albumen, which does not separate in a sohd form spontaneously, but only on the application of heat, acids, alcohol, &c. The animal matter, the fibrin, which separates spontaneously from the liquor sanguinis in a solid form, constitutes one part of the clot, and the other part of it consists of the red particles which flouted in the liquor sanguinis.