PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 146 under surface, on the contrary, the vesicles, which are larger than the cylindrical, are of an irregular figure, and are placed in an horizontal dii-ection, at such distances as to leave wide intervals between each i'>i;- 75. other (Fig. 75, 3) ; yet uniting and anastomos- ing together, and thus forming a reticulated tis- sue, presenting the ap- pearance of a net with large meshes (Fig. 75,3). A leaf, then, consists of a double congeries of vesicles containing or- ganic particles, pene- trated by woody fibre and air vessels (which is probably the true nature of the spiral vessels), the whole being en- closed within a hollow stratum of ah-cells. Vertical section of the leaf as it appwus when seen liighly magnified under the microscope. 1, cells of" the cuticle filled with air ; 2, double series of cylindrical cells occu- l)yiiig the upper s\irface of the leaf filled with organic particles ; 3, irregular cells forming a reticulated texture occupying the under surface of the leaf; 4, interspaces between the cells, termed the intercellular passages or air chambers. 76. The crude sap, composed principally of water, holding in solution carbonic acid, acetic acid, sugar, and a matter analogous to gum, is transmitted through the leaf-stalk to the cylindrical vesicles of the upper surface of the leaf. These vesicles exhale a large proportion of the water; the evaporation of which is jDowerfuUy assisted by the action of the sun's rays. The primary efiect of the evaporation carried on in the cylindrical vesicles, is the condensation of the organic matters con- tained in the sap. At the same time that the cylindrical vesicles pom' the superfluous water of the \'iew of the stomat.a of a leaf, gap into the surrouitdiug atmosphere, thev some ot them reniesented ■, , „ , ^ ' «' open and others as closed. . abstract Irom the atmosphere m return carbonic acid, which, together with that already contained in the sap, is decomposed. The oxygen is evolved; the carbon is retained. The physical agent by which this chemical change, which constitutes the digestive process of the plant, is effected, is the solar ray; hence the vesicles which contain the fluid to be decomposed, are placed on the upper surface of the leaf, where their contents are fully exposed to the action of the sun; and hence also this process takes place only during the day, and most powerfully