EXCRETOKY FUNCTION OF THE LUNGS. 283 By the delicate tests of modern chemistry, various substances are found to be contained in the aqueous fluid which constitutes the great proportion of the matter of perspiration, namely, an acid, probably the lactic, a small proportion of animal matter, some alkahne and earthy salts, and an oily or fatty substance, probably derived from the sebaceous follicles. All these matters are so analogous to the constituents of the serum of the blood as to leave Httle ground for doubt that they are merely separated from this part of the blood as it is flowing through the complex network of vessels spread over the surface of the cutis. The skin, when in contact with the aii', also separates a portion of carbon from the blood, and to the extent in which it does this it is auxiliary to the limgs; but the quantity of carbonic acid excreted by the skin is small and variable in amount. The primary ofiice of the skin as an organ of excretion is to reUeve the blood of its superabun- dant watery particles, that is, to remove from the system its super- fluous hydi'ogen. A full account has been given of the primary office of the lungs, which, it has been shown, is to decarbonize the blood. The details of the calculations have been stated, fi'om which it is estimated that 10 ounces and 116 grains of carbon are daily exhaled by the lungs under the form of carbonic acid; and the reasons have been assigned which favour the conclusion that the carbonic acid expired is not formed im- mediately in the lungs by the combination of the oxygen of the atmo- spheric air with the carbon of the blood; but in the system, where the oxygen taken into the blood at the lungs unites with carbon, the carbonic acid resulting from the combination passing as soon as formed into the capillary veins. The blood contained in these vessels, thus become venous, retmns to the lungs, where it gives off the carbonic acid accumulated in it, and by that depuration again assumes its arterial character. It has been shown that, together with the carbonic acid, which passes off in the inspired ah, there is always present a quantity of aqueous vapour. This aqueous vapour is not visible at the ordinary temperature of the ah- in its ordinary hygrometric state, because the water is then dissolved in the air, and is carried off in the form of in- visible vapour; but it becomes abundantly manifest at a low tempera- tm^e, or when the air is loaded with moisture. By the removal of this aqueous vapour, the lungs assist the skin in the depm-ation of the blood. The water transpired by the lungs, hke that persphed through the skin, is separated from the blood by a true and proper secretion constituting the pulmonary transudation. It is commonly estimated that the hmgs exhale about one-third as much as the skin, or fifteen ounces daily. Dalton estimates it at twenty-four ounces. These estimates of the quantity of fluid lost by cutaneous and pul-