158 PriILOSOPIIY OF HEALTH. the diaphragm ascends, the capacity of the thorax lessens, and the compressed lungs are forced within the smallest possible space. Then, inspii'ation, succeeding to the state of expii-ation, the ribs ascend and the diaphragm descends; the capacity of the thorax is enlarged, and the lungs freed from their pressure expand and fill the greater space obtained. In about a second and a half after the state of inspiration has been induced, that of expiration recommences ; the motion of inspiration occupying about double the time of the motion of expiration, and these alternate conditions succeed each other in a regular and imiform course, day and night, during our sleeping and om- waking hours to the end of hfe. As long as the function is performed in a perfectly natural manner, a given number of these alternate movements takes place in a certain time, constituting what is termed the rhythm of the respiratory motions. These motions perfectly regular in number and time, are like^\^se, in the natural state of the function, performed only with a certain degree of energy; but they are variously modified at the command of the will; in obedience to numerous sensations and emotions; in the performance of a great variety of complex actions, and in different states of disease. These modifying circumstances may cause the action of inspii-ation to be more full and deep, and that of expiration to be more forcible and complete than natural; or they may cause both movements to be shorter and quicker than common: hence the distinction of respiration into ordinary and extraordinary. In ordinary respiration, that is, when the respiratory motions are perfectly calm and easy, the ascent and descent of the ribs are scarcely perceptible; the action is confined almost exclusively to the ascent and descent of the diaphragm. In this condition the action of the inter- costal muscles is to fix the ribs, and thus to afford fixed points which are essential to the action of the diaphragm. But in extraordinary respiration, that is, when circumstances happen in the economy which require that those motions should be extended, auxiliary sources can be put in reqiiisition. There are many powerful muscles situated about the breast, shoulder and back (Figs. 54 and 55), which are capable of elevat- ing the ribs and protruding the sternum to a very considerable extent. Where, for example, the fullest inspiration which it is possible to take is required, the bones of the shoulder and shoulder-joint are fii-mly fixed by resting the hands upon the knees, and then every muscle which has tlie slightest connexion ^vith the thorax, either before or behind, capable of raising the ribs, is added to the inspu-atory appara- tus; at the same time that the abdominal muscles are relaxed to the utmost degree, in order to facilitate the ascent of the ribs and the descent of the diaphragm. If, on the contrary, the fullest possible expiration is required, the abdominal muscles contract most forcibly.