58 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. are seen under the microscope to be of dilierent sizes, but the greater number are of the same uniform magnitude. They range from the ^^y^th to 4oVo^^ ^^^^^ diameter, and are about j^^th of an inch in thickness. They are of a soft and yielding nature, for they alter theii' shape on the slightest pressure, as is beautifully seen when they are in circulation, elongating, or contracting, and altering theii' shape in various ways to accommodate themselves to the vessels, and they are very elastic, for they recover their natural shape the moment they escape from compression. There is, at least in the human blood-cell, no distinct nucleus. The cell contents consist of exceedingly fine granular particles, composed of two distinct substances: one colourless, allied to albumen, termed globulin; the other a colouring principle, termed haematin, communi- cating colour to the cell. The haematin contains nearly ten i)er cent, of iron, which is supposed to be united vnth. it in the state of oxide, just as the salts are combined with albumen. When the iron is entirely separated from the haematin, the latter imparts an intensely red colour to alcohol; the red colour of the blood, therefore, cannot be due to ii'on, as was long supposed, but is inherent in the colouring principle itself. The above description of the blood-cells is applicable only to the mammalia, and particularly to man. In birds, rep- tiles, and fishes, the red particles are not round but oval, with a central elevation on both surfaces (Fig. 23). They are larger in birds than in mammalia, and largest of all in reptiles. In the pro tens, for example, they are -3^7th part of an inch in diameter, almost visible to • the naked eye. The size of the blood-cells is not in proportion to the size of the 1. Blood-cells of the body. li:?.,.faceT;;f:r ^he red particles foi-m by far the largest part of the side; c, deco- the orgauic matter of the blood. They are notably 2! BioolctL'of tile tlifferent in quantity in the two sexes, being in men pigeon. a,seenfiom from 116 to 148 parts in 1000 ; in women from 68 --surface; 6,from jgg ^^^.^^^ They also Vary considerably accordin the the to temperament. In men of sanguine temperament they are about 136 in 1000, in women about 126. In the lymphatic temj^erament m men 116, in women 117. They are in greatest abundance from 30 to 40 years of age, and they diminish much as old age advances. Colourless, or hjmjjh cells (Fig. 24).—These are nearly globular in shape. They are fewer in number than the red, the proportion being as 1 to 50. They are lai-ger in size, about ^T^th of an inch in diameter; they are specifically Hghter; in the circulating fluid, they always float at the sides of the cm-rent, the red cells keeping in the