182 PHILOSOrPIY OF HEALTH. and flaccid, because it has carried on its contents to the heart, and it can receive no fresh supply from the body. When, on the contrary, a hgature is placed around an artery, that portion of the vessel which lies between the ligature and the heart becomes full and turgid, and the other portion empty and flaccid. This can only be because the contents of the two vessels move in opposite directions,—from the heart to the artery, from the artery to the vein, and from the vein to the heart. At the same time, if the vem be punctured above the ligature, there will be little or no loss of blood; while if it be punc- tured below the ligature, the blood will continue to flow until the loss of it occasions death, which could not be unless the blood were in motion, nor unless the du'ection of its course were from the arteiy to the vein and from the vein to the heart. (4.) If fluids be injected into the veins or arteries, whether of the dead or of the hving body, they readily make their way and fill the vessels, if thrown in the direction stated to be the natural course of the circulation; but they are strongly resisted if forced in the opj)o- site direction. Such is the description, and with the exception of the first proof, such the evidence of the circulation of the blood in the himian body, pretty much as it was given by the discoverer of it, the illustrious Harvey. Before the time of Harvey, a vague and indistinct concep- tion that the blood Avas not without motion in the body had been formed by several anatomists. It is analogous to the ordinary mode in which the human mind arrives at discovery, that many minds should have an imperfect perception of an unknown truth, before some one mind sees it in its completeness and fully discloses it. Havmg, about the year 1620, succeeded in completely tracing the circle in which tLe blood moves, and having at that time collected all the evidence of the fact, with a rare degree of philosophical forbear- ance. Harvey still spent no less than eight years in re-examining the subject, and in maturing the proof of every point, before he ventured to speak of it in public. The brief tract which at length he published was written with extreme simplicity, clearness, and perspicuity, and has been justly characterized as one of the most admirable examples of a series of arguments deduced from observation and experiment that ever appeared on any subject. Contemporaries are seldom grateful to discoverers. More than one instance is on record in which a man has injured his fortune and lost his happiness through the elucidation and establishment of a truth which has given him immortality. It may be that there are physical truths yet to be brought to light, to say nothing of new applications of old trutlis, which, if they could be announced and demonstrated to-day, would be the ruin of the discoverer. It is certain that there