VARIED CONFIGURATION OF THE liRAIN-THE VENTRICLES. 375 " inter-cerebral commissure," as it forms the great connecting appa- ratus between the cerebclhim and the cerebrum. From the varied configuration and course of the several bodies a f h c 7 9 lu 11 0 e Section of the brain, cerebellum, pons, and medulla oblongata. Vertical section of the cerebrum, cerebellum, pons Varolii, and medulla oblongata, a, anterior lobe of the brain; 6, middle lobe ; c, posterior lobe ; d, cerebellum ; c, medulla spinalis ; /, section of the corpus callosum. The lateral ventricles of the brain are situated on eitlier side of the corpus callosum, which assists in forming their upper wall. 17, optic lobes: 1, olfac- tory nerves ; 2, the eveball, from which may be traced the optic nerve as far as the optic tha'lami or lobes. Close to this is the nerve of the third pair. 4, the fourth pair, distributed, like the third, to the muscles of the eyes; 5, superior maxillary branch of the fifth pair; 5', ophthalmic branch of the same pair of nerves; 5", inferior maxillary branch of the same pair of nerves; 6, sixth pair, proceeding to the abducentes muscle; 7, facial nerve;—under the origin of this nerve may be seen a portion of the acoustic ; 9, nerve called glosso-i)haryngeal ; 10, pneumogastric nerve ; close to it is, 12, the spinal accessory ; these three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory, are by some reckoned as one pair; 11, the ninth pair of some, and the eleventh of others,' called also hypoglossal; 14 and 15, cervical nerves. which thus make up the encephalon, it is obvious that they cannot be everywhere in apposition. Between the divergence of some and the convergence of others interspaces occur, and these have received the name of ventricles, from ventriculus, the diminutive of venter, a belly. They do not form real cavities. They are simply fissures left between those figm-ed parts of the bram which become contiguous, but not continuous. There are commonly enumerated and named four of these principal fissures; two of which, being situated at the sides of the median plane, are called the lateral ventricles, and the others, placed near the base of the brain, are termed the third and fourth ventricles. The arachnoid being reflected from one figured