COMMISSURES OF THE BRAIN. 373 brum, called, from their white appearance, corpora albicantia, from albeseo, to grow white. They are small, silvery, pea-shaped bodies, situated at the base of the brain (Fig. 107, in the centre), and imited to the fornix by the two anterior pillars of tliat organ. 16. An apparatus of union, connecting together the several parts of the nervous system, has already been referred to under the name of commissures. The commissures of the brain consist in a few instances of vesicular neurine, but by far the greater number are composed of white fibrous matter. These structures must be regarded as constituent parts of the masses to which they belong. They make up a large portion of the encei)halon. The delicacy and elaborateness of their structure, no less than the great extent of their development, indicate their import- ance. It is, however, quite impossible to convey an exact conception of their com'se without the presence of the objects themselves. "When a careful and successful dissection has traced any one of these connecting masses through its principal windings, although the minutest anatomy can display only a comparatively small number of its component fibres, the mind is lost in wonder at the countless number of the individual filaments, and the intricacy of their commu- nications with one another. Of these masses, though it costs the most dexterous anatomist many weeks of great labour to unfold even their principal portions, the following brief notice must at present suffice. 17. On inspecting Fig. 112, there is seen lying upon the thalami a remarkable triangular body, consisting of white neurine, termed the fornix, from the Latin fornix, an arch, because it spreads over and covers a large fissure, hereafter to be described, called the third ven- tricle. It has a most extended and intricate course. All its fibres take a longitudinal direction, and hence it has received the name of The Great Longitudinal Commissure. It unites together the several parts of a single hemisphere (Fig. 112). 18. A similar set of longitudinal fibres placed above the body, next to be mentioned, the corpus caliosum, unites together the uj)per con- volutions ; it is called the Superior Longitudinal Commissure. 19. Between the two hemispheres, and extending transversely across the median plane, lies a large mass of white fibres, to which, in con- sequence of being somewhat firmer than the other portions of the brain, the name of corpus callosimi is given (Fig. 112). It consists of an immense mass of fibres, which take a transverse direction, and hence it is called The Great Transverse Commissure. It unites together the opposite cerebral hemispheres (Fig. 113, in section). 20. Emerging from both hemispheres of the cerebellum, and crossing transversely the median plane, is a large and thick mass of white