392 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. sliow the slightest disposition either to eat or drink, and would have died for want of nourishment if it had not been fed by force. It seemed enthely to have lost its memory; for if it struck itself against any body, it would not avoid it, but repeat the blow imme- diately. We learn from this experiment that the removal of the brain caused an immediate loss of all the functions which it has been the object of the preceding argument to show have their seat in the cerebral lobes. Sensation and volition were instantly abolished; there was no longer any memoiy. The special senses were also lost—vision, hearing, smell, and taste. At the same time the sensations of hunger and thirst were destroyed; the animal was plunged into a state of profound stupor ; that is to say, all the true cerebral functions were annihilated. But the functions which it has been shown are proper to the medulla oblongata and spinal cord, in contradistinction to those which specially belong to the brain, remained—namely, the reflex functions. Thus, the bird moved, although without motive or object; it flew when tossed into the air; it swallowed water when pom-ed into its beak; and it carried on respkation as regularly as in health. All these latter functions it performed; because, though deprived of its brain, the medulla oblongata and the spinal cord were uninjui-ed, these being the parts of the nervous system in which, as has been shown, these faculties specially reside. It is impossible to devise any more striking and decisive proof of the separate functions performed by these two great divisions of the nervous system and of their true seat. But these remarkable phenomena could not be rightly interpreted at the time, now nearly forty years since Flourens experimented. It conse- quently happened that at the time many physiologists contended that this very experiment proved that the medulla oblongata was the seat of sensation, consciousness, and volition, because, after the brain had been removed, the animal moved when touched, and flew when thrown into the air. But it has been fully shown that the occurrence of such movements after the loss of the bram is no proof of the continuance of sensation, or of any other cerebral faculty; and that what is really demonstrated by these motions is, that there still remained unimpaired the functions proper to the medulla oblongata and the spinal cord, namely, those of reflex action. It is unnecessary to pm-sue this subject farther. When all the cir- cumstances which have been stated are duly weighed, little doubt can remain on the mind as to the true seat of the sentient and intellectual faculties. The conditions which are essential to sensation are— 1. That an impression be made by some external object on a sen- tient nerve.