FUNCTIONS OF THE GANGLIA. 327 ill tlieii- turn, the grey fibres which mingle with the cerebro-spinal, are comparatively so few that they are seen merely as grey fibres iu a large mass of white. It thus appears that by the communicating branches which have been described, an intimate connection is established between the cerebro-spinal nerves and the sympathetic trunks in their entire course: so that in eveiy part of the body all sympathetic nerves contain some intermingled spinal and cerebral nerves, and all cerebral and spinal some sympathetic. CHAPTEK XXIII. FUNCTIONS OF THE SYMPATHETIC OR GANGLIONIC CENTRIO. The ganglia constitute distinct nervous centres, connected with, but independent of, the cerebro-spinal system. That they are distinct nervous centres is evinced by the preceding account of their structure and relations. They are all composed of vesicular and tubular neurine; they receive nerve fibres from the other centres; they generate new and peculiar fibres of their own, and they send out these fibres to all the organs and tissues of the body. Each ganglion with its central grey matter, and its afferent and efferent nerve fibres, may indeed be regarded as an example, or type, of a simple nervous system, communicating its peculiar influence to the organs with which it is placed in relation. In the multii^lica- tion and separation of its individual parts, the ganglionic centre dififers widely from the spinal and cerebral centres, which are characterised by their consolidation and concentration; a difference of arrangement connected, without doubt, with the different modes in which they per- form their respective functions. That the ganglionic centres are independent of the cerebro-spinal system is proved by the fact, that when their connection with the brain and spinal cord is entirely removed, the parts supplied by them continue their natural action for some time; but their close connection with the other centres will appear immediately. Ganglionic nerves are conductors of nervous force from their own centres, just as the cerebro-spinal nerves are from the spinal cord and brain; but their mode of conduction is modified in several respects, presenting very important and interesting differences. 1. Ganglionic conduction is slower than cerebro-spinal, or, at any rate, than cerebral conduction. I will to move my arm. There is no