CONVERSION OF SAP INTO NUTRIMENT. 147 under the dii-ect solar ray: but although the direct influence of the 8im be highly conducive to the process, yet it is not indispensable to it; for it goes on in daylight although there be no sunshine. After the sap has been elaborated in the cylindrical vesicles, by the exhalation of its watery particles, by the condensation of its organic matter, by the retention of carbon and the e\ olution of oxygen, it is transmitted to the reticulated vesicles of the under surface of the leaf. These vesicles, large, loose, and expanded, as they have an opposite function to perfoim, are arranged in a mode the very reverse of the cylindrical: in such a manner as to present the greatest possible extent of surface to the surrounding an: at the same time the broad intci-spaces between them are so many cavernous air-chambers into which the an is admitted through the stomates. The cylindrical vesicles, exposed to the direct rays of the sun, are protected by the closeness with which they are packed; and by the small extent of surface they present to the heavens: the reticulated vesicles, whose fimction requires that they should have the freest possible exposure to the surrounding air, are protected from the solar ray, first by their position on the imder surface of the leaf; and, secondly, by the dense and thick barrier formed by the stratum of cylindrical vesicles. In the cylindrical vesicles carbonic acid is decomposed; in the reticulated vesicles, on the contrary, carbonic acid is re-formed. The oxygen required for this generation of carbonic acid is abstracted partly from the suiTOimding air; the carbon is derived partly, per- haps, from the air, but chiefly from the digested sap, and the carbonic acid, formed by the union of these elements, is evolved into the sur- rounding atmosphere. This operation, which is strictly analogous to that of respiration in the animal, in which carbonic acid is always generated and expired, is carried on chiefly in the night. In this manner, under the influence of the solar light, the leaf decomposes carbonic acid; retains the carbon and returns the greater part of the oxygen to the air in a gaseous fonn. At night, in the absence of the solar ray, the leaf absorbs oxygen, combines this oxygen with the materials of the sap to produce carbonic acid, which, as soon as formed, is evolved into the sm-rounding air. But the quantity of oxygen given ofi' in the day is greater than the amount converted into carbonic acid by night; so that the operation of vegetables on the air tends to purify it of carbonic acid. The result of these chemical actions is the conversion of the crude sap into the proper nutritive juice of the plant. When it reaches the cylindrical vesicles, the sap is colourless, not coagulable, without globules, composed chiefly of w^ater holding in solution carbonic and acetic acids, sugar, gum, and several salts; when it leaves the reticu-