PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. fibrin, the portion on the surface of the clot; and the red and lymph pai-ticles forming the red mass at the under surface. Coagulation probably commences the moment the blood lea,ves the vessels. In three minutes and a half it is visible to the eye ; in eight minutes the mass is formed into a jelly; in from twelve to fifteen mi- nutes the serum separates fit'om the clot; and in about twenty minutes the sohdification is complete, but the clot continues to grow firmer and firmer for some hom's. Many circumstances influence the rapidity and completeness of this process. It commences the earlier, and is sooner completol, when the abstraction of blood is rapid, and also durmg the prevalence of dis- eases of excitement. But the process is less perfect the more rapidly it is performed, the clot being proportionably more bulky and less firm, and the serum less completely expressed from it. Arterial coa- gulates more quickly than venous blood, and the blood of women begins to coagulate nearly two minutes sooner than that of men. Copious and repeated blood-letting, which rapidly exhausts the vital powers, quickens, in a striking manner, the process of coagu- lation. In blood taken from the arm of a woman laboming under fever, the portion first effused remained fluid seven minutes; a similar quantity taken immediately before tying up the arm was coagulated in three minutes and thirty seconds. When blood is efiused within the body, as from the rupture of a blood-vessel, coagulation takes place just as it does when it is drawn from a vein, and this is of the greatest importance in checking hae- morrhage ; for the tendency to coagulation, as just stated, increases with the duninution of the vital powers, and so the fainting caused by the loss of blood favours the suppression of the bleeding by stopping the mouths of the bleeding vessels with a solid substance. There is not a perfect agreement as to the true nature of coagu- lation. The general opinion is that it is a process of organisation ; the first step towards the formation of organised structure; for the fibrin of a clot, when blood is effused within the body, always disposes itself into delicate thi-eads, or fibriUa?, thus taking a definite form, and presenting, as is thought, the rudiment or basis of definite structure. No vessels can at fii'st be seen in the fibrin, but after a time they make their appearance, generated, as some think, in the fibrin itself; or, as others believe, continued from neighbom-ing vessels: in either case the fibrin itself is now organized, and is capable of being subsequently converted into tissues and organs. Out of the body, however, some regard the process as one of death, rather than life, as the mode in which the blood breaks up and becomes disorganized. There are conditions under which the blood will not coagulate, as after profuse haemorrhages in mahgnunt fevers, after exliaustion