221 PAPILL.E OF STOMACH. By applying aliment or other irritants to the internal coat of the stomach, and observing the efiect through a magnifying glass, innu- merable minute lucid points, and very fine nervous or vascular papillae are seen arising from the villous membrane, and protruding through the mucous coat, from which distils a jiure, limpid, colourless, slightly viscid fluid. This fluid, thus excited, is invariably distinctly acid. The mucus of the stomach is less fluid, more viscid or albuminous, semi-opaque, some- times a little saltish, and does not possess the slightest character of acidity. On applying the tongue to the mucous coat of the stomach in its empty, unhritated state, no acid taste can be j^erceived. When food or other irritants have been applied to the villous membrane and the gastric papillae excited, the acid taste is immediately perceptible. The invariable effect of applying aliment to the internal, but exposed part of the gastric membrane, is the exudation of the solvent fluid from the papill£e. Though the aperture of these vessels cannot be seen even with the assistance of the best microscopes, yet the points from which the fluid issues are clearly indicated by the gradual appearance of innumerable very fine lucid specks rismg through the transparent mucous coat, and seeming to burst and discharge themselves upon the very points of the papilla?, difl'using a limpid thin fluid over tlie whole interior gastric suface. The fluid so discharged is absorbed by the aliment in contact; or collects in small drops, and trickles down the sides of the stomach to the more depending parts, and there mingles with the food, or what- ever else may be contained in the gastric cavity. This fluid, the efliicient cause, of digestion, the true gastric juice, is secreted only when it is needed; it is not accumulated in the intervals of digestion, to be ready for the next meal; it is seldom if ever discharged from its proper secreting vessels, except when excited by the natural stimulus of aliment, the mechanical irritation of tubes, or other excitants. When aliment is received, the juice is given out in exact proportion to its requirements for solution, except when more food has been taken than is necessary for the wants of the system. On coUectmg this fluid, Avhich it was easy to obtain, it was found to be transparent, inodorous, saltish, and acidulous to the taste; it con- sisted of water, containing free muriatic and acetic acids, phosphates and muriates, with bases of potass, soda, magnesia, and lime, together with an animal matter soluble in cold, but insoluble in hot water. "When a portion of liquid aliment, as a few spoonfuls of soup, were introduced into the stomach at the external orifice, the ruga; (Fig. 87) immediately closed gently upon it; gradually diffused it through the gastric cavity, and prevented the entrance of a second quantity till this diff'usion was effected; then relaxation again took place, and admitted of a further supply. When sohd food was introduced in the