PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. particle of sugar, the substance which stands on the very confines of the inorganic world. The plant can make it, and so can the insect, but not the chemist. Some few of the binaiy inorganic compounds he has separated into their elements, and then, by again combining them, he has reproduced the substance he had decomposed. He has resolved water, for example, into its elements, and then, re-uniting them by the electric spark, he has exhibited within his own little apparatus the creation of water as perfect as that which falls from the cloud or condenses in dew.* But he cannot so re-combine the ele- ments of sugar or gum, of albumen or fibrin; yet he knows the exact proportions in which the elements unite to produce these substances, and he witnesses their actual transformation in eveiy leaf that grows and every flower that blooms; but the subtle process by which the chansfe is effected he knows not, and cannot imitate. He cannot do this because he cannot command, and does not even know, the conditions on which the formation of these substances de- pend. The chemistry by which they are generated is doubtless the same in its essential nature as that by which the crystal is produced, but organic substances, as already stated, can be formed only under conditions peculiar to life, and these conditions appear to be placed beyond human control and forbidden to human knowledge. The facts which have been stated place in a striking point of view the unity of the organic world—created out of the same elements, few in number, but illimitable in the variety of their combinations; the resulting substances acquiring new and peculiar forces, and being obedient to new and peculiar laws, the forces and laws of life. They further prove the highly interesting and suggestive fact that organic matter is a manufactured material; that it undergoes special processes to fit it for special uses. Just as cotton, wool, and silk are brought by preparatory processes into a condition fit to be woven into the varied fabrics of the factory, so albumen, fibrin, and casein, by the vital processes they undergo, are elaborated and modified until they become fit to build up the exquisite fabrics of the living body. And the actual processes through which they pass, particularly in the early stages of their formation, are so surprising that, if the scien- tific researches which have discovered the facts had not established them by indubitable evidence, they would surpass belief. They could not be knoAvn before the microscope had acquired a certain magnifying power and distinctness of definition. To all antiquity, therefore, this * Dr. Hope, of tlie University of Edinburgh, in repeating annually before his ohiss tlie original experiment of Cavendish, by whom tliis combination was first etfccted, was accustomed to preserve for a series of years the water formed in bis apparatus during tlic hour of lecture. Few objects of art or science have excited greater wonder and reverence than that little decanter of water.