63 CHAPTER IX. OF MUSCLE. Muscular Tissue.—Muscle, or flesh, is endowed with the property of contractihty, that is, the power of shortening itself. This power is the exclusive source of all proper animal motion. The muscles of the body, taken together as a whole, are divisible into two great classes, according as they are or are not under the con- trol of the will. We move fi-om place to place by muscles which are put into action by an effort of volition; but the heart beats, and the food is forced along the alimentary canal by muscles over which the will has no control. The first set of muscles is termed voluntary ; it comprehends principally the muscles which are concerned in locomo- tion : these are proper to the animal life. The second set is termed involuntary ; it includes the muscles which are concerned especially in carrjdng on the internal operations of the system : these are proper to the organic life. There is good ground for this distinction, which is a broad and veiy convenient one : but it does not hold invariably ; for there are muscles which partake of both characters, being affected by powerful emotions of the mind, while they are still not under the direct influence of the will. Whatever may be the difference between voluntary and involuntary muscles in their office, they do not present to the naked eye any very marked difference in their appearance; yet there is really as great a difference in their structure as in their fimction. We owe. our know- ledge of their intimate organisation entirely to the microscope. With- out this invaluable aid to science, the curious and interesting facts now to be described could never have been known. On examining a voluntary muscle under a high magnifying power, its appearance is very striking. It is seen to be marked by a vast number of alternate light and dark lines (Fig. 25). On examining an involuntary muscle under the same power, no such markings are apparent. The first set is, therefore, termed the striped, and the second the unstriped variety. Yet it is remarkable that the heart, though not under the control of the will, is composed of the striped variety of fibres. We have seen that the distinction between voluntary and involuntary muscles is not absolutely universal.