ACTION OF THE HEART—THE VALVEtS. 135 and which as freely communicate with, the great vessels that enter and proceed from them, are forcibly closed, and the blood they contain is projected from them, how is one uniform forward direction given to the current ? Why, when the right ventricle contracts, is the blood not sent back into the right auricle, as well as forward into the pulmonary artery? There is but one mode of preventing such an event, which is to place a flood-gate between the two chambers; and there a flood-gate is placed, and that flood-gate is the valve. As long as the blood proceeds onwards in the direct com-se of the circula- tion, it presses this membrane close to the side of the heart, and thereby prevents it from occasioning any impediment to the current. When, on the contrary, the blood is forced backwards, and attempts to re-enter the auricle, being of course driven in all directions, some of it passes between the wall of the ventricle and the valve. The moment it is in this situation, it raises up the valve, carries it over the mouth of the passage, and shuts up the channel. There cannot be a more perfect flood-gate. This is beautiful mechanism; but there is another arrangement which surpasses mere mechanism, however beautiful. It has been shown that one edge of the membrane that forms the valve is firmly adherent to the wall of the ventricle, while the other edge, when not in action, appears to lie loosely in the ventricle. Were this edge really loose the refluent current would carry it back completely into the auricle, and so counteract its action as a valve; but it is attached to the tendinous threads proceeding fi'om the fleshy columns that stand along the wall of the ventricle (Fig. 71). By these tendinous threads, as by so many strings, the membrane is firmly held in its proper position ; and the refluent cm-rent cannot carry it into the auricle. Thus far the arrangement is mechanical. But each of these fleshy columns is a muscle, exerting a proper muscular action. Among the stimulants which excite the contractility of the muscular fibre, one of the most powerful is distension. The refluent current distends the membrane; the distension of the membrane stretches the tendinous threads attached to it; the stretching of its tendinous threads stretches the fleshy column; by this distension of the column it is excited to contraction; by the contraction of the column its thread is shortened ; by the shortening of the thread the valve is tightened, and that in the exact degree in which the thread is shortened. So, the greater the impetus of the refluent blood, the gi*eater the distension of the membrane; and the greater the distension of the membrane, the greater the excitement of the fleshy column; the greater the energy with which it is stimulated to act, the greater, therefore, the security that the valve will be held just in the position that is required, with exactly the force that is needed. Here, then, is