239 DIGESTIVE POWERS. the least, and albumen the most highly organised. Every alimentary substance must contain at least one of these proximate principles, and in the various articles which compose an ordinary meal always two, and often all three, are afforded in abundance. From the phenomena which have been stated, it is clear that the digestive organs, in acting on these principles, exert the following powers: — 1. A solvent power. The first action of the stomach on the alimen- tary substances presented to it is to reduce them to a fluid state. No substance is nutritious which is not a fluid, or capable of being reduced to a fluid. The stomach reduces alimentary substances to a fluid state by combining them with water. Water enters into the composition of organised bodies in two states, as an essential and as an accidental element. A quantity of water is contained in sugar when reduced to its drycst state ; this water cannot be dissij)ated without the decompo- sition of the sugar ; it is therefore an essential constituent of the com- pound. ^^'ater is combined with sugar in its moist state: of this water much may be removed without destroying the essential pro- perties of the sugar: this part of the water is therefore said to be an accidental constituent of the sugar. In most cases organised bodies contain water in both these forms; and though it is commonly impos- sible to discriminate between the water that is essential and that which is accidental, yet the mode of union among the elements of bodies in these two states of their combination with water are essentially different. The stomach has the power of combining water with ali- mentaiy substances in both these forms. Thus fluid albumen, or w'hite of egg, presented to the stomach is immediately coagulated or converted into a solid. Soon this solid begins to be softened, and, the softening goes on until it is again reduced to a fluid. AVhat was fluid albumen in the white of egg is now fluid albumen in chyme; but the albumen has undergone a remarkable change. Out of the stomach the albumen of the egg may be converted by heat into a firm solid; but the albumen of the chyme is capable of being converted only into a loose and tender solid. In passing from its state in the egg to its state in the chyme, the albumen has combined with a portion of water which has entered as an essential ingredient into its composition. By this combination the compound is reduced from what may be called a strong to a weak state. This is the first action exerted by the stomach on most alimentary substances. They are changed from a concen- trated to a diluted, from a strong to a weak state: the power by which the stomach effects this change is called its reducing power, and the agent by which it accomphshes it is the gastric juice; the essential ingredient of which has been shown to be muriatic acid, or chlorine (p. 218). The muriatic acid obtained from the common salt of the blood is poured in the form of gastric juice into the stomach, dis-