97 PET.Vr>^. largo iiitcstinGs consisting of tlie cjipcnm. 2. The colon (Fig. 51). 3, The rectum (Fig. 51). It is the office of these organs, which are called the large intestines, to carry out of the system that portion of the alimentary mass which is not converted into nourishment. 4. The kidneys (Fig. 50, c), the organs which separate m the form of the urine an excrementitious matter from the blood, in order that it may be conveyed out of the system. The last division of the tnmk, called the pelvis (Fig. 49,3), consists of a circle of large and firm bones, interposed between the lower portion of the tnmk and the inferior extremities. The bones that compose the circle are firmly united in the adult into a single piece ; they are always described as separate bones. They are the sacrum, the coccyx, the ilium, the ischium, and the pubis. The sacrum, placed like a w^edge between the moveable portion of the spinal cohunn and the lower extremities, forms the posterior boundary of the pelvis. The figm-e of this bone is triangular; its anterior surface is concave and smooth, for enlarging the cavity of the pelvis, and sustaining the organs contained in it; its posterior sm-face is convex, ii-regular, and rough (Fig. 42), giving origin to the great muscles that form the contour of the hip, and to the strong muscles of the back and loins that raise the spme and maintain the trunk of the body erect. The base or upper part of the sacrum receives the last vertebra of the loins on a large and broad surface, forming a moveable joint; and the degree of motion at this point is greater than it is at the higher points of the spinal column. Firmly united at its sides with the haunch bones, it admits there of no degree of motion. The coccyx, so named from its resemblance to the beak of the cuckoo, when elongated by a succession of additional bones, forms the tail in quadrupeds; but in man it is turned forwards to support the parts contained in the pelvis, and to contract the lower opening of the cavity. By means of a layer of cartilage, the medium by which tliis bone is connected with the sacrum, it forms a moveable articulation, continuing moveable in men until the age of twenty-five, and in w^omen until the age of forty-five; continuing moveable in women thus long, in order tliat by yielding to the force which tends to push it backwards during tlie period of labour, it may enlarge the lower apertm-e of the pelvis, and so facilitate the process of parturition and diminish its suffering. The lateral boundaries of the pelvis are formed by the ilium (Fig. 31), and by the ischium (Fig. 31). The ilium forms the lower part of the abdomen and the upper part of the pelvis ; its broad expanded wing supports the contents of the abdomen, and gives attachment to the muscles that form the anterior portions of its walls; its external con- H