THE PNEUMOGASTRIC. OK GREAT SYMPATHETIC NERA^E. 361 however, it must be regarded as an open question whether the glosso- pharyngeal is not exclusively the nerve of taste ; or whether both this and the lingual branch of the fifth may not be gustatory nerves of the parts of the tongue which they severally supply. The Vagus, ok Pneumogastrio Nerve,—There is no other nerve connected with the cerebrum which supplies so many different organs, and those on the action of which life so immediately depends, as the pneumogastrio. Its principal branches are distri- buted to the muscles and mucous membranes of the pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, hmgs, heart and great arteries, and the stomach. It is a mixed nerve, the branch of the accessory being its anterior root; it commmiicates both sensation and motion. Its double function is proved by the ordinary evidence, that irritation of its posterior root produces pain, of its anterior root, convulsive muscular contraction. By its motor branches it gives their chief motor power to the muscles of the pharynx, the soft palate, the glottis, the larynx, the bronchi, and the oesophagus and stomach. By its sensitive branches it communicates sensibility, especially to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, lungs, and stomach. It is by branches derived from this som'ce that the larynx acquires that acute sensibility by which the glottis guards the entrance of foreign bodies into the air-passages. It is above aU by its supply of excitor fibres to the lungs that the mucous membrane of the lungs receives that impression, that sense of the necessity to breathe, which being trans- mitted by incident fibres to the medulla oblongata, excites, through reflex fibres, the action of the respiratory muscles. It is thus the great excitor nerve of respiration. It is also principally through branches of this nerve (the cardiac) that the influence of the brain is transmitted to the heart; that mental emotions disturb, that is, excite or depress, the actions of the heart; and it is by the same channels that the mind acts upon the stomach, and the stomach upon the mind. By the conjoint influence of its motor and sensitive branches this nerve co-operates in the production and regulation of the voice in speaking, singing, and so >on; one set of its fibres, the inferior laryn- geal (motive), determining the contraction of the muscles that vary the tension of the vocal cords ; and another set of its fibres, the supe- rior laryngeal (sensitive), conveying to the mind a consciousness of the state of these muscles necessary for their continual guidance. In like manner, both branches co-operate in the action of ordinary breathing, in the regular slight dilatation and contraction of the glottis in the acts of expiration and inspiration, and still more evidently in those of coughing, sneezing, and other forcible respiratory move- ments.