181 TEMPERATURE OF ANIMALS. does the plant exemplify the power with which it is endowed of resisting external temperature. In the northern parts of America the tempcratm-e is often 50° below zero; yet, though exposed to this intense degree of cold, the spruce fir, the bhch, the jimiper, &c., preserve their vitality uninjm-ed. From numerous experiments which have been performed expressly with a view to ascertain this point, it is found that a plant which has been once frozen is invariably dead when thawed. It is also proved by dhect experiment, that if the sap be removed fi-om its proper vessels, it freezes at 32°, the ordinary freezing point. In the northern parts of America, then, the plant must preserve in its living vessels its sap from freezing, when exposed to a temperatm-e of 50° below zero; which sap out of these vessels would congeal at the ordinary freezing point; that is, the plant of this climate is endowed with the power of resisting a degree of cold ranging from the ordinary freezing point to 50° below zero; a property which can be referred only to a vital power, by the operation of which the plant generates within itself a degree of heat sufficient to counteract the external cold. The opposite faculty of resisting the influence of external heat is exemplified by the trees and shrubs of tropical climates, often sur- rounded by a temperature of 104°, which they resist just as the plant of the northern cHme resists the intense degrees of cold to which it is exposed. That the plant is endowed with the power of generating heat is demonstrated by the phenomena which attend the performance of some of its vital processes, such as those of germination and flowering. During the germination of barley, the thermometer was observed to rise in the course of one night to 102 ^. The bulb of a thermometer applied to the surface of the spadix of an arum maculatum, indicated a temperature 7° higher than that of the external air; but in an arum corcUfohum, at the Isle of France, a thermometer placed in the centre of five spadixes stood at 111°; and m the centre of twelve at 121°, though the temperatui-e of the external air was only 6G°. Animals indicate in a still more striking degree the power of generating heat. The lower the animal in the scale of organisation, indeed, the nearer it approaches to the plant in the comparative feeble- ness of this function. The heat of worms, insects, Crustacea, mollusca, fishes, and amphibia, is commonly only two or three degrees above that of the medium in which they are immersed. Absolutely colder than the higher animals, they arc at the same tune incapable of resisting any considerable changes in the temperature of the surrounding medium, whether from heat to cold or from cold to heat. The higher animals, on the contrary, maintain their heat steadily at a fixed pouit, or very nearly at a fixed point, however the temperature of the sm-rounding