PfllLOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 238 glands, they receive a prodigious quantity of arterial blood, and are supplied with a proportionate number of organic nerves ; yet they are "without an excretory duct. The organs in question are the bodies called the renal capsules, placed above the kidneys; the thyroid and thymus glands situated in the neck, and the spleen in close connexion with the stomach. These organs, however analogous in structure to glands, cannot, it has been argued, be secreting organs, because they are destitute of an excretory duct, do not manifestly form from the blood any peculiar secretion, or, if they do, since there are no means of detecting where it is conveyed, it is impossible to understand how it is a^^propriated. But if these organs collect, concentrate, and elaborate lymph, prej)ara- tory to its admixture with the chyle and to its being sent a second time into the blood to undergo a second process of depuration, they perform the function of glands; and their want of an excretory duct, which has hitherto rendered their office so obscure, is accounted for; they do not need distinct tubes for the transmission of any product ,of secretion ; the lymphatic vessels which proceed from them and which convey the fluid they elaborate into the receptacle of the chyle, are their excretory ducts. That one of these organs, the spleen, is spe- cially connected with the elaboration of the lymph, is manifest, both from its chemical nature and from the remarkable change wdiich takes place in the chyle the moment the lymph from the spleen is mixed with it. Tiedemann and Gmelin state, as the uniform result of their observa- tions and experiments, that the quantity of fibrin contained in the chyle is greatly increased, and that it actually acquires red particles as soon as the lymph from the spleen is mixed with it, and that the lymph from the spleen superabounds both wnth fibrin and with red particles. That the organs just enumerated, with the spleen, perform a similar function, is inferred from their being, like it, of a glandular structure, and without any excretory duct. If the spleen be really one of a circle of organs appropriated to a function such as is here supposed, a purpose is assigned to it adequate to its rank in the scale of organisa- tion ; inferior to few, if its importance be estimated by the quantity of arterial 1)lood with which it is supplied ; yet this is the organ for which Paley could find no better use than that of serving for package. But in whatever mode the lymph be elaborated, it is certain that it consists of matter highly animalised, and that its most important prin- ciples, its albumen, its fibrin, its globules, and even its salts, are in a chemical condition closely resembling that in which they exist in tliP blood. It will appear hereafter that all the proximate principles of which the body is composed are reducible to three classes, namely, those allied to starch, to oil, and to albumen: of these, starch and oil are