FIRST AND SECOND PROCESSES. 241 ill that of fibrin, and in that of red particles. In the thoracic duct the strong albumen of the lymph is mixed with the weaker albumen of the chyle. At the point where the thoracic duct terminates in the venous system, lymph and chyle are mixed with venous blood, and all com- mingled are borne directly to the lungs. There the carbon with which the venous blood is loaded is expelled in the form of carbonic acid gas; the particles of the lymph undergo some, as yet unknown, change, exalting their organisation ; and the water hitherto held in chemical union with the weak albumen of the chyle, is separated and carried out of the system together with the carbonic acid gas in the form of aqueous vapour. By this removal of its aqueous particles the ultimate completion is given to the digested aliment; and the weak and dehcate albumen of the chyle is converted into the strong and firm albumen of the blood. It has been stated, that though gelatin enters abundantly into the composition of many tissues of the body, and performs most important uses in the economy, it is never found in the blood; that it is formed from the albumen of the blood by a reducing j)rocess, in consequence of which carbon is evolved, w-hich unites with the free oxygen of the blood, forming carbonic acid, thus conducing, among other purposes, to the production of animal heat. It is equally remarkable, that though the lymphatics or absorbents arise in countless numbers from every tissue of the body, and are endowed with the power of taking up every constituent particle of every organ, solid as well as fluid, yet gelatin is never found in the lymphatic vessels. The lymphatics con- tain only albumen in a form far more proximate to the blood than that of the chyle ; consequently, before the gelatin of the body is taken up by the lymphatics, it must be reconverted into albumen; that is, the absorbed gelatin must undergo a process analogous to that which gelatin and other matters imdergo in the stomach and duodenum; it follows that the digestive process is not confined to the stomach and duodenum, but is carried on at every point of the body. Hence there are two processes of digestion, a crude and a refined process. The crade process is carried on in the stomach and duodenum, in which dead animal matter is converted into living substance, as yet, however, possessing only the lowest kind of vitality. The capillary arteries receiving the substance thus prepared for them, build it up mto struc- ture perhaps the lowest and coarsest, the least organised, and capable of performing only the inferior functions. The lymphatic vessels probably take up from the tissues particles already organised, in order to submit them to processes which com- municate to them a progressively higher organisation. The notion that the contents of the lymphatics consist of worn-out particles, capable of accomplishing no further purpose in the economy, is not tenable B