GENERATION OF COT-1). in keeping clown the temperature of the body. But above all this, in the third place, a twofold provision is made in tlie body itself for the reduction of its temperature when exposed to intense degrees of heat: by the one, the power with which it is endowed of producing heat is diminished; by the other, cold is positively generated. It has been shown that in proportion to the elevation of the tempe- rature to which the body is exposed the blood becomes less venalized, and in the proportion in which the blood retains its arterial character the consumption of oxygen is diminished. Venous blood contains an excess of carbon ; arterial blood an excess of oxygen. Consequently, in proportion as the blood retains its arterial character it aftbrds less carbon for the combination of oxygen—that is less inflammable matter. At an elevated temperature therefore there must, of necessity, be a diminished production of heat within the body, since the blood contains a diminished quantity of combustible material. Moreover, in proportion to the elevation of the temperature to which the body is exposed, evaporation takes place from the entire surface of the pulmonary vesicles. No experiments have been performed which enable the physiologists to ascertain precisely the quantity of vapour exhaled fi'om the lungs in a given time, when the body is exposed to a given degree of heat; but both observation and experiment show that it is very great. The blood pours out upon the whole surface of the air- vesicles a quantity of moisture in the form of water : by the surround- ing air this water is converted into vapour: by the conversion of a fluid from the state of a liquid into that of vapour caloric is absorbed: by the absorption of caloric cold is generated, and that to such a degree that fluids exposed to the influence of evaporation may be frozen in the intensest heat of summer. The very process by which art, aided by science, affords to the inhabitants of warm climates the luxury of ice, is that by which nature generates cold in the human lungs when the body is exposed to a temperature above its own. Not only, then, is the limg the instrument by which the body acquires the power of evolving heat in greater or less quantity in proportion to the demands of the system, but this very same organ, under a change of circumstances, produces the directly contrary effect, and actually generates cold. In the process of producing cold, the skin is a powerful auxiliary to the lungs. More fluid is, indeed, evaporated from the surface of the skin in the form of perspiration, than from the lungs in the form of vapour; the cutaneous, like the pulmonary evaporation, increases in the ratio of the temperature, and both co-operate in abstracting the excess of caloric. Finally, in proportion to the elevation of the temperature is the acceleration of the circulation: the pulse is augmented in power, and o2