163 CIIANCxES PRODUCED UPON THE AIP. water as 1.0527 is to imity, and that consequently 10,527 grains of blood are in volume the same as 10,000 grains of water. From this it results that if in the human adult two ounces of blood are propelled into the lungs at each contraction of the heart, that is, 72 times in a mmute, there are in the whole body precisely 384 oimces, or 24 pounds avoirdupois, which measure CO2.0057 ciibic inches, or within one cubic inch of 20 imperial pints, which measure 693.1847 , cubic inches. By an elaborate series of calculations from these data, Mr. Fin- laison deduced general results, from which it follows that, in round numbers, there flow to the human lungs every minute nearly 18 pints of air (besides the 12 pints constantly in the air vesicles) and nearly 8 pints of blood ; but in the space of twenty-four hours, upwards of 57 hogsheads of air and 24 hogsheads of blood. Provision cannot have been made for bringing into contact such immense quantities of air and blood, unless important changes are to be produced in both fluids; and accordingly it is found that the air is essentially changed by its contact with the blood, and the blood by its contact with the air. Chemistry has demonstrated the changes effected in the air. Com- mon atmospheric air is a comj^ound body, consisting of pure air and of certain substances diffused in it. Pm'e air is composed mainly of two gases, azote and oxygen, always present in fixed proportions. The substances diffused in pure air, and which are in variable quantity, are aqueous vapour and carbonic acid gas. These latter substances form no part of the chemical agents essentially concerned in the process of respiration. The only constituents of the air wliich are essentially concerned in the process of respiration are the two gases, azote and oxygen, the union of which, in definite proportions, constitutes pure air. But of these two gases each docs not perform the same part in the function of respiration, nor is each equally necessary to the support of hfe. If a living animal be placed in a vessel full of atmospheric air, and if all communication of the atmosphere with the vessel be prevented, the animal m a given time perishes. If an animal be placed in a vessel full of azote, after a given time it equally perishes ; but if an animal be placed in a vessel full of oxygen, not only is the fmiction of respiration carried on with far greater energy than in atmospheric air, but the animal lives a much longer time than in the same bulk of the latter fluid. It is proved that no animal, from the lowest to the highest, is capable of sustaining Hfe unless a certain proportion of oxygen be present in the fluid which it respires. Wliether it breathe by the skin, by gills, or by lungs, whether the respiratory medium be water M 2