ANASTOMOSIS-PliOOFS OF THE CIRCUIATION. 131 branches of veins. In both orders of vessels the communication is frequent in proportion to the minuteness of the branch and its dis- tance from the heart. It is also more fr-equcnt in proportion as a part is exposed to pressure; hence the minute arteries and veins about a joint are distinguished for the multitude of their anastomosuig branches ; and above all, it is frequent in proportion to the import- ance of the organ; hence the most remarkable anastomosis in the body is in the brain. By this provision care is taken that no part be deprived of its sujDply of blood ; for if one channel be blocked up, a hundred more are open to the current, and the transmission of it to any particular region or organ by two or more channels, instead of through one trunk, is a part of the same provision. Thus the fore-arm possesses foiur principal arteries with correspondmg veins, and the brain receives its blood through four totally independent canals.* That the blood is really a flowing stream, and that it pursues the course described, is indubitable. For, (1.) With the microscope, in the transparent parts of animals, the blood can be seen in motion; and if its course be attentively observed, its route may be clearly traced. (2.) The membranes termed valves are so placed as to allow of the freest passage to the blood in the circle described, while they either altogether prevent or exceedingly impede its movement in any other dii'ection. (3.) The effect of a ligature placed around a vein and an artery, and of a puncture made above the ligature in the one vessel and below it in the other, demonstrate both the motion of the blood and the course of it. When a ligature is placed around a vein, that part of the vessel which is most distant from the heart becomes full and turgid on account of the accumulation of blood in it; while the part of the vessel which is between the Hgature and the heart becomes empty * Whenever there is any interruption to the ordinary flow of the circulating fluids, the powers of the anastomosing circulation are capable of being increased to a surprising extent. The aorta itself has frequently been tied in animals of considerable size without destroying life; in the human body it has also been found obliterated by disease in different parts of its course, in one case as high as the termination of its curvature. In the cure for aneurism the external iliac artery has been tied by Mr. Abcrnethy with success; tlie subclavian artery below the clavicle by Mr. Keate; tlic common carotid by Sir Astley Cooper; tlie subclavian artery above the clavicle by Mr. Ramsden; the internal iliac artery by Dr. Stevens; the artcria innominnta by Dr. Mott, of New York; and lastly, the abdommal aorta itself by Sir A. Cooper. Mr, Grainger tied the abdominal aorta of a dog ; when the animal had recovered from that operaSon, the carotids and the great trunks of the anterior extremities were tied ; in tiiis manner the whole course of the circulation was altered. The dog, which was of very large size, survived all tliese operations, and appeared to enjoy its ordmary liealtii.—Grainger's " General Anatomy," p. 251—253.