273 CONDITIONS NECESSAKY TO ABSORPTION. and winding course which Nature causes the new matter formed from the food to undergo, even after its elaboration in the digestive appa- ratus, in order that, before it is allowed to mingle with the blood, its perfect purification and assimilation may be secured. The activity or inactivity of the process of absorption is mainly de- pendent on the emptiness or the plethora of the system. There is a point of satui-ation beyond which the absorbent vessels, though in immediate and continued contact vdth absorbable matters, will take up no more. The nearer the system to this point the less active the process; the further the system from this point the more active the process. Thus, when an animal whose vessels are full to saturation is immersed m water, or exposed to humid air, its body does not increase in weight, and there is no sensible diminution of the water; but the longer an animal is kept without fluid, and the more it is exposed to the action of a diy air, the fm-ther its system is removed from the point of satm-ation, and exactly in that proportion, when it is brought in contact with water, is the diminution of the quantity of the fluid and the increase in the weight of the body. This law explains many circumstances of the animal economy,—why it is impossible to dilute the blood or any other animal fluid beyond a certain point, by any quantity of liquid which may be in contact with the external surface, or which may be taken into the stomach ; why it is impossible to introduce nutrient matter into the system, beyond a certain point, by any quantity of food, which the digestive organs may convert into chyle; why, consequently, the bulk and weight of the body are in- capable of indefinite increase ; why that bulk and weight are so rapidly regained after long abstinence; and why the appetite is so keen, and the ordinary fulness and plumpness of the body are so soon restored, after recoveiy from fever and other acute diseases, when the digestive organs have been uninjured. DiS'erent portions of the absorbent apparatus accomplish specific uses. With the absorbent action of the capillary blood-vessels and of membranous surfaces, every organic function, but more especially the processes of digestion and respiration, are intimately connected. The specific absoi*ption carried on by the lacteals has for its object the introduction of new materials into the system, for the reparation of the losses which it is constantly sustaining by the unceasing actions of life. The specific absorption carried on by the lymphatics has a twofold object. First, the restoration of the surplus of nutritious material which transudes into the tissues, that it may pass a second time into the blood, in order to be subjected anew to the process of respiration, thereby affording them a second purification, and giving them new and higher properties; and, secondly, the regulation of the growth of T