PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. by the carotid artery to the brain; but the cerebral arteries do not deposit blood, but brain. Arterial blood is conveyed by the capillary arteries to bone; but the osseous capillaries do not deposit blood, but bone. Arterial blood is conveyed by the muscular arteries to muscle, but the muscular capillaries do not deposit blood, but muscle. The blood conveyed by the capillaries of brain, bone, and muscle is the same ; all comes alike from the systemic heart, and is alike conveyed to all tissues; yet in the one it becomes brain, in the other bone, and in the third muscle. Out of one and the same fluid are manufactured cuticle, and membrane, and muscle, and brain, and bone; the tears, the wax, the fat, the saliva, the gastric juice, the milk, the bile, all the fluids, and all the solids of the body. These phenomena are wholly inexplicable on any known mechanical principles. It is equally impossible to refer them to mere chemical agency, or to any properties of dead matter. We are, therefore, under the necessity of referring them to a principle which, for the sake of distinguishing it from anything mechanical or chemical, we term vital. As the actions which take place between the integi'ant particles of bodies, giving rise to chemical phenomena, are referred to one general principle, termed chemical affinity, so the actions which take place in living bodies, giving rise to vital phenomena, may be referred to one general principle, termed vital affinity. The term explains nothing, it is true, it merely expresses the general fact; but still it is conve- nient to have a term for the expression of the fact. The property itself will ever remain an ultimate fact in physiology, however exactly the limits of its agency, and the laws according to which it modifies the mechanical and chemical relations of the substances subjected to its influence, may hereafter be ascertained; just as chemical affinity will ever be an ultimate fact in physics, whatever discoveries may yet be made of the extent of its agency and of the conditions on which its action depends. It is then an ascertained fact, that there exists between the blood and the tissues a mutual reaction, not of a physical, but of a vital nature, in which the blood takes as active a part as the tissue, and the tissue as the blood ; the blood exertmg a vital attraction on the tissue, and the tissue on the blood. We only express this ultimate fact when we say (and this is all we can doj that in every part of the body, by virtue of a vital affinity, the tissue attracts fi-om the blood the mole- cules of matter appropriate to its chemical composition, and the blood attracts from the tissue the particles which, having served their pur- pose there, are destined to other uses in the economy; or, if whoUy useless, are absorbed into the current of the circulation to be expelled from the system. We can see how. the particles of matter which are attracted by the