STRUCTURE, OFFICE, AND DEVELOPMENT OF GLANDS. 241) organised in a similar mode. T^lie complex contains no element not possessed by the simple gland, and the gland contains no element not possessed by the secreting surface. But there is this difference in the complex organs. Every kind and degree of change in the form of the secreting apparatus, from membrane simply extended, to membrane coiled up mto the most complex gland, is attended with an accumula- tion and concentration of secreting surface. The crypt contains a larger extent of secreting surface than the simple membrane; the follicle than the crypt; and the tubulum than the caecum. A certain amount of secreting surface is gained by the disposition of the simple membrane into the form of the crypt. The collection of a number of crypts into a cluster doubles the extent of the secreting surface by the extent of every crypt that is added to the cluster. The addition of every cluster doubles the whole extent of siu'face acquii-ed by a single cluster. But when stems spring as if from a common trunk; when branches spring from a stem ; when small branches sjjring from the large branches, and yet smaller branches from the small, in a series which the eydf" assisted by the most powerful microscope, is wholly unable to trace; when all the clusters thus formed are collected, and combined into a compact mass, the intricacy of which no art can com- pletely unravel, the extent of surface obtained is altogether immea- surable. How immense must be the extent of surface thus acquired in such an organ as the human lungs, in such a gland as the human liver! In such an aggregation the concentration is also equal to the accu- mulation ; the maximum of surface is comprised in the minimum of space^ and the energy and elaborateness of the function of a secreting organ is uniformly proportionate to such a concentration of its secret- ing substance. Hence the complexity of the compound gland in the higher animals would appear to arise solely from the intricate arrangement of the immense mass of secreting matter concentrated in a small compass; hence also the progressively increased complication indicated in the successive development of the glandular system in the animal series. Tlfus, for example, among the distinct organs formed for the purpose of elaborating a specific secretion, being ultimately connected with the process of digestion, one of the first is the salivary gland. Low down in the scale, in the animal hi which the first rudiment of a salivary gland is traceable, it consists of a single follicle, which appears to serve the office of a gland. In an animal a little higher in structure, two, three, or four follicles combine to form a somewhat less simple organ. In an animal still higher in the series, a number of follicles are clustered together and form a much more complex organ; and in this manner, as the organisation of the animal becomes higher and