CONSTITUENT OF THE GASTKIC JUICE. 'Aid series of experiments, arrived at precisely the same conclusion as the Enj^lish physiologist, and apparently without any previous biowledge of the researches of the latter. Tiedemann and Gmehn state, as the result of their experiments, that the clear ropy fluid, or the gastric juice obtained from the stomach some time after it had been without food, is nearly or entirely destitute of acidity; that the presence of food, or indeed of any stimulus to the mucous membrane, causes the gastric juice to become distinctly acid; that this acidity increases according to the mdigestibility of the food ; that the quantity of acid poured out is very copious ; that it consists partly of muriatic and partly of acetic acid; and that both these acids are efficient agents in the process of digestion. Dr. Prout, who had also recognised the presence of acetic acid, is of opinion that its formation is an accidental occurrence not necessary to digestion nor conducive to it; but is either derived from the ahment, or is the result of irritation or disease. He contends that the mm-iatic acid is the efficient digestive agent. The still more recent experiments of Braconnot appear to have set this matter at rest, and to have proved, beyond all controversy, that the stomach, when stimulated by the presence of food or other foreign agents, possesses the power of secreting free muriatic acid in great quantity; and that it is by this acid that the solution of the food is eft'ected. It is even found that muriatic acid is capable of digesting alimentary substances out of the bod}^ It had been long known, that if meat and gastric juice be enclosed in a tube and kept at the tem- peratiu'e of the human body, a product is obtained closely resembling chyme. M. Blondelot, a physician at Nancy, showed that the same result may be obtained by the digestion of the muscular fibre, in dilute muriatic acid. In both cases the muscular fibre retains its form and its original fibrous texture; but on the slightest motion it divides into an insoluble mass, perfectly homogeneous and similar to the chyme of the stomach ;* a very close approximation to the actual digestive process, more especially when it is considered that it is not possible to imitate out of the stomach several circumstances materially influencing chemical action under which the food is placed within the stomach. ]\Iuriatic acid, the chemical agent by which the stomach dissolves the food, is probaljly obtained from the muriate of soda (common salt) contained in the blood. The soda, the basis of the salt, would appear to be retained m the blood, to preserve the alkaline condition essential to the maintenance of the sound constitution of the blood, while the muriatic acid, disengaged from the soda in the process of secretion, is pom-ed into the stomach to act upon the food. A remarkable confirmation of the correctness of the general con- * Dr. ]{. Thunisou, " British Annals of Medicine," No. 13.