MUSCLES THAT MOVE THE AllM. 103 FiiT. 5:5 The grooves are fitted to corresponding elevations on the upjDer end of the bones of the fore-arm, and form the elhow-joint: just above the articular end there is on each side of the bone a projection called condyle (Fig. 53, 3, 4), the inner (Fig. 53, 3) being much larger than the outer (Fig. 53, 4). The inner condyle gives origin to the muscles that bend, the outer to those that extend the fore-arm and the fino-ers. The muscles that act upon the arm Jirise from the back, the chest, the clavicle, and the scapula; and they move the arm ■with freedom and power upwards, down- wards, forwards, backwards, inwards, and outwards. The chief muscle that raises the arm is the deltoid (Figs. 54 and 55, 3), Avhich arises partly from the clavicle, and partly from the scajmla (Fig. 54). It has the appearance of three muscles proceed- ing in different directions, the different portions being separated by shght fissures. The fibres converging unite and form a powerful muscle, which covers the shoulder-joint (Fig. 54). It is implanted by a short and strong tendon into the middle of the humerus. Its manifest action is to raise the arm. Its action is assisted by the muscles that cover the back of the scapula, which are inserted about the neck of the humerus, and which, at the same time that they elevate the arm, support it when raised. When the arm is raised by the deltoid and its assistant muscles, the latissimus dorsi (Fig. 55, 2) carries it downwards and towards the back, whilst the greater pectoral (Fig. 54), carries it downwards and towards the chest. The latissimus dorsi is the broadest muscle of the body, and after having covered all the loAver part of the back and loins, terminates in a thin but strong tendon, which stretches to the arm. The fibres of the pectoralis, arising partly from the sternum and cartilage of the ribs near that bone, and partly from the clavicle, are gathered upon a strong tendon. These two great muscles, stretching from the body to the arm, form the boundaries of the armpit before and behind, and are attached near each other to the humerus, about foiu: inches below its head. 1, Lower extremity of the humerus; 2, grooved surface; 3, internal condyle ; 4, external condyle ; 5, the upper part of the ulna; 6, the head; 7, the neck; 8, the tubeide of the radius.