I 306 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. circulating mass, and have been applied to the formation and support of the fluid and solid parts through which the stream is flowing. Some physiologists have satisfied themselves that they have seen the actual escape of particles from the circulating current; that they have witnessed the immediate combination of those particles with the sub- stance of the tissues, and even that they have beheld other particles quitting the tissues and mingling with the flowing blood. Other physiologists doubt whether the most patient observation, aided by the most skilful management of the best glasses, can ever liave rendered such phenomena matters of sense. " I imagined," says Miiller, " at an early period, that I had seen something like this in the setting circulation; but by prolonging the observation I saw the globules move on if the cun*ent continued." But whether the human eye have ever actually seen or not an inter- change of particles between the blood and the tissues, it is absolutely certain that such an interchange does take place. For,— 1. Indubitable evidence has been stated of continual absorption from all parts of the body, yet there is no loss of substance; there must, therefore, of necessity be a proportionate deposition. 2. Equal evidence has been adduced that constant additions are made to the blood through the organs of digestion, yet the quantity of the blood in the body does not progressively and permanently increase; it follows that a quantity must be abstracted from the blood propor- tionate to the quantity added to it. 3. The human germ, from a scarcely visible point, by the successive additions of new matter progressively acquires the bulk of the adult man. 4. Organs whose special ofiice it is to abstract particles from the blood for the elaboration of specific secretions consist almost entirely of congeries of blood-vessels. The agents are multiplied in proportion to the extent of the labom- assigned them. 5. Growth, which is merely excess of deposition above absorption, is active in proportion to the quantity of blood which circulates through the growing part in a given time. The blood-vessels of a growing part increase in number and augment in size in proportion to the rapidity of the growth. In morbid growth, it is sometimes sufficient to stop the process merely to tie the main trunks of the arteries distri- buted to the part. By every organ and every tissue; by the membrane, the muscle, the bone; by the brain, the heart, the liver, the lungs, particles are abstracted from the countless streams that bathe them, or that flow through them. In eveiy case in which particles are thus abstracted by a tissue the following phenomena take place:— 1. Only those constituents of the blood are abstracted by the tissue which are of the same chemical nature as its own.