122 Tiirr.osorHY of health. CHAPTER XL OF THE CIRCULATION. Vossols connected witli the Jicait: cluiinbcrs of the lieart—Position of tiic lieart— Puhaonic circle: systemic circle—Structure of the lieart, artery, and vein—Conse- (juences of the discovery of the circulation to the discoverer—Action of the heait: .sojnids oecasioued by its different movements—Contraction : dilatation—Disposition and action of tlic valves—Powers tliat move the blixid—Force of the heart - Action of the arterial tubes: the pulse : action of the capillaries: action of the veins—Self- movin<^ power of the blood—Vilal endowment of the capillaries: functions—Practical applications. The blood being necessary to nourish the tissues and to stimulate the organs, must be in motion in order to be borne to them. An aj)pa- ratus is provided for the purpose of originating an impelling force to put the blood in motion. The heart is the impelling organ ; the great vessels in immediate connection with it are the transmitting organs (Fig. 70, I, 2). The heart is divided into two sets of chambers, one for the recej)tion of the blood from the different parts of the body (Fig. 70, 10) ; the Fig. 70. View of the Iienrt with its several clianibers exposed, and the great vessels in connection witli them. 1, the .su|)erior vena cava ; 2, tlie inlerior vena cava ; 3, the chamber called file light auricle; 4, the cliaiiiber called the right ventricle ; 5, the line marking the passage between the two chambers, and the points of attachment of one margin of tlie valve; 6, tlie seiituin between the two ventricles; 7, the pulmonary artery arising from the right ventricle, and dividing, at 8, into right and left for the corresponding linigs ; 9, the four pulmonary veins bringing the blood from the lungs into 10, the left^auiicTe;' 11, the left ventricle; 1'2, tlie aorta arising from the left ventricle, and passing down behind the heart to distribute blood, by its divisions and subdivisions, to every part of tlie body. other for the communication of the impulse which keeps the blood in motion (Fig. 70, 4, ll). The chamber which receives the blood is termed an auricle (Fig. 70, 3, lo), and is connected with a vessel termed a vein (Fig. 70, i, 2, 9,); that which communicates impulse