304 PHII.OSOPHY OF HEALTH. works the circulation, the commingled fluids are transmitted by the right heart to the lungs. There the wateiy portion of the chyle and lymph is removed ; the composition of the albumen and fibrin is com- pleted, these substances being changed from a weak and loose into a strong and concentrated state; the solid particles are increased in number, augmented in size, and changed from a white into a red colour; carbon is given off'; oxygen is absorbed; azote is alternately inhaled and exhaled; and the ultimate result is, that the three fluids—chyle, lymph, and venous blood—are converted into one homogeneous fluid, arterial blood, the proper nutrient fluid. The particles of the chyle and lymph, on mingling with the blood, are scattered through the mass, and become invisible, being apparently lost among the innumerable red corpuscles; but it is not probable that the chyle is immediately converted into blood. If the*boagulation of the blood be retarded by the addition of a small portion of the carbonate of potass, the red particles gradually sink some lines below the level of the fluid; and the supernatant liquid is whitish, e\ddently from the chylous globules mingled with the blood. In ordinary coagulation, the chyle globules are included among the immense number of the red particles of the coagulum, and are thus indistinguishable ; but there is reason to believe that the chyle is not converted into blood under at least, from ten to twelve hours: it is certain, that in that space of time after the completion of digestion, the serum of the blood is frequently seen to be milk-white, from the quantity of unassimilated chyle still contained in it. How the red colom' of the blood is obtained, and whence the capsules of the red particles are derived, if these bodies really j)ossess an external envelope, is wholly unknown. But it has been shown that in incubation the blood is formed from the substance of the fluid yolk, without the action of any special organ ; that at the period when the blood is first generated, no such organs as appear to influence the production of the blood in the adult are in existence ; it is, therefore, reasonable to infer that the formation of blood in the adult may not be so dependent on the action of special organs as is commonly supposed ; and that the fonnation of blood from chyle, of blood corpuscles from chyle corpuscles, may take place at aU periods of hfe under the influence of the same general vital conditions as it does in the incubated egg. What change the matter of the blood undergoes by respiration, whether it acquire something without which it is incapable of maintain- ing life, or part with something the presence of which is incompatible with life, is equally unknown. We only know that the blood, durin"- resphation, changes its colom-; but of the natm-e of the change produced upon its substance we are wholly ignorant. In the present state of our biowledge, the ultimate fact is, that without the change