MODIFYING POWER OF THE BKAIN. 77 organ it lodges and protects. The form and magnitude of the cavity, and the shape and size of the cranium, depend upon the brain, and not those of the brain upon the cranium. The soft parts model and adapt to themselves the hard, the hard does not model and adapt the soft. The formation of the brain in the foetus is anterior to that of the case which ultimately contains it; and the hard bone is moulded upon the soft pulp, not the pulp upon the bone. At every period of life, on the inner surface of the cranium there are visible impressions made by the convolutions of the brain, and the ramifications of the arteries, and on its external surface are depressions occasioned by the action of the external muscles. Nor does the modifying power of the brain over the bones of the cranium terminate at birth. The formation of bone, always a slow process, is never completed until the child has attained its third or fom*th year, and often not until a much later period. At this tender age, the bones, which in advanced life are hard and rigid, are comparatively soft and yielding, and consequently more readily receive and retain the impression of the convolutions and of the other projecting parts of the brain, by which they are sometimes so deeply marked that an attentive examination of the inner surface of the cranium is of itself sufficient to determine not only that some part, but to indicate the very part of the brain which has been preter- naturally active. At tliis tender age, pressure, internal or external, general or partial, may readily change the form of the cranium. If by a particular posture, the head of a child be unequally balanced on the spine, the brain will press more on that side of the cranium than on the other; the organ will expand in the direction to which it in- clines ; that portion of it will become preternaturally developed, and consequently the balance of its functions will be distm-bed. An aAvk- ward way of standing or sitting, perhaps contracted inadvertently and kept up by habit; a wry neck; any cause that keeps the head con- stantly inclined to one side, may produce this result, examples of which, and of its consequences, will be given hereafter. Tracing them from without inwards we see, then, that the various coverings afforded to the brain, the central organ of the animal life, seated in its vaulted cavity, are : 1. The tegument, consisting of the skin and of cellular and adipose membrane. 2. Beneath the tegu- ment, muscles in the forepart and at the vertex, comparatively slender and delicate; at the sides and posteriorly, thick, strong, and power- ful. 3. Beneath the muscles, a thin but dense membrane, termed the pericranium, lining the external surface of the cranial bones. 4. Beneath the pericranium, the bony substance of the cranium, con- sisting of two firm and hard bony plates, with a spongy, bony structure, called diploe, interposed between them (Fig. 39, 2). 5. Immediately in contact with the inner surface of the bony sub-