41 FORMATION OF CELLS-NUCLEI. from /3\a(Trt]fia, a bud or blossom; and being further supposed to take a direct shar^ in the formation of the elementary parts, it is also called formative fluid, or cytoblastema, from /euro?, a vesicle, and ^\aaTt}fxa, germ substance. When a cell is about to be formed, a certain movement takes place in the blastema; some of its particles become aggregated together, or a deposit is thrown down. A minute solid granule is the result, the nucleolus ; then the particles aggregate into a still larger body, and form the nucleus. As soon as formed, the nuclei begin actively to attract new particles, which are deposited upon and around them, condensing into the film or membrane, and constituting the cell-wall. (Fig. 4.) At first the membrane is in Kig. 4. close contact with the nucleus, so that 0 c a " the nascent cell is but little larger than '«> i*i ^ ^ Bj a j the nucleus (Fig. 4, d.); but as the mem- , , , , ^""^^ , I ■) n «' luicleolus; 6, nucleus; c, c, nucleus brane admits more and more blastema in dose contact with cell mem- through its porous walls, it gradually ^"'""-'5 /' membrane rising , " TJ1T • T1 ,1 progressively more and more above becomes distended, rises up like a watch- nucleus. glass above the face of a watch, completely encloses the nuclei with their surrounding liquid, and thus is comj)leted the perfect cell. (Fig, The elementary parts of the cell unquestionably become modified in their composition, and acquire new properties from their particular structure; for when an entire cell is exposed to certain chemical agents its several j^arts are differently acted upon, acetic acid dissolving its liquid contents, while it leaves the nucleus entire, and even renders it more sharply defined and more consj^icuous, and sometimes completely dissolving the membrane and so setting the nucleus free. The same is true of the nucleolus. With regard to the function of these bodies, Schleiden regarded the nucleolus as the " prime factor " in the formation of new cells, and accordingly called it the cytoblast or cell-germ, terms already explained. Others extend his views, and regard the nuclei, together, as the active agents in producing the chemical or organic changes that take place in the fluid contents of cells, and in modifying and elaborating the various products they form. The primaiy nucleated cell, when not sulyect to pressure, is a perfect circle or sphere, a form calculated to hold the largest amount of matter in the smallest space; but cells assume all sorts of figures according to the degree and nature of the pressure to which they are exposed. Figs. 5, 0, 7 show their altered forms from pressure. They also vary greatly in size, according to the tissue or organ in which they are examined, varying from tlie f>,\)oth to the 2(rodtli part of an inch in diameter. Their membranous wall renders them per-