PHILOSOPITY OF HKALTH. 366 neurine in its interior. By the addition of the new bodies its structure becomes much compUcated. It is remarkable also that its neurine is disjiosed in quite a different manner from that in the interior of the spinal cord. In the spinal cord it is doubly concentric (Fig. 104) ; in the medulla oblongata it is disposed in isolated masses (Fig. 107) — circumstances which indicate that it is a new organ, connected with the spinal cord, but different from it. 2. The Cerebrum.—The cerebrum is the large nervous mass situated at the upper part of the skull, the cavity of which it completely fills. (Fig. 31.) The name appears to have been originally written carabrum, from Kaptj, the head. By anatomists it is often termed the brain proper; but popularly the word brain is used to denote all the parts contained within the skull, or the whole encephalon. The English word brain is of Saxon origin, and ap)pears to be derived from a Saxon root, which signifies to spread out, or extend; as if the brain were an extension of the spinal cord and medulla oblongata. If this be the true etymology, and if the name were given under this conception, our Saxon ancestors must have anticipated the discovery of modern anatomists; but this is scarcely probable. The cerebrum is divided into two equal halves, termed hemispheres. Each hemisphere is of an oval shape, somewhat resembling an egg cut longitudinally into two equal portions. Its siu'face is disposed in folds, termed convolutions. (Fig. 108.) Its convo- lutions are separated from each other by deep fissures, so that the external surface presents the appearance of a series of folds; some being placed parallel, and all pursuing a tortuous direction (ibid.). These folds seem, on a superficial view, to be disposed without much order; but on careful examination, and especially with the aid of comparative anatomy, they are found to be regular in their form, position, direction, and relation. They are, indeed, of different sizes, that is, of different length and breadth in the brains of different animals, and in different parts of the brain in the same animal, as is demonstrated by comparative anatomy. Some of them are transverse, while others are longitudinal (Fig. 108) ; but whatever may be their diversities in other respects, they invariably pursue, in the same region, the same direction; the transverse never becoming longitu- dinal, nor the longitudinal transverse. Some are primary and ^uni- versal ; others are secondary and subordinate, as is proved by com- parative anatomy. In order to carry on the description of the brain, it is necessaiy to remove it from the skull. For the pm-pose of examination it is com- monly placed on its upper surface. There is then brought into view what is called the base of the brain. (Fig. 107.)