PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 288 According to this view, the liver is a second digestive apparatus, completing what the first commences, or effecting what that is inca- pable of accomplishing ; and this view assigns the reason why certain fluids taken into the stomach sometimes appear in the secretions and excretions with such astonishing rapidity ; why the hver so constantly becomes diseased when highly stimulating substances, not properly alimentary, are mixed with the food, and more especially when ardent spirits or the stronger wines are largely and habitually taken ; why the sympathy is so intimate and intense between the stomach and the Hver and the liver and the stomach, both in health and disease. The second fimction performed by the liver is that of excretion. The excrementitious matter eliminated from the blood by the liver is contained in its peculiar secretion, the bile. The bile consists of two portions, an assimilative part which combines chemically with the chyle, purifying and exalting its natm-e ; and an excrementitious part, which combines with the residue of the aliment. TliQ excrementitious part of the bile contains a large proportion of carbon and hydrogen. Carbon and hydrogen abound in venous blood ; venous blood in large quantity is sent to the liver to afford the mate- rials for the the secretion of bile ; consequently, the more copious the secretion of bile the greater the quantity of carbon and hydrogen abstracted from venous blood. It follows that, by this elimmation of carbon and hydrogen from the blood, the Hver is auxiHary, as an organ of excretion, to the skin and the lungs. But it is well worthy of remark, that although the liver at all times assists the skin and the lungs in carrying on the process of excretion, it does this most especially under circumstances which necessarily enfeeble the action of the cutaneous and pulmonary organs. Less carbon is expeUed from the lungs in summer than in winter; at a high than at a low temperature; consequently by a long-continued exposure to intense heat, as in the hot months of summer, and still more by a contmual residence m a warm climate, an accumulation of carbon in the blood is favoured. A part of this excess is removed by the increased exhalation from the skin. The skin, however, is the chief outlet, not for carbon, "but for hydrogen ; and accordingly by the increased perspiration hydrogen is largely removed. Hydi'ogen and carbon compose fat. The deposition of fat, could it go on to the requi- site extent, would afford an adequate consumption for the superabundant carbon ; but the fomation of fat is prevented by the dissipation of the hydrogen. Under such circumstances, when the lungs cannot carry off the requisite quantity of carbon, nor the adipose tissue compensate for its diminished activity by the deposition of fat, the liver, taking on an increased action, secretes an extraordinary quantity of bile. In this manner the superfluous carbon, instead of being removed in the