.55 THE BLOOD -COAGULATION. vessels, which fm-nish the matters that form the secretion of the gland. These matters are collected from the hlood hy the action of epithe- lial cells of the 4th class, which form a lining to the tubes and their ends. In the finest tubes and their terminal dilatations, where the secreting power resides, the cells which exercise this power offer the most characteristic examples of this form of epithelium, and have a polygonal shape, which is identical vnth. that of the younger stages of other epithelial elements. CHAPTER VIII. OF THE BLOOD. The blood is a thick, viscid, tenacious fluid, somewhat heavier than water, slightly alkaline, clammy to the touch, saltish to the taste, of a peculiar faint odour and red colour, scarlet red in the arteries, and purple in the veins. It is commonly called, by way of distmction, the circulatmg fluid, thou<^h other fluids move in a definite direction, as the chyle, which flows'^from the small intestines to the thoracic duct, but it is the only fluid that describes a circle. To the naked eye it appears homogeneous; when examined with the microscope, it is seen to consist of a transparent colourless fluid, with mmute solid particles floating in it. The clear fluid is called the liquor sangumis. The solid particles are of two kinds, one red, to which the" red colour of the whole mass is due, and the other co- lom-less; the former are called the red, and the latter the lymph par- ticles, or cells. 1 J Immediately after blood is drawn from its vessels it undergoes a very remarkable change. First, an aqueous vapour arises from it havin- a pecuhar faintish odour, disagreeably perceptible on passing a slau-hfer-house: then a thin film is formed upon its surface, which is soon followed by the conversion of the whole mass into a soft jelly. As the ieUy sohdifies, a fluid begins to ooze from it, and the jelly itself further separates into two parts, one a yellowish substance, occupymg the upper, and the other a red mass at the under surface In this manner a natural dissection of the blood takes place by which it is resolved into its constituent parts. The process by which this is effected is termed coagulation, and the several constituents of the blood thus separated from each other are-the fluid portion, he serum • the solid paxt, the coagulum or clot; the yellow substance, the