I'lIII.OSOl'lIV OF IIKAi;i'H. Liguiu C,|Hj,pj. Identical in composition witli starch, it is in- solu])le and innutritions, and constitutes tlie basis of the sohd structures of all plants. Fine linen and cotton are examples of it in a pure state, the associated vegetable j)rinciples having been removed or de- stroyed by the variety of treatment to which the fibre has been sub- jected. It is convertible into another proximate principle, Dextrine, which in its turn may be converted into grape sugar. Linen rags may be made to furnish more than their own weiglit of this description of sugar. Nitrogenisecl Proximate Frinciples.—The nitrogenised proximate principles, both in plants and animals, are comprehended in three groups, which have received the names of fibrin, albumen, and casein. Vegetable Fibrin.—Contained chiefly in the juices of plants. When freshly expressed vegetable juices are allowed to stand at rest a deposit is thrown down, consisting of a solid substance of a green colour, which, when the colouring matter is removed, becomes greyish white. This deposit is vegetable fibrin. Vegetable Albumen.—When the juice has deposited its fibrin, it still retains in solution a substance which does not separate at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, but coagulates when the juice is heated to the boiling point. This coagulum is vegetable albumen. Vegetable Casein.—The flower seeds of certain plants, particularly those of the leguminous order, such as peas, beans, and lentils, yield a coagulum wholly different from that afforded by the expressed juices, and similar to the curdy or cheesy ingredient of animal milk. This is vegetable casein. Animal Fibrin.—It will be seen hereafter that when the vein of a living animal is opened, and the blood is allowed to stand at rest for a few minutes, the fluid separates into two parts—a pale-yellowish liquid, called serum, and a solid portion, named the clot. The clot in its turn separates spontaneously into two parts, one of which consists of the red particles of the blood, and the other of a solid, tasteless, insoluble substance, which is animal fibrin, and which has a peculiar tendency to arrange itself into long white, elastic, parallel threads, or fibres, whence its name. Animal Alhimen.—Jvmt as in the case of vegetal^le albumen, when heat is applied to the liquid part of the blood, tlie serum, it coagulates and throws down a white solid substance identical with white of e<rcr. This is animal albumen. Casein.—A white curdy substance, the nitrogenised component of milk. It is not sensibly soluble in pure water, but readily dissolves in water containing a very small quantity of alkali. Its most striking property is its coagulabihty by certain animal membranes, as that of the stomach of the calf.