MOVEABLE JOINTS. 101 In tlio joint formed by the clavicle and the steriiuiii, au inter- articular cartilage is placed between the two bones which lU'o imited, first by a strong fibrous ligament, which envelops them as in a capsule; by a second ligament which extends from tho cartilage of the first rib to the clavicle, by which tlie attachment of the clavicle to the stenium is materially strengthened; and by a third ligament which passes transversely from the head of one clavicle to that of the other. The joint thus formed, though so strong and firm that the dislocation of it is exceedingly rare, yet admits of some degree of motion in every direction, upwards, downwards, forwards, and backwards; and this articulation is the sole point by which the scapula is connected with the trunk, and, consequently, by which the upper extremity can act, or be acted upon, by the rast of the body. The scai)ular extremity of the clavicle is attached to the pro- cesses of the scapula by several ligaments of great strength. First, by very strong fasciculi which pass from the upper surface of the clavicle to the acromion of the scapula; and, secondly, by two ligaments which unite the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula. These Ugaments are so powerful that they resist a force capable of fracturing the clavicle; and they need to be thus strong, for the clavicle is a shaft which sustiiins the scapula, and through the scapula the whole of the upj)er extremity; and the main object of the joint by which these bones are united, is to afford a firm attachment of the scapula to its point of support. Tho clavicle serves the following uses: it sustains the upper extremity; it connects the upper extremity with the thorax; it prevents the upper extremity from falling forwards upon the thorax; and it affords a fixed point for steadying the extremity m the per- ibrmance of its various actions. The glenoid cavity of the scapula (Fig. 52, 7), receives the head of the humerus, the bone of the arm (Fig 52, 9), and the two bones, being united by Hgament, form the shoulder-joint. This joint is what is termed a ball and socket joint, the pecuharities of which are two: first, beyond all others, this mode of articidation admits of free and extensive motion ; in the present case, there is the utmost frealom of motion in every direction, upwards, downwards, backwards, and forwards. In the second place, this mode of articula- tion admits of the motion of the limb without that of the body, or of the motion of the body without that of the limb. Wlion at rest, the arm may be moved in almost any direction without disturbing the position of any other pirt of the frame; the manifold advan- tages of which are obvious. On . the other hand, by careful man- agement, very considerable variations in the posture of the body may be effected wthout the communication of any degree of