PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 34G because the impression falls upon them; the fibres which transmit the second are termed the reflex, because the nervous force sent from the centre is said to be reflected from it to the muscles. The transmission then of an impression by incident fibres to a nervous centre, and the reflection of a nervous force fi'om the centre to a muscle, or a group of muscles, causing them to contract, and so to produce a definite motion for the accomplishment of a definite purpose, constitutes an excito-motory action. It takes place in every instance in which an excito-motory function is exercised. For the sake of brevity it is often called, in ^physiological language, reflex action. It is an action unceasingly pervading the animal frame. That muscular contraction caused by an influence derived from nerves, is not the direct result of the reaction of nerves and muscles on each other, but that the in-itation is first conveyed to a nervous centre, and then reflected back to the muscles, did not altogether escape the obser- vation of the earlier physiologists. Among others, Whytt, Haller, Prochaska, and Cullen have recorded evidence that reflex action was not unknown to them. But it is to Dr. Marshall Hall that the honour is due of having deduced the generahzation in its full completeness from original observations and experiments, and of having clearly expounded the nature and determined the extent of the phenomena. In prosecuting an experimental inquiry respecting the circulation of the blood, he one day, chanced to observe a remarkable phenomenon, that the separated tail of the eft he was examining, moved on being irritated by the point of the scalpel. Meditating long on this incident, and believing that it mdicated the action of some prmciple not hitherto elucidated, he instituted a series of experiments and observations for the pm-pose of discovering it. About the same time similar researches were made in Germany by Professor Miiller without any Imowledge of w^hat had been done by Marshall Hall, who, it is admitted, had the priority. By different routes both physiologists arrived at nearly the same point. There is a perfect coincidence in their facts, but a con- siderable difference in their interpretation of them. Dr. Hall's conclusions may be comprised in the folio whig summary: 1. " That there exists a true spinal cord, physiologically and anato- mically distinct from that portion of the cord which is strictly an appendage of the brain. 2. "That there is a system of nerves physiologically distinct from the sentient and voluntary nerves, called excito-motory nerves, con- sisting of incident nerves, which arise from the skin and certain mucous membranes, and of reflex nerves, which end in the voluntary muscles. These parts collectively, that is to say, the true spinal cord and the excito-motory nerves, constitute the true spinal system. 3. " That ciirrents of nervous influence may be excited passing