253 MECHANICAL ARRANGEMENT.—CHEMICAL ACTION. In by far tlie greater number of cases the various substances of wliich the body is composed are simply separated from the nutritive fluid at the parts of the body at which they are deposited; so that, existing akeady formed in the blood, they are merely deposited there, and not generated. Still, however, since it is certain tliat gelatm cannot be recognized in the blood, and since it is doubtful whether some other substances found in different textures and secretions really exist in the blood, it is necessary, in the present state of our knowledge, to suppose, that although most of the constituents of the living tissues are contained in the blood, yet tliat in some instances a material change is effected in their natm-e at the time and place of their escape from the circulation; and that in these cases the secreted substances are not simple extracts from, but products of, the blood. It is by the apparatus of secretion that this separation, evolution, or reformation is eSectal. Out of a fluid which contains, blended to- gether, almost all the heterogeneous substances of which the body is built up, particular substances are selected from the common mass, and are dei^osited in certain parts, and only in certain parts. Although by the most careful examination of the structure of the apparatus, it is not j)ossible to form a precise conception of the mode in which this separation is effected, yet we are enabled to perceive a number of arrangements which we can readily understand must conduce to the accomplishment of the object. ]. Of these, the most obvious is mechanical arrangement. In its passage to different organs the blood is propelled through canals of extreme minuteness: in every different case these canals differ from each other in size; pass off from their respective trunks at different angles; possess different degrees of density; are variously contorted, and are of various lengths. In some they are straight, in others convoluted ; at one time branching, at another pencillated, and at another starry. The veins, too, in some cases, are almost straight, in others exceedingly tortuous, in others reticulated; and the freedom of their communication with the arteries varies so much, that in some cases fine injections pass from the one set of vessels to the other with the greatest facility, while, in others, they pass with extreme difiiculty. The consequence of these divers arrangements of the capillary blood- vessels is, that the current of the blood must necessarily flow in them with different degi-ees of velocity; its particles must be placed at different distances from each other, and must be presented to each other in different positions and in widely different proportions. In no two secretmg organs are any two of these conditions exactly alike. In the lower orders of animals, in which secretion is seen in its simplest con- dition, the general nutritive fluid, elaborated and contained in a single internal cavity, appears to fiu-nish a variety of products very different