91 PLEURA.—LUNGS. and it is by this alternate action tliat they enlarge and dimmish the cavity of the thorax in the function of respiration. Such are the boundaries of the cavity of the thorax as far as its walls are solid. Tlie interspaces between these solid portions at the sides are fiUed up by muscles, principally by those termed the intercostal (Fig. 41) ; below, the boundary is formed by the diaphragm (Fig. 49) ; while above, as has been already stated, the cavity is so contracted as only to leave an opening for the passage of certain parts to and from the chest. The inner surface of the walls of the thorax, in its whole extent, is lined by a serous membrane, exceedingly thin and dehcate, but still firm, called the pleura. The same membrane is reflected over the organs of respiration contained m the cavity, so as to give them an external coat. The membrane itself is everywhere continuous, and everywhere the same, whether it line the containing or the contamed parts; but it receives a difierent name as it covers the one or the other: that portion of it wliich lines the walls of the cavity being called the costal plem-a, wliile that which covers the organs contained in the cavity is termed the pulmonary pleura. A fold of each pleura passes directly across the central part of the cavity of the thorax; extending from the spinal column to the sternum, and dividing the general cavity into two. This portion of the pleura is called the mediastinum, from its situation in the centre of the thorax, and it so completely divides the thoracic cavity into two, that the organs on one side of the chest have no communication with those of the other ; so that there may be extensive disease in one cavity (for example, a large accumulation of water), while the other may be per- fectly sound. The main organs contained in the cavity of the thorax are the lungs with then' air tube; the heart with its great vessels; and the tube passing from the mouth to the stomach (Fig. 47). The two lungs occupy the sides of the chest (Fig. 47). They are completely separated from each other by the membranous partition just described, the mediastinum. Between the two folds of the me- diastinum, namely, in the middle of the chest, but inclining somewhat to the left side, is placed the heart, enveloped in another serous mem- brane, the pericardium (Fig. 47). The lungs are moulded to the cavities they fill; whence their figui-e is conical, the base of the cone being downwards, resting on the diaphragm; and the apex upwards, towards the neck. That surface of each lung which corresponds to the walls of the chest is convex in its whole extent; on the contrary, that surface which corresponds to the mediastinum is flattened (Fig. 48). The basis of the lung is concave, adapted to the convexity of the diapliragm on which it rests.