ENDOSMOSE. 263 taining a column of mercury which is raised by the fluid in the interior of the endosmometer, as the volume of this fluid is increased by the endosniose. By means of these two instruments it is found that the velocity and strength of endosniose follow the same law, and that both are proportionate to the excess of the density of the fluid contained in the endosmometer above the density of water. By numerous experi- ments it is ascertained that by employing syrup of ordinary density an endosmose is obtamed, the strength of which is capable of raising water more than 150 feet. But though difierence of density is necessary to the production of endosmose, yet numerous and decisive experiments show that the different natures of fluids, irrespective of their proportionate densities, materially influence the activity and energy of the process. Thus, if sugar-water and gum-water of the same density be placed in the same endosmometer, the former produces endosmose with a velocity as seventeen and the latter only as eight. The endosmose produced by a solution of the sulphate of soda is double that produced by a solution of the hydro-chlorate of soda of the same density. A solution of albu- men exerts an endosmose four times greater than a solution of gelatin of the same density. AVith organic fluids endosmose goes on without ceasing until the chemical nature of the fluids becomes altered by putrefaction; but with alkalies, soluble salts, acids, and chemical agents in general, the endosmose excited is capable only of short continuance, because such agents enter into chemical combination with the organic tissue of the endosmometer, and thus destroy endosmose. It is remarkable that the direction of the endosmotic currents pro- duced by vegetable membrane is the exact reverse of that produced by animal membrane under precisely the same circumstances. Thus oxalic acid, when separated from water by an animal membrane, in- variably exliibits endosmose from the acid towards the water; when separated by a vegetable membrane, from the water towards the acid: and the same is the case with the tartaric and citric acids, and with the sulphuric, the hydro-sulphuric, and the sulphurous acids. I filled, says Dutrochet, a pod of the colutea arhorescens (which being opened at one end only, and forming a little bag, was readily attached by means of a hgature to a glass tube) with a solution of oxalic acid, and having plimged it into rain-water, endosmose was manifested by the ascent of the contained acid fluid in the tube, that is to say, the cur- rent flowed from the water towards the acid. The lower part of the leek (allium porrum) is enveloped or sheathed by the tubular petioles of the leaves. By slitting these cylindrical tubes down one side, vege- table membranous webs of sufficient breadth and strength to be tied upon the reservoir of an endosmometer are readily obtained. An