292 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTPI. labour of tlie kidney, then, a substance would accumulate in the blood, which would quickly lead to the decomposition of the body. It has been shown that the mucous membrane which lines the alimentary canal is studded in its whole extent with glands, which secrete from the blood a large quantity of fluid. These secretions go on without interruption, whether food be taken or not, so that there may be copious alvine evacuations though not a particle of food enter the stomach; and the separation of the matter eliminated from the blood by this extended membrane can no more be dispensed with than that by the skin or the lungs. There is, too, a most intimate sympathy between the secretion of the membrane that lines the internal surface of the body and that carried on by its external covering; any disorder of the one immediately and joowerfully disturbs the natural course of the other: hence the diarrhoea, so often produced by the appHcation of cold to the external skin, and the diseases of the skin, so constantly connected with a disordered state of the mucous membrane of the in- testines. It is the special office of the large intestines to prepare for its removal, and to carry out of the system the residue of the aliment, together with the excrementitious portion of the bile. Supposing the ingesta in twenty-four hours to be of food 6 pounds, or 96 ounces, and of oxygen retained in the system 4 ounces, in all 100 ounces, it is estimated that the egesta will be, in twenty-four hours, by the skin, 34 ounces, by the lungs 17 ounces, by the intes- tines 6 ounces, by the kidneys 40 ounces, and by various other excre- tions 3 ounces, in all, 100 ounces. These calculations must, of course, be taken only as approximations to the truth, and as ascribing rather the relative than the positive quantities of matter excreted. Whatever be the absolute quantity or the form of the excretions, it is clear, from the preceding account, that there is constantly removed from the system by the skin a large portion of hydrogen and some carbon; by the lungs a large portion of carbon and some hydrogen; by the hver a large portion of hydrogen and some carbon; by the kidneys a large portion of azote; by the large intestines the residue of the aliment; while, by the deposition of fat, tlie superabundant nutri- ment withdrawn from the current of the circulation is laid up in store in some safe part of the body. Most of the processes which have been described are mutually com- pensating and vicarious. Besides the office which each habitually performs, it is capable of having its action occasionally increased, for the purpose of supplying the deficiency of one or more of its fellows. If perspiration by the skin languish, transudation by the lun^s in- creases ; if neither the skin nor the hmgs be able to remove the super- fluous hydrogen and carbon, these inflammable substances are carried