ACTION OF THE PROPER ABSORBENTS. 309 tissue from the blood are so deposited and disposed that the tissue always preserves its own shape, bulk, and relation to the surrounding tissues. This definite arrangement is the result of an action which has been already stated to be proper to the absorbent vessels. Previously to the deposition of a new particle of matter by a capillary, an old particle is removed by an absorbent, either a lymphatic or a vein. In removing the old matter, the absorbent fomis a mould into which the capillary deposits the new molecules ; and the form of every tissue and organ depends on the kind of mould formed for the reception of its nutrient matter by the absorbent vessel. The absorbents are thus the architects of the system; and the capillaries are both chemists which form the rough material employed in the structure, and masons which deposit and arrange it. The conjoint action of both sets of vessels is necessaiy to the formation of the simplest tissue; and it is by their united labour that the compound organs are built up out of the simple tissues. It is conjectured that the immediate living agents by which this vital attraction is exerted between the blood and the tissues are the organic nerves. These nerves consist of two sets, those which enter as constituents into the tissues and those which accompany the capil- laries-. It has been shown that while the membranous tunics of the capillaries diminish, the nervous filaments distributed to them increase; that the smaller and thinner the capillaries the greater the proportion- ate quantity of their nervous matter; and that this is most remarkably the case in organs of the greatest irritability. It is conceived that the capillaries, in consequence of the nervous structm-e which thus enve- lops them, exert upon the fluid which is flowing through them an influence perfectly analogous to that of the secreting organ, in con- sequence of which similar particles are abstracted from the blood as those which compose the tissue in which the operation takes place. It is further conjectured that the physical agent by wliich this action upon the blood is efiected is the galvanic fluid. Dutrochet behoves that he has actually formed muscular fibre from albumen by galvanism. He considers the red particles of the blood as pairs of electrical plates, and thinks that the nucleus is electro-negative, and the capsule electro-positive. Miiller has repeated and critically exa- mined the interesting experiments of Dutrochet; and while he arrives in many essential points at difi'erent results, expresses the highest admiration of the ingenious manner in which this philosopher has sought to solve a great problem. "If," says Miiller, "a drop of an aqueous solution of the yolk of egg (in which very small microscopic globules are suspended) be galvanised, the cm-rents discovered by Du- trochet will be observed. The wave, proceeding from the copper or negative pole, in which the alkali of the decomposed salt accmnulates,