PHILOSOPHY or HEALTH. 50 terior, wliilst those on the outermost part communicate with the canahcuh of the lacunse of the adjoining Haversian systems. Thus in every Haversian system there is a permeating system of very small channels, connected at intervals with the flattened oval spaces. Any lacuna, with its canaliculi, is occupied by a body which is moulded to it, and fills it exactly, thus taking the shape of a flattened body with projecting filaments ; in fact, a ray-bearing cell, such as we meet with in areolar tissue and tendon. The Haversian canals carry arteries or veins throughout the bone from the surface which is clothed by a membrane rich in blood-ves- sels, called periosteum, to the interior, which is fined by a much finer and less vascular membrane; the cells of the lacuna? appear to govern and provide for the nutrition of the bony substance in their immediate neighbourhood. The above account applies in all its details to the hard parts of bones, only it is well known that bones are composed of two sorts of substances; one brittle and solid-looking, the other s|X)ngy, with reddish marrowy substance in its meshes. The only difference in the microscopic structure of the two sorts is, that the arrangement of the concentric rings, &c., above described, which is so beautiful in the solid bone,, is disturbed in the spongy part; so that w'e find the lacunae and canaliculi spread about in plates and columns of the sponge-work, which are generally too small to afford room for a complete Haversian system. The last-described spongy tissue is called cancellated; it is more abundant than the dense and hard form, and it composes all the more bulky parts of the skeleton; it is found in the enlarged ends of the long bones of limbs, whilst the short and flat bones, as well as the bones of irregular shape, are almost completely moulded out of it, though a deceptive appearance of soHdity is produced upon their surface by a thin coating of firm bony material. By this distribution the longer bones, which afford between their further ends great leverage for fractures under lateral strains, are secm-ed against breakage by the fii'mness and strength of their substance; whilst in the shorter bones, where there is no fear of lateral strains, the surface of the bone is sufficiently sustained from beneath by the little columns and plates of the cancellated tissue; and these we find so disposed that they run for the most part perpendicular to the surface, especially where, from the position and connexion pf the bone, any special pressure natm-ally falls. In this way the bones are made strong, and yet conveniently light, and in the mean time a most import- ant provision is forecast for by the spreading of the fine solid mesh- work throughout the hone, which is else filled with fluid. Any shocks which the bone will receive are dispersed from column to water, and