POSITION OF THE SPINAL CORD. n37 mechanism just described in the centre of this fluid, which exerts upon it an equal, uniform, yet very considerable pressure. 5. The last provision for the protection of the cord which remains to be described is no less admirable than the preceding. All violent muscular exertion, such as straining, leaping, and so on, retards the return of the blood to the heart, and would, if not otherwise prevented, produce an accumulation of the fluid w^ithin the spinal and cranial cavities, already full, and thereby cause imdue pressure upon the cord. To obviate this danger, an outlet, foreign to both cavities, is required, and is actually provided for the momentary retrocession, under these circum- stances, of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Where each spinal nerve is about to escape from the vertebral canal, it receives a fuinnel-shaped pouch from the Dura Mater, which is lined by the arachnoid, and which is thereby brought within the sub-arachnoid space; that is, each pouch is thus placed in free communication with the sub-arachnoid fluid, These pouches are surrounded by soft and elastic tissue, and are con- sequently rendered yielding. The capacity of each little individual reservoir is indeed small; but as there are thirty-one pairs of them, or sixty-two in all, their aggregate capacity is very considerable. Suppose from some sudden and violent exertion the free return of the blood to the heart is prevented; immediately a tendency to accumulation of it takes place within the spinal and cranial cavities; but these cavities, as we have seen, are already full; their rigid walls will not yield: at that moment the cerebro-spinal fluid itself, in consequence of the un- usual pressure exerted upon it, recedes into these arachnoid pouches, and thus instantaneously relieves the cord and brain from the remotest danger of compression. Altogether, then, the position of the cord is this :— 1. It is lodged in a bony case, to which, while strong enough to bear heavy weights, and to resist great violence, a considerable degree of mobility is given by a series of elastic springs and joints. 2. It is protected from the concussions inevitably propagated through solid bones—first, by the curved form of the column, and, secondly, by the succession of elastic plates that tie the bones together. 3. It is guarded from friction by the elastic cushion which lines the whole interior of the canal in which it is enclosed. 4. It is enveloped in three membranous coverings. 5. It is slimg by elastic cords in the centre of a fluid which is always maintained in sufficient abundance to exert upon it a moderate and uniform pressure. 6. It is secured from undue pressure either by this encompassing fluid, or from venous congestion, by numerous elastic outlets, which are always open to receive a portion of the fluid whenever, from tem- porary causes, a local or general over-fullness may occur. z