XV INTRODUCTION. whicli are generated in men only as the result of long-continued discipline, are exjjected to come to you spontaneously, to be born with you, to require on your part no culture, and to need no sustaining influence. But, indeed, it is a most inadequate expression of the fact, to say that the communication of the kno^Yledge, and the formation of the habits \Yhich are necessary to the due performance of the duties of women, constitute no essential part of then- education: the direct tendency of a great part of theii' education is to produce and foster opinions, feelings, and tastes, which positively disqualify them for the performance of their duties. All would be well if the marriage ceremony, which transforms the girl into the wife, conferred upon the wife the qualities which should be possessed by the mother. But it is rare to find a person capable of the least difficult part of education, namely, that of communicating instruction, even after diligent study, with a direct view to teaching; yet an ordinary girl, brought up in the ordinaiy mode, in the ordinary domestic cii-clo, is intrusted with the direction and control of the first impressions that are made upon the human being, and the momentous physical, intellectual, and moral results that arise out of those impressions ! I am sensible of the total inadequacy of any remedy for this evil, short of a modification of our domestic institutions. Mere information, however complete the communication of it, can do little beyond affording a clearer conception of the end in view, and of the means fitted to secure it. Even this little, however, would be something gained; and the hope of contributing, in some degree, to the furtherance of this object, has suppHed one of the main motives for undertaking the present work. Meantime, women are the earliest teachers ; they must be nurses; they can be neither, without tlie risk of doing incalculable mischief, unless they have some understanding of the subjects about to be treated of. On these grounds I rest their dbligation to study them; and I look upon that notion of delicacy, which would exclude them from knowledge calculated, in an extraor- dinary degree, to open, exalt, and purify their minds, and to fit them for the performance of their duties, as alike degrading to those to whom it affects to show respect, and debasing to the mind that enter- tains it. Though each part of this work will be made as complete in itself as the author is capable of rendering it, and to that extent independent of any other part, yet there will be found to be a strict connexion between the several portions of the whole; and greatly as the topics included in the latter differ from those which form the earlier subjects, the advantage of having studied the former before the latter are