THE STOMACH. 213 called the cardiac orifice. At the right extremity, a second aperture, called the pyloric orifice (Fig. 86), leads into the first intestine. Between the cardiac and the pyloric orifices are two curvatures, one ahove, called the smaller (Fig. 86, r,), the other below, termed the larger cm-vature (Fig. 86, 5). Like the oesophagus, the stomach is composed of two layers of mus- cular fibres, the external longitudinal (Fig. 86, 9), the internal circular (Fig. 86, 10). By the contraction of the first the extent of the stomach, from extremity to extremity, is diminished, or the organ is shortened ; by the contraction of the second the extent of the stomach, from curvature to curvature, is diminished, or the organ is narrowed. During digestion, by the contraction of these muscular fibres, the capacity of the stomach is changed alternately in both directions, whence a gentle motion is communicated to the aliment, which is thus brought in succession under the influence of the agent that acts upon it. A thin but strong membrane, derived from the peritoneum, the membrane that lines the general cavity of the abdomen, forms the external tunic of the stomach; hence its outer covering is called the peritoneal coat. The inner or mucous coat, a direct continuation of the lining mem- brane of the cesoj)hagus, is sufficiently extensive to hne smoothly the stomach when it is distended; but when it is empty and shrunken the mucous coat arranges itself in ridges called rug£B (Fig. 87), which disaj^pear again when the stomach is full. The mucous coat produces two distinct secretions, one a thick viscid mucus wliich protects the surface from the digestive solvents, and the other a clear limpid fluid called gastric juice, which consists of water holdinc: in solution some free acid and an albuminoid material called pepsin which aid in producing the solution of the food : besides these some salts are present in small proportions, as in all the other fluids of the body. This gastric juice, as will be shown, is a higlily important agent in the digestive process: it is thrown out by certain follicles formed by tubular recesses of the free surface into the sub- stance of the mucous membrane. These are very numerous, and are' largest at the pyloric end, where the tubes are divided at their blind ends. The mucus comes from all the general surface of the stomach and the mouths of the folhcles. All around the pyloric orifice (Fig. 86, 3) is placed a thick, strong, and circular muscle, termed, from its oflftce, pylorus. It is about four times the thickness of the muscular coat of the stomach, and presents the appearance of a prominent and even projecting band. Its office is, by the contraction of its fibres, to guard and close the opening from the stomach until the aliment has been duly acted upon by the diger.- tive fluid.