343 FUNCTIONS OF THE SPINAL CORD, On evidence hereafter to be given, it is believed that the incident and reflex fibres, with their central grey matter, form together one great motor system—the system, that is to say, of excited motion ■without consciousness. On similar conclusive evidence it is believed that the sensory fibres which go to the convolutions of the brain, the organ of con- sciousness, are for the conduction of sensation. On evidence alike convincing it is believed that the volitional fibres communicating with the brain are for the conduction of volition—the stimulus essential to the aciion of another great system of motion, to which consciousness is indispensable — the system of voluntary motion. Such are the conclusions to which a careful consideration of the whole of this involved question, in its anatomical, physiological, and pathological aspects, clearly leads. The more the evidence on which these views rest is examined, the more consistent and satisfactory they appear. They give a significance to every part of this wonderful apparatus, and they in some degree enable us to understand its action. CHAPTER XXV. FUNCTIONS OF TPIE SPINAL CORD. Scat of a peculiar nervous force—Proofs—Two-fold action of the excito-motory power —Incident and reflex—Examples—Explains the most complex actions of the body— Tone of the muscular system. The complex structure of the spinal cord and the obvious difiercnce of its organisation from that of the ganglionic and cerebral systems, naturally suggested the inference that it performs some distinct and important office, but it was long before anything was ascertained of the true nature of its action. The researches of modern science, based on exact observation and experiment, have led to the discovery that it is the seat of a peculiar nervous force, governing an extensive and most interesting class of vital phenomena, of which before this dis- covery the physiologist could give no intelligible account. An experiment is an interrogation put to nature, to which if rational in itself, and wisely asked, she will vetmn a distinct and true answer. To some questions thus addressed to her by experimentalists of recent times, she has responded as to friends; and it is on the answers they have received that the real knowledge of the nervous