191 THEORY OF ANIMAL HEAT. the increased capacity for caloric of arterial blood; is spent, not in ren- dering the fluid sensibly warmer, but in augmenting its specific caloric. Arterial blood is not increased in temperature,* but with its absolute quantity of caloric augmented, flows from the lung to the left heart, and thence to the system. In the system, in every organ, at eveiy point of the component tissue of every organ and at every moment of time, the blood repasses firom the arterial to the venous state: by this transition its capacity for heat is dimijiished; the venous cannot retain in it the same quantity of caloric as the arterial blood, consequently a portion of caloric is extricated; that which was latent becomes sensible, and caloric being set free the temperature is raised. In this process the lung is not burnt, it is only rendered just sensibly warmer than any other part of the body, though it be the organ by which the whole mass of blood receives its caloric, because it is only in the capillary part of the systemic circulation, when the arterial blood again passes into the venous state, that the caloric acquired is liberated. In this manner, gently, steadily, uninterruptedly, an abundant, unceasing, and equable current of heat is distributed to every part and particle of the system. Such is the celebrated theory of animal heat suggested by Dr. Cra"\vford, of which it has been justly said, that it afibrds one of the most beautiful specimens of the application of physical and chemical reasoning to the animal economy that has ever been presented to the world. The main position on which this theory rests—that arterial possesses a greater capacity for caloric than venous blood—professes to be founded on experiments which, though of a dehcate and complex nature, are nevertheless uniform and decisive in their results. In consequence of their extreme interest and importance, these expe- riments have been subjected, by different physiologists, to rigid examination, with a somewhat conflicting result. The greater number of experimentalists maintain that Crawford's experiments are correct in all the essential points, and that the objections which have been urged against them do not really afiect them; while others are of opinion that, even although it must, upon the whole, be admitted that the specific heat of arterial is greater than that of venous blood ; yet that the excess is so small as to be inadequate to account for the eflfects attributed to it. I3r. Davy's experunents, which of all that * It is not a perfectly accurate statement that tlie temperature of venous and arterial blood is precisely the same. The latest and best experunents concur in showing that arterial blood, at least in the heart and the great arterial trunks, is one or two degrees warmer than venous blood. The weiglit of evidence from experiment is also in favour of the opinion, that the different parts of the body are somewhat less warm as they recede from the lungs and heart; but the difference is so slight that it may be dis- regarded in the general argument.