100 PIIIT.OSOrilY OF HEALTH. of the chest and the bottom of the neck (Fig. 52, 2). It is attached by one extremity to the sternum and by the other to the scapula, by moveable joints. In the connexion of the bones of the trunk, while the main object is to secure firmness of attachment, some degree of motion is at the same time obtained: but the mode in which the several bones of the extremities are connected with each other and with the trunk, admits of so great a degree of motion, that these articulations are pre-eminently entitled to the name of moveable joints. The component parts of all moveable joints are bone, cartilage, syno- vial membrane, and ligament. The great character of a moveable joint is the approximation of two or more bones; yet these bony sur- faces are never in actual contact, but are invariably separated from each other by cartilage. The cartilage either covers the entire extent of the articulating surface of the bones, as in the shoulder-joint, where both the head of the humerus and the cavity of the scapula that receives it are enveloped in this substance, or a portion of it is placed between the articulating surfaces of the bones, as in the joint between the clavicle and sternum, which, when so placed, is termed an inter- articular cartilage. By its smooth surface cartilage lessens friction ; while, by its elasticity, it facilitates motion and prevents concussion. Slightly organised cartilage is provided with comparatively few blood- vessels and nerves. Had it been vascular and sensiltle, like the skin and tlie muscles, the force applied in the movements of the joint would have stimulated the blood-vessels to inordinate action, and the sensibility of the nerves would have been the source of constant pain : every motion of every joint would have been productive of sufi'ering, and have laid the foundation of disease. The facility and ease of motion obtained by the smoothness, elasticity, and comparative insen- sibility of cartilage are still further promoted by the fluid which lubri- cates it, termed synovia, secreted by a membrane called synovial, which hues the internal surface of the joint, and which bears a close resemblance to the serous. Synovia is a viscid fluid of the con- sistence of albumen. It is to the joint what oil is to the wheel, preventing abrasion and facilitating motion; but it is formed by the joint itself, at the moment when needed, and in the quantity required. The motion of the joints stimulates the synovial membrane to secretion, and hence the greater the degree of motion, the larger the quantity of lubricating fluid that is supplied. The several parts of the apparatus of moveable joints are retained in their proper position by ligamentous substance, which, as has been shown, is oftentimes so strong that it is easier to fracture the bone than to tear the ligament, and in every case the kind and extent of motion possessed by the joint are dependent mainly on the form of the articulatory surfaces of the bones and on the disposition of the ligaments.