282 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. tions in elevated temperatures perspire most profusely. Under such cii-cumstances, caloric is commmiicated to the human body just as freely as to inorganic matter, yet it does not injure the body, because it does not accumulate in the system, but is immediately expended m supplying the heat necessary to convert the water, which is poui'ed out upon the skin, into vapour. In this manner that smiace of the body at which, under ordinary circumstances, a large portion of its animal heat is generated, is the very surface at which, under extraordinary circumstances, cold is generated, and the heat of the system positively reduced. The physical process of evaporation would go on to a certain extent, though the vital fimction of transudation did not exist, and does go on in the dead body when the vital function is at an end. An organic tissue enclosing a liquid may not be porous enough to give passage to a single drop of liquid, and yet sufficiently porous to admit air. In this case the air in contact with the tissue dissolves the liquid in its interior, and carries it off in the form of invisible vapour; hence liquids contained in organic bodies in contact with the air diminish in quantity by evaporation. But if an animal be placed in air saturated with moisture, and of the same temperature as its own, the air can no longer deprive that animal of a single particle of its moisture: evapo- ration from the body, in such a condition of the air, is suppressed. On the other hand, when an animal is placed in air saturated with mois- ture, and of the same temperature as its own, so far is transudation from being suppressed, that the sweat streams from every part of the. external surface of the body. By modifying the condition of the air in regard to its hygrometrical state and its temperature, the result of the physical process and of the vital function may thus be- separated from each other, and the amount of each may be ascertained with perfect exactness. Now, by numerous experiments on the cold- blooded vertebrata, placed mider such conditions of the air, it is found that, in these animals, perspiration by evaporation is to that by transu- dation as 6 to 1. But since the human body presents to the air an immense extent of surface over which is constantly flowing a large proportion of the whole quantity of blood contained in the system, the loss by the physical process compared with that by the vital function must be still greater in man than in the cold-blooded animal. Taking together the average quantity of matter removed from the human body by both processes, or the whole loss of weight sustained from perspiration, on the comparison of the results of many observa- tions, it is estimated to vary from twenty ounces in the twenty-four hours of the colder, to forty ounces in the warmer climates of Europe. Keill estimated it at thirty-one ounces. In the chmate of Palis it is stated to be thirty ounces.