X DEDICATION. Your Lordship cannot but have been struck with the extraordinary indifference recently manifested by tl^e legislature in relation to the l^roposed measure for securing a better registration of bu'ths, marriages, and deaths, an indifference which could not have existed had there been a clear perception of the account which an accurate record of this kind would render of the health, sickness, and mortahty of the com- munity ; and of the uses, public and private, to which sure and certain knowledge of this land is applicable. At this moment, in either House of Parliament, there are very few men capable of perceiving and appreciating the distinction between an infectious and a contagious disease, and much less of detecting the loose statement and the false induction of medical men on this subject: yet it would not be easy to calculate the amount of the evil sustained by the community in consequence of this distinction not having been made by the legislator, in false hopes excited, in delusive expectations cherished, in obstructions to commerce, in the monstrously absm'd yet costly apparatus of quarantine; in a word, in the waste of money and labour in efforts to accomplish what human power cannot efiFect, to the neglect of precautions which might be rendered efficient in averting, arresting, or mitigating pestilential diseases. No one has had more opportunities of witnessing the mischiefs that result from the prevalent ignorance of subjects of this kind among the educated classes than yom- Lordshij); and I believe no one has a stronger conviction of the good that would result from the diffusion of sound knowledge in regard to them. The exposition of them now attempted embraces two objects : first, an account of the physiological and the psychological phenomena ; and secondly, an application of those phenomena to the improvement and preservation of health, the term health being here used in its largest sense, as including a sound and vigorous state of body and mind. I may be allowed to add one consideration tending to show that attention to subjects of this class may be not without benefit to persons in public as well as in private life. The contemplation of the mechanism of our physical and mental frame can scarcely fail to place in a clearer view what the body and mind, considered as instruments, are fitted for, and what it should be the object of institutions to make them. Their beauty and excellence cannot be understood without being considered, can scarcely be considered -without the acquisition of some degree of knoAvledge, and in proportion to the amount of that knowledge will be tho diminution of the chance that they will be wilfully or ignorantly injured. My Lord, your name is inseparably associated with the improvement of the means for the diffusion of knowledge: that it may be as happily associated with the improvement of institutions, is the wish and hope of none more earnestly than of. My Lord, Yom's, Avith respect, South WOOD Smith. 1835.