CHARACTERS DISTINGUISHING ANIMALS FROM PLANTS. 3 Lastly, the existence of organised beings is cyclical. They derive their origin from a parent. They grow from an atom derived from a parent into an independent organism; on reaching rnaturity they produce an atom, often microscopic, similar to that which gave them their own existence, and which in like manner is capable of developing another independent organism; after a time they decline, and at a period fixed within narrow limits they terminate their existence in death. Such are the characters by which organised beings are distinguished. Characters equally distinctive separate the two great kingdoms into which the organised world is divided. It is true that at the extreme lunit of the two kingdoms the distinctness of the boundary line is lost. Natui'O does not make leaps. The transition from the animal to the vegetable kingdom is so gradual, that the true place of some few bodies is uncertain; but in general the distinctions are too clear and broad to admit of any degree of doubt. 1. Plants carry on a series of vital actions, which have for their object two purposes, and only two: fii'st, the maintenance of the indi- vidual, and secondly, the perpetuation of the species. This circle com- prises and completes their life. In an animal two others are added, namely, sensation and voluntary motion. The two first, being common to all organised beings, are called organic; the two latter, being peculiar to animals, are termed animal. These last are also sometimes denominated fimctions of relation, because they put the individual being in relation with the external world; and as the possession of sensation and voluntary motion imj)arts an intenser kind of life, gives an anima- tion in which feeling, and action, the result of feeling, play predominant parts, so the animal kingdom is called animate, in contrast to the vegetable, which is said to be inanimate. A plant has but one life, the organic or vegetative; an animal has two lives, the organic and the animal. 2. In order in the more richly endowed being to combine the two lives in harmonious action, it is necessary to make some essential changes in its constitution. It is necessary to invert the position of its vegeta- tive organs. These are external in a plant, internal in an animal. In a plant all the organs are external; the aerial in the atmosphere, the terrestrial in the earth. But suppose the roots, instead of being thus extended outwards, to be reflected inwards, and therefore contained within the stem and branches, the structure would then resemble that of an animal, where the roots—the absorbents of the food—are all contained in the interior of the body. Upon the inner surface of a portion of animal intestine, soon after a meal has been taken, countless numbers of vessels are seen spread out full of a white fluid. These vessels are to an animal wliat its roots are B 2