177 USES OF RESPIRATION. of the air, respiration by the lung is less active and efficient than in the wnter of the cold climate. During the exposiu'e of the body to this long-continued heat, there is a tendency to the accumulation of carbon m the blood. An actual accumulation is prevented, by an increased activity in the secretion of bile, to which the Hver is stimulated by the heat. In order to obtain the material for the formation of this unusual quantity of bile, it abstracts carbon largely from the blood; to this extent it compensates for the diminished efficiency of the lung, and thus removes through the vena porta3 that superfluous carbon v\^hich would otherwise have been excreted through the pulmonary artery. Taking life in its most extended sense, as comprehending both the circles it includes, the organic and the animal, it may be said to have three great centres, of which two relate to the organic, and the third to the animal life. The two centres which relate to the organic life are the systems of respiration and circulation; the third, which relates to the animal life, is the nervous system. Of the organic life, the lungs and the heart are the primary seats ; of the animal, the brain and the spinal cord. Between each the bond of union is so close, that any lesion of the one influences the other, and neither can exist without the support of all. They form a triple chain, the breaking of a single Hnk of which destroys the whole. But of these three gi'eat centres of life, upon which all the other vital phenomena depend, the most essential is respiration; hence, to consider the relation of this function to the others, is to take the most comprehensive view of the uses which respiration serves in the economy. The fii'st and most important use of the function of respiration is to maintain the action of the organs of the animal life. It has been shown that the organic is subservient to the animal life, and that to build up the apparatus of the latter, and to maintain it in a condition fit for performing its fimctions, is the final end of the former. The direct and the immediate efi'ect of the suspension of respiration is the abolition of both fimctions of the animal hfe—sensation and voluntary motion. If a ligature be placed around the trachea of a living animal so as completely to exclude all access of air to the lungs, and if the carotid arteiy be then opened, and the blood allowed to flow, the bright scarlet-coloured blood contained in the artery is observed gradually to change to a purple hue. The exact point of time at which this change be«-ins may be noted. It is seen to assume a darker tinge at the end of lialf a minute; at the end of one minute its colour is still darker, and at the end of one minute and a half, or at most two minutes, it is no longer possible to distinguish it from venous blood. As soon as this change of colom- begins to be visible the animal becomes uneasy; his agitation increases as the colour deepens ; and when it becomes com- pletely dark, that instant the animal falls down insensible. If in this