PROPER ABSORBENT VESSELS. 2(39 system just as surely as when introduced into the stomach. The poisonous matter of small-pox and of cow-pox placed in almost inap- preciable quantity by the lancet beneath the cuticle produces in a given time its specific action upon the system. When, in certain states of disease, with the view of bringing the system rapidly under the influence of a medicinal agent, the cuticle is removed by a blister, and the exposed surface is moistened with a solution of the substance whose action is required, the constitutional effects are developed with such intensity, that if extreme care be not taken in the employment of any deleterious substance in this mode, the result is fatal in a few minutes. The phenomena which have been stated may suffice to illustrate the absorbing power of the general tissues and surfaces of the body; but superadded to this, there is carried on in particular parts of the system a specific absorption for which a special apparatus is provided. The special apparatus of absorption, commonly termed the proper absorbent system, consists of the lacteal and lymphatic vessels and of the conglobate glands. The lacteals arise only from the intestines; the lymphatics, it is presumed, from every organ, tissue, and surface of the body. Both sets of vessels possess a structure strikingly analo- gous to that of veins, the common agents of absorption. The coats of the lacteals and lymphatics are somewhat thinner and a good deal more transparent than those of veins; yet thin and delicate as they are, they possess considerable strength, for they are capable of bearing, ■without rupture, injections which distend them far beyond their natm-al magnitude. Fig. 98. Human nerve-tubes, magnified 350 times. Three of them are fine, one of which is varicose, one of middling thickness and with a simple contour, and three thick, two of which are double contoured and one with grumous contents. When fully distended, these vessels present a jointed aj^pearance somewhat resembling a string of beads (Fig. 98). Each joint indi- cates the situation of a pair of valves. These valves are of a semi-