360 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. child cannot recover. All but the respiratory muscles have lost their power. These are the last to die ; and the state of these indicates too plainly that actual death approaches. There is a state of the lungs in which the patient is in imminent danger, unmarked by pain or by difficult motion of the chest. There is nothing to be seen, perhaps, but a more hurried respu-ation than natural, a twitching of the muscles of the face, a certain undu- lation of the nostrils, a constrained motion of the lips, a change of voice—a state often occurring after severe accidents, gun-shot wounds, great sm'gical operations, and in an advanced stage of fever, especially where inflammation of the mucous membrane of the lungs has been slowly stealing on. Slight as these symptoms may appear to the inexperienced eye, they indicate a mortal condition of the j^atient. The Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve.—The glosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves, are so intimately connected together, that they are commonly enumerated as branches of one nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal has a double root, one answering to the posterior, the other to the anterior root of a spinal nerve. So the whole trunk of the vagus, as it passes out of the skull, swells into a ganglion, and is immediately joined by a portion of the tenth or accessory nerve; hence some anatomists regard the vagus as itself answering to the posterior, and the accessory to the anterior, root of a spinal nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve communicates fi^eely with branches of the pneumo-gastric, sympathetic, facial, and accessory nerves, separates into two principal divisions, one the glossal, the other the pharyngeal; hence its name. These divisions together supply the pharynx, the arches of the palate, the tonsils, and the tongue. By its sensitive root it probably assists in communicating common sensation to all the parts just enumerated. By its motor root it excites and governs the muscular contractions of the same organs, and is the chief motor power of the pharynx in the act of deglutition. But its chief dis- tinction is that it is a nerve, of special sense. It is the gustatory nerve, or the nerve of taste. This is mdicated by those experiments which render it probable that the sense of taste is seated only in those parts of the tongue and palate which are exclusively supphed by this nerve, as is shown by the experiments of Valentine. It is true that the lingual branch of the fifth nerve is also distributed to the tono-ue and is claimed by some as the gustatory nerve, since paralysis or divi- sion of it IS followed by the loss of taste over those parts of the tongue which it supplies. But this may be fi^om the loss of common sensation, without which special sense could not exist. At all events in Valentine's experiments no sense of taste could be excited in those parts of the tongue which are exclusively supplied by the lin^rual branch of the fifth nerve. In the present state of our knowled-e