313 NERVOUS FORCE—GREY MATTER. matter; the vesicles are subordinate, mainly retentive, and jDrobably foi-mative bodies, secreting, so to say, the granular matter. Functions of Nervous Substance. — Nervous substance is the seat and source of a peculiar force, as distinct from every other as that of attraction or electricity. It is termed nervous force. It is inherent in nervous matter. The minutest particle develops it as completely as the largest mass, only not in so great a degree. It is built up into complex organs in order to accumulate, concentrate, and modify in many important respects, the distribution and action of the force, but the force itself resides in the ultimate organic particles or atoms, altogether beyond the reach of the most powerful microscope. Nervous force is strictly limited to the animal body. No trace of it exists in the vegetable Idngdom. Even in the animal body, nervous force is detinitely limited to the structm-es and actions of the animal Hfe. All the vegetative or organic processes, which the animal 2)erforms in common with the plant, are carried on without any direct influence of the nervous system, the entire apparatus of which is strictly devoted to the communication and maintenance of the two great endowments which are superadded to the animal—sensation and motion. This, among many other proofs, is indicated by the anato- mical fact, that on arriving at the real agent of an organic process, even in the animal body—as the air-cells, the hepatic cells, and so on—no nerve-fibres are to be found: they stop short at the point where the muscular part ends, as is seen in the bronchi, the hepatic ducts, &c. All nervous force is generated in nervous centres, which are, therefore, called dynamic: these are the ganglia, the spinal cord, the medulla oblongata, and the brain. Of the two forms of substance that compose the nervous centres the grey matter is the dynamic part. The following considerations afford conclusive evidence of this :— 1. Grey matter is found in all active centres in proportion to the range and energy of their action. 2. It is on grey matter exclusively that impressions are received, whether when the mind acts upon the brain, as in volition, or whether when physical stimuli act on the peripheral expansions of the nerves of sense, in the communication of impressions to the mind, as when light falls on the retina, and the pulsations of air excite the organ of hearing. 3. Grey matter, in the animal series, is added or subtracted accord- ing to the presence or absence of an active organ of sensation or motion. The evidence from comparative anatomy in proof of this is decisive. In the oyster, for example, there is no foot, and no pedal ganglion;