338 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. When its envelopes arc removed, and the cord is fully brought into view, it is seen to be nearly circular in form, though somewhat flat- tened. It is a compressed cylinder. It is not of the same size throughout its course. It increases in bulk at the parts where it is in connection with its principal nerves. Thus, an enlargement takes place at the lower part of the neck, where the nerves of the upper extremities are given off. In the dorsal region it diminishes in size, because there it gives off only the nerves of the trunk ; while at the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions it is larger than at any other part, because there it sends off the great nerves that supply the lower extremities. It does not extend the whole length of the canal, but ends as a cord at the second lumbar vertebra. At this point it divides into a number of large and comparatively coarse bundles (Fig. 82) which, from their resemblance to a horse's tail, have received the name of Cauda Equina. The reason of its stopping and dividing at this point will be readily understood from what has been already stated. We have seen that at the lumbar vertebra3 it is close to the region where all the great con- cussions take place. It does not actually descend into this region, but stops short several inches above it, where it divides into separate bundles, in order that the jars which do reach it may be received at many points instead of one, and that the several bimdles formed by its division may each be individually surrounded by the protective fluid just described; the fluid itself being here also in greater abund- ance than in any other part of the canal. The cord is composed of two symmetrical halves, placed with regard to the median plane laterally to each other (Fig. 104). It has thus two exactly corresponding portions. It is a double organ. Each half is a complete nervous centre, evidenced by the fact that if, in a living animal, the cord be divided longitudinally on the median line, each half carries on its respective functions. The two halves are separated by two fissm-es, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior sm-foce (Fig. 104), termed, therefore, the anterior and posterior median fissures. A commissure reunites the two halves, consisting of a band of white fibres that runs horizon- tally across the cord from one side to the other, thus connecting the corresponding halves together. Each half of the cord, on both its aspects, is divided into four columns, the anterior lateral posterior and posterior median (Fi"- 105) On a mere external inspection, the cord appears to be composed entirely of white fibrous neurine; but on making a transverse section of it a large quantity of grey substance is found occupying its centre (Figs. 104, 105), and extending through its entire course, from the foramen magnum to the commencement of the cauda equma.