364 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. secure the free return of the blood from the brain by the veins, which do not accompany the arteries, like the other veins of the body, but are widely dispersed, and are ultimately collected into the large tortuous canals already described under the name of sinuses. 2. The ArtACHNOiD Membrane.—The arachnoid of the brain, like that of the cord, is everywhere in contact with the pia mater, in some parts closely, but in others, especially at the base of the brain, very loosely. It is spread uniformly over the surface of the brain, covering all its fissures and convolutions, but not penetrating between them. Upon the roots of all the nerves that go off from the base of the brain, the arachnoid forms pouches precisely similar to those on the roots of the spinal nerves, and is thence reflected on to the dura mater, which it closelv lines throuf'hout its whole extent. The mechanism and its object are the same in both. It has been shown that as there is no division between the spinal and cranial cavities, the cerebro-spinal fluid passes freely from the one into the other. Its quantity varies much in different parts of the head, but it is most abundant around the medulla oblongata, the centre of life, because the seat of respiration. This vital organ is therefore completely surrounded by this protective fluid, precisely as the cord is suspended in it in its canal. Its action on the brain is the same as on the cord. When, from any cause which retards the free retm-n of blood from the head, an accumulation takes place, the cerebro-sjiinal fluid retreats into the arachnoid space of the cord; and when an accumulation occurs both in the head and spine, relief is afibrded by the recession of the fluid uito the multitudinous pouches already described around the nerves both of the cranium and spine. 3. Dura Mater.—The external covering of the brain is one of the densest, thickest, and strongest membranes of the body. It com- pletely envelops the surface of the brain with all its appendages. It adheres to the mner surface of the cranium as the periosteum does to the bones of the other parts of the body, and being itself lined by the arachnoid is internally everywhere smooth and polished. It gives off a number of dense strong processes which enter between the main divisions of the brain; as 1. The Falx, so called because it bears some resemblance in shape to the Greek sickle or scythe. It extends from before back- wards, between the two hemispheres of the brain, and steadies these principal cerebral masses, and prevents them from pressing on each other. 2. The Tentorium, is continued laterally from the falx, and forms a roof or vault over the cerebellum. 3. The Falx Minor, is placed between the lobes of the cerebellum and performs for the latter organ the same office as the falx does for the cerebrum.