PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 880 Thus, if the skin be irritated, the limbs move, and a cry may even be uttered; but all the movements which persist after removal of the brain, when carefully observed and rightly interi^reted, are found to be either simple convulsive or locomotive movements, the latter varying according to the class of the animal. In a frog, for example, by punctm-e of the skui of the cloaca, after decapitation, the precise motions of leaping and swimming are induced as in living legs. In a rabbit under similar conditions, all the complex motions of the toes, feet, legs, and thighs, required in progression, are excited. In these experiments, the animal may even utter cries which it is difficult to beheve can be unconnected with sensation. Yet it is certain that they are so; for extended observation and research clearly show that in this case the cry, like that of the new-born infant, is in reality a mere physical phenomenon, the mechanical result of expiration. These curious results, simulating so closely those of consciousness, naturally led physiologists to infer that, even when the brain is I'e- moved, sensibility remains. As long as motion was regarded as the indubitable and invariable sign of sensation, it was imjDossible to arrive at any other conclusion. But we now know that there is no such certain connection. We have in our own bodies unquestionable proof to the contrary—every time we swallow, every time we breathe, every time the heart expands to receive and contracts to force outwards a current of blood. We know that in the performance of these opera- tions the most complicated motions of the animal frame are brought into play, and carried on with promptitude and exactness, and that of all these actions we are unconscious. We know, also, that they are carried on with equal regularity and constancy during sleep. And we see, further, that in a paralysed limb the gentlest touch throws it into convulsive motions, without the perception on the part of the indivi- dual that any such motion is excited. In this case we are certain that the loss of sensation is confined to the paralysed limb, since feeling is admitted to be perfect in all other parts of the body. If, then, in such a person motion can be excited unaccompanied by sensation, can the motions of themselves prove the existence of sensation in a state in which, but for these very motions, the conclusion Avould be inevitable that the loss of sensation is total ? In the state of coma it is admitted that sensation is totally abo- lished, yet in this state the irritation of certain nervous surfaces is capable of exciting not merely a complicated series of muscular actions, but those very actions which are regularly performed by the same parts of the body when consciousness is unimpaired. It is proved by dissection that all parts of the external surface of the frame are provided with two orders of nervous filaments anato- mically distuict from each other, and that a similar arran'^ement