352 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. which they pass, and hence there are reckoned seven cervical, twelve dorsal, five lumbar, and five sacral; but these make only twenty-nine pairs; two more are added for reasons immediately to be stated. Functions of Spinal Nerves.—Every spinal nerve containing both roots is a compound nerve, and has a double function. The posterior root is for one office, and the anterior for another. The distinct function of each is now clearly ascertained, and this is one of the most important facts in physiology. It is proved, by indu- bitable evidence, that the posterior root is for the communication of sensation, and the anterior for the communication of motion. This is demonstrated—1. By the effects of disease. In paralysis one of the functions of a spinal nerve is sometimes lost, while the other is pre- served ; sensation is destroyed while the power of motion remains un- diminished ; even an entire limb may be motionless while its feeling continues perfect. 2. By direct experiment. On irritating the pos- terior roots in a living animal, no motion is produced, but the animal gives unequivocal indications of feeling pain. On the other hand, if the anterior roots are irritated, no sign of feeling is usually excited, but every touch is followed by a muscular motion as distinct as that produced by striking the keys of a piano. Occasionally, indeed, some degi-ee of feehng is elicited, Avhich is explained by filaments from the posterior enteiing into the anterior root. Fui-ther, when the whole of the anterior roots going to a limb, the leg for example, are divided, the animal loses all power over the leg, which retains its sensibility imdiminished; but when, on the contrary, the posterior roots are divided, the power of motion continues, but the sensibility is lost. These observations and experiments place beyond all doubt the fact that the nerves of sensation and of motion are distinct from each other, and that the anterior roots are the source of motion and the posterior of sensation. It is impossible to attain evidence thus positive of the functions of the roots after they penetrate the surface of the cord, because there are no known means of isolating the ascending filaments, which go to the brain, from the transverse filaments, which are lost in its interior grey matter, but the reasons have been stated which render it highly probable that the ascending fibres are for volition, and the transverse for reflex action. Cerebral Nerves.—The cerebral nerves, as their name imports, take their origin from the brain. They are commonly said to be ten in number, and they are enumerated in the order in which they proceed from the brain. 1. The first pair, the olfactory, arise from the striated bodies (Fig. 107, i), and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose, there forming the organ of smell.