IMIILUSOPHY OF HEALTH. IIG with the tarsal bones. Their bodies are arched upwards, sHghtly concave below, and terminate forwards in small, neat, round heads, w^iich receive the first bones of the toes, and witli which they form joints, admitting; of a much greater degree of rotation than is ever exercised in civilized life, in consequence of the practice of wearing shoes. The natural, free, wide-spreading form of the toes, and the consequent security with which they grasp the ground, is greatly impaired by this custom. Each toe consists of three distinct bones, called, like those of the fingers, phalanges (Fig. 31), but the great toe, like the thumb, has only two. Tliat extremity of the first phalanges, which is next the metatarsal bones, is hollowed into a socket for the head of the metatarsal bones. Besides the bones already described, there are other small bones, of the size and figure of flattened peas, found in certain parts of the ex- tremities, never in the trunk, called sesamoid, from their resemblance to the seed of the sesamum. They belong rather to the tendons of the muscl6s than to the bones of the skeleton. They are em- bedded within the substance of tendons, are found especially at the roots of the thumb and of the great toe, and are always placed in the dnection of flexion. Their ofiice, like that of the patella, which is, in truth, a bone of this class, is to increase the power of the flexor muscles by altering the line of their direction, that is, by removing them farther from the axis of the bone on which they are intended to act. The ligaments which connect the bones of the lower extremities are the firmest and strongest in the body. Of these, the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint (Fig. 62), which secures the head of the femur in the cavity of the acetabulum, is the thickest and strongest. It completely surrounds the joint. It arises from the Avliole cu'cumference of the acetabulum, and, proceeding in a direction outwards and backwards, is attached below the neck of the femur (Fig. 62). It is thicker, stronger, and much more closely attached to the bones than the fibrous capsule of the shoulder-joint, because the hip-joint is formed, not like the shoulder-joint, for extent of motion, but for strength. Its internal surface is lined by synovial membrane, and its external surface is covered and strengthened by the insertion of muscles that move the thigh-bone. The joint is strengthened by another Hgament, which passes from the inner and fore part of the cavity of the acetabulum (Fig. 62, Ligam. Teres), to be inserted into the head of the femur, called the round ligament, the ofiice of w4iich obviously is to hold the head of the femiu" firmly in its socket. Numerous and complicated hgaments connect the bones that form the knee-jomt (Fig. 65), and the strength of these powerful bands is greatly increased by the tendons that move the leg (Fig. 65, 5), which pass over, and more or less suiToimd, the joint.