EXCRETORY FUNCTIOX OF THE KIDNEYS. 201 albumen, lactate of ammonia, sulphate of potash, sulphate of soda, tluato of lime, muriate of soda, phosphate of soda, pliosphate of am- monia, sulphur, and silex. This catalogue itseh' suggests the idea that when any matter em- ployed in carrying on the functions is in excess, or when it has become decayed, or is decomposed and is not eliminated by any other excretory process, it is taken up by the absorbents, poured into the veins, and so conveyed in the course of the circulation to the kidneys, by which organs it is separated from the blood, and thence by an appropriate apparatus carried out of the system. The specific matter secreted by the kidneys is that tenned urea. Organs appropriated to the removal of substances from the blood, capable of becoming deleterious by their accumulation, generally, in a state of health, perform their office so perfectly that the matters which it is their part to excrete are eliminated almost as quickly as they enter the blood, so that they are seldom present in the circulating fluid in sufficient quantity to be detected by the most delicate chemical tests. But by the removal of the excretory organ, or by the suppres- sion of its function, the excretory matter accumulates in the blood, and is then readily detected. A decisive experiment disclosed that this is the case with regard to urea. The kidneys were removed from a living animal. The operation did not appear to be productive of material injury for some time; but at length symptoms denoting the presence of a poison in the blood arose, and the animal died. The blood was carefully examined after death. It was found to contain a much larger quantity than ordinary of m-ea. It is probable that the chief office of the kidney is to separate the urea from the other ingre- dients of the blood, and to convey it to the organs which are destined to cany it out of the body. It is estimated that about a thousand ounces of blood pass through the kidneys in the space of an hour; itself a sufficient indication of the importance of the excretion performed by this organ, and an ade- quate source of the matter actually excreted, although, under ordinary circumstances, distributed through the circulating mass in quantities so minute as to be almost inappreciable. Out of the body urea putrefies with great rapidity. AVhen retained in the system by the extirpation of the kidney, or by placing a ligature around the ureter, such is the septic tendency communicated to the blood that signs of putrescency become manifest even during life, and after death all the soft parts of the body are reduced to a state of iratrefaction with extreme rapidity. The suppression of the secretion in the human body, or the undue retention of the matter secreted, induces fever of a maUgnant kind, in which the symptoms that denote a highly putrid taint in the system are rnpidly developed. But for the IT 2