32 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. the social union, the maximum of the aggregate of happiness; THE MAXIMUM OF THE AGGREGATE OF HAPPINESS SOUGHT BY THE PROMOTION OF THE MAXIMUM OF INDIVIDUAL HAPPINESS ! CHAPTER IV. Compound nature of natural bodies—Inorganic and organic elements—Essential and incidental organic elements—Organic constituents—Peculiarity and complexity of combination proper to organic elements—Proximate principles: vegetable and animal—Non-nitrogemsod and nitrogenised—Albumen, fibrin, casein, protein— Isomeric substances. Matter, as far as is known to man, is either solid, liquid, or gaseous. In one or other of these forms it makes up the earth, the sea, the air, and all they contain. But few substances as they exist in nature con- sist of one kind of matter only. They are nearly all composed of different materials, variously aggregated together, and more or less intimately combined; and the object of science is to separate these compounds into their component parts, to ascertain the properties peculiar to each constituent, and to discover the laws which govern their combination and mutual action. Modern chemistry has accomjjHshed these objects with a high degree of success. It has subjected almost every accessible substance to experiment, and the general result of its analyses is to show, what has just been stated, that nearly all natural bodies, however simple they may appear, are really made up of more than one substance. A mass of marble, for example, judging from its external ap- pearance, would hardly be supposed to consist of more than one description of matter. It is really composed of three. By the appli- cation of heat, a piece of marble is first of all broken up into two substances, one a solid, quick lime; and the other a gas, carbonic acid gas. On further analysing the quick lime, that also is found to be composed of two bodies, namely, a metal, calcium, and a gas, oxygen ; while the carbonic (xcid, in its turn, consists of two bodies, carbon and oxygen. Marble is thus proved to be a compound of calcium, carbon, and oxygen. But on subjecting the latter bodies to experiment it is found that tL.. analysis can go no fui'ther ; they cannot be resolved into any simpler form of matter; they are therefore called elements, and they must be so regarded until future discoveries show that some other substance not yet known enters into their composition. About sixty-two of such bodies have been obtained, of which a list