EXCRETION IN THE ANIMAL. 279 six organs take a part, and are chiefly appropriated to this function— namely, the skin, the lungs, the liver, the adipose tissue, the kidneys, and the intestinal canal. All these organs serve other purposes in the economy; but still the removal, in some specific foiin, of excremen- titious matter fi'om the system, is a most important part of the office of each. The skin, to which are assigned numerous and highly important offices, seems to be specially constructed for performing the function of excretion. It is composed of three layers, of which the internal is called the cutis, or true skin; the external the cuticle, or scarf skin; and the middle, by which the other two are united, the rete mucosum. The latter is indistinct, excepting in the negro, in whom it is the seat of colour. The cutis, or true skin, is a dense membrane, composed of firm and strong fibres, interwoven like a felt. Its internal surface is marked by numerous depressions, which receive processes of the adipose tissue beneath. Under its external surface, which the microscope shows to be bounded by a thin, pellucid, structureless membrane, is spread a delicate and complex network of vessels, termed the vascular plexus, of such extent and capacity that, in the natural state of the circulation, a very large proportion of the whole blood of the body is constantly flowing in these blood-vessels of the cutis. A prodigious number of nerves accompany the cutaneous blood-vessels, some derived from the organic, and others from the sentient portion of the nervous system. The organic nerves endow the arteries with the power of performing the organic processes proper to the cutis, which are principally of an excrementitious nature. The sentient nerves communicate to every point of the external surface of the cutis the exquisite degree of sen- sibility j30ssessed by the skin. Innumerable absorbent vessels ter- minate at the same points, with the capillary arteries and the sentient nerves. The extreme smoothness and softness natural to the skin is commu- nicated to it by a number of follicles which are placed in the cutis, and are termed sebaceous, from the oily substance they secrete. It is the matter secreted by these organs which communicates to the animal body the odour peculiar to it, on which the scent depends. In many parts the cutis is perforated obliquely by hairs, which spring from little bulbs beneath it, to which the growth of the hairs is confined. The human hair consists of fine tubes filled with an oily matter. This matter is either of a black, red, yellow, or pale colour, as the hair is black, red, yellow, or white. The nails are products formed by the cutis, and are essentially the same as the cuticle. By long-continued boihng the cutis is resolvable into gelatin, which