12 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. completely extinguish the animal life, and yet the organic may go on for hours, days, and even weeks; while catalepsy, one of the most singular diseases to which the human frame is subject, may wholly abolish sensation and volition, while it may impart to the voluntary muscles the power of contracting with such unnatural energy and con- tinuity, that the head, the trunk, the limbs may become unmoveably fixed in whatever attitude they happen to be at the moment the paroxysm comes on. In this extraordinary condition of the nervous system, however long the paroxysm last, and however complete the abohtion of consciousness, the heart continues to beat, and the pulse to throb, and the lungs to respu^e, and all the organic organs to perform their ordinary functions. Dr. Jebb gives the following description of the condition of a young lady who was the subject of this curious malady. " My patient was seized with an attack just as I was announced. At that moment she was employed in netting ; she was in the act of passing the needle through the mesh; in that position she became immoveably rigid, exhibiting, in a pleasing form, a figure of death-like sleep, beyond the power of art to imitate, or the imagination to conceive. Her forehead was serene, her features perfectly composed. The paleness of her colom-, and her breathing, which at a distance was scarcely per- ceptible, operated in rendering the similitude to marble more exact and striking. The position of her fingers, hands, and arms was altered with difficulty, but preserved every form of flexure they acquired: nor were the muscles of the neck exempted from this law, her head main- taining every situation in which the hand could place it, as firmly as her limbs." In this condition of the system the senses were in a state of profound sleep; the voluntary muscles, on the contrary, were in a state of violent action; but this action not being excited by volition, nor under its control, the patient remained as motionless as she was insensible. The brain was in a state of temporary death; the muscle in a state of intense life. And the converse may happen: the muscle may die, while the brain fives; contractility may be destroyed, while sensibility is perfect; the power of motion may be lost, while that of sensation may remaui unafiected. A case is on record, which affords an illustra- tion of this condition of the system. A woman had been for some time confined to her bed, labouring under severe indisposition. On a sudden she was deprived of the power of moving a single muscle of the body ; she attempted to speak, but she had no power to articulate; she endeavoured to stretch out her hand, but her muscles refused to obey the commands of her will, yet her consciousness was perfect, and she retained the complete possession of her intellectual faculties. She perceived that her attendants thought her dead, and was conscious of the performance upon her own person of the services usually paid