PHILOSOrilY OF HEALTH. 248 especially the arterial trunks and their larger branches. From these plexuses nervous filaments spring in countless numbers, which are spread out upon the walls of the arteries, just as the arteries are spread out upon the walls of the secreting canals. The nerves never quit the arteries; are never spent upon the membranous matter which forms the basis of the secreting organ, but are lost upon the walls of the capillary arteries. The nerves uniformly increase in number and size as the arteries diminish in magnitude and as their capillary termi- nations become thinner and thinner. When the secreting apparatus consists of simply extended mem- brane, a close net-work of capillary arteries with their accompanying nerves is spread out over the whole extent of the secreting surface. This simjjle arrangement is sufficient to separate from the blood the simj)le secretion in this case required. When the secreting apparatus consists of simple follicles, cseca, or tubuli, a similar net-work of capillary arteries and nerves is spread out on the sides of this more extended surface. The more elaborate secretion now formed is received into the interior of these organs, where it remains for some time, and whence it is ultimately conveyed as it is needed by the actions of the system. But when the secreting apparatus consists of aggregates of follicles, caeca, and tubuli, with their net-works of arteries and nerves, a much more complex structiu'e is built up, which is destined to perform a proportionably elaborate function. An aggregation of these secreting bodies into a large mass, enveloped in a common membrane, so as to form a distinct body of a solid consistence, constitutes the organ termed a gland. Simply extended membrane, with its apparatus of arteries and nerves, does not constitute a gland. Simple follicles, caeca, and tubuli, with then- larger apparatus of arteries and nerves, do not constitute a gland. The first is simply secreting surface; the second are simply secreting cryptae, folHcles, ca^ca or tubuli; but when these bodies are aggregated into dense and solid masses with an extended system of excretory ducts, and when the whole of this apparatus is enclosed in a proper membrane so as to form a distinct body, such a body is termed a gland. Thus membrane having a specific arrangement of blood-vessels and nerves, from bemg simply extended, is folded into a few elementary forms; the bodies which result constitute simple secreting organs; these bodies collected together form, by their aggregation, compound organs; the compound organs, uniting, form aggregates still more compound, until at length a structiu'e is built up highly elaborate and complex. But this complexity of combination and arrangement does not alter the constitution of the organs; their form varies, but their natm-6 remains essentially the same. All consist alike of membrane