47 AREOLAR TISSUE-OLEINE; MARGARTN. tissue; it was fornievly known mider the name of cellular tissue, but that title is now more properly employed to denote tissues composed of cells. The areolar tissue is composed of little fibres and plates of membrane, bedewed with a him of moisture, and so connected with each other as to form a loose slim web, with its adjoining meshes opening into each other, so that fluids can pass freely through it. This tissue is con- tinuous in all parts of the body; and thus when air escapes from the lungs through some accident, and gets into the areolar substance, it may spread through the trunk and limbs, causing the whole body to be pulfed up; or in dropsy, where watery liquid gathers in the areolar tissue, it sinks downwards by its weight from all parts of the body to the feet and legs, or gravitates to the back in the reclining position. This tissue forms the medium of union among the organs of the body, being placed between them when moderately free mobility is required, and when too great friction does not exist; it grows plenti- fully round the great blood-vessels in their course, and fills in the interstices and corners about the bones and ligaments; it is found, in a very delicate shape, between the great muscles of the body and limbs; it forms the bed, where oily matters are lodged in the substance commonly called fat or adipose tissue, and thus forms a sheath beneath the skin over the whole body. Not only is it thus placed about and between the organs, but it commonly, in a more or less perfectly developed form, enters into their structure, still for the same purpose, to hold together and unite their component parts, and blend them into their proper consistence and shape. Its functions in the organism are of low order, being only of a mechanical nature. This form of tissue is in all parts of the body directly continuous with the hard fibrous sheaths or coverings known as fasciae or aponeurosis, and the fascias are generally indefinitely continuous with tendons. The areolar tissue may be regarded as loose aponeurosis, and aponeurosis as dense areolar tissue, in all but the arrangement of the fibrils; for in the aponeurosis the httle fibrils are connected to form long fibres, which arc interwoven, crossing each other so as to compose a thinner or thicker sheet; whilst such fibrils as in the areolar tissue are disposed irregularly, and in aponeurosis in a woven-like manner, form tendons when placed in a parallel manner in bundles. Fat, as it is popularly termed, consists of areolar tissue in whose meshes are lodged clusters of very minute oval vesicles (Fig. 12), fed by blood-vessels which are spread about over and between them. These vesicles are full of a particular kind of oily matter, Avhich is a mixtui-e of a fluid oil called oleine, from being plentiful in the oil of the olive, -and a solid fat substance, called margarin, from the pearly appearance it presents when pure. These substances are mingled in such proportions as to produce,