57 LIQUOR SANGUINIS-SEUUM-liEU PAltTICLES. from excessive muscular exertion, as in hares after coursing, and in death from lightning. The constituents of the blood obtained from its spontaneous coagu- lation are, then, serum, fibrin, and red and colourless particles. But the blood, as it circulates in the linng body, is a still more complex fluid, and consists of— Liquor sanguinis. Serum. Albumen. Fibrin. lied and colourless particles. Oily, fatty, and extractive matters, and saline substances. Liquor sanguinis.—This, as already stated, is the fluid paii of the circulating blood before coagulation has taken place. It holds in sus- pension the solid particles which float freely in it. In the process of coagulation the fibrin, which is dissolved in the liquor sanguinis, separates and becomes solid, the remaining fluid is then called— Serum.—The fluid which oozes from the clot during coagulation. When poured from the clot, and obtained j)erfectly pure, it is of a light stone colour, tinged with green; its taste is saline; its con- sistence adhesive, from its holding animal and saline matter in so- lution ; and its specific gravity varies from 1025 to 1030. At a tem- perature of 1G0° it parts with albumen, which is thrown down as a white, opaque, solid and firm substance ; and this is also obtained by the application of spirits of wine, acids, particularly the nitric, bi- chloride of mercury, and other chemical agents. It varies from 60 to 70 parts in the lOOO of the blood. It is derived immediately from the food; fresh sup- Fig. 22. plies of it fi'om this source being constantly poured into the blood. It is of the highest importance in the li\dng system, as intro- ducing into it the consolidating material of bones, by its power of uniting with phos- phate of lime. Bed liarticles (Fig. 22. a, h).—These are true cells, and possess essential cellular struc- Human bioo.i-giobuies; a, seen ture. They are not properly globular, but V'*" . / .•' " . , , the side; c, united in rou- rounded flattened discs, havmg circular and leaux; d, rendered sphcii- very slightly-thickened margins; the thick- cai by water; (?, decolour- V " o J _ 1 ,1 o ii '=^6^ tiy t''*' same;/, blood- ness of the margin giving to both suriaces the . globules shrunk by evapo- appearance of a slight depression in the middle, so that the particles bear a close resemblance to a penny piece. They are biconcave discs. They are composed of a delicate, pellucid, mem- branous cell wall, which enclo;>es the contents of tlie cells. They