112 PiriLOSOrHY OF HEALTH. consists of a body or shaft, and of two extremities. The" body is composed principally of compact substance, whicli, on the external surface, is so dense and solid, that scarcely any distmct arrangement is visible; but towards the interior this density diminishes; the fibres become distinct, and form an expanded tissue of a cellular ap- pearance, the cells being called cancelli, and the structure cancellated. In the centre of the bone even the cancelli disappear, and a hollow space is left, filled up by the marrow. In the body of the bone, to which strength is requisite, that part being the most exposed to external violence, the compact matter is arranged around a central ca^ity. By this means strength is secured without any addition of weight; for the resisting power of a cylindrical body increases in ]Dro- portion to its diameter; consequently the same number of osseous fibres placed around the circumference of a circle produce a stronger bone than could have been constructed had the fibres been consolidated in the centre, and had the diameter been proportionally diminished. The hollow space thus gained in its centre renders the bone lighter, while its strength is not only not diminished by this arrangement, but posi- tively increased. On the other hand, at the extremities of the bone, space, not strength, is required; required for the attacliment and arrangement of the tendons of the muscles that act upon it, and for the formation of joints. Accordingly, at its extremities the bone swells out into bulky surfaces; but these sm-faces are composed, not of dense and solid substance, but of spongy tissue, of whose fibres those which are in the du-ection of greater pressure are always stronger than the rest, as instanced in the diagram (Fig. 63) ; covered by an exceed- ingly thin crust of compact matter, and so, as by the former expedient strength is secured without increase of weight, by this, space is obtained without increase of weight. The thigh-bone, placed at the under and outer part of the pelvis, has an oblique direction, the mider being considerably nearer its fellow than the upper end (Fig. 31), in order to afford space for the passages at the bottom of the pelvis, and also to favour the action of walkino- The body of the bone, which is of a rounded form, is smooth on its anterior surfiice, where it is always slightly convex, the convexity being forwards, while its posterior sm-face is irregular and rough, and forms a sharp promment line, termed the Imea aspera, givmg attachment to numerous muscles. The superior extremity of the femur terminates in a large ball or head, which forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere (Fig. 62). It is smooth, covered with cartilage, and received into the socket of the ilium called the acetabulum, which, deep as it is, is still further deepened by the cartilage which borders the brim (Fig. 62). The brim is particu- larly high in the upper and outer part, because it is in this direction