13 PROGRESS OF DEATH. to the dead; she was laid out, her toes were bound together, her chin was tied up ; she heard the arrangements for her funeral discussed, and yet she was unable to make the slightest sign that she was still in the possession of sense, feelmg, and life. In one form of disease, then, the animal life, both the sensitive and the motive portions of it, may perish; and in another, either part of it may be suspended, while the organic life continues in full operation : it follows that the two lives, blended as they are, are distinct, since the one is capable of perishing without involving the destruction of the other. 7. And, finally, as the organic life is the first born, so it is the last to die; while the animal life, as it is the latest born, and the last to attain its full development, so it is the earliest to decline and the first to perish. In the process of natural death, the extinction of the animal is always anterior to that of the organic life. Keal death is a later, and sometimes a much later event than apparent death. An animal appears to be dead when, together with the abolition of sensa- tion and the loss of voluntary motion, respiration, circulation, and the rest of the organic functions can no longer be distinguished ; but these functions go on some time after they have ceased to afibrd external in- dications of their action. In man, and the warm-blooded animals in general, suspension or submersion extinguishes the animal hfe, at the latest, within the space of four minutes from the time that the atmo- spheric air is comj^letely excluded from the lungs ; but did the organic functions also cease at the same period, it would be impossible to restore an animal to life after apparent death from drowning and the hke. But however complete and protracted the abolition of the animal functions, reanimation is always possible as long as the organic organs are capable of being restored to their usual vigour. The ces- sation of the animal life is but the first stage of death, from which recovery is possible ; death is complete only when the organic together with the animal functions have wholly ceased, and are incapable of being re-established. In man, the process of death is seldom altogether natural. It is generally rendered premature by the operation of circumstances which destroy life otherwise than by that progressive and slow decay which is the inevitable result of the action of organized structure. Death, when natural, is the last event of an extended series, of which the first that is appreciable is a change in the animal life and in the noblest portion of that life. The higher faculties fail in the reverse order of theii' development; the retrogression is the inverse of the progression, and the noblest creature, in returning to the state of non- existence, retraces step by step each successive stage by which it reached the summit of life.