CORPORA ALBICANTIA—THALAMT—STRIATED BODIES. 383 as long as they remain entire, the power of the iris to contract con- tinues, though the cerebral lobes be destroyed. The removal of one of these bodies produces loss of sight in the opposite eye, proving that the fibres have decussated: the removal of both bodies causes total blindness, not because they have any direct influence on vision, but because they are conductors of impressions to the seat of perception, and by their removal communication with the brain is cut off. Irrita- tion or injury of these bodies produces convulsions, proving that they form a part of the spinal cord, and that convulsions are produced in them in the same manner as when the cord is irritated. 4. CoRPOiiA Albicantia. — Probably belong to the apparatus of union. They are formed by the Fornix, the great longitudinal com- missure of the brain, and then- fibres ascend to the Thalami. 5. Thalami.—It seems, on the whole, that the balance of the evi- dence derived from development, comparative anatomy, and experiment, is in favour of the view that the striated bodies and thalami are cerebral jDarts. Thus, the true cerebrum, with the striated bodies and thalami, are developed out of the primordial cephalic vesicle. Comparative anatomy shows that the great transverse fissure passing between the thalami and the optic tubercles marks the division between the true cerebral and the true spinal parts, Flourens found that up to the optic tubercles, inclusive, mechanical h-ritation caused convulsions, whilst none followed irritation of the thalami, striated bodies, and cerebral hemispheres. He regards the optic tubercles, therefore, as definitely limiting, on the one hand the cerebral, and on the other the spinal system. The special action of the thalami has been very imperfectly deter- mined. Some regard them as the actual seat of sensation, the precise part of the nervous system in which sentient impressions are perceived. But both their position and structure indicate that they are subordinate to sensation, not the seat of it; that they are conductors carrying on sentient impressions to the cerebral hemispheres. As they contain in their interior a large quantity of grey matter, they must conduce in some way to the energy and perfection of nervous action. C, Striated Bodies.—The great motor tracts ascending from the crura cerebri in their course to the brain proceed, as has been shown, through these bodies, and receive from them large accessions of fibres. They, therefore, constitute an essential part of the medium of conduc- tion of motor power, and they probably increase its energy. Other functions have also been attributed to both the thalami and striated bodies. Among other conjectures, it is thought by some that these grey masses generate or give origin to new fibres, which are added to those of the crura, and which proceed with the latter to the cerebral convolutions. This was the original view of Gall and Spurzheim, and it is not an improbable one.