254 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. from itself, by a process hardly more complex than mere transudation through a living membrane. In the higher animals the different secreting organs may be considered, in part at least, as mechanical contrivances adapted to carry on analogous transudations—fine sieves or strainers diversly constructed. A fluid containing such hetero- geneous matters as the blood, held in combination by so slight an afiinity, slowly transuding through series of tubes, the mechanical arrangement of which is so varied, must yield a different substance in every different case. Thus by simply filtering the blood a vast variety of j)roducts may be obtained, merely in consequence of a varied disposition of the minute tubes of which the filters are composed. 2. But in the second place, this diversity of mechanical arrange- ment is calculated in a high degree to promote and to modify chemical action. The contact or proximity of the particles of bodies, the extent of surface which those particles present to each other, the space of time in which they continue in contact, the degree of force with which they imijinge against each other, the degree of temperatm'e to which they are exposed,—these, and circumstances such as these, are con- ditions which exert the most powerful influence over chemical decom- position and recombination. In the different secreting organs, as has been shown, the blood must necessarily pass through vessels having every conceivable diversity of diameter: in those vessels it must consequently flow with corresponding differences of velocity. Some of these diameters will admit one constituent of the blood, as one of the red particles; others may be large enough to admit two or more of the red particles abreast; in some vessels these different constituents will be in one degree of proximity, in others in another; in some they will remain long in contact, in others only for an instant: it is obvious that from such different conditions the chemi- cal products may bo iufinitely varied. Such is the composition of chemical bodies, that a great diversity of substance is obtainable merely by changing one condition, the propor- tions in which the elementary particles combine. Oxygen and nitrogen combined in one proportion form atmospheric air; in another proportion, nitrous oxide; in another, nitric oxide; in a fourth, nitrous acid; and in a fifth, nitric acid. Few secretions formed from the blood differ more widely from each other than the products thus formed from these two elementary bodies. Urea consists of two prime equivalents of hydrogen, one of carbon, one of oxygen, and one of nitrogen. Eemove one of the atoms of hydrogen, and take away the atom of nitrogen, urea is converted into sugar; combine with urea an additional atom of carbon, it is changed into lithic acid. In like manner, add a small quantity of water to farina, it is converted into sugar; to fibrm, it is changed into adipocere.