140 PHILOSOniY OF HEALTH. of the arterial trunk is not to comnumieate to the blood the smallest impulsive force: the engine constructed for the express purpose of working the current generates all the force that is required ; but the labom- of the engine is economized by imparting to the tubes that receive the stream a vital property, by which they remove the physical obstructions to its motion. Driven by the heart through the arterial branches into the ca- pillaries, the blood courses along these minute vessels m-ged by the same power. If an experimenter so dispose the circulation of the limb of an animal that the flow of blood be confined to the branches of a single artery, and a corresponding vein, it is found that the blood stagnates in the vein whenever the ciu'rent in the artery is stoj^ped by a ligatm'e; but no sooner is the ligature removed from the artery than the blood begins again to flow freely along the vein, the capillaries of the artery which have to send on the current to those of the vein being now again within the influence of the heart. There is good reason to suppose that the blood, in its progress through the capillaries, is aided by the attraction which the tissues around exert upon it whilst it is fresh from the arteries. To such attractions the exhausted blood, which had passed far along the capillary, is indifi'erent, so that the fresh blood will ui'ge before it that which is stale, and then, itself becoming effete, will be driven on by the advance of new blood from the artery. Such a power has been termed " capillary force." It was found by Dr. Hales, that, under ordinary circumstances, the blood rises in a tube connected with a vein to the height only of six inches, while it has been shown that in the artery it ascends as high as ten feet. This prodigious difference between the venous and the arterial tension led to the conclusion that the impulsive force of the heart was all but exhausted before the blood reached the veins, and set physiologists on the search for other powers to carry on the venous circulation. It was overlooked that the blood has an open and ready escape from the great trunks of the veins tlirough the right chambers of the heart, and that, in consequence of this, free escape of their fluid, these vessels indicate no greater tension than is just sufficient to lift the blood to the heart, and to overcome friction.* M. Magendie, having laid bare the chief artery and vein of a living hmb, and having raised the vessels in such a manner that he could place a ligature around the former, wtliout including the latter, found that the flow of blood from a punctm-e made below a ligature on the vein, was rapid or slow, according as the heart was allowed to produce a greater or less degree of tension in the artery, which ten- sion was regulated by compressing the artery between the fingers. * 8oc this matter very ably discussed in Dr. Aruott's cxccUeut work ou tlic '• Elements of Physics," vol. i.