347 INCIDENT AND KEFLEX ACTION. upwards from the skin to the spinal centre, and downwards from the spinal centre to the muscles, thi'ough the medium of the incident and reflex nervous fibres." If the fundamental doctrine of Bell be true, that each primitive nerve fibre has the power of carrying an impression in one direction only—the fibre of sensation from the skin to the brain, the fibre of motion from the brain to the muscle—there must be a system of inci- dent and reflex nerves as distinct from the cerebral nerves of sensation and voluntary motion as then* centre is from that of the cerebrum. There must be an anatomical channel for this physiological action. It would be directly opposed to all which modern science has established respecting the nervous system to conceive that in any part of it two functions can coexist in one individual fibre. Difference of function implies difference of structui-e; the difference in the physiology implies a corresponding difference in the anatomy. It is highly probable that the anatomical channels by which the incident and reflex functions are performed are the fibres first traced and described by Mr. Grainger, of which a full account has already been given. The proof that the two roots of the compound spinal nerves perform two separate functions has been established beyond aU controversy by Bell. The demonstration by Mr. Grainger that there are really four roots instead of two, justifies the inference that there are fom' functions in operation, of which the incident and reflex form two. The anatomy relative to this point is not called in ques- tion ; and though there is not a universal consent as to the interpre- tation of it, yet some of the most distinguished physiologists both in England and on the Continent have received the view here given as the most probable. It must be conceived, then, that together with all the common nerves of sensation and volition in every part of the animal frame, there are bound up two other orders of fibres—the incident and the reflex, by means of which all the excited actions of the body are per- formed. The incident fibres, as already stated, always centripetal, are ex- panded on the external and internal surfaces of the body; on the skin its external, on the mucous membrane its internal surface. An external body, a stinnilus, impresses these expanded incident fibres: the fibres convey the impression to the centre; the centre excites and combines certain muscles with simultaneous action, and a definite, sometimes an exceedingly complicated action—a reflex action, is the result. These excited actions form a class of their own. They may be comprised in the following enumeration:— Those by which the complicated movements of deglutition and of respiration are performed.