19 SOURCES OF PT,EASURE FROIM ORGANIC ORliANS. tlicm in their course to the organic organs, and ramify with them thronghont their substance. It is manifest, then, that sentient nerves, nerves not necessary to the organic processes, having, as far as is knomi, nothing whatever to do with those processes, enter as con- stituent parts into the composition of the organic organs. What is the result? That organic organs are rendered sentient; that organic processes, in their own nature insensible, become capable of affecting consciousness. What follows ? What is the consciousness excited ? Not a consciousness of the organic process. Of that we still remain wholly insensible. Not simple sensation. The result uniformly produced, as long as the state of the system is that of health, is pleasurable consciousness. The heart sends out to the organs its vital cuiTent. Each organ, abstracting from the stream the particles it needs, converts them into the peculiar fluid or solid it is its oflice to form. The stomach, from the arterial streamlets circulating through it, secretes gastric juice; the liver, from the venous streamlets circulating through it, secretes bile. When these digestive organs have duly prepared their respective fluids, they employ them in the elaboration of the aliment. We are not conscious ' of this elaboration, though it goes on within us every moment; but is consciousness not affected by the process ? Most materially. Wny ? Because sentient mingle with organic nerves; because the sentient nerves are impressed by the actions of the organic organs. And how impressed ? As long as the actions of the organic organs are sound, that is, as long as their processes are duly performed, the impression communicated to the sentient nerves is in its nature agreeable; is, in fact, THE PLEASURABLE CONSCIOUSNESS WHICH CONSTITUTES THE FEELING OF HEALTH. The statc of health is nothing but the result of the due performance of the organic organs: it follows that the feeling of health, the feehng which is ranked by every one among the most pleasurable of existence, is the result of the action of organs of whose direct operations we are unconscious. But the pleasurable con- sciousness thus indirectly excited is really the consequence of a special provision, established for the express purpose of producing pleasure. Processes, in their own nature insensible, are rendered sentient ex- pressly for this pui-pose, that, over and above the special object they •serve, they may afford enjoyment. In this case the production of pleasure is not only altogether gratuitous, not only communicated for its own sake, not only rested in as an ultimate object, but it is made to commence at the very confines of life; it is interwoven with the thread of existence ; it is secured in and by the actions that build up and that support the very frame-work, the material instrument of our being. But if the communication of sensibility to processes in their own nature incapable of exciting feeling, for the purpose of converting them