riiiLOSoriiV of health. 386 CHAPTEli XXX. FUNCTIONS OF THE BIIAIN PKOl'ER. By the brain proper is liere meant the cerebral hemispheres and their convolutions, together with the commissural apparatus. For the reasons now to be assigned it is held as proved that these parts consti- tute the true and exclusive organ of consciousness. Some few writers, however, still adhere to the opinion that other parts of the nervous centres within the skull, as the thalami, the corpora striata, and even the medulla oblongata, are in some way or other immediately con- nected with sensation and volition; but the weight of authority, as well as of evidence, is against this view; and there is indeed a sin- gular agreement on this subject on the part of the anatomists and physiologists who, by their dissections and experiments, have most contributed to the advancement of science; amongst whom may be mentioned Bell, Flourens, Miiller, Marshall Hall, Grainger, Valen- tine, and so on. The evidence that the sentient and intellectual faculties have their sole seat in the brain proper, as here defined, may be thus stated:— 1. It is admitted that the seat of these faculties is somewhere in the nervous system. No one now supposes that they reside in the viscera. Formerly, indeed, it was believed that the emotions and passions especially have their seat in the thoracic and abdominal viscera, and the prevalence of this opinion is sho^vn by language still in common use, wliich ascribes to the heart joy, sorrow, and love; to the liver anger, rage, and jealousy; to the spleen irritability, sourness of temper, malevolence, and so on. But there is no other connection between these organs and the passions in question than that which arises from the general consent and sympathy that subsists between the nervous and the nutritive systems—between the apparatus of the animal and that of the organic life. There is no case on record which shows an imequivocal relation between disease in any one of the viscera, and the prevalence of any particular passion of the soul; while the evidence that no real connection of this kind exists is decisive. Instances, for example, are of daily occm-ence in which disease of the heart progres- sively, unconsciously advances, until the rupture of its great vessels or even of its very substance, instantaneously extinguishes life, the mind retaining all its faculties in their full vigour up to the last moment of existence. The liver, the spleen, are often found in a state of complete disorganisation, without having produced any more cficct