334 PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. commonly represented, as is sho\ra by Fig. 42. These, together with the elastic matter, allow the column to pelcl when violent force is applied to it, and thus prevent the concussion which would have arisen, not only to the cord, but also to the brain, if that organ had been placed on the top of a rigid and straight column, instead of a curved and elastic one. The principal point at which all the concussions are received, and which are transmitted to the column from the lower extremities, in running, leaping, and so on, is where the great bones of the pelvis are united to the sacrum, termed the Sacro-iliac Junction, or Symjohisis. From this point the force is propagated to the lowest lumbar vertebra, and thence upwards along the column. As the elastic matters increase successively in the same direction, it follows that the successive seg- ments of the cord are brought proportionately within this protective agency—a mechanism which explains, first, why the cord, instead of descending to the lowest point of the vertebral canal in the sacrum, ends, as has been stated, at the second lumbar vertebra, that is, several inches above the place where the great concussions happen in all the above-named movements; and, secondly, assigns the reason of a still more interesting adjustment in relation to two great vital nerves—the pneumo-gastric, which go to the lungs, and are the exciters of respira- tion, and the phrenic, which supplies the diaphragm, the great motor agent in that process. These nerves, instead of coming off from the spinal cord nearest the organs they supply—the lungs and diaphragm —according to the ordinary rule, arise, the first actually within the skull, and the second opposite the third vertebra of the neck. Why do they take this unusual course ? Suppose, in consequence of a violent concussion, injury is done to the cord, say in its dorsal por- tion, a result which is often seen in the practice of surgery. By such a lesion, the powers of this portion of the cord are suspended ; para- lysis takes place below the part injured, but life is not destroyed. After a tune the injured part recovers from the shock: its fmictions are restored, and the temporary paralysis passes away. Had these two vital nerves taken their origin in the dorsal region in the ordinary manner, such an injury would have destroyed life instantaneously, by arresting respiration. 3. The third provision for the security of the cord is derived from the membranous envelopes in which it is enclosed. These are three in number. The inner one, which immediately surrounds it, is termed the Pia Mater (Fig. 103). It affords the cord a protective cohering ; but it is also the principal medium through which it receives its supply of blood, and, therefore, its nourishment. There is something very remarkable not only in the vast amount of blood which is sent to the cord, but also in the distribution of the