PLEASURE THE DIRECT RESULT OF ORGANIC ACTION. 29 therefore, from the aggregate amount of pleasure, the aggregate amount of pain, the balance in favour of pleasure is immense. This is true of the ordinary experience of ordinaiy men, even taking their physical and mental states such as they are at present; but the ordinary physical and mental states, considered as sources of pleasure of every human being, might be prodigiously improved; and some attempt will be made, in a subsequent part of this work, to show in what manner and to what extent. It has been abeady stated that there are cases in which pleasure is manifestly given for its own sake; in which it is rested in as an ultimate object: but the converse is never found: in no case is the ex- citement of pain gratuitous. Among all the examples of secretion, there is no instance of a fluid, the object of which is to irritate and in- flame : among all the actions of the economy, there is none, the object of which is the production of pain. Moreover, as already stated, all such action of the organs, as is pro- ductive of pleasure, is conducive to their complete development, and consequently to the increase of their capacity for producing pleasure ; while all such action of the organs as is productive of pain is pre- ventive of their complete development, and consequently diminishes their capacity for producing pain. The natural tendency of pleasure is to its own augmentation and perpetuity. Pain, on the contrary, is self-destnictive. Special provision is made in the economy for preventing pain from passing beyond a certain limit, and from enduring beyond a certain time. Pain, when it reaches a certain intensity, deadens the sensibility of the sentient nei-ve; and when it lasts beyond a certain time, it excites new actions in the organ aff'ected, by which the organ is either restored to a sound state, or so changed in structure that its function is wholly abolished. But change of structure and abolition of function, if extensive and permanent, are incompatible with the continuance of hfe. If, then, the actions of the economy, excited by pain, fail to put an end to sufiering, by restoring the diseased organ to a healthy state, they succeed in putting an end to it by terminating life. Pain, therefore, cannot be so severe and lasting as materially to preponderate over pleasure, without soon proving destructive to life. But the very reverse is the case with pleasure. All such action of the organs as is productive of pleasure is conducive to the perpetuation of life. There is a close connexion between happiness and longevity. Enjoyment is not only the end of life, but it is the only condition of life which is compatible with a protracted term of existence. As a rule, the happier a human being is, the longer he lives; the more he suffers, the sooner he dies; to add to enjoyment, is to lengthen life ; to inflict pain, is to shorten the duration of existence. As there is a