PHILOSOPHY OF HEALTH. 388 suggests that it is in the cerebral convolutions that impressions are converted into sensations, and the motor force generated by which the muscles of volition are excited to action. 3. The vast and elaborately-constructed apparatus of union by which not only the several convolutions of each hemisphere, but of the hemispheres themselves, are brought into intimate communication, indicates that this is the great centre of the higher faculties of the nervous system. There is manifestly made the most careful provision to put every part, nay, almost every particle, of this extended aj)pa- ratus in the closest union, as if to place the varied faculties here exercised in relation and harmony. To no other portion of the nervous system are so many other parts subordinate and subservient; in no other is the union between different parts so complex and com- plete. Nor is there any other part so elaborately constructed, and so abundantly supplied with arterial blood—the two conditions of struc- ture which indicate the highest endowment of function. No less than six plates of fibrous and vesicular nerve-substance, disposed, as we have seen, in alternate layers, are here brought into actual contact, the vesicular completely incrusting the fibrous matter: in the intervals between these layers are distributed greater numbers of blood-vessels proportionally than in any other part of the body, except in some few instances, as the limgs, where the reason is obvious in the use of this organ—the purification of the blood itself: through these channels innumerable torrents of blood unceasingly flow, and the course of these vital currents cannot be suspended even for a few seconds with- out the total loss of all the cerebral faculties, an organisation which cannot fail to suggest the conclusion that here, in this exact spot, encircled by the vital fluid, where the two essential parts of the cerebral system, the originators of the cerebral force, and the con- ductoi s of it meet, is the seat of cerebral power. 4. This view is confirmed by the comparative anatomy of the brain. It is admitted that the increase of intelligence is proportionate to the development of its instrument, the brain, in the entire animal series; but the progressive development of the brain consists of successive additions to the cerebral lobes and their convolutions. In the lowest class of vertebrate animals, in fishes, the cerebral lobes are composed of two small masses of nervous substance. In reptiles these masses are very much augmented in bulk. In birds they are still more enlarged. In all these classes the lobes are undivided, each hemi- sphere consisting only of one single mass, the surface of which is perfectly smooth and unfurrowed, without any appearance of convolu- tions. In the lower class of mammalia, as in the monotremata the marsupialia, and rodentia, of which the ornithorhynchns, the kangaroo,