THE FACIAL NERVE—POWER OF EXPRESSION. 359 prevailing action of the muscles of the opposite side, but without the loss of sensibility. It has been stated that if a feeler or antenna be simply for sensation, it has only one nerve ; but that when motion is added two nerves are supplied. It was suggested that, if this theory be true, the trunk of an elejihant, which is not merely a feeler, but also an important instrument of respiration, should have two nerves. " From the great power which the elephant has over his trunk," says Mr. Shaw, " I was certain that there must be large nerves runing to it, smiilar to those which supply the fingers in man; but as the proboscis forms an important part in the respiratory process in this animal, I thought that the dissection of it there would be the most direct proof of the accuracy or fallacy of Mr. Bell's opinions on the subject of the portio dura. On examination it was found that two large nerves take their com'se along the trunk, one from the portio dura, and the other, of nearly equal size, from the portio major of the fifth. The face is the natural organ of expression. The muscles which give that expression are animated and controlled by the facial nei"ve, but they acquire their sensibility only through the fifth nerve, and they retain their power of expression only as long as they maintain their muscular sensibility. For the power of expression, therefore, both nerves must act in unison. A knowledge of the separate and combined functions of these nerves is of the highest practical importance. Divide the portio dura, paralysis of all the parts supplied by the divided branches inevitably follows. Divide the portio major of the trifacial nerve, the loss of sensibihty of all the parts upon which it is spent equally follows. A half-informed surgeon knows that the eyelids are abundantly supplied by branches of the fifth nerve. He trusts to these nerves to supply motor power to the eyelids, but these fibres give sensation only, not motion. In opening an abscess or removing a tumor, he unhesitatingly divides the fibres that alone give motion, namely, the branches of the portio dura. Henceforward the eyelids stand open, the eye is perma- nently uncovered, the cornea becomes opaque, and the vision of the eye is lost. A knowledge of the sources of expression is highly interesting to the mother and the nurse. Watch the breathing of an infant in disease. It has recovered, suppose, from a fit in which there was deep insensibility. Hope revives, but the powers do not rally. There is no returning fit, but there is no increasing sensibility; there is no reanimation of the muscles. On the contrary, insensibility and loss of motion steal over the frame. Eveiy act of the hurried respira- tion is attended with twitchings of the muscles of the nostrils, and of that muscle of the cheek which makes the dimple in smihng. The