C.53 SKELETON. variable numbers of ribs ? all individual spe- cies of fishes of variable numbers of ribs also ? Is not numerical difference, as to costal, as to vertebral, and as to sternal elements, infinite ? Where, then, shall we find a resting place in this ever moving creativeness of the variety ? There is no resting place for the understand- ing, except in the idea of the skeletal arche- tj'pal uniformity, and there is no other mode whereby to mount to the recognition of this archetype, but by summing together all pro- portional variety, and constructing plus uni- formity from out of it. The number of osseous thoracic sternal pieces varies even in the same species; it varies still more in the different species of a class, and general comparison carried through the four classes will prove incontestihly, that the region which is ventral, or minus the osseous ribs and sternum, in one animal (the human), is furnished with the ribs and sternum in another animal (the saurian), and hence becomes thoracic for this latter animal. In the mammal venter, the costo-sternal osseous pieces do not exist, but in the saurian venter they do. In the snme way will general com- parison prove that the region which is cervical, or minus the r'bs and sternum, in one animal, is furnished with the ribs and sternum in ano- ther animal, and hence becomes thoracic for this latter animal. In the mammal cervix, the costo-sternal osseous pieces do not exist as such, but in the ophidian and the fish they do ; for what else is the fish's hyoid apparatus but a series of ribs joining a sternal series ? Now, the true interpretation of the indivi- dual skeletal fabric is only to be had in the abstract or compound idea which springs from general comparison. The abstract or archetypal skeleton is the exponent of the special or individual skeletal fabric. The former is plus quantity, the latter is a special creation degraded from such a plus. The thoracic sternal series of the human skeleton commences, as bone, at the junction of the first pair of thoracic ribs, and continues as bone as far as the jmiction of the seventh pair of ribs ; after this latter point the human sternum degenerates into cartilaginous or primordial tissue of the second stage of ossific process, and from thence it is continued over the ventral region in fibrous or primordial tishue of the first stage of ossification, and as such is united to the pubic symphysis, thus relating this point to the thoracic sternum, and also the pubic and ischiadic bones to the thoracic ribs, with which they are identical, no doubt. Those fibrous bands, named " lineae transversae" of the human venter, must be taken as sketches drawn in primordial sub- stance by the hand of nature, indicative of the ribs which are wanting at this region of series. Those ribs are proper to the lumbar vertebrae. The litiea alba is a sternal trace of archetypal osseous quantity, and is proper to the ribs which are now wanting at the mammal venter. The saurian venter, furnished as it is with both sternum and ribs, and lumbar vertebrae, must therefore be regarded as a nearer ap- proach to archetypal or thoracic uniformity than the mammal venter. In the former, the ventral region is embraced with an osseous costo-vertebral sternal apparatus, like the thorax. In the latter, the ventral rej^ion pre- sents this apparatus degenerated into pri- mordial or fibrous bands. The original of the mammal venter is thoracic, and, as such, I affirm that this original, although now only in idea, stands before the mental vision in as vivid a character as if its actual presence pre- sented to the corporal vision. That which is wanting at the venter of the manunal is equal to that which is persistent at the venter of the saurian ; and thus, in idea, 1 draw the sternal and costal osseous series over the ven- tral region of the mammal body. In every skeletal fabric where a venter is formed with- out the sternum and the ribs, nature may be said to have subtracted these for fitness and functional ease. The law of species requires that the costo- sternal series should not persist in the ventral and cervical regions of all animals, the reasons for which are obvious. It is by this law of special or proportional variety, which creates the cervix and the venter as fitting hiatuses in series, that the law of archetypal uniformity becomes eternally interrupted. The law of species is acting in constant nisus opposed to the law of plus quantitative uniformity. Both laws are eternal, and their eternal acts yield forms as they are. viz. a tinity in variety; that is to say, a whole quantity undergoing a me- tamorphosis of parts. It is this metamor- phosis or subtraction of parts |)roper to the whole archetypal quantity, which furnishes all the endless sum of variet}'. The " xyphoid " cartilage and the *' manu- brium sterni " are the opposite extremities of sternal series in the mammal skeleton. At these extremities there is manifested, as it were, a constant tension or endeavour to extend the sternal line over the neck and abdomen. In the manunal body and others, this tendency to extend is held in constant subjection ; but occasionally we find that this nisus of the creative force advances a step, and marks its progress by the development of " episternal ossicles " at one end of the ster- nal line, and by additional nuclei of osseous substance at the other end. The character of either extremity of the sternal series is un- finished ; and even amongst the individuals of the several species of mammalia and birds, it cannot be said to be fixed. Sternal creation, and the law of its infinite variety as to length, can only be fiilly ascertained by extending the observation through general comparison. In general comparison, we readily discern the ability of creative i'orce exercising itself by the simple addition and subtraction of certain known elemental parts. By the addition of parts, nature mounts to archetypal uniformity ; by the subtraction of parts she degrades to variety. Every variety is but a subinultiple of archetypal uniformity. When I limit my observation to the indi- vidual mammal skeletal form, I find the