KEN. on the other with the veins, and invested by a cellular tissue in a manner which he does not very clearly explain. He believes that there is a close connexion between the Mal- pighian bodies and the tubes, as manifested by the fact, that the tubes may be filled by a forcible injection of the Malpighian bodies through the arteries : further confirmation of this fact being afforded by the occasional pas- sage of blood and other materials through the same channels, and the tubes being found filled with blood after death. With respect to the last observation, which he quotes from Berlin, he.appears to have some doubt, and suggests that the vessels containing the blood may have been blood-vessels, and not urinife- rous tubes. Since the time of Schumlansky, whose w^ork above quoted was published in the year 1788, scarcely any addition was made to our knowledge of the structure of the Malpighian bodies imtil the publication of Mr. Bowman's paper*, already so often referred to. In some respects, indeed, the description given of the Malpighian bodies by the best anatomists im- mediately before the appearance of Mr. Bow- man's paper, is less accurate than that of Schumlansky, and some of his predecessors. Thus, Miillerf denied, in the most positive man- ner, the existence of any connexion between the Malpighian bodies and the tubes, and the possibility of injecting the latter from the former. Professor Miilier has since J acknow- ledged and confirmed the accuracy of Mr. Bowman's observations, which I shall now proceed to detail as much as possible in his own words, because it would be impossible to depart much from the language of his paper without incurring a risk of losing something of the clearness which characterises the original. The Malpighian bodies consist of a rounded mass of minute blood-vessels, invested by a cyst or capsule. The capsule was first par- ticularly described by MLiller, who believed it to be closed on all sides except at one point, w'here it is perforated by the blood-vessels. He accurately described the arterial branch as passing into the cavity of the capsule, where it gives off tortuous branches, which form arches, and then return to the point at which •the artery enters, so that the tuft of vessels is free in the cavity of its investing capsule, being connected with the latter only at one point. Mr. Bowman, observing that the cap- sule of the Malpighian bodies had an appear- ance i^recisely similar to that of the basement membrane of the tubes, and seeing these similar tissues in such close proximity, was led to suspect that the capsule was in fact the basement membrane of the tubes expanded over the vessels, and after some time he suc- ceeded in obtaining an unequivocal view of * On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, Philos. Trans, part i. 1842. f J. INIliller, de Glandularuiu Secerneutium Structm-a Penitiori. Lips. 1830. X Untersuchungen iiber die Eingeweide der Fische. J. Muller, Berlin, 1845. their continuity. This important result was arrived at after the use of the double injection. After the injection of some kidneys through the artery by this method, it was found that the injected material had in many instances burst through the tuft of INIalpighian vessels, and being extravasated into the capsule, had passed offalong the tube. (F/jCT5.153.3.156,157.) Mr. Bowman afterwards made numerous injec- tions of the human kidney, and of that of many of the lower animals, and in all, without excep- tion, he met with the same disposition. He also examined thin slices of the recent organ with high powers of the microscope, and in this manner fully corroborated the evi- dence furnished by injections. This mode of examination Hkewise led Mr. Bowman to the very interesting discovery of ciliary motion within the orifice of the tube and the con- tiguous portion of the Malpighian capsule. According to the observations of Mr. Bow- man, the circulation through the kidney may be stated to be as follows : — " All the blood of the renal artery (with the exception of a small quantity distributed to the capsule, sur- rounding fat, and the coats of the larger vessels,) enters the capillary tufts of the Mal- pighian bodies; thence it passes into the capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes, and it finally leaves the organ through the branches of the renal vein." {Fig. 152.) Fig. 152. Plan of the renal circulation in Mammalia. (^Aftei- Bownian.^ The relative proportions and the character of the several parts are accurately copied from preparations of the human Iddney. The artery, a, is seen giAing a terminal t^vig, /, to a Malpighian tuft, m, from ■which emerges the efferent (or portal) vessel, d. Other efferent vessels are seen, e, e, e. All these en- ter the plexus of capillaries, p, surromidiug the uriniferous tube, t. From this plexus the emulgent vein, g, springs. Supposed to be magnified about forty diameters. Following it in this coiu'se, I shall now give Mr. Bowman's description of the vascular apparatus, and the nature of its connexion wnth the tubes. I shall also refer to some observations which have been made since the publication of Mr. Bowman's paper, premising that Mr. Bowman's description is so singu- larly accurate that it scarcely requires or admits of any, even the slightest, addition or modification, with reference to those par- ticulars which it embraces.