9G PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. characterized by the deposition of fat-globules in the cortical substance. Of this alteration he recognises three degrees or stages. In the first, deposition of free fat-globules occurs in the cortical substance, unattended with obvious change in the tubuli or bloodvessels. In the second stage, deposition of yellowish altered fat-globules occurs within the tubuli of the cortical substance; the bloodvessels continue unaffected. In the third stage, deposition of peculiar altered fat-corpuscles takes place in rows in the site of the cortical tubuli; these tubuli being themselves destroyed in the same manner as the biliary ducts in the most ad- vanced stage of cirrhosis of the liver. More recently Dr. Johnson* has given a character of precision to our knowledge of the relation- ship of fat-deposit to the morbid changes in Bright's disease. He finds : 1. that the epi- thelial cells of the healthy kidney contain oil to a variable amount ; 2. that an excessive increase of this fat constitutes, primarily and essentially, Bright's disease; 3. that the pres- sure of this fat causes, by a simple mechanical process, the presence of blood and albumen in the urine, and atrophy of the kidney. We are here simply engaged in considering the fact of fat deposition in the kidney, anil cannot digress into a discussion on the anatomy of Bright's disease. But we must venture to add that careful observation has shown and conti- nues to show us, that the compound state, known as Bright's disease, (renal alteration, al- buminuria, and dropsy, with the well-known train of secondary morbid conditions,) may exist without any undue deposit of fat in the kidney in any known form or condition. (e.) Testicle. — The testis is liable to fatty destruction, the fat accumulating in the oil-globule form without and within the tubules. (/.) Limgs.—Of fatty accumulation in the lungs little is known. We have never seen any condition cognizable by the naked eye, referrible to such alteration of structure; and have not, even with the microscope, discovered accumulated fat in tubercular lungs, except amid the tuberculous matter itself. Under these circumstances we have regarded the fat as appertaining rather to the tubercle per than to the diseased lung ; nevertheless it has ap- peared to us that fat is associated in larger proportion with tubercle of the lung than with that of other organs. M. N. Guillot has recently informed the French Institute f that, while the sum of fatty matters contained in the foetal lungs varies from 10 to 18 per cent., it falls "to 6 per cent, on the establishment of respiration. He further conceives he has ascertained that in all affections attended with temporary or perma- nent suppression of respiration in a greater or less extent of lung, the ratio of fat increases in the impermeable tissue. The natural ratio of fat to tissue being seldom more than as 10 : 100, it may change to even oO : 100. * Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. xxix. p. 1. 184C. ■f- Comptes Eendus, Jiiillet, 1847. Had the author made these deductions from the examination of phthisical lungs onl}-, the fatty elements of tubercle might have been supposed to account for the excess of fat in the impermeable tissue; but he affirms that in pneumonia the same phenomenon occurs. (g.) Arteries a7icl cardiac valves. — Of these we have already spoken (p. 87). {h.) Muscles. (1.) Volinitary. — In cases of continued inaction the muscles become in- filtrated with fat ; a fact readily ascertainable in those of paralyzed and of rachitic limbs. In old people the muscles of the calf of the leg and the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi frequently undergo this transformation. It is almost constantly observed in the muscles sur- rounding joints which are the seats of unre- duced dislocation ; and rnay be seen to ac- company the atrophy produced by anchylosis or other causes, and in the case of old ulcers which have for a length of time interfered with motion. In scurvy the muscles sometimes undergo a similar change. In a portion of muscle, appearing to the naked eye totally converted into fat, and weighing 13 drachms, H drachms were com- posed of muscle, 4 grains of gelatin, all the rest of fat.* The fact, thus chemically shown, that even in the most apparently perfect cases of disappearance of muscular substance, some of this remains, is fully demonstrable with the microscope also. Between and upon the muscular fibres and within the sarcolemma ap- pear fat cells and free oil globules. Gluge has pointed out the existence of saline crystals in rachitic fatty muscles. (2.) Involuntary.—Fatty destruction of the heart's substance may coexist or not with de- position of fat underneath the pericardium ; and, as Bizotf has shown, has no connection with superabundance of subcutaneous fat: in- deed this is true of the entire class of fatty changes, of which we are now speaking. The deposition of fat is most common on the right side of the organ, in the ventricle much more than the auricle. In these cases there is but a superfluity of natural fat, which encroaches on, and renders soft and atrophous, the proper muscular tex- ture. But there are certain forms of fatty change in which the muscular element itself is the seat of the primary disease, where a mottled dull yellowish aspect of certain portions of the organ is found to depend on accumulation of oil-globules within the sar- colemma. (/.) Tendon. — Deposition of fat occurs within the sheath, and amid the primitive fibres of the tendons of |:)aralyzed limbs. (/i-.) Nerves.— The same statement applies to the nerves of such lin)bs. In cases of atro- phy of the o[)tic nerve, fat accumulates within the neurilemma. (/.) Bones.— The bones become infiltrated * Cruveilhier, Essai sur I'Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 18G. 181G. f Mem. de la Soc. Med. d'Observatiou, t. i. p. 353.