477 SEMEN. either singly (/g. 326. d) or in numbers of three four, six, or seven (/g.326. e). A more con- Fig. 326. BCD Developing Vesicles of the Spermatozoa from the Testicles of the Dog. siderable number of them in one common cyst is unusual; but they may, according to Kol- liker's statement, amount"^to twenty. The size of the cyst naturally depends on the number and state of developement of the vesicles it encloses. Ordinarily it amounts to about On pursuing the genesis of the vesicles of developement, it will be found that they are produced in the interior of cells, according to the law of endogenous formation. The various circumstances which present themselves during the microscopical analysis support the proba- bihty of this opinion. It is certainly often difficult to determine whether an individual vesicle is destined for the production of other cells (tochter-Zellen), or immediately for the formation of a spermatozoon. But we shall see presently that the daughter cells are fur- nished with the same capacities as the free vesicles of developement; they are like them in every respect, and justify the inference of a perfect identity with them. Wherever, there- fore, we find these free vesicles of developement, they have, in our opinion, likewise been pro- duced in the interior of other cellular forma- tions, and have only become free by the dis- solution of the former. The real process of formation of the spermatozoa in the interior of the vesicles of developement cannot be reached by our observation. The spermatozoon does not possess at its commencement those sharp, distinct contours—that great refracting power, which afterwards so much distinguish it. Like a slight linear shadowit is seen lying in the in- terior {fig. 327. A, b) ; in addition to which it Fig. 327. A ' B C D Spermatozoa of the Dog in the interior of the developing Cell. is covered by the granules, which are so readily deposited from the liquid part of the con- tents. It is only gradually that it assumes a distinct appearance. At first the body only is seen, being recognisable by its specific form. The tail becomes visible subsequently. The entire spermatozoon lies in a curved shape close to the wall of the vesicle, until it has reached its full developement, when it be- comes free by the bursting of the vesicle of developement. Sometimes327. c,d) indi- vidual vesicles may be seen, from which the tail of a spermatozoon is projecting, whilst the body is still situated in the interior. The vesicle of developement generally retains, however, its original round shape, even when the sper- matozoon has reached its perfect developement, and begins to stretch itself. Angular vesicles of developement, which occur so frequently in other animals, probably never occur here. It is only in rare cases {fig. 327. d) that the vesicle extends itself into a thin tail-like appendix, which then encloses the posterior part of a spermatozoon, and which is evidently only produced by the stretching of the latter. A law, which KoUiker first pronounced as correct, may here be enume- rated, viz. that only one single spermatozoon, and never a greater number, is developed in each vesicle of developement. The formation of the spermatozoa takes place in exactly the same way in the vesicles of developement, even in those cases where the latter have not become free, but remained enveloped by their mother cells. The sper- matozoa, in this case, are not, however, im- mediately set free by the dissolution of the vesicles of developement; but they ar- rive, first of all, in the cavity of the ex- ternal cyst. The number of the enclosed spermatozoa therefore depends on the num- ber of the enclosed vesicles of develope- ment, a single fibre only being formed in each vesicle. The presence of several sper- matozoa in the interior of a vesicle, therefore, affords us an immediate proof, that the latter histologically possesses the function of a mother cell, and is not itself the vesicle of developement. But likewise in this case the process ter- minates with the dissolution of the cyst that surrounds the spermatozoa, and which pre- vented their becoming free immediately after the dissolution of the vesicle of developement. According to analogy with other animals, it is very probable that the above men- tioned association of groups of the sperma- tozoa into fascicles is caused by the longer per- sistency of the vesicles of developement in the interior of a common mother cell. At all events, such an occurrence is traceable in almost all other cases in which a similar asso- ciation in groups takes place; and it also happens among the mammalia, to judge from the fact, that a delicate cyst-Hke enclosure is often perceived at the circumference of the bundles. AvES. — The spermatozoa of birds possess uniformly, instead of the short oval and flat- tened body which distinguishes them in mammalia, a body of a long and slender