SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. composition, which marks many of the pro- ducts of the mucous system. Contrast of serous and sj/novial membranes. — The shape of the cell of serous membrane may afford some indications of its histor}'. In flatness, it occupies a position about mid- way between the squamous outer epithelial particles of the skin, and the columnar in- testinal cells. The conditions which lead to the excessive horizontal extension of the former appear to be, a vertical pressure acting upon them during their growth, and aided by an eva- poration which diminishes the cell-contents, themselves originally small in quantity. On the other hand, the immediate cause of the prismatic or columnar shape is, no doubt, a horizontal pressure mutually exerted by the growing cells themselves. This pressure appears generally to hmit their diameter to that of the contained nucleus; a smaller diameter, which implies the existence of a greater number of cells in a given space. Their longituflinal extension similarh- involves a greater amount of contents ; so that, on the whole, this might be termed the highest form of cell-growth, the development and fiUing of a large number of cells simultaneously.* Comparing the serous epithelium with these two extremes, we may recognise in its flattened shape the effect of vertical pressure on a cell containing but little in its cavity; w hile the comparatively small number of cells in a given space, and the oneness of the layer, are further indications of the moderate activity of the cell-growth. The uniform size and poly- gonal shape of the constituent cells, together with their great mutual adhesion by their edges, or in the horizontal plane; — these are circumstances which seem to point to the simultaneous development of the whole layer, and to the previous causes of flatness determining its growth almost exclusively in this direction. The little aid afforded by the composition of these cells is derived "from observations which are chiefly of a negative kind : since they show that the cells do not offer any con- siderable chemical differences from the liquor sanguinis, but consist chiefly of albuminous and fibrinous materials. The nature of the serous secretion seems little understood. In health, the quantity of fluid present in the interior of the membranes is only sufficient to moisten their tree surface ; while where its amount is enough for the purposes of analysis, the accompanying dis- eased conditions would prohibit our assuming its identity with the normal fluid, even if the supposition were not rentlered untenable by the varying composition of the fluids them- selves. But, on the whole, the very small quantity of fluid naturally present, its compa- ratively limpid consistence and transparent appearance, together with the absence of the cell-form in which secretions are involved, probably refer it immediately to the simple * For some faither remarks on the subject of cell-growth, the reader is referred to a future 'article, *' ST03UVCH A>-D IXTESTIXAL CanAL." physical process of transudation: a process which is present everywhere in the body, but is favoured by the thin parietes of these struc- tures, while their position prevents the re- moval of the fluid by evaporation. But the fluid yielded by this supposed process appears to be chiefly aqueous ; and the question therefore readily suggests itself, whether any mere transudation could filter off the dissolved constituents from a perfect so- lution, such as the liquor sanguinis is known to be; and whether the elective affinities of the tissue itself may not constitute the main agents of the process, by retaining certain materials, and allowing others to obey this physical law. Valentin * mentions some ex- periments in which dried serous membrane was used as the filter, and albumen, so far suspended in water as to constitute a homo- geneous fluid under the microscope, was passed through it. The result was, that it retained a thicker portion, while only a thinner or more dilute part passed through. But saline solutions transuded entire, and perhaps the doubtful state of solution of the organic con- stituent will not permit much reliance to be placed on these experiments. In connection with this subject, Mr. Paget -j- has pointed out that the different serous membranes seem to effect this " filtration" with different de- grees of fineness. And, possibly, the dimi- nution of albumen noticed in the liquor amnii of advanced pregnancy may be ascribed to a similar subtraction from this fluid by the serous meirbrane in the cavity of which it is situated. The share which the cells as such take in this process can scarceh' be conjec- tured ; but that their disposition in such a form is not absolr.tely essential to the fluid, is shown by its occurrence in the areolar tissue, where such a stratum is absent. And while we know next to nothing of the process itself, and have no name by which it may be exclu- sively indicated, it is important to recollect that the words used above, " elective afSnity," " subtraction," " filtration," are probably alike inaccurate ; that the first seems to imply chemical combination, the second represents the subtracted materials as too passive, the third is the nam.e of a physical process by which solid objects are left behind after the removal, by capillary attraction, of the fluid in which they were suspended. The pro- cesses to which it seems most analogous, and to which it may best be compared, are those curious varieties of heterogeneous adhesion existing between bodies of different cohesive forms, of which the action of charcoal or platinum upon certain gases are familiar in- stances The period of duration of the cell-growth, and the manner of its renewal, can only be conjectured. But from the constant absence of shed epithelium from the interior of the membrane, and the uniform shape and mutual * Lehrbuch der Plivsiolo2:ie des Menschen, Band 1., S. 6nl. t Keport on the Progress of Human Anatomy (Brit, and For. Keview, year 1843-4, p. 10.)