SECRETION. 469 H u 3 power supposed to be transmitted by the par vagum. That the nutritive operations of other parts, however, are usually less vigorously and cor- rectly performed when the nerves have been paralysed, than when they retain their entire integrity, would appear from numerous other facts, of which the following are examples. A case is related by Mr. Swan* in which a man's wrist having been injured by a cord having been very tightly drawn round it, there was partial paralysis of the hand, with constantly repeated ulcerations of its dorsal surface ; and on amputation seven years afterwards, there was found to be induration of the median nerve, with adhesion of the tissues beneath the annular ligament. The following case, stated by Mr. Paget f on the authority of Mr. Hilton, is still more remarkable. " A man was at Guy's Hospital, who, in consequence of a fracture at the lower end of the radius, re- paired by an excessive quantity of new bone, suffered compression of the median nerve. He had ulceration of the thumb, and fore and middle fingers, which had resisted various treatment, and was cured only by so binding the wrist, that the parts on the palmar aspect being relaxed, the pressure on the nerve was removed. So long as this was done, the ulcers became and remained well ; but as soon as the man was allowed to use his hand, the pressure on the nerves was renewed, and the ulceration of the parts supplied by it returned." That the reparative processes are affected, as well as those of ordinary nutrition, by the loss of nervous power, is a matter of familiar ob- servation. A striking example to this effect is mentioned by Mr. Travers.j A man was rendered paraplegic by fracture of the lumbar vertebrae, the same accident having also frac- tured his humerus and his tibia. The former, in due time, united; the latter did not. This peculiar affection of the nutritive pro- cesses appears rather dependent upon lesion of the sensory than of the motor nerves. Thus we have seen that the disorganisation of the eye ^fter section of the fifth pair, takes place when only the sensory nerve of the part is affected, and that no such result occurs when only the motor nerves of the orbit are divided. In cases of disease or injuries of the spine, it has been noticed that sloughing of the blad- der or other parts has occurred earlier and more extensively when sensation, than when motion alone, has been lost. And Mr. Cur- hng has noticed § that two men having been taken at nearly the same time to the London Hospital with injury of the spine, one of whom had lost only the power of motion in the lower extremities, whilst the other had lost both motion and sensation, at the end of four months the atrophy of the lower extre- mities had advanced much further iathe latter case than in the former. These phenomena * On Diseases and Injuries of the Nerves, p. 60. t Loo. cit. t Further Inquiry concerning Constitutional Ir- ritation, p. 436. § Med. Chirurg. Trans, vol. xx. p. 342. would seem to harmonise with the view, that it is especially through the sympathetic system of fibres that the peculiar influence is exerted, whose continual agency we only recognise by the results of its withdrawal. For if, as already remarked, the fifth pair may be con- sidered as the sympathetic of the head, the Gasserian ganglion may probably be regarded as belonging to the sympathetic system ; and it has been observed by Magcndie, and con- firmed by Longet, that the destructive inflam- mation of the eye ensues more quickly after division of the trigeminal nerve in front of the Gasserian ganglion, than when the division is made between that ganglion and the brain. If this be true of the Gasserian ganglion, it is probably true, also, of the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves ; and thus the disordered nutrition which results from in- jury to the trunks of these nerves, and which is not to be accounted for by the mere disuse of parts, may be attributed, with some show of probability, to the interruption of the connec- tion with the sympathetic system, which is specially established by these ganglia and their communicating cords. But it is to be remembered, on the other hand, that defec- tive or disordered nutrition is a marked result of injuries of the spinal cord, whilst the sym- pathetic centres remain uninjured ; and that general atrophy is a frequent consequence of chronic diseases of the brain. Fresh evi- dence is much required, therefore, to deter- mine the relative shares of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic centres, in regard to the in- fluence exerted by them over the organic functions. By the survey we have now taken, we are in some degree prepared to estimate the degree and nature of the influence exerted by the nervous system on the nutritive and se- cretory functions, and to inquire into the validity of the several doctrines which have been propounded on the subject : — 1. The first of these theories may be stated in the words of Dr. Wilson Philip, one of its most distinguished advocates :—" It appears," he says, " that the nervous influence is neces- sary to the function of secretion. It either bestows on the vessels the power of decom- posing and recombining the elementary parts of the blood, or effects those changes by its direct operation on this fluid. From many facts stated or referred to in my inquiry, it appears that the vessels possess no powers but the muscular and elastic ; and that the former, as well as the latter, is independent of the nervous system. Nor is it possible to con- ceive any modification of these powers by which they could become chemical agents, and thus be enabled to separate and recom- bine the elementary parts of the blood. The first of the above positions may, therefore, be regarded as set aside, and the necessary infer- ence seems to be, that in the functions of secretion the vessels only convey the fluids to be operated on by the nervous influence." It will, perhaps, be sufficient to say of this hypothesis, that having been put forth at a