223 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. by three tendons: in the first instance by two of these placed closely side by side, the extensores ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis ; but by the third, the extensor se- cundi internodii, only just before the artery enters the palm: so that between these two crossings, the vessel runs obliquely downward in the bottom of a groove, which is bounded on each side by these tendons, and whose depth is greatly increased by the action of the muscles with which they are continuous. It finally leaves the back of the hand, by passing between the processes of origin of the abduc- tor indicis. (c.) Inthe'pahn. — The vessel having per- forated the metacarpal space, is situated very deeply in the palm of the hand, beneath the flexor brevis pollicis and the different struc- tures superficial to this muscle ; namely, the tendons of the flexores sublimis and profundus digitorum, with the lumbricales muscles, the branches of the median nerve, and, above these, the palmar fascia and integuments. Immediately giving off its magna pollicis and radialis indicis branches, it now crosses the palm as the deep irnhnar arch, or " palraaris profunda," which, slightly convex forwards, lies on the proximal extremities of the meta- carpal bones, and on the interossei muscles between them; being directed at right angles to them towards the inner side of the hand, and joined in the fourth metacarpal space by the communicating branch of the ulnar, which completes the arterial circle. This latter part is of course uncovered by flexor brevis pol- licis, and, just at its junction with the com- municans ulnae, it might almost be considered as covered by the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Branches of the radial artery. — Amid very numerous ramifications, the following are those whose constancy and size require a separate mention. (L) Arteria radialis rectirrens. — This large branch is given oft'from the outer side of the radial trunk almost immediately upon its origin from the brachial artery, and whilst it is contained in the triangular hollow before referred to. It passes at first downwards, then outwards, and finally upwards ; lying on the supinator brevis and brachialis anticus successively ; and then occupying the groove between the biceps and supinator radii longus muscles, but overlapped by the latter, it ter- minates in the arm by anastomosing with the superior profunda, which descends to meet it after passing beneath the outer head of the triceps. It has thus a curved course, the convexity of which is directed downwards towards the wrist. Its branches are very numerous, and chiefly supply the muscles with which it is in contact, inosculating with the vessels which they derive from other sources, and with the superior profunda as aforesaid. (2.) Arteria siiperficialis voIcb, which usually comes oft'from the artery just as it leaves the lower border of the radius to turn around the wrist; and, directed almost vertically down- wards, proceeds over the annular ligament and immediately beneath the integuments, until it arrives at the muscles of the thenar eminence ; amongst or upon which it passes, crossing them at an oblique angle, to join the termination of the palmar artery, or, in other words, to complete the superficial palmar arch. Liable to very considerable though un- important deviations in its exact position, perhaps one of the most constant is that where the abductor pollicis lies over the ves- sel, itself placed upon the flexor brevis and opponens muscles. Its varieties in point of size are chiefly connected with the relative proportions of the other arteries, and are de- ferred to them ; but it is usually a very small branch, and, quite as frequently as not, ends in these muscles without any direct junction with the superficial palmar arch. (3.) Arteria anterior carpi radialis.— This is ordinarily a minute branch which comes oft' from the radial, either very close to the pre- ceding, or a little above it. It runs directly inwards in contact with the anterior ligament of the wrist joint, or on the radius at a level just above this ; to join with a similar branch from the ulnar on the opposite side of the wrist, and with the termmations of the an- terior interosseous artery. It supplies the carpal bones and the articulation. (4.) The arteria dorsalis cmpi radialis, or posterior carpal branch, is considerably larger than the preceding, and is given oft" from the radial at a lower level, generally while the artery lies in the deep groove formed by the tendons of the extensors of the thumb. Its course is, like that of the anterior carpal, di- rectly inwards beneath the tendons of the diff'erent fingers; and like it, at about the middle of the wrist, it terminates by uniting with a similar branch from the ulnar artery, and with the terminal ramifications of the in- terosseous vessels. Its size and arched shape are usually much more distinct than those of the anterior carpal vessels. Other small branches are given off'from the radial immediately previous to its enterino- the palm. Thus an arteria dorsalis jwllicis is usually present, and divides, after a short course, into a branch for each side of the thumb; and there generally exists a similar twig for the radial side of the index finger, either as a separate branch from the radial artery, or from the ulnar division of the bi- furcation just mentioned. A larger branch runs along the interosseous muscle in the second metacarpal space, to divide at its an- terior extremity into branches for the opposed sides of the index and middle fingers. The vessels occupying the third and fomuh spaces, with the same ultimate distribution, rarely arise from the radial; more usually they come from the posterior carpal arch, and sometimes from the previous metacarpal vessel, or from a similar ulnar branch lying in the fourth space. All these metacarpal branches unite, at the superior extremity of the interosseous space, with the deep arch by means of its posterior perforating branches ; and at its inferior termination, with the digital branches