IGl l^ROSTATE GLAND. In the agouti, the prostates are composed of a trunk, divided into branches and ramusculi, terminating in vesicular extremities. In the gumea-pig, the situation of the pros- tate is occupied by a number of tubes folded upon themselves, and connected together by loose cellular membrane. The elephant has four prostate glands, two on each side, external to the vesiculae semi- nales, and near their base; they are of un- equal size, and very small in proportion to the size of the other glands connected with the generative function. They are muscular ex- ternally, and are indistinctly lobulated. They form a good illustration of the cellular type of prostates, each consisting of a principal ca- vity, into which smaller cavities open. The smaller cells represent so many cul-de-sacs of various sizes, communicating with each other and with the principal cavity ; the excretory duct is of large size, and passes by the side of that of the neighbouring gland, to open sepa- rately in the urethra by the side of the veru montanum. In the wild boar the prostate is divided into lobes, is very compact in its structure, and forms a considerable projection at the begin- ning of the urethra. There is also found in this animal a glandular mass, analogous to the prostate, surrounding the muscular portion of the urethra, thickest at the commencement of this canal, and surrounded by muscular fibres coming from the neck of the bladder. In solipedes there are two prostates, situ- ated by the side of the vesiculae; the cavities of these are large, and the parenchyma small in quantity ; they are covered by muscular fibres coming from the vesiculae and neck of the bladder ; their excretory ducts terminate by many orifices on either side of the ducts of the vesiculae. The ruminants have also two prostates, precisely similar to the preceding. They are larger in the ram and bull, and are composed of distinct lobes, each containing small cells, which communicate with a large central ca- vity ; this opens by a duct in a large lacuna of the veru montanum, either internal to or be- hind the vas deferens. In the stag, axis, and buffalo they are smooth, and of a regularly oval shape, and have a central cavity commu- nicating by large openings with smaller cavi- ties ; each has a single duct, which terminates generally behind the corresponding vas de- ferens. The only difference in this class is in regard to size ; for in the chamois each is as large as a pullet's egg, and contains a propor- tionably large cavity; so that it has been occasionally mistaken for a reservoir of semi- nal fluid. In the seal, amongst the quadri- remes, it resembles that of the otter. In the cetacea there is a large glandular mass, covering a large portion of the first part of the urethra, especially at the upper part, covered by a strong muscle. When a section is made, it is found to consist of large cells; its ducts open separately by numerous orifices on the urethra. VOL. TV. In the marsupial sub-class, as in the kanga- roo, the prostate is found surrounding the com- mencement of the urethra, of large size, and conical in shape, with base behind, apex in front ; it is surrounded by a strong musculo- membranous capsule. It exceeds in diameter the contracted bladder, and is made up of tubes ramifying perpendicularly to the urethra, which subdividing terminate in minute coeca upon the surface of the gland. It presents a similar arrangement in the opossum ; whilst in the ivombat its existence is doubtful. Carus has described in birds a dilatation of the vas deferens, a rudimentary vesicula semi- nalis, and a small gland like a prostate near the terminationof the vas deferens. This is not admitted by Owen. In the ornithorynchus paradoxus we find two round glandular bodies representing Cowper's glands, but which may be fairly regarded as a rudimentary prostate. Amongst amphibious reptiles, glands ana- logous to the prostate, or Cowper's glands, are found. In the salamander they are com- posed of two lobes ; one placed horizontally, and the other vertically; the former, in the common salamander is heart-shaped, with the point behind ; and in its centre a fissure is seen. The vertical lobe is raised obliquely towards the dorsal aspect, so that an interval is left between them for the passage of the kidneys ; a muscle separates the two. In the black salamander, each gland is com- posed of two lobes. In the Tritons the part of the prostate which corresponds with the inferior lobe is still more complicated; it forms the wall of the vestibulum in the shape of a cup. Besides this, there are two pelvic pros- tates corresponding to the vertical lobe of the vestibular prostate of the salamander; they occupy the dorsal aspect of the vestibule and the pelvis, and each is subdivided into two lobes. Their excretory ducts open in the mesian line of the furthest point of the vesti- bule. The Tritons have a third prostate occu- pying a large portion of the abdominal muscles under the peritonaeum. In structure they re- semble those of the hedgehog.— (Cuvier.) Bibliography. — Xatural Structure. — See anatomical works in general. 3Ii'dler, De iJenitiori Glandularuni Structura, 1830. Physiology.—For the opinions of the ancients on this svibject see Haller''s Elementa Pliysiologiae, vol. 7., and the opinions of modern physiologists are set forth in the works of physiology generally. Cow" per, Glandularum quarimdam nuper detectamm, 1702. Comparative Anatomy.—See vol. 8. of Cuvier^s Lemons d'Anatomie Compare'e. Lectures on Compa- rative Anatomy, by Dr. Grant, in the Lancet, and Lectures on Comparative Anatomy by Rymer Jones. See also various articles by Professor Owen on Com- parative Anatomy in this Cyclopaedia. Owen's Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Tnvertebrata, 1843. Wagner^s Elements of the Com- parative Anatomy of the Vertebrate Animals, trans- lated by Tulk, 1845. Development.—Ackerman, Infantis AndrogjTii Historica, Jena, 1805. Meckel, Abhandlungen aus der menschl. und vergl. Anatomie, 1806. Tiede- man, Der Kopflosen Missgeburten, 1819. Miiller, Bildungeschichte der Genitalien, 1830, and Archiv. M