PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 120 exist between them. This substance may be fluid or sohd. Fluid intercell substance is nothing more than non-solidified bhistema; the solid variety is amorphous, or composed of fibrous pseudo-tissue. § 4. The Physiology of Growths com- prises the phenomena of their origin, en- largement, decay, elimination, cicatrization and local reproduction, — phenomena which, it appears to us, can, only by misapprehension of their true relations, be included under the head of the Pathology of these Formations. All that is known actually, or surmised upon fair grounds, concerning the oj^igin of Growths, has already been stated in our gene- ral remarks on Blastemal Formations. The enlargement of Growths is effected by the reception and evolution of nutritious matter. Growths receive this matter from vessels; these vessels either permeate the mass generally, supply portions only of its substance, or merely reach a greater or less extent of its surface. In the first case, the growth is said to enlarge by intussusception ; in the third, by pure imbibition ; in the second, by both means. These distinctions are less important than they on first view seem ; the perfect nutrition of the extra-vascular natural tissues proves, as a general fact, the vigour and efficacy of the imbibition-process ; and in truth imbibition is at play in all nutritions, for the nutrient elements of vascular tissues must be imbibed through the coats of their vessels, and (it may be) in addition (as in the instance of the endosteal lining of the canals of Havers, and the subjacent osseous substance) through a stratum of cells. Enlargement by intussusception differs therefore from that by imbibition, in degree rather than in kind. In whichever way conveyed to the seat of Growth • formation, the nutrient material, at first fluid, is evolved and appropriated by continuous cell-generation. Now this cell-generation may be effected on an endogenous or an exo" genous plan. When the plan is endogenous, the germs of young cells are contained and evolved within elder ones; these secondary cells are endovv^ed with a similar procreative faculty ; the tertiary series are in like manner fecund, and so on. Here a single cell may be regarded as the potential embryo of an entire growth. When, on the other hand, the plan is exogenous, the germs of new cells are not found within, but lie, and are evolved, outside old ones. Where endogenous evolution prevails, and a cell is, potentially considered, a tumour in futuro, the perpetual production of similar cells is easily intelligible; the offspring that follows is as the parent that went before. But in exogenous Growths the continuous germination of infinite series of like cells is not readily conceived. It may be surmised (and the surmise amounts rather to a modified expression of the fact than an explanation), that when a series of cells has sprung into being, this series acts on the evolution of succeeding ones, as a natural vascularized surface is known to do on the generation of epithelium cells; the formed series so in- fluences newly-exuded blastema (of which it constantly excites the accession), that this shall produce a new series of cells similar to itself. But, however the perpetuation of like cells be understood, be it remembered that the thing itself has its limits ; for, as we have just seen, deposits may appear in Growths, pseudo-tissues are among their fre- quent constituents, and a growth of one kind may establish itself a nidus within the area of another generically dissimilar. Elder cells thus seem (within certain limits) to cause the increase, and regulate the qualities, of younger ones. Younger cells are, on the other hand, more or less active agents in effecting the destruction of the elder ones : less so in endogenous Growths, where the elder may increase materially in size (as their contained brood multiplies), and acquire thickened walls; more so in exogenous Growths, where such enlargement of cells is not witnessed, and where the production of young is coeval with the disintegration of old ones. Such are the modes of production and in- crease of cells, considered in their general relations to themselves and to the mass they form. We nuist now view cells as individual existences, and inquire into the process by which they are each developed ; and our knowledge of this process is as yet Hmited and unsettled. The spherical ceil appears to be produced on three distinct plans. («.) Gra- nular matter, precipitated from the fluid blastema, accumulates sufficiently to form a minute solid body (cytoblast or nucleus), from and around which the cell-wall forms. ((6.) The cell is a molecular hollow body from the first, and, as it grows, produces within itself, or in its wall, a secondary body, the nucleus, — the cytoblast of a future cell, (c.) The cell is, from the first moment of its existence, complete in all its parts, consisting of a cell-wall, a nucleus, and fluid contents ; its development consists in the progressive and justl3-proportioned increase of all these elements. The caudate cell is held to arise (as already hinted) from the prolongation of opposite points of the wall of a spherical cell ; but there is no proof that cells may not exhibit this shape from the first moment they are possessed of form at all. Lastly, the ele- mentary fibre is held to be formed in three different modes, (a.) A spherical cell having undergone elongation so as to become cau- date, loses by still increased elongation and flattening, the characters of a hollow cell altogether ; a nucleated fibre is the result. ib.) Elongation and linear juxtaposition of nuclei effect the formation of fibre, (c.) Or, it is held, fibres form as such from the first moment shape is assumed ; no cell, or nucleus-stage having pre-existed. All these points are yet subjudice. The plan of enlargement and mode of arrangement of the ultimate elements of