5 POLYGASTRIA. being situated at the opposite extremities of the body; loricated. = Kncheliadse furnished with a shell. Coleps, (l,2,/g.l3.) Family 17. — Trachelinidje (Neck Animalcules), Animals polygastric, furnished with a distinct intestinal canal, having an oral and an anal opening, but of these the anal opening only is terminal; without shell. Trachelius, (3, 4y5,f g. 13.) Loxodes. Bursaria. Spirostoma. Phial ina. Glaucoma. Chilodon. Nassula, (1, fig. 16.) Family 18. — Ophryocercinid-e (Swan Animalcules). Animals polygastric; having a distinct intestinal tube, furnished with two openings, that of the mouth only being termi- nal ; without a shell. Trachelocerca, (3, 4, 16.) Family 19. — Aspidiscinid^ (Shield Animalcules). Polygastric, loricated, animal- cules ; having an intestinal canal furnished with two orifices, of which one only, viz. the anus, is terminal. Aspidisca. Family 20.— Colpodead^e (Breast Ani- malcules). Animals polygastric; without a shell; intestinal canal distinct, with two open- ings, neither of which is terminal. Colpoda, (2, 3,fg. 18.) Paramecium, (1, 4,/g. 18.) Amphileptus, (2, Jig. 16.) Uroleptus. Ophryoglena. Family 21. — OxYXRiCHiNiDiE (Hackle Animalcules.) Animals polygastric ; without shell; having an intestinal canal with two dis- tinct orifices, neither of which is terminal; pro- vided with vibrating cilia, and also with styles or uncini, which are not vibratile. Oxytricha. Ceratidium. Kerona. Urostyla. Stylonychia. Family 22. — Euplotid^. (Boat Ani- malcules.) Animals polygastric, loricated; with a distinct alimentary canal having two orifices, neither being terminal. = Aspidisca with neither orifice terminal, or Oxytricha pro- vided with a shell. Discocephalus. Chlamidodon. Himantophorus. Euplotes, (Jig. 19.) All the above families are grouped by Ehren- berg under the following orders and sections, which, as it will facilitate the observations of the microscopist, as well as be a convenient guide to us in studying the economy of these little beings, we will subjoin in a tabular form, premising that the illustrious naturalist of Berlin found it advisable to separate the Poly- gastria into two parallel series, one comprising all such as were destitute of a shell (Nuda), the other embracing those which are furnished with such a covering (Loricata). ANENTERA. This includes all animalcules which possess neither an internal nutritive tube nor an anal orifice, the mouth being in communication with several nutritive vesicles. These may be divided into the following sections :— l.s^ Section. Gymnica. Animalcules whose body has no external cilia nor pseudopediform prolongations. Nuda. Loricata. Monadina. Cryptomonadina. Vibrio. Closterina. 2d Section. Epitricha. Exterior of the body ciliated or furnished with setae and without pseudopediform prolon- gations. Nuda. Cyclidina. 3d Section. Loricata. Peridinaea. PSEUDOPODIA. Body provided with variable pseudopediform prolongations. Nuda. I Loricata. Amoeba. | Bacillana. Second Division.—ENTERODELA. This division includes all animalcules having an internal digestive canal provided with a mouth and anal opening. 4th Section. Anopisthia. Mouth and anus contiguous. Nuda. I Loricata. Vorticellina. I Ophridina. 5tk Section. ENANTroTREXA. Mouth and anus terminal and opposite ; re- production by transverse division. Nuda. I Loricata. Enchelia. | Colepina. 6th Section. Allotreta. Mouth and anus terminal and opposite, as in the last section; reproduction by longitudi- nal and transverse division. Loricata. Aspidiscina. Katotreta. reproduction Nuda. Trachelina. 7th Section. Mouth and anus not terminal: as in last section. Nuda. Loricata. Kolpodea. Euplota. Oxytrichina. Taking the above classification for our gui- dance, we must now proceed to investigate more minutely the organization of the strange animals included in this extensive series. Locomotion.—Although no special locomo- tive apparatus has as yet been discovered in the family of Monads, this perhaps depends rather upon our deficient means of investigation than upon their absence. Attentive observation shews that every true Monad is furnished with a minute filiform proboscis, (1, 2, 3, Jig. 1,) which, as it constantly exhibits an un- dulatory or vibratory motion, has been mis- taken by some observers for a ciliary apparatus. Sometimes two of these organs are present, but this cannot be regarded as an essential charac- teristic feature, seeing that during the process of spontaneous fissure an animalcule which previously had only one proboscis, becomes