PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. U2 vessels; the second in the extravasation of blood ; the third in the passage of this into canals (manufactured, as it were, for its recep- tion); the fourth in the formation of walls round this blood : the difficulty in this hypothesis lies in the alleged canal-formation. The notion that new vessels are independent productions is supported: — by the analogy of the process in the vascular area of the chick ; by the fact that the new cannot at first be injected from the old vessels ; by the analo- gical fact that new blood-particles appearing in lymph in the frog are of spherical shape (as in the foetal condition), and are therefore not particles previously contained (for these are oval) in the old vessels; by direct observation both with the naked eye and with the micro- scope. In truth in one spot of a new material to be vascularized may be seen minute uncon- nected points of blood ; at another, a number of such points united in linear juxtaposition, so as to form a streak of blood unenclosed in any distinct vessel; elsewhere a vascular in- vestment is found for a similar streak ; further on a like piece of delicate tube divides at each extremity into a number of tapering ramifica- tions, assuming a stellate arrangement, the whole assimilable to the system of the portal vein, and capable of effecting an independent osciUation of the contained blood. What is thus seen with the naked eye is corroborated with the microscope ; but this instrument has not yet made clear either the precise structural characters or developmental process of the new vessels : we simply know that these are wider, and of thinner walls than natural capil- laries. The manner in which communication is effected between old and new vessels (when the latter first become the seat of true circii- Intion) is unknown. That the formation of new blood precedes that of new vessels seems fully established ; just as the cell-structure, destined to fill a loculus in a new growth, forms before the loculus-walls that contain it. The production of new blood and vessels signifies the appearance of various new chemi- cal compounds in the vascularized material; the globulin formation may be understood, that of the haematin is at present inexplicable, —unless we accept the extravasation-theory above referred to, which supplies iron as required. Further observations are wanting as to the shortest possible time in which new vessels may be formed; we have seen them in peri- tonaeal exudation aged seven days ; Everard Home speaks of their appearance in twenty- nine hours. They form in growths, indura- tion-matter, hypertrophy of natural textures, and pseudo-tissues. Generally produced on a limited, they in rare instances form on an extensive scale ; the most singular illustration of the latter appears in the new system of ves- sels generated in tuberculized lungs (Schroeder, Guillot), which effects not only a complete change in the anatomical condition, but in the physiological actions, of those organs.* * Loviis on Phthisis, ed. cit. p. 29. Erectile Tissue. — (See Angeiectom\, p. 128.) Lymph J esse/. — Schroeder van der Kolk has described l\mph vessels of new formation in peritoneal pseudo-membrane ; it is gene- rally admitted that his observations require corroboration, and we know of no other evidence bearing on the question. Fibrous and Spongy Cartilage.—Fibro-carti- lage forms in some rare instances the material by which imperfect union of bone is effected : its own losses are supplied by a similar ma- terial ; it does not appear to form in an absolutely adventitious manner. Nor does spongy cartilage grow as a new product,—and of the reparation of this texture httle is known. Hair.—The adventitious production of hairs is not singularly rare, and though, no doubt, much fantastic matter has been written on their places of attachment, the following localisations may be admitted as real. The tongue*, the caruncula lachrymahs, the cor- neaf, the internal surface of the gall-bladder j, the nymphae, the vagina, (in connection with fat) tumours of the uterus and of the fauces.§ Cases of defecation of hair and of pilimiction are for obvious reasons to be received v\ith distrust II ; but the rupture of an ovarian cyst into the bhidder may sometimes have caused discharge of hair with the urine. Cysts of new formation are the favourite site of adventitious hair; pilous cysts have been seen occupying the ovary, uterus, subcutaneous membrane, muscular substance, wails of the stomach, testicle, liver, thyroid gland, omen- tum, and peritonjEal cavity. The ovarian is of all cysts the most frequent abode of these productions. The hair is scattered through the fatty matter generally present, or adherent to the walls of the cyst, either by a bulb or by simple embedding, or by means of cretaceous particles. The colour of the hairs varies greatly, sometimes even in the same cvst ; their length from a few lines to upwards of two feet. They commonly resemble in struc- ture the hairs of the head, rarely those of the pubis : their possession of roots has been denied ; whereas ?>Ieckel considers it probable that they always have a root in the outset, losing it subsequently after separation from their seat of attachment. Tooth.— Teeth are frequently found in pilo-fiUty cysts ; there scarcely appears, indeed, to be a single authentic case of the discovery of adventitious teeth (except where produced * This has been denied hypothetically; yet no- thing is less improbable than the occasionjil groArth of ob-vious hairs from tliis organ, seeing that some of the epithelial processes of the conical papilla; actually enclose minute hairs in the natural state. (See Todd and Bowman, Anatomy, vol. i. p. -yO.) t Gazelles, Journal de Med. t, "xxiv. p. 332. X Of more than an inch in length, by Bichat. Anat. Ge'n. t. iv. § Ford, Medical Communications, vol. i. p. 444. 1784. II Yet what is to be said of the case related bv Henrs- (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 142. 1819) of a middle-aged man, who voided hairs of from of an inch to an inch in length -^^th the urine, some of them occasiouallv coated with uric acid ?