ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 610 shoulder joint was dissected by Mr. Macna- mara, from whom I take the description of the appearances, with the advantage of having the preparation before me while I write. The dislocation was unattended with rup- ture of any muscle, or the separation of any tendon from its insertion into the bone ; by a slight effort the dislocation was reproduced, and the pectoral muscles being removed, the polished head of the bone was now seen lodged on the cervix of the scapula, at the root of the coracoid process, but extend- ing nearly as far as the notch in the superior margin of the scapula. The head of the bone had passed out through a rent in the capsu- lar ligament, over the upper edge of the tendon of the subscapularis, detaching this muscle from its connection, which is at this point but slight, with the inner surface of the scapula, and pushing its fibres doiunwards, so that they formed a curve, which partly embraced the neck of the humerus {fig. 437.). The supra- and infra-spinatus nnis- cles were on the stretch, but had suffered no injury. The cellular substance cover- ing their tendons was deeply ecchymosed, so as to mark their course most distinctly. On replacing the head of the bone, the open- ing in the capsular ligament through which it Fig. 437. Dislocation forwai'ds and inwards. {Sir P. Cramp- tons case.^ had escaped from its socket, could be dis- tinctly seen. It was formed, by a separation of the ligament from the interior side of the brim of the glenoid cavity from top to bottom, it was bounded at the top by the tendon of the supra-spinatus, and at the bottom by the inferior edge of the tendon of the subscapu- laris ; the rent was continued as far as the root of the lesser tubercle of the os hmneri, and was of sufficient extent, but no more, to per- mit the head of the bone to pass easily through it. The inferior part of the capsular liga- ment, however, the part corresponding to the axilla, was perfect. The great blood vessels and nerves lay to the sternal side of the head of the humerus, and were forced a little out of their course. The axis of the head of the bone in its disturbed position was scarcely a quarter of an inch higher than the axis of the glenoid cavity. Sir P. Crampton observes, " the anatomy of the recent case of dislocation forivards set- tles the long disputed question as to whether or not the humerus can be dislocated primi- tively in any other direction than doivnivards, or into the axilla ; it is plain, that in the case of Wilson, the head of the bone was thrown at once forwards, into the situation into which it appears under the clavicle ; as the inferior portion of the capsular ligament was not ruptured, and the attachment of the sub- scapularis and teres minor muscles to the in- ferior costa of the scapula remained undis- turbed." Mr. Key has given the following account of the appearances observed in dissection of the right shoulder joint of a patient who had had for seven years an unreduced dislocation of the head of the humerus, in the direction for- wards and inwards. The specimen is pre- served in the museum attached to St. Thomas's Hospital. The head of the bone was thrown on the neck and part of the venter of the scapulee, near the edge of the glenoid cavity, and immediately under the notch of the su- perior costa : nothing intervened between the head of the humerus and the scapula, the subscapularis muscle being partly raised from its attachment to the venter. The head was situated on the inner side of the coracoid process, and immediately under the edge of the clavicle, without having the slightest con- nection with the rib^!; indeed, this must have been prevented by the situation of the sub- scapularis and serratus magnus muscles be- tween the thorax and humerus. The tendons of all the muscles attached to the tubercles of the humerus were perfect, and are shown in the specimen preserved. The tendon of the biceps was not torn, and it adhered to the capsular ligament. The glenoid cavity was completely filled up by ligamentous structure, still however preserving its general form and character ; the tendons of the supra- and infra- spinati and teres minor muscles adhered by means of bands to the ligamentous structure occupying the glenoid cavity, and, to prevent the effects of friction between the tendons and the glenoid cavity in the motions of the arm, a sesamoid bone had been formed in the substance of the tendons ; the newly formed socket reached from the edge of the glenoid cavity to about one-third across the venter; a complete lip was formed around the new cavity, and the surface was irregularly co- vered with cartilage. The head of the bone had undergone considerable change of form, the cartilages being in many places absorbed, and a complete new capsular ligament had been formed." The accompanying wood-cut (fig. 438.) is taken from a scapula preserved in the museum of the College of Surgeons in Dublin, and re-