SKELETON. 631 the lumbar " transverse process " or costa ; and this serial order clearly indicates that these are of the same original, but created specifically diverse by undergoing metamor phosis quantitatively. The originals, there- fore, of the lumbar vertebrae must have been such as the sternal costo-vertebral circles, and I have drawn this original quantity in dotted outUne for Jig. 452., for it is true Fig. 452. that the presential proportional condition of lumbar vertebrae, consisting of the elements 1, 2, 3, 4, ^,Jig. 452.), manifests no other variety or species to the archetypal quantity 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, elsewhere persisting, than a simple quantitative variety. Prop. XIV. The sacro-coccygeal series of vertehrce are proportionals degraded from ster - nal costo-vertebral circles.—That which is true of lumbar vertebrae, compared with thoracic segments, must be true of sacral vertebrae com- pared with the same. For as it seems that lumbar vertebrae are the proportionals of ster- nal costo-vertebral circles, so must sacral ver- tebrae, which are developed of elements iden- tical in all respects with those of lumbar ver- tebrae, be proportionals of the like whole quan- tities or originals. And this is what I affirm of both sacral and coccygeal spinal segments. Fis. 453. The last caudal bone, equal to the centrum (5, Jig. 453.), being a spinal centrum itself, is the vanishing point of the series. The next degree of subtraction is annihilation of all quantity proper to the costo-vertebral original whole quantity, the complement of which I have drawn as the parts marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 around 5, Jig. 452., thereby equating it with the plus thoracic form. Prop. XV. The seven cervical verttbrcB are proportionals degraded from seven sterno- costO'Vertehral whole quantities. — The same elemental quantity which is proper to a lumbar vertebra is to be found in a cervical vertebra. In both {y'xAiiJigs. 445. and 447.) we distinguish the centrum (5), the neural arch (2), the spinous (1), and transverse pro- cesses (3), and the costal ruditnents (4). In both we find that the difference which they manifest on comparison with the costo-ver- tebral thoracic archetypes is simply a differ- ence in costal quantity ; and hence the same reasons which have been here advanced for regarding the lumbar segments as propor- tionals of sterno-costo-vertebral circles, may be also applied as proof of the truth of the interpretation that cervical vertebrae (such as fig. 454.), are also proportionals of the like Fig. 454. whole originals, and therefore* I have equated it with the thoracic whole quantity. Prop. XVI. The mammalian spinal axis consists of a series of segmental quantities, whose only variety or specific distinction depends upon proj)ortioning from whole thoracic quantities. —The truth of this proposition has been established by the foregoing remarks. All the spinal segments of those regions of Jig. 4^55., named cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and caudal, are not uniform, because they are not equal quantities. A cervical uniformity throughout the spinal axis would require that all the serial segments stood in cervical quantity. _A lumbar uniformity would require all the serial segments to be of lumbar quantity. The same with respect to sacral uniformity; and the same of caudal uni- formity. A thoracic uniformity would also require the spinal axis to be of thoracic sterno-costo-vertebral quantity from cranium to the other extreme of the same linear series, such as is represented in Jig. 455., where the ribs are indicated in dotted out- line in the neck from 1 to 7, and in the loins from 20 to 24. In neither of these con- ditions is the mammal spinal axis developed; and therefore it is that the original plus uni- formity of all the segments from 1 to 25 is interrupted, the serial quantities being now developed of thoracic or plus, and of minus or cervical and lumbar, &c. proportions. Now as to the just interpretation of the natural law which creates this Jigure 455., thus com- posed of spinal segments in plus and minus variety, I apprehend that it is more rational to regard nature as being an artificer who, after creating a prime-model of whole or entire dimensions (such as Jig. 455.), with the ribs s g 4