REPTILIA. 297 is empty, the pyloric portion may be distin- guished from the " sack " by the thinness of its walls and the absence of longitudinal folds in its mucous membrane, which latter be- come gradually obliterated as they approach the pylorus. At its termination, this portion of the stomach can hardly be distinguished from the commencement of the intestine, which it resembles both in the transparency of its coats and in its uniform diameter ; generally, however, the walls of the intestine are thinner and more transparent than that of the pyloric portion of the stomach, and its diameter sensibly increased. Internally, there is a very perceptible difference in the structure of the mucous membrane lining the two, which, in the pyloric portion of the stomach, is arranged in small longitudinal rugae, but in the duodenum has a shaggy or villous appearance. Generally there is a valve or circular fold separating the stomach from the intestine, but this is sometimes only re- presented by a prominent ring formed by the mucous and cellular coats, and occasionally is altogether wanting. It is in that part of the stomach which Cuvier calls the " sack " that the digestion of food is accomplished. Tiie pyloric portion forms a first obstacle to stop the prey, which descends to the bottom of the stomachal " sack," where the digestive process is most rapidly carried on, for it is here that the dis- solution of the animal swallowed always com- mences. In proportion as this dissolution goes on, the pyloric canal, the diameter of which is always very small, allows the digested portions of food to pass successively into the intestine. The intestinal canal in the common or ring- snake runs in an undulating manner from the pylorus to the rectum, preserving pretty nearly ihe same diameter throughout its whole ex- tent, except that it dilates a little to form the colon. The Hning membrane of the small intestine forms broad longitudinal laminre, folded like a shirt-sleeve. In the large intes- tine, which runs straight to the cloaca, the folds are thick and irregular. In the true serpents the arrangement is different : the first portion of the intestine forms numerous loops, more or less closely bent upon each other, and retained in position by bands of peritoneum passing between them. The whole is enveloped in a long cylindrical cell formed by the peritoneum. This disposition of a part of the alimentary canal in the true serpents, distinguishes them from all other vertebrate animals; it seems to be rendered necessary by their manner of progressing upon their belly, which, without this precaution, might injure their intestines : it must, however, render slower the peri- staltic movements, and thus contribute to produce the extreme lentor of all their di- gestive functions. This seems to be proved by the fact, that in water serpents {Hi/drus, Platurus, Chersi/drus') the intestine is a con- tinuous cavity, and not divided into several loops, their movement in the water not re- quiring such arrangement. In the Ophidian reptiles we may always distinguish a large and a small intestine ; the Fig. 217. Viscera of the Rattlesnake, a, the trachea; b, the right hang ; c, bladder-Hke termination of ditto ; d, e, f, the oesophagus ; the stomach; h, commencement of the intestine, 1; /, the heart; m, large arterial trunks ; n, n, anterior and posterior venai-cavie; o, the liver; p, the gall- bladder, situated at some distance from the liver. latter generally terminates end to end in the former, and it is rare to find anything like a cul-de-sac or caecum at the place of their union. The small intestine preserves nearly the same diameter throughout. The large intestine, which is shorter, is generally divided into two or sometimes three com- partments by one or more sets of valves, or even by one or two partitions, through which there is only a small opening leading from one compartment to another. The first compartment is generally smooth, or only presents internally a few "simple folds; whilst the last compartment, or the rectum, pro- perly so called, has its cavity divided by irregular transverse plicae, or even by very broad valvulae conniventes. When there is an intermediate compartment, its sides are