SHELL. 562 by the coalescence of a series of cells arranged in a linear direction. They are generally Fig. 415. has everywhere a similar origin; and if one variety of membranous shell-substance be thus Fig. 416. Tubular shell-structure from external surface of Anomia Ephippium. 3Iagnified 250 diameters. most abundant in shells whose exterior has a foliated or sculptured character; and not un- frequently they may be distinctly seen to pass directly towards the prominences of the sur- face, — as in Lima scabva and various species of Chama. They are by no means restricted, however, to shells thus characterised; nor are they universally present in them. Of the oriiiin and mode of formation of the membranous shell-structure, it is rather tliffi- cult to give an exact account. Possibly, alter the epidermic cells have undergone calcifica- tion, so as to form the external cellular layer, the basement membrane itself may become detached from the surface of the mantle, in combination with a la\er of calcareous matter. Even in nacre, however, which may be con- sidered as the most perfect form of this sub- stance, indications of cellular structure are not unfrequently to be seen, especially in univalve shells : these are particularly evident in Ha/ioti<, the nacreous lan,inaB of which, when carefully examined under a sufficiently high magnifying power, are found to be com- posed of minute cells of a long oval form (_y?g. 416.), their short diameter not being above i-oOOOth of an inch. Their boundaries in many parts are very indistinct, or even disappear altogether, so that every gradation can he traced, from the obviously cellular ar- rangement shown in ^g. 412., to the homo- geneous aspect presented by the nacre of bivalve shells. The same cellular structure, and the same gradation to a homogeneous stratum, may be made apparent in the decal- cified membrane ; so that here we seem to have evidence that even the membranous shell- substance is originally formed by the agenc\' of cells, although the boundaries of these have usually been subsequently obliterated, so that the structure comes to present a homoge- neous aspect. Indications of the same cel- lular organisation may be detected in the na- creous lining of the shell in Turbo and Xautilns, We seem justified in concluding that nacre C 0 (I Cellular structure of nacre of Haliotis splendens : the cells cut transversely at a, longitudiually at b, and slio^ving their terminations (viith. nuclear spots) at c. Magnified 450 diameters. proved to have been formed by the agency of cells, little doubt can be entertained as to the corresponding organisation of others. The fact may probably be, that, as maintained by Professor Goodsir the basement mem- brane is itself composed of cells more or less perfectly developed, the boundaries of which usually disappear. Of this view a very good illustration is afforded by the va- rious examples of shell-membrane ; w hich pre- sent every gradation, from the most per- fectly homogeneous pellicle, to a distinct stra- tum of cells. The loss of the original boundaries of the cells, and the consequent obscuration of the real nature of the structure, are by no means peculiar to shell ; for the physiologist is familiar with this change as occurring in various other tissues. Thus, in dentine, the cases in which the vestiges of the original cells are preserved are few in proportion to those in which they are obliterated; and yet these isolated examples are sufficient to mark the real nature of the transformation of the soft dentinal pulp into the dense ivory. It would seem as if, in the process of calcifica- tion, the cell-walls have a tendency to hquefy or dissolve away, unless supported b}- addi- tional deposits of animal matter, thus allow- ing the complete fusion of their contents. The peculiar tenacity of the decalcified shell- substance in the Margarilaceoe and certain other tribes seems due, not so much to the strength of the original cell-walls, as to the interposition of an intercellular substance between them. In Pcrna we not unfre- quently find, between the calcified layers, membranous laminre consisting chiefly of horny matter interposed between rounded cells that are more or less widely separated from each other: here the animal substance * Anatomical and Pathological Observations, p. 3, note.