360 RESPIRATION. of Dr. J. Davy, Mitscherlich, Gmelin and Tiedemann, Enschut and Magnus, prove that venous blood can absorb considerably more than its own volume of carbonic acid gas ; and according to Mitscherlich, Gmelin and Tiedemann, and Enschut, more of this gas can be absorbed by arterial than by venous blood * Lehmann has endeavoured to ascertain the relative quantities of free and combined car- bonic acid in the blood. In twelve experi- ments upon bullock's blood the average quan- tity of free carbonic acid in 1000 grammes (15433-0 Troy grains) of blood, was 0-132 gram. (1*937 grains) of free, and 0*6759 gram. (10-431 grains) of combined carbonic acid : or, estimating these quantities by volume, in 61 "250 English cubic inches of blood, there were 4*271 cubic inches of free, and 21"9G8 cubic inches of combined carbonic acid.'j' The results obtained on causing animals to breathe gases devoid of oxygen are in unison with those derived from direct experiment, and furnish additional evidence in proof of the existence of free gases in the blood. That a quantity of carbonic acid gas may be exhaled from the blood during the respiration of gases devoid of oxygen is proved by the experiments accuracy is justly almost universally entertained by physiologists. Marchand (Joui-nal fiir praktische Chemie, Band xxxv. S. 391) is the only other che- mist, as far as we are aware, who has procured oxygen gas from the blood. He ascertained, by qualitative but not by quantative analysis, that oxygen gas is contained in the venous blood of the dog. It has been argued, and the objection is antici- pated and examined b}^ Magnus, that part of the carbonic acid gas obtained from the blood in the above experiments may not have existed in the free, but in the combined state in the blood. It has been proved by the experiments of Heinrich Rose (Pog- gendorff's Annalen, Band xxxiv. S. 149. 1835), and Marchand (Journal fiir praktische Chemie, Band xxxv. S. 389, 390. 1845), that when a solution of bicarbonate of soda is agitated with, or even exposed for some time to, atmospheric air or hydrogen, it gives oif part of its carbonic acid, and becomes a sesqui- carbonate ; and if heat be now applied, an additional quantity of carbonic acid is given off, and it is re- duced to the state of carbonate of soda. If, there- fore, bicarbonate of soda exists in the blood, part of the cai'bonic acid gas obtained in the experiments of Magnus and others may have been derived from this source. The exact condition of the carbonates of soda in the blood is not known : indeed their ex- istence there has lately been called in question by Enderlin (Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, Band xlix. S. 317) and Liebig (idem opus. Band l\ni. S. 126. 1846), but Avithout sufficient reason, as Marchand (Journal ftir praktische Chemie, Band xxxvii. S. 321. 1846), Lehmann (idem opus, Band xl.), and Moleschott (HoUandische Beitrage, Band i. hedft ii. S. 163. 1847) have shoAvn. * Dr. J. DaA^ (Philos. Transact, for 1838, p. 298) has made an important observation on the absorbing capacity of the blood for carbonic acid under different circumstances. In two animals, one of which was killed by strangulation, the other by exhaustion of the air of the lungs by the air-pump, the blood of the former absorbed only 150 per cent., that of the latter 370 per cent. t Journal fiir pi-aktische Chemie, von Erdmann und ^larchand, Band xl. S. 133. 1847. of Spallanzani* and Dr. W. F. Edwards f on the products of the respiration of snails con- fined in hydrogen and azote ; those of Dr. W. F. Edwards J on a fish (Cyprinus aureus) confined in water saturated with hydrogen; those of Dr. W. F. Edwards §, Col lard de Mar- tignylj, Miiller and Bergemann^I, Bischolf** and Marchand "j"!", on frogs confined in hy- drogen or azote ; and those of Dr. W. F. Edwards IJ, upon the young of certain of the mammalia confined in hydrogen gas. The experiments of Nysten in which he first exhausted the air, as far as possible, in the lungs of adult dogs, and then caused them to breathe hydrogen or azote; and those of Sir H. Davy || ||, and of Coutanceau and Nysten Ifl, on the respiration of nitrous oxide and azote in their own persons, though not free from serious objections, are still, as far as they go, in favour of the opinion that free carbonic acid gas is contained in the blood. In a former part of this article we have de- tailed several observations, both upon the human species and the lower animals, to prove that a quantity of azote is frequently exhaled in respiration. The experiments of Allen and Pepys***, and Nysten fff, show that the exhalation of azote is considerably increased by breathing oxygen or hydrogen, or a mixture of these two gases, and thus afford additional evidence that free azote exists in the blood. Marchand concludes from his experiments on frogs, that when they are made to breathe pure oxygen gas, azote is evolved from the blood, and that when made to breathe pure hydrogen, both oxygen and azote are evolved from the blood. J J j Differences in the form of the red corpuscles in venous aiid arterial blood. — The physical * Me'moires sur la Respiration, p. 846 to 351. t De r Influence des Agens Physique sur la Vie, p. 449. 1824. X Opus cit. p. 447, 448. § Opus cit. p. 442 to 447. II Magendie's Journal de Phvsiologie, tom. x. p. 122 to 124. ^ Muller's Elements of Physiology, translated by Baly, vol. i. p. 354. ** Commentatio de No vis quibusdam Experi- mentis Chemico-Physiologicis, p. 20. ft Journal fiir praktische Chemie, Band xxxiii. S. 154. 1844. Marchand thinks that in the experi- ments of those who preceded him, upon the respira- tion of frogs in hydrogen, that the gas employed must have contained some oxygen, as the animals lived longer than those used in his experiments where the gas was quite pure. XX Opus cit. p. 453 to 455. §§ Recherches de Physiologic et de Chimie Patho- logiques, p. 225 to 229. IIII Researches, Chemical and Philosophical. Divi- sion II. Coutanceau's Revision des Xouvelles Doctrines Chimico-Physiologiques, p. 280 to 302. 1821. Cou- tanceau and Xysten breathed azote alone ; and their experiments were regarded, even by Coutanceau himself, as " essais bien incomplets." Opus cit. p. 301, 302. *** Philos. Trans. 1809, p. 404. ttt Recherches, &c. p. 230, 231. XXX Opus cit.Band xxxiii. S.154—159. Band xxxv. S. 386—389. Marchand does not distinctly state that he ascertained this by direct analysis of the expired gases.