73 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. ^as exhibited in the annexed table), those of NON-PLASTIC and PLASTIC compounds. The class of non-plastic compounds includes those formed of matter chemically inorganic, and also those which, though organic in a chemical point of view and animalized, yet are completely destitute of structure (for example, animal sugar, cystin, xanthin), and, consequently, in respect of physiological attributes, almost take rank with minerals. The class of plastic coin- pounds comprehends all such as present in any degree,be it ever so rudimentary, the characters of structure. A distinction so broad as the absence or presence of structure might, d priori, be affirmed to form a natural basis of classifi- cation; and, as will be seen, products belong- ing to the two classes do absolutely differ in all essential particulars of their physiology and pathology. Class I.—Non-plastic Products. Products of this class are composed of ma- terials either (first) completely inorganic ; or (secondly) of elements, though organic, inca- pable of assuming organized arrangement; or (thirdly) they are formed of a union of sub- stances of both these kinds. Of the first va- riety one of the most unquestionable examples is supplied by solid accumulations of calcareous salts round inorganic bodies introduced into the system from without. To the scond be- long biliary calculi,— masses composed mainly of an animal substance not only unfitted to form structure, but lowered in the scale of animal existences by having a crystalline form impressed on it. Among the products belong- ing to the third variety may be found, for example, certain urinary calculi, compounds of inorganic saline, and structureless animal, sub- stances. All non-plastic products agree in being di- rectly derived from the fluids of the body. But they are not all developed on a uniform plan. Some of them originate in the coalescence of the more solid particles of secreted fluids, after the act of secretion is accomplished ; and this coalescence is essentially a physico- chemical process, primarily, of precipitation, and, secondaril}', either of crystallization or accretion. Others are exuded ready formed from the vessels. And this difference in mode of origin coincides with numerous differences in pathological relations; hence it may be ad- vantageously used in forming two sub-classes of non-plastic products ; those (Sub-Class I.) : Produced by precipitation from secreted fluids. (Sub-Class II.) : Exuded ready formed from the vessels. sub-class i. — saline precipitates. The various secreted fluids may be regarded as saline solutions, in which the proportion of menstruum and of dissolved salts is chemically accurate. If any cause affect this proportion in such manner as to lower the ratio of solvent fluid, precipitation of the solid matter must follow; or if some new substance be introduced which changes the chemical relations of the dissolved and dissolving materials, a similar result necessarily ensues. The alteration of ratio referred to may obviously arise either from diminution of the solvent, or increase of the solid, material. Thelatter of these states exists at the moment of secretion ; the former may either exist then, or be induced subsequently to the actof secretion (in consequence generally of unnatural stagnation of the fluid in its ex- cretory passages) by evaporation, by absorp- tion, possibly by exosmosis, and other agencies. But embracing in one view all the saline products found in the body, nothing can be more certain than that a primary modification in the qualities of the secretions themselves is the main agent in their generation. No point in general pathology affords matter of more curious inquiry than the causation of these changes in the character of the secretions. If in some cases observation teaches us to refer them to a local morbid power, limited in dura- tion as in the extent of surface it implicates, in other and much more numerous instances they may be traced to the operation of a con- stitutional influence, itself dependent on diet, mode of life, climate, &.c. Products belonging to this sub-class present themselves in the form of § 1. CrystaUine or amorphous particles ; § 2. Masses. § 1. C7'i/staUine or amorphous particles.— Al- though in the great majority of cases these particles are, as just explained, simple inor- ganic precipitates from the secretions, yet recent inquiries have distinctly shown that they are in some instances associated with organic mat- ter, which retains the form of the saline parti- cles after these have been dissolved away by acids. Now in respect of the mode of associa- tion of the inorganic and organic materials under these circumstances, there are three possible cases. (1.) The organic matter may simply adhere to the surface of the saline in- gredients. (2.) Salts of crystalline form may lie in the interior of an organic cell, closely embraced by its wall. Otoliths are each of them, as shown by Krieger*, enclosed in a membranous vesicle. (3.) What a[)pears to be the crystalline form of the saline matter may, in truth, be simply an accidental result of its association with organic particles, to which the form observed in reality belongs. Crystallisation of inorganic matter arises in the human body under various conditions,— either after death or during life ; and in the latter case as a natural occurrence, or as a morbid phenomenon. Crystals of these kinds are microscopical objects. The faeces contain crystals naturally ; in ty- phoid fever with morbid change in Peyer's glands, crystals appear to form in much greater abundance than under any other circum- stances : in this disease, too, they are found heaped up near the implicated glands, instead of being scattered through the contents of the bowel; and are said, unlike those of ordinary * De Otolitbis, p. 15.