616 ABNORMAL CONDITIOXS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. and it is known that Desault had already ob- served a similar occurrence. A Memoir, con- taining six cases pubUshed in the Repertoire d'Anatomic et de Chirurgie, by M. Flaubert, surgeon in chief to the Hotel Dieu de Rouen, is not well calculated to encourage practitioners to attempt the reduction of old dislocations. In five of these ras.^s the reduction was fol- lowed by serious accidents. M. Flaubert observes, that in many cases when para- lysis of the upper extremity had been attri- buted to the dislocation itself, he believes it was rather owing to the violent efforts made for its reduction; laceration of muscles and extensive abrasion of the skin have been no- ticed as the consequence of these efforts, and even death from diffuse inHammation has oc- curred ; but these accidents, whether the re- sult of dislocation, or of the means used to restore the bone to its place, must be consi- dered as rare in this country, as from the comments of Mr. Mar, and the observations of the Editors of the Lecons Orales of Du- puytren, they seem to have been in Paris. The latter observes, " Le hasard qui a fourni a M. Flaubert, dans le court espace de trois ou quatre ans, un ensemble de tous les acci- dens les plus graves qui puissent determiner la reduction, est vraiment extraordinaire : il faut sans doute en chercher la cause dans des circonstances particulieres, qui sont incon- nues."* Alteratiom of the r.erves.—We have noticed as belonging to the symptoms of dislocation of the head of the humerus, that the patient complains of pain extending down the course of the nerves of the arm and the forearm, and also of numbness. These symptoms generally disappear when the dislocation is reduced, but sometimes they persist. The pressure which the nerves of the axillary plexus undergo has naturally been referred to as the cause of these unpleasant svmptoms. The nerves, besides being stretched, have been sometimes even torn across; when this has oc- cured the effects produced must Ions remain; such cases are very rare. Among all the nerves in the vicinity of the shoulder-joint which have been referred to as the seat of injury the result of luxation of the humerus, the eircum- Jlrx nerve, which supplies the deltoid, is that which has been found most frequently injured. Indeed, from the manner it winds round the neck of the humerus to arrive at its destina- tion at the under surface of the deltoid mus- cle, it can scarcely escape being stretched and elongated, and such a lesion of this nerve we may well expect to be followed by a pa- ralysed condition of the deltoid muscle. The circumflex nerve has been found compressed by the dislocated head of the humerus, flat- tened, and firmly adherent to the capsule of the joint. We find in the Museum of Bartho- lomew's Hospital, (Catalogue, p. 124, vol. i.. No. 42.,) a preparation of a shoulder-joint, exhibiting a dislocation of the humerus, which occurred eighteen months before death. " The * Lemons Orales, vol. iii. page 140. head of the humerus rests on the anterior surface, near the inferior border of the sca- pula. The tendons of all the capsular mus- cles were entire; the long tendon of the biceps retains its attachment to the glenoid cavity. The cireumjlex nerve is compressed by the head of the dislocated bone, and was in con- sequence flattened, and firmly adherent to the capsule of the joint. The dislocation had been followed by permanent paralysis of the del- toid muscle." Artery. — Luxations of the head of the hu- merus havebeen found complicated with alesion of the axillary artery. This we believe to be a very rare occurrence. M. Flaubert of Rouen cites cases of this lesion to have occurred in the Hotel-Dieu de Rouen, as a consequence of the efforts made by surgery to reduce old luxations of the humerus. In the following case, which the writer thinks of sufficient im- portance to be here introduced, the laceration of the axillary artery was recognised a few minutes after the dislocation had occurred — and before any effort whatever had been made to restore the humerus to its place. Case. —John Smith, eet. 50, was thrown down by a runaway horse one morning during the summer of 1833; in about ten minutes after this occurred, he was brought to Jervis Street Hospital, when the writer, at that time one of the surgeons of the institution, was prescribing for the extern patients. The man was in a cold perspiration, pallid, and apparently on the verge of syncope. The writer imme- diately observed that the patient had a dislo- cation of his left humerus, into the axilla, and, proceeding to point out, as was his cus- tom, to the cluiical class the diagnostic marks of the luxation, he noticed that the cavity of the axilla was filled up to a remarkable de- gree. This sudden filling up of the Hxilla he immediately concluded could be attributed to no other source than to the laceration of a larcje artery. He quickly sought for the pulse in the radial and brachial artery of the dislo- cated limb ; but no pulsation could be felt in any artery below the site of the left subcla- vian, while the pulse, though feeble, could be readily felt at the heart, and in every external artery of the system, except in those of the dislocated arm.* The writer then observed to the clinical class, that in this case there were two lesions to be noticed, namely, a disloca- tion into the axilla, the features of which were very well marked, complicated with a rupture cf the axillary artery; in a word, be- sides the dislocation there was a diffused aneurism; the latter was unattended by any pulsat'on, so that he conjectured the artery was completely torn across. He did not long dtliberate as to what course was the best to pursue under existing circumstances, because he felt sure that, so far as the torn artery was concerned, if the head of the humerus was once restored to its place, this vessel would be in at least as favourable a condition * Mr. Brassington, now a practising surgeon at Port Eouines, was one of those present on this oc- casion.