608 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. parts, executed upon the spot, by a distin- guished artist. On removing the integuments of the axilla, the cellular membrane, which was extensively ecchymosed, formed a kind of cap, closely embracing the head of the os humeri, which, when the axilla was cleared, was seen lodged on the inferior costa of the scapula, or rather, on its neck ; the head of the bone, in escaping from its socket, had pushed the teres minor downwards, and burst through the lower part of the subscapularis muscle, some of the fibres of which closely embraced the neck of the bone, while the bulk of the us- cle was piixhed upivards, and detached from the inner surface of the scapula (Jig. 4.34.). F^g, 4.34. Aonltary dislocation ; recent case. (After Sir P. Crampton.) The neck of the humerus, therefore, was in some degree embraced by the divided fibres of the subscapularis muscle, while a portion of its head rested on the neck and part of the venter of the scapula, without the interven- tion of any muscular substance. The short head of the biceps, and the coraco-brachialis, were forced to describe a curve outwards, over the neck of the humerus on the sternal side, while the long head of the triceps crossed the neck of the bone obliquely on the dorsal side ; this strangulation of the head of the bone, by the surrounding muscles, was made most apparent when extension was applied to the fore-arm. The biceps and triceps seemed then to close behind tlie head of the bone, and interpose themselves between it and the glenoid cavity ; the tendon of the long head of the biceps remained in its groove, but the sheath in which it runs was partially ripped up. The capsular ligament was com- pletely torn from the lower part of the neck of the humerus, to the extent of more than half its circumference, the torn edge appear- ing like a crest over the head of the bone. The great nerves and blood vessels of the arm were forced to describe a curve backwards, by the pressure of the head of the bone, which was in contact with them. But the greatest injury had been sustained by the articular muscles,' as they have been called, which lie on the back of the scapula. The tendons of the supra-spinatus, the infra-spinatus, and the teres minor, were completely torn off from the humerus, carrying with them, however, a scale of bone, which was ascertained to be the surface of the greater tubercle into which they are inserted." In order to ascertain the nature of the ob- stacles which oppose the reduction of the dislocated humerus, the scapula was fixed, and the arm being raised to nearly a right angle with the body, extension was slowly ap- plied to the arm by pulling at the wrist; it then appeared that so long as the hand was held supine, the head of the bone remained immovable; the chief resistance appearing to be caused by the closing of the biceps and triceps behind the head of the bone. The muscles of the back of the scapula being de- tached from the greater tubercle, could of course afford no resistance; but, on turning the hand into the prone position, and giving a motion of rotation inwards to the whole limb, the extension being still maintained, the head of the bone glided easily into its socket. The appearances observed in this case are nearly identical with those which are described by Mr. Henry Thompson, in the Medical Ob- servations and Inquiries, while they differ materially from those which were found by Sir Astley Cooper; establishing an important fact, which, indeed, might have been inferred a priori, that in apparen'h similar dislocations of the humerus, there may be very different ki7ids as well as degrees of lesion, and conse- quently very different causes of resistance to reduction. " In Mr. Thompson's case," Sir P. Crampton adds, " as in mine, the head of the bone was found lodged on the inside of the neck of the scapula, between the subscapu- laris and teres major muscles ; but during the eighteen days which had elapsed since the injury had been received, the ceUidar substance of the axilla had formed a kind of capsular ligament, which embraced the head of the bone, and contained a small quantity of mucus resembling synovia. In ]NIr. Tnompson's case, the capsular ligamient was corajdetely torn from the whole circumference of the humerus. In mine it was detached to the extent of more than half the circumference. In both cases, the attachments of the ten- dons of the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles were torn off with the part of the bone they were inserted into ; in both cases, some fibres of the subscapularis muscle embraced the neck of the bone." In Sir A>tley Cooper's cases, on the contrary, although the tendon of the subscapularis was torn through, the su;)ra- and infra-spinatus muscles retained the connection with the greater tubercle, and " until this muscle icas relaxed, raising the arm, the humerus could not be reduced hy any efforts ichich he (Sir Astley) could make." In cases of dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, which have been left long unreduced,