SECRETION. 443 or from the soil, and combining this with the other three elements into quaternary com- pounds, that seem destined rather for the nutrition of animals than for any special pur- pose in the economy of the plant itself. The contents of the cells of the leaves are thus of a very complex nature; their life not be- ginning and ending with themselves, as is the case with that of the independent organisms, which in other respects they resemble ; but having relations to the rest of the structure, for which, in fact, it is their function to pre- pare the pabulum. For the elaborated sap or nutritious fluid, which is the product of their agency, is transmitted through the entire fabric, and furnishes each portion with the materials of its development and extension, which in every instance is effected by an act of cell-growth. All parts select from it the same substance for the formation of the cell- walls, but the cell-contents are different in every organ and variety of tissue. Thus we find one set of cells drawing in starch, another fixed oil, another resin, another volatile oil, another colouring matter, another sclerogen, another protein compounds, and so on ; and this with the greatest uniformity and regu- larity. We may frequently see that even contiguous, and in other respects similar, cells, in the same organ, either select from the common pabulum a different compound, or exercise upon the same compound a dif- ferent influence. Thus we observe in the parti- coloured petal of a hearts-ease or tulip, certain stripes or patches of diflferent hues, which, when examined with the microscope, are found to consist of cells that differ from each other only in the colour of their contents. A precisely similar phenomenon is presented by the epidermic cells, which constitute the scales of the wings of Lepidoptera. In all these cases, however, the products which are separated from the circulating fluids are stored up within the component cells of the fabric, instead of being cast forth from it; and although the term secretion is commonly applied to the process, yet it would be just as correct to regard it as part of the function of nutrition, it is, in fact, exactly on the same footing with the production of fat in animals. The absence of necessity for any other form of excretion in plants, than that which is carried on through the respiratory process, may be accounted for without much difficulty. A large proportion of the vegetable fabric is (from the nature of its chemical constitution) but little prone to decomposition, and pos- sesses a character so permanent, that it may remain almost unchanged for an indefinite time; and those parts which are of softer texture and more actively employed in the vital processes, and which are therefore more prone to decay, are periodically thrown off and renewed. In animals, on the other hand, all the softer tissues have a strong tendency to disintegration, in virtue of their peculiar composition ; and in some of them a destruc- tive chemical change seems to be the very condition of their functional activity. For the maintenance of their vital energy, theie- fore, there is needed not merely a constant supply of new material, but a continual re- moval of the effete particles. On this last operation, indeed, the continuance of the vital activity of animals is more closely and imme- diately dependent, than it is upon the supply of aliment ; for whilst the latter may be in- terrupted for a period of considerable dura- tion without producing more than debility, the former cannot be checked for many hours (in the warm-blooded animals at least) with- out a fatal result. Indeed, if we consider respiration as one of the excreting processes (which it undoubtedly is in a broad and philosophical acceptation of the latter term), we must say that tlie liberation of effete particles may not be suspended for more than a few minutes without death ensuing. Turning our attention, then, in the first instance, to the excretory organs of animals, we may define them to be groups of cells, placed on the free surface of a membrane, which is directly continuous with that of the exterior of the body, whilst its attached sur- face is in relation to the blood-vessels, &c. of the interior; so that these cells, having grow^n and developed themselves at the expense of the materials supplied by the bloo;l, are either cast off entire and conveyed away, or give up their contents by the rupture or deliquescence of their walls; the products which they have selected or eliminated being thus, in either case, entirely got rid of from the interior of the fabric. The disposition of the membrane on which the cells -lie, whether it be spread out on a plane surface, depressed into short rounded follicles, or extended into long and convoluted tubes, is a matter of secondary consequence ; nor is it of more importance whether the follicles be isolated, and discharge their contents by separate outlets, as those of the skin or mucous membrane {Jig. 307.), or whether they are aggregated in clusters, and Fig. 307. {Fig. 209. Vol. II.) Glandular follicles in ventriculus succenturiatm of Falcon and other birds. {After Milller.)