590 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. bicipital groove. It was remarkable that the acromion process and other portions of bone, Fig. 429. Case of J. Byrne. — Clironic rheumatic arthritis. a, line of complete division of the acromion into two portions; h, coracoid ]n'ocess; c, acromial end of the clavicle, worn by the attrition of the head of the humerus; d, tendon of the biceps adherent to the bone; e, glenoid cavity ; /, capsule ■^^^den- ed; foreign bodies attached to it. viz. the outer extremity of the clavicle and coracoid process, had acquired size and density., although their under surfaces were much worn and excavated where they formed an arch which overhung the hamerus. These appear- ances showed the great degree of friction and pressure from below upwards which these bones had been subjected to, from the head of the humerus being constantly drawn up- wards by muscular action. We also noticed that the acromion j)rocess luas traversed from within outwards by a perfect solution of con- tinuity, completely dividing it into two nearly equal portions. This might be supposed by some to have been a fracture which never had been united by bone — an opinion which, however, we did not entertain ; the two pieces of the acromion were on a perfect and uniform level, and the edges of the separated j)ortions of bone exhibited no evidence of any ossific de- posit, nor any such appearances as would lead us to infer that a fracture had existed. The glenoid cavity of the scapula was larger and deeper, and more of a cup-like form than usual. The cartilage of encrustation and glenoid ligament were removed, the sur- face of the cavity presented a porous appear- ance. Along its inner margin were arranged several round and firm cartilaginous granules. The head of the humerus was somewhat enlarged. The articular surface had become extended over the superior margin of the greater and lesser tuberosity. Much of the cartilaginous mvestment of the head of the bone had been removed, and its place supplied by means of a porcelain-like deposit. The line which marks the junction of the head of the bone to the shaft, was studded all round with granular elevations of bone (fg. 429.). Our knowledge of the anatomical cha- racters of this disease has now arrived at a degree of precision quite sufficient, we might suppose, to save us henceforth from falling into the error of confounding the morbid re- sults of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder with the consequences of chronic or acute osteitis, or with the ultimate ef- fects of accidents sustained during the pa- tient's lifetime. Nevertheless we feel called upon now to allude to some cases of partial luxation of the shoulder joint which have been published as the result of accident, but which we consider to be specimens of the chronic rheumatic disease of the shoulder joint which we are endeavouring to describe. Among these authors we find Sir A. Cooper, who, in his description of the acci- dent called by him "partial luxation of the shoulder joint, forwards and inwards, to the coracoid process," gives a case which he sup- posed to be one of this accident, and relates the symptoms to teach us how it may be re- cognised ; but for its anatomical characters he refers to an example found in the dissecting roon), the history of which was unknown. He says, '* The only dissection of this accident which I have had an opportunity of seeing was the following, for which I am indebted to Mr. Patey, surgeon in Dorset Street, ivho had the subject brought to him for dissection at the anatomical room, St.Thomas's Hospital. The following is Mr. Patey's account : — " ' Partial dislocation of the head of the os humerus.— The head of the os humeri on the left side was placed more forward than is na- tural, and the arm could be drawn no farther from the side than the half way to an hori- zontal position. *'' Dissection.—The tendons of those muscles which are connected with the joint were not torn, and the capsular ligament was found attached to the coracoid j^rocess of the scapula. When the ligament was opened it was found that the head of the os humeri was situated under the coracoid process, which formed the upper part of the new glenoid cavity; the head of the bone appeared to be thrown on the anterior part of the neck of the scapula, which was hollowed, and formed the lower portion of the glenoid cavity. The natural rounded form of the head of the bone was much altered, it having become irregularly oviform, with its long axis from above down- wards : a small portion of the original glenoid cavity remained, but this was rendered irre- gular on its surface by the deposition of cartilage. There were also many particles of cartilaginous matter upon the head of the OS humeri, and upon the hollow of the new