QUADRUMANA. 202 four-footed Mammalia. The same analogy with these appears in the disposition of the lumbar vertebrae. Their number is six or seven, and their articular or oblique processes are bifurcated, and give origin to a styloid process, which serves to increase the strength of the lumbar part of the vertebral column, and is therefore to be found in the greater number of the quadrupeds. There is no true sacrum ; but two or three sacral vertebrae, forming a conical series, are separately united to the iliac bones, in the same manner as in the Carnivora. The pelvis is much more elongated and cylindrical than in the Ckhnpanzee, and consequently more approximate to the type of the quadrupeds. The iliac bones are very long, but narrow, with a posterior concave, and an anterior convex surface. The pubic symphysis is very long; the ischiatic tuberosities are curved outwards, broad, and form a semicircular surface for the insertion of the ischial callo- sities, which serve the Mandrills as a secure and commodious seat, when they are disposed to sleep or repose after the violent and fa- tiguing motions which they habitually exe- cute. By all these peculiarities it is manifest that the Mandrill is much more remote from man than the Chimpanzee, and a superficial examination of the two skeletons (^g.y. 121 and 122) will be sufficient to show the great differ- ence existing between them. Between these two extremes are ranged the other genera of Monkeys of the Old World, as I have stated in the above-mentioned book. I take the liberty to refer to it for more details, and principally for the gradual deviation, by which the vertebral column of the Chimpanzee passes, by the intermediate forms of the Orang- cetan, the Gibbons, the Semnopiitheci, the Inui, to that of the Cynocejihali; but I think it necessary to make an exception for the Sia- Viang, because the anthropo-morphoiis disposi- tion is more distinct in this ape than in any other, and even more than in the Chimpanzee or Orang-oetan. The ascending processes of the superior surfaces of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae ; the inclination of the spines from the fourth to the ninth dorsal vertebrae ; the number of five lumbar vertebrae ; their in- creasing strength and breadth backwards; the form of their transverse and spinal processes; the true sacrum, and the quite anthropo- morphous disposition of the iliac bones, make the vertebral column of the Siamang (as may be seen in^;%. 123) approach the most to that of man. The same conformity with man ap- pears in the sternum of the Siamajig. It is composed of the same portions as the ster- num of man, viz. the manubrium, the body of the bone, and the xyphoidal appendix; but it is proportionally broader and shorter, and the body consists of two symmetrical parts. In the sternum of the Chimpanzee there is more analogy with the structure in inferior ani- mals. It has a separate manubrium, want- ing the semi-limar incision of that of man. It is connected with a series of osseous seg- ments, and with a xyphoid appendix. In the Orang-oetan all these segments, and some- times also the manubrium, are separated in two symmetrical parts. Consequently it offers the division proper to the sternum of man, in Fig, 123. Skeleton of the Siamang. (^Original, JIus. Vrolik.) the earliest periods of foetal life, but con- tinuing to exist sometimes by deformity, as has been proved by Otto* and Breschet.f In the other Monkeys, and principally in the MandriU, there is no conformity at all v. ith the sternum of man. The manubrium is * Otto, hi the above-mentioned pamphlet. f G. Brescliet, Rech. sur diffe'rentes pieces du Squelette des Aniraaux Yertebres; Ann. de Sc. Natur. Aout, 1838.