SEMEN. 486 windings, almost in the form of an S. Fig. 337. Clausilia, &c.), it exhibits two easy spiral quently in an irregular manner, generally Some measure but are sometimes larger, to the extent of t^'^^ above it. In the interior of these cells we meet again with vesicular formations, generally mea- surin^:: The contents of these vesicles coagulate on being treated with water, &c., into a fine granular mass, exhibiting some- times a simple or double granule of extra- ordinary size. The number of the enclosed vesicles, which evidently were produced in an endogenous way, is usually very small, mostly 1 or 2, more rarely 3, 4, or 6. The developement of the spermatozoa takes place in the interior of these last-men- tioned vesicles (Jig. 359.). According to the Fig. 359. Spermatozoon of Helixpomatia. easy spiral windings are also not unfrequently observed at the enlarged body. The mode of formation of these sperma- tozoa can usually be traced without any great difficulty. It usually takes place in the same way as in the animals already described, as proved hy K'dlfiker^s excellent researches. Even in the Gasteropods we may observe the deve- lopement of the spermatozoa in the interior of particiihir vesicles. The arrangement of these parts only exhibits some deviation. In Helix or Clausilia, in M^hich the stages of this mode of developement can best be ob- served among our native snails, we meet with in the interior of the testicle, besides the de- veloped spermatozoa, numerous larger and smaller aggregations of vesicles (in number varying from ten to forty), which are seated on the external surface of a round or oval globule (^g. 358.), which is in diameter to ,V"- On a nearer research, it will be found that this globule is not a cell, as one might sup- pose at first sight, but merely a mass of a Fig. 358. Group of vesicles from the testicle of Helix pomatia. tough substance, in which a number of small brown granules are embedded, exhibiting a great similarity with the yolk molecules from the eggs of Helix. There is no external en- closure around this globule. The periphe- ral vesicles or cells, which adhere to it fre- Spermatozoon of Helix pomatia in the interior of its developing cell. (After Kdlliker.) observations of Ko/li/cer, the head is produced first, being at first of a less regular, un- wieldy shape. The tail is formed subse- quently, attaching itself in spiral windings to the internal surface of the cell wall. On the s"cmatozoa being sufficiently developed, the vc .icle of developement is dissolved, and the spermatozoa get into the cavity of the exter- nal cell (fig. 360.). Here they may usually Fi2. 3G0. Spermatozoa of Helix pomatia in the ijiterior of their mother cells. be perceived with great distinctness, whilst they can but rarely be distinguished in the in- terior of the real cells of developement. At first the mother cells retain their original round form, even after the reception of the spermatozoa. They soon, however, on the windings of the fibres being stretched, extend themselves k ngthwise, and assume an ellipti- cal or pyriform shape. At a still later period the cell pushes forward (at the point where the heads of the spermatozoa are situated) a long pedicle-formed process, which contains the anterior extremity of the spermatozoa (Jig. 361.). The point of this process or continu- ation constantly remains connected with the central globule of the former mass of vesi- cles, whilst the posterior belly-like part of the cell removes itself further and further from it. The same att- chment takes place after- wards with the heads of the spermatozoa, on their being projected from the anterior end of this process, which usually happens soon. At this period the mass of vesicles reminds us