SEMEN. 500 staff, in the interior of which the spermatozoa are developed, is the produce of the metamor- phosis of this cell ; a metamorphosis which here appears in its extreme form, but which in other cases is less striking, and may even be entirely wanting. And then it is the cell in its unchanged form which appears as the vesicle of developement of the spermatozoa. Under such circumstances it might for the present be venturing too much to sever the mode of developement of the spermatozoa in the Decapoda, as a particular form, from the ordinary endogenous formation of these elements. We are not justified in so doing, until we have proved that in other animals mere nuclei exist as the mother cells of the spermatozoa. It is possible that such a proof may yet be established, indeed even probable, when we consider that there is also in other respects a difference in the formation of the seminal fibres between the Decapoda and other animals, inasmuch as the vesicles of developement in the former generally and almost constantly produce a greater number of spermatozoa, whilst in other animals they only produce a single fibre. As a circumstance of subordinate import, which need not influence our judgment re- specting the nature of the vesicles of de- velopement, we may specify a difference in the histological characters of these parts, which certainly at first sight must appear very striking. We meet with them either in an independent free state, or separate, or en- closed in a variable number within cells, which themselves not unfrequently hang to- gether in groups, or are even situated in a cyst-like enclosure. But all these differ- ences result solely from a different develope- ment and application of all the plastic capa- cities inherent in the cells. They are due to the occurrence of an endogenous multipli- cation, and are readily explained by the in- timate unity and connection which this method of developement presupposes. The formative elements of the semen ap- pear to us in their primitive form as simple nucleated cells. But it is only rarely that they retain this original form. As a rule they present only the starting point of a series of metamorphoses, which essentially are limited to a new formation of nuclei, or even of perfect nucleated cells in the interior of the primitive spermatic cell: a new Ibrm- ation, which, however, not unfrequently oc- casions the destruction of the mother cell. It is not yet decided in all cases in what manner the formation of the daughter cells takes place, whether in the usual mode of endogenous cell formation, or by enclosure of portions of the contents. It seems, how- ever, that the former mode of production is by far the more frequent one. Reichert has been the only one who has hitherto dis- covered a formation of daughter cells round portions of the contents (like the forma- tion of cells in the minutely divided yolk) in the spermatic cells of the Nematoda. If such discovery should be confirmed — should it even have a greater extension — we may then further presume (as Kolliker already observes) that these two modes of develope- ment are not essentially different from each other. The description we have just now given may, at all events, be sufficient to prove of what a merely subordinate significance are these differences in the histological arrange- ments of the formative elements in the seminal fluid. By a series of intermediate stages, we can almost every where readily trace the con- nexion in which the arrangement of the vesi- cles of developement stands with the simple primitive spermatic cell. Such a relation, however, is not only interesting on account of its enabling us to recognise an internal typical structure and developement of the seminal contents, and that in spite of their external variety, but also because we thereby discover that the primitive form of the male procrea- tive elements is precisely the same — namely, a simple cell — as that of the female gene- rative product, which is designated " the ovum." Having thus, by our preceding researches, arrived at the result that the developement of the spermatozoa always and everywhere ori- ginates from the same primitive formation, namely, from the simple cell, another question now arises, viz. the question respecting the relation of this simple cell to the epithelial lining of the seminal tubes. This claims our attention the more, as our conception of the epithelium, within a re- cent period, begins to be more and more indefinite, owing to the accumulation of ob- servations, by which the so-termed epithelial cells of the glands have been proved to be mere vesicles of secretion, the workshops for the preparation or expulsion of the products of secretion. The recognition of the connexion of the spermatic cells with the real epithelial cells is rendered very difficult by the various meta- morphoses of the former in the tubuli seminiferi. Nevertheless, some observations that have been made may perhaps akeady justify the inference that the simple spermatic cells are, in many instances, at least, identical with the so-called epithelial cells of the se- minal tubes. This appears with particular distinctness in the Gasteropoda, in which Meckel* and Kol- liker have already assumed such a relation, without, however, pronouncing it with that degree of certainty which our observations enable us to do. We may as readily con- vince ourselves of this fact in the Annelida, in Hirudo or Ascaris, as also in the In- sects, Spiders, and Arthrostracans : it being evident in all of them that the spermatic ceils constitute the only vesicular contents of the testicles, and form, in their primitive shape, a complete epithelial layer, the ele- ments of which frequently even assume a polygonal shape by close adaptation to each other. * Muller's Ai'chiv. 1844.