PTEROPODA. 174 superficially, either from the dorsal or ventral aspect, they have the appearance of forming one elongated mass. By means of a nervous band which connects them, the eight ganglia form a doable ring, seeing that the two lateral pairs of ganglia are, as well as the inferior, brought into communication with each other through the intervention of a cross branch which runs beneath tiie oesophagus. In addition to the eight ganglia above men- tioned there are likewise two small nervous masses (Jig. 113. 30, 5), situated one on each side of the anterior pair, with which they are connected by short nervous branches. All the nerves given off from these centres seem to proceed from the ganglia nearest to their place of destination. From the anterior pair are derived all the nerves supplying the parts of the head and the eyes. From the lateral pairs the nerves of the fins are prin- cipally given off, while the posterior pair fur- nishes nerves to all the hinder parts of the body. Eijes. — The eyes in Clio are situated upon the dorsal aspect of the body, in the constric- tion which constitutes the neck. In this situation the skin is drawn deeply around them, so that they seem to be lodged in spe- cial depressions appropriated to receive them. Each eye (fig-113. 31) has somewhat the shape of a bent cylinder, the two ends of which are of a spherical form. The external spherical ex- tremity of this eye, which is transparent, and constitutes the cornea, stands prominently above the level of the skin. By transmitted light it is not difficult to distinguish the con- struction of the interior. The middle third of the cylinder is generally of a dark colour, whilst the anterior and posterior extremities of the cylinder are comparatively transparent ; but, probably, in the recent animal, the dark pig- ment extends back as far as the hinder end — anteriorly, it is easy to perceive the existence of a transparent lens ; but from the small size of the organ, it is difficult to make out their structure more completely. In connexion with these eyes, delicate muscular fasciculi may be traced radiating in different directions, which would seem to have the office of turning the eye-ball towards any particular object. The only other special organs of sensation possessed by the Clio are the tentacula; but these will be best described in connexion with the head to which the}' are appended. Head-cowls and Tentacula. — The structure of the head of Clio is very remarkable; and, in its general characters, cannot be more ap- propriately described than in the words of Pallas. * " Caput contractum subgloboso- didymum est, lobo vel utroque vel aiterutro, imo quandoque neutro, antice papilla carnea (tentacidum) acuta, mucronata. Qui lobi sunt propne praeputia duo {the head-cowls) crassa, carnea ; hemisphaerica, contractilia, basi coad- unata, e quorum interiore latere emergunt tentacula (head-cones) tria carnosa, conica, * Spicelegia, x. p. 28. lequalia quae ori utrinque adstant et contracta in praeputio tota delitescunt." -P-'g. 110 (8 to 13). Anatomy of Clio. 9. Transverse section of tlie ventral fasciculi, as they pass through the nerve surrounded by the mus- cular collar (v). 10. Head of Clio, with the cowls half expanded, showing the conical cej^halic appendages (s), and one of the tentacula (k) protruded. 11. Head of Clio, cowls closed, and the left ten- tacle protruded. 12. The same seen from above. 13. The same, the cowls being -uadel}^ separated so as to display the opening of the mouth. (After Eschricht.) The above description will, however, be better understood by a reference to the ac- companying figures, in which the structures above mentioned are delineated on a large scale. In fig. 110. II the head is represented, seen from the ventral aspect with the head-cowls (a, b) closed together, concealing all the other organs except the tentacula, one of which (k) is seen protruding through an opening in the left cowl, that of the opposite side being re- tracted— while in fig. 110. 10 the head-cowls are shown partially folded back, so as to dis- play the conical appendages (head-cones) which the cowls enclose and protect. Each of the cowls (lobi, Pallas ; biicccB, Fabricius) seems, when more closely ex- amined, to be composed of two spherical parts intimately conjoined, of which the anterior (fig. 110. 11, a a) is the smaller, and the posterior {h b) the larger. The posterior spherical por- tions are continuous with each other ; they enclose a large cavity, which is, in its widest part, filled up by the penis; but, in its nar- rower and median part, contains the parts of the mouth — the oesophagus and the saUvary apparatus. The smaller or anterior spheres, on the contrary, are only produced by the folding of the skin over the head-cones, and disappear when these organs are protruded. In the fore part of each of the anterior sphe- rical portions of the cowl is a little flat sur- ftice, in the middle of which may be observed