209 QUADRUMANA. monkeys of the Old World and the human subject. Fig. 131. Laryngeal pouch of the adult Oi'ang-cetan. After Sandifort.) In the organs of digestion, there is much difference to be observed in the various spe- cies of monkeys. The Jlpes, viz. the C/iwi' panzee, the Orang-cetan, and the Gibbons^ offer much resemblance in these organs to those of vian. The stomachs of the four young Orangs- oetan, which I dissected, had quite the human form and structure. But in the adult de- scribed by Sandifort, the pyloric portion is separated from the cardiac by a very narrow constriction, and the tunics of the pyloric portion are very thick. In the coecum the resemblance to man is still more striking, by the existence of a vermiform appendix, which is separated from the intestine by a constric- tion in the Chimpanzee^ is continuous with the intestine in the Orang-cetan^ and is very small, and almost rudiraental, in the Gibbons. Consequently there is also a descending gra- dation in this organ, in the same manner as in all the other points of organisation ; for the appendix is wanting in all the other monkeys, in which the coecum is moderately large and terminates in an obtuse cone. The stomach of the other species has not the same oblong form in the transverse direction, as the sto- mach of the SimicB and of man, but acquires a more globular form, especially in the Ci/no- cephali. In this way it forms a transition to the form of the stomach in the Carnivora. A very interesting deviation is afforded by the Semnopiiheci, in which Wurmb, Otto*, and Owenf found (as I also saw confirmed in the S. maurus) a complicated form and construc- tion of the stomach, viz., its division into three portions : 1. cardiac pouch, with smooth pari- * A. "W. Otto, tieber eine neue Aflfenart, den Cerco- pithecus leucoprymmis, in Nov. Act. Acad. Caes. Leo- pold. Carol. Nat. Curios, vol. xii. p. 2. t R. Owen, on the sacculated form of Stomach as it exists in the Genus Semnopithecus. Trans. Zool. Soc. torn. i. p. 65. The paper of Wurmb is to be found in the Memoirs of the Batavian Society. VOL. IV. etes, slightly bifid at the extremity ; 2. a middle, very wide, and sacculated portion ; 3. a narrow, elongated canal, sacculated at its commencement, and of simple structure to- wards its termination. This complication of the stomach seems to be connected with the vegetable food of the Scmnopitheci, which consists only of fruits, and it is also a repe- tition of the divisions we find in the stomach of the Pleropi, the Hyrax capensis^ the Bra- dypoda, the Cetacea, and in the utmost per- fection in the Ruminantia. A curious fact connected with this sacculated division of the stomach is the existence of bezoars in the Semnopiiheci. They are said to be smaller and rounder than those produced by the goats, gazelles, and antelopes. A similar disposition of the stomach exists in the Colobi. Ruppell observed it in the Colobus gnereza, and Owen * said, that in the Colobus polycomos, the sacculation of the sto- mach is produced by the same modification of the muscular fibres as in the Semnopiiheci^ combined with a great extent of the digestive tunics. A narrow band of longitudinal fibres traverses the lesser curvature of the stomach, and a second band, commencing at the left or blind end of the cavity, puckers it up in a succession of sub-globular sacs along the greater end. The form and the size of the coecum, and the length and disposition of the intestinal canal in the Colobus^ equally corre- spond with those parts in the Semnojntheci. About the urinary and genital organs there are but few peculiarities to observe in the monkeys of the Old World. The urinary organs have the same general disposition proper to the human subject ; the male genital parts differ only by the existence of an ossi- culum penis, by the lobulated form of the glans in some species, and by the complicated structure and large development of the vesi' culcB seminales, especially in the Mandrill. In the female organs, the form and structure of the uterus are interesting: it resembles that of man, and differs from the divided and bicoj-n uterus of most of the other Mammalia. It is only by a more longitudinal, and we may say a more foetal form, that the uterus of 'the monkeys differs from the same organ of the human subject in the adult state; whereas in gestation, parturition, lactation, and in menstruation, the monkeys of the Old World offer a great deal of analogy with man- kind, as may be seen in the elegant descrip- tions which F. Cuvier gives of many species in his Hist. Nat. des Mammiferes. In the clitoris there is no bone ; at least Leuckart found none in Iniins rhesus, but he observed a bifid clitoris in Cercopithecus sabccus. Ac- cording to the observations of G. Breschet J. VAN DER HOEVEN and SCHROEDER VAN DER KoLK f, the placenta of the monkeys of the * R. Owen, Proceedings of the Zoological Society, p. ix. 1841, p. 84. t Tydsclieift von Natuurlyke geschiede nis en- physiologie intgegeven door J. van der Hoeven en W. H. de Vrese, Leyden 1837—1838, &c. &c. p. 357. G. Breschet, Rech. Anat. sur la Gestation des P