PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 87 times be seen in the urine coated with saline matters ; but this is merely a rudely analogous condition to those previously mentioned. (b.) Fcetal (petrifactions).—At the opposite extreme to cases in which a simple elementary cell becomes the depositary of calcareous mat- ter, stand those remarkable instances in which an entire individual becomes more or less com- pletely invested with a coating of such matter ; while subsequent desiccation of the tissues (with, very rarely, partial calcification of these) mummifies the entire frame. (c.) J'/amzte/.—Calcareous concretions are of not uncommon occurrence in the human placenta. Hannover found them in large number in twenty of two hundred placentiE. They are of white colour, rounded or branched in shape, and composed of phosphate of lime : generally seated on the uterine, rarely on the fcetal, surface, near the border. The age and constitution of the mother or of the child, separation of the placenta, and haemorrhages, appear to Hannover to be without influence on their production. (d.) Vascular. ^Arteries.—(I.) Parietal.— There are few conditions more familiar to the observer than the calcareous deposition in the coats of arteries, long erroneously styled " ossification " of these tubes. The saline materials, giving the ossiform aspect to the de- position, assume four different forms: 1. That of a gritty looking substance sprinkled over the internal surface of the vessel; 2. That of patches of variable size and thickness, some- times sufficiently extensive to convert a con- siderable tract of the vessel into an inflexible tube ; 3. that of small rounded or shapeless masses, protruding or not into the interior of the vessel; 4. that of prominent spiculae ; when their anatomical constitution appears more allied than under other circumstances to that of bone. Mr. Brande found these incrustations to consist of sixty-five and a half per cent, of phosphate of lime and the rest of animal matter. These proportions must of course vary in different cases : thus Scherer * found " ossified " arterial membrane composed of— Organic matter 7.292 Phosphate of lime 63.C3G of magnesia.. 10.909 Carbonate of lime 18.181 M. Bizot f has given a tabular view of the relative frequency with which different parts of the aorta become the seat of this condition; and from this we learn with more precision than could be otherwise attained, that the points at which the different branches are given off" are far the most frequently im- plicated ; and that the posterior surface of the thoracic and abdominal divisions of the vessel suffers more frequently than the anterior in the proportion of 11 to 1, The precise seat of calcareous deposit, in respect of the coats of the tubes, has been * Simon, loc. cit. p. 477. \ Mem. de la Societe Med. d'Observation, t. i. made matter of much disputation. We have ourselves found that in the aorta the new matter is thrown out between the middle and internal coats, and in the vessels of the limbs either in this situation or in the actual sub- stance of the middle coat ;—or, to use the language which the modern anatomy of arte- ries would require us to adopt, we should say that the saline matter is deposited in the aorta in the striated and longitudinal-fibrous tunics between the epithelial and circular-fibrous tunics; and also, in the arteries of the limbs, in the substance of the circular-fibrous and true elastic coats. There are three kinds of deposit, of com- mon occurrence in the arteries, set down by writers as the nidus in which saline accumu- lation may occur: these are the" atheromatous matter," the " white spot," and the " cartila- ginous patch." The origin and nature of these matters require to be briefly examined. The atheroma of the arteries and cardiac valves is a yellowish matter occurring in minute^ particles, hardly larger than grains of sand ; separate or clustered into small patches ; most abundant at the points where vessels are given off' from the affected trunk; obviously seated underneath a coating of epi- thelium, and even probably under the striated tunic of the artery, (as when an attempt is made to peel it away by raising these two coats, it is in part removed with them, and remains partially adherent to the deeper- seated tunics); and distinctly unctuous to the feel, when accumulated in any quantity. The substance is indeed of fatty nature. Gluge * found that " an enormous deposition of fat globules solely and alone constitutes this mor- bid state, and in fact even with the naked eye a remarkable similarity may be perceived be- tween the atheromatous state and certain forms of fatty deposition in the liver." Mr. Gulliver -j- has independently ascertained the same fact, and illustrated his description by figures.;}: The researches of M. Bizot have very clearly established that this atheromatous matter be- comes, with the progress of things, the seat of one or other of two series of changes, termi- nating in the one instance in ulcerous soften- ing, in the other in calcareous deposition. The stages of the ulcerous softening are four : in the first the yellow matter becomes slightly prominent on the surface of the vessel, and the superficial fibres of the " middle " tunic lose their natural consistence; in the second the internal membrane is raised into little emi- nences by the accumulation of a matter which is sometimes liquid and puriform-looking, sometimes floury and dry, and occasionally containing minute shining scales, some of * Anat. IMicros. Untersuchungen, Erstes Heft, S. 130, 1838. t Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. xxvi. p. 86, 1843. X We have occasionally found plates of cholesterin in greater abundance than oil-giobules, — a fact having an obvious connection with the established circumstance of the excess of _cholesterin in the blood of old persons. G 4