94^ PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. (b.) Fibrin retained. — The majority of pro- tein-precipitates are probably fibrinous. At least spontaneous coagulation (a quality be- longing to them alone) is by far the most readily conceivable cause of precipitation under the circumstances now pointed at. Fibrin occasionally occurs as a potential precipitate in the fluid of dropsies, a fact which will be further considered in Part II. (C.) Casein occurs in combination with fat in so-called "milky" urine. (D.) Globulin is practically unknown (as distinguishable from the other protein-com- pounds) in the present point of view : it pro- bably forms the substance of some granular precipitates. § II. Fat.— Considered in respect of their ultimate physical elements, the varieties of fat (known to occur as morbid products) appear as adipose cells, free-fluid oil-globules (olein); solid fat granules (mainly margarin) ; groups of stellate crystals (margarin and margaric acid) ; rhomboidal plates (cholesterin). Fat may likewise be incorporated in such manner with the textures as to be only chemically discoverable,—a fact often lost sight of in the examination of morbid appearances : phos- phurelted fat has thus (among other examples of the fact) been found in cancer. Of serolin as a new product nothing is known. Unhealthy formation of fatty and oily sub- stance is of almost perpetual occurrence. The fat produced is either similar (when viewed with the naked eye) to that naturally filling the cells of adipose tissue, or more or less com- pletely dissimilar. In the first case the na- tural adipose structure is simply present in excess, whence arise local or general obesity., fatty infiltration of parts, and lipomatons tu- mours. In these conditions there is little more than hypertrophy or excessive secretion ; and it is mainly in deference to usage that we shall, in another part of this article, describe lipoma as an adventitious product. In the second case the dissimilarity of the fatty material to natural fat, or the new situation in which it appears, gives it the character of adventitious- ness. Here we shall find: (A) certain va- rieties of fatty infiltration of natural or of adventitious structures ; (B) fatty matters ex- creted in the semi-fluid state; (C) encysted felts; (D) cholesteric and laminated fats. (A.) Fatty infiltration, (a) Liver. — The existence of oily matter, as one of the natural constituents of the liver, long since proved chemically by Braconnot, was some years since established with the microscope, by Fig. 89. Nucleated particles from the healthy human liver. (After Bowman.) a, nuclei; h, nucleoli; c, fatty globules. Gluge*, and more recently with greater pre- cision by Mr. Bowman f, who displayed the position of the oil-globules in the elementary cells of the healthy organ. Now fatty infil- tration may occur from superabundant depo- sition of the natural oil, or from that of oily matter differing from this in chemical con- stitution. (1.) The liver, when "fatty," is increased, in some cases enormously, in size ; its rela- tions of shape remain unaltered. It is, by far the most frequently affected equally through its entire substance ; but we have, in rare in- stances, seen the infiltration specially impli- cating islets of the organ ; its colour is pale greenish yellow or faded leaf; sometimes but rarely studded with reddish points; its elas- ticity destroyed to such a degree that it pits on pressure; its consistence greatly dimi- nished; its density decreased to so great an amount that slices have been known to float in water. Very rarely is this condition of the liver coexistent with other morbid changes in its substance; the vessels and ducts are un- changed in calibre and structure. The fatty nature of the impregnation is sometimes obvious on the most superficial inspection ; the hands and knives broufjht in contact with the tissue are greased ; and if a thin slice be placed on paper and exposed to heat, the fatty matter melts abundantly, and oils the paper. Gluge was the first to show that these appearances depend upon the accu- mulation of a multitude of free fat globules, with a small quantity of yellowish granular matter, probably belonging to the colouring matter of the bile. Mr. Bowman discovered the precise seat of the morbid deposition to be the interior of the elementary liver-cells : " instead of containing a few minute scattered globules, the nucleated particles are gorged" with large masses of it, which greatly augment their bulk, and more or less obscure their nuclei." Fig. 90. Nucleated particles from the liver affected with fatty degeneration. (After Bowman.) a, nuclei; b, nucleoli; c, c, fatty globules. We believe, however, with Mr. Gulliver J, that in this morbid state fat accumulates " in the interlobular fissures and spaces, as de- scribed by Mr. Kiernan, or at least around the surfiice of the lobules, where it forms a distinct buff"-coloured boundary to each of them. The ruddy-coloured hepatic lobules appear to diminish in size as the paler fatty substance increases. In a few instances it was principally seated in the centre of the lobules." Albers^ taught that the fat depo- * Op. cit. Heft i. S. 126. 1838. Lancet, January, 1842. X Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxvi, p. 96. I Rust's Magazin, 1839.