606 SEMEN. filtration were carefully washed with water: they were thus quite pure, excepting the ad- mixture of some few epithehal cells. The subject used in the investigation had attained full generative maturity,and was almost devoid of vesicles of developement. The spermatozoa were dissolved by cold solution of potash ; a certain cloudiness which remained was due to epithelia that were slowly dissolved. The alkahne solution exhi- bited a copious precipitate on the addition of acetic acid ; but the precipitate was insoluble in the excess of the acid, even by digestion. It was filtered off, and the acidulated fluid treated with potash, iron, and cyanic acid, but no cloudiness was produced. The sub- stance of the spermatozoa coincides, therefore, with the " binoxyde of protein" of Mulder; it contains no albumen or fibrin. A part of the spermatozoa were dried in a water bath, pulverised, and treated with ether. During this process they yielded a not inconsiderable quantity of fat (i'Oo per cent.) of a yellowish colour and butter-like con- sistence. The spermatozoa, liberated from this fat, left, on being burnt, a black coal, which could not be made white by burning, and had an acid reaction, which was due to free phos- phoric acid. The total quantity of fixed constituents, in which, besides the phosphoric acid, Hme was recognised, amounted to 5*21 per cent. Another portion of the expressed semen was treated with a concentrated solution of nitre. It thereby became considerably tougher, more viscid, and filtered with difficulty. On adding water, a milk-like cloudiness was pro- duced in the filtered portion ; it was, how- ever, precipitated in the same manner as the simple watery extract by the infusion of galls. IS'itric acid caused a slight precipitate of al- bumen. A second series of experiments was insti- tuted on the semen from the testicles of a cock, in which, however, the spermatozoa were only scantily developed. The contents of the seminal tubes principally consisted of cells of developement, which could only be separated with difficulty from the tissues of the testicles. The filtered solution abounded in albumen, but contained, on the other hand, only a slight quantity of the matter (mucus), which was precipitable by acetic acid, and insoluble in excess of it. The residue on the filter (cells of deve- lopement and spermatozoa) was dissolved in solution of potash. The solution yielded a v;hite precipitate with acetic acid, which principally dissolved in excess of the acid (albuminous substance), whilst only a slight quantity remained undissolved (binoxyde of protein). An old rabbit, when in the period of rutting, was subjected to a third series of experiments. The moderately turgid testicle was cut into ])ieces, and the milky semen expressed. It consisted of spermatozoa and numerous epi- thelial cells. The reaction in the testicles was neutral, in the epididmis it was slightly alka- line. It could only be filtered imperfectly. The filtered solution was cloudy, and con- tained many spermatozoa. The presence of a slight quantity of albumen could be perceived on the application of boiling heat. The residue of spermatozoa left on the filter, and which were only imperfectly sepa- rated from the fluid, dissolved with tolerable ease in solution of potash, and were precipi- tated by acetic acid. A very slight quantity only dissolved in an excess oi"this acid. Only a slight cloudiness was produced in the acetic solution by ferro-cyomide of potassium. These different experiments yield the fol- lowing results: — 1. Tiie pure semen presents the appearance of a milky fluid, of a raucous consistence, and neutral reaction. A slight alkahne reaction was perceived only once. 2. The developed spermatozoa consist of binoxyde of protein, the same substance which Mulder has proved to be the principal constituent of the epithelia, as well as of the horny tissues in general.* 3. The spermatozoa contain about 4 per cent, of a butter-like fat, as well as phos- phorus in an unoxydized state, and about o per cent, of phosphate of hme. 4. The fluid part is a thin solution of mucus, which, in addition to the animal matter, contains chloride of sodium and small quan- tities of phosphate and sulphate of the alkahes. 5. The imperfectly developed spermatozoa are composed of an albuminous substance, the quantity of which diminishes in proportion to the progress of the morphological develope- ment. 6. The perfectlv developed semen contains no longer any albuminous compound. 7. The semen in fishes, birds, and mam- malia possesses, essentially, the same chemical composition. Such are the statements of Dr. Frerichs. The most important inference derivable from them appears to us to be the fact, that the spermatozoa, in their chemical composition, belong to the same category as the epithelial cells of the animal body. This fact removes every doubt respecting the nature of these formations, — every idea of their being inde- pendent animals. The spermatozoa are there- fore (as proved both by chemical analysis and by microscopical investigation) mere element- ary constituents of the male animal body, which, like their equivalents in the female ani- mal, the ova or contents of the ovaries, are distinguished from other histological elements b}- their having a different physiological pur- pose ; they have less influence on the indivi- dual in which they are produced, but are in- tended, when separated from that individual, to give rise to the formation of a new one.-j- * Tersucli einer AUgem. Phvsiolog. Chemie. § 532. 560. t In sopite of this functional difference we cannot help regarding spermatozoa and ova as constituents of the animal organization. Eeichert, who declares them to be organizations of quite a peculiar kind.