406 ROTIFERA. two strap-shaped sexual glands and contrac- tionary system is indicated [by the presence of tile \esicles. Traces of a vascular system are eyes, which are visible in ten genera and tiiirty- seen only in a few species. The sensa- three species. Analysis ofihe genera. Eyes sent. ab-| J Eyes pre- sent. One eye in neck. Two eyes frontal. Foot fui'cate. Styliform foot. Furcated foot, r Styliform foot. Furcated foot. rDepressed shield. I Prismatic shield. Shield gaping be-1 neath. | Shield closed be , neath. "^i Shield L homs f Shield horned. without Four eyes. Furcated foot. 'Shield somewhat! compressed or prismatic. J Shield depressed f Hooded, or cylindrical. \Not hooded. Lepadella. Monostyla. 3Iastigocerca. Euchlanis. Salpina, I Dinocharis, Monura. Colurus. Stephanops. Metnpidia. SquameUa. In this as in the preceding family, there can be little doubt that the artificial character, the number and position of the so-called eyes, on which the genera are founded, separates species which are united by much more im- portant characters. Thus Dujardin remarks, that the genera Lejyadella, Metojndia, Sle- pkanopSy and SquameUa are separated only by characters which vary according to the nutrition of the animal and the time of the year. The same remark will apply to many of the genera of the preceding family Hyda- tinaea. The species of this family are found m both salt and fresh waters, and have a wide distribution over the surface of the earth. The genus Lepadella is developed sometimes in stagnant water in such quan- tities as to give it a milky appearance. Family 7. — Philodin^A. Character. Naked Rotifers with two rotatory organs. The body of these animals is mostly of a ten- uiform, cylindrical, or spindle-shape, with false articulations, by which, through its muscles, the animal is enabled to withdraw the parts of its body one within another, hke the tube of a telescope. The double rotatory organ, so evident in Rotifers (^Jig. 301.), is seen in all the species. In every species there is a fur- cated foot. In the genera Callidina^ Rotifer^ Acthiurus, and Plii/odina, appendicular hooks are found on the false articulations (^g. 295.). A muscular system is seen in Callidina, Acti- nuruSy Rotifer, and Philodina, Three of the genera have two jaws with two teeth, and two jaws with a row of teeth. A filiform in- testine, with a vesicular enlargement at the end, is seen in four of the principal genera. Intestinal glands are seen in four genera. The reproductive system is hermaphrodite in four genera, with an ovarium and male sexual glands, and contractile vesicles. The last are only seen in Rotifer and Philodina. These two genera and Actinurus sometimes produce living young. Traces of a vascular system in the transverse vessels of Rotifer oxid Philodina, and also in the respii-atory tube or opening of these genera, and of Actinurus and Mono- lahi^, are seen. Nervous masses are fooind under the eyes. Firt. 295. Philodina roseola. (After Ehrenberg.) a, respirjitory tube; b, alimentary canal; c, cel- lular mass; d, terminal intestinal pouch; e, anal orifice.