109 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. matter. Such cavities generally communicate with others, and always with bronchial tubes. Cavities vary in size from that of a nut to very nearly that of the lung itself; the edges of the lobes being rendered continuous by pleural false membrane, and the pulmonary texture destroyed from base to apex. They form first at the apex, and more readily at its posterior than at its anterior aspect, and very rarely advance jsari passu in both lungs. When of recent origin they contain pus and softened tubercle, with or without foetor, in the dif- ferent conditions already described. When of old date, on the contrary, they contain a dirty, thin, greenish fluid, with grumous particles suspended in it, and stained, or (as is most common) not stained, with blood. In rare instances fibrinous coagula, firm and adhe- rent*, which may even be the seat of vascu- larization f, are found within them ; and still more rarely portions of pulmonary substance, either gangrenous % or free from such change. Vegetable productions of low type are often to be found amid the contents or upon the walls of cavities of a certain age. The course and eveiit of cavities are points of extreme interest. 1. Their most common course by far is to in- crease in size, through communications formed with softening tubercle on their confines. 2. They become stationary, the tuberculizing process having ceased in their neighbourhood. The double membrane lining them acquires more and more perfectly the characters and properties of the structures forming the inner wall of fistulae ; and they cease to exercise de- leterious influence of any serious kind. The cure of phthisis is sometimes, according to Laennec, accomplished in this manner; but it is obviously necessary for the cure of the dis- ease, not only that the cavity should itself become innocuous in the manner described, but that tuberculization should cease in the rest of the lung — that the rest of the lung should be healthy. Now we regret to be forced to state that during a search of several years carried on under peculiarly favourable circum- stances, we have failed to discover a single ex- ample of this fortunate coincidence; nor do we believe (while to deny its possibilifi/ would be rash) that evidence has ever yet been furnished of its actual occurrence. ^ * Univ. Coll. Museum, f Louis. X Some time since a patient of ours expectorated a fetid mass, about the size of a large pea, present- ing under the microscope, and even to the naked eye, the characters of pulmonary tissue. This is the only instance of the kind that has ever occurred to us. § M. Louis relates a case (Op. cit. Transl. p. 19, case 3) in which a solitary excavation lined y^-ith. pseudo-membrane of recent origin, existed at the apex of one lung in the midst of healthy tissue; and considers it presumable that, if the patient had survived a short while longer, the membrane in question would have assumed the fistulous charac- ters we have above described: under these circmn- stances a cure of phthisis would have been accom- phshed. But in the first place it was not accom- plished ; in the second it appears extremely doubtful 3. That tuberculous cavities are capable of cicatrizing, and that they actually do cicatrize with very considerable frequency, was taught by Laennec,and has since his time been almost universally accepted as matter of established doctrine. We must nevertheless affirm that we have ourselves in vain sought for a single spe- cimen of cicatrized tuberculous cavity; nor can we avoid deliberately questioning the fact of such cicatrization ever occurring. The shape of fistulous cavities, the smooth- ness and polish of their internal surface, the fact that atmospheric pressure must act con- stantly on that surface, and, in fine, their struc- tural analogy to fistulae in other parts of the body, form so many a ^?n"ori arguments against the possibility of cicatrization. Laennec saw their force ; but certain observed facts led him to disregard them, and admit the reality of partial and complete adhesion of the apposed walls of cavities. These facts are as follow. (a.) In the latero-posterior part of the upper lobe of a particular lung appeared a deep de- pression, containing a material solid and resist- ing. From the centre of this depression a white opaque lamina, about half a line thick, and of cartilaginous consistence, extended in- wards, divided into two parts, and then re- united, thus forming a small cavity, which was filled with a yellowish-white, opaque, friable substance, much drier than common tubercu- lous matter. Here was (according to the as- sumption) a partially closed pulmonary cavity ; and, be it observed, Laennec never saw more than one such case. ()8.) In the upper part, especially, of the upper lobes, Laennec frequently saw t^ands or nodules composed of condensed cellular or " fibro-cartilaginous" tissue, with a depres- sion on the superjacent pleural surface, of variable depth, puckered, firm, and uneven, and with adhesion of the pleura at the corre- sponding point; the converging bronchial tubes being somewhat dilated in the vicinity, and obhterated in the exact site, of those bands cr nodules. Further, these bands or nodules were always situated at the depth of half a line, a line, or two lines at furthest, from the surface of the lung; and were or were not distinctly continuous with substances of simi- lar nature on the surface of the pulmonary pleura. Here were the assumed evidences of complete closure of cavities, — the puckering and thickening on the pulmonary surface showed that cicatrization had occurred un- derneath, but did not (as Laennec was often erroneously said to have maintained) in any measure constitute the actual substance of cicatrices. But it may be objected to this doctrine : — that the superficial puckering is often seen, where subjacent cellular bands or nodules cannot be discovered ; — that it frequently (for reasons which ISL Louis has anticipated, but not, as we thinl?, satisfactorily set aside) that the exca- vation was of tuberculous rather than of purulent origin ; and in the third the eventual assumption of the fistulous characters, in this particular case, is matter of hypothesis.