PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 134 cortical, undergo softening and rarefaction, and are gradually spread out into a globular sac. New bony matter is also thrown out, help- ing to complete the capsule, which is, even with this assistance, commonly imperfect. When developed in bones of very spongy texture, perforation may, according to Miiller, occur, instead of expansion; we believe that, in at least some such cases, the growth originates in the sub-periosteal cellular membrane. In this latter variety the form is less regularly spheroidal than in the other; but the texture is the same in both. The progress of enchondroma is slow; its effects fundamentally are purely mechanical. Adhesion of the skin only occurs as an acci- dental effect of inflammation : rupture of that membrana only from excessive distension; the resulting ulcer may discharge abundantly, and inflammation arise from this cause, as from external injuries, but not apparently from in- trinsic spontaneous changes. Enchondroma of the bones, hke every other affection of those organs attended with en- largement, has been described under the names osteosarcoma, osteosteatoma, and-spina ventosa—terms devoid of definite significa- tion. Scarpa speaks of it as " malignant exostosis," a double misnomer—for its course differs essentially, as has been seen, from that of cancerous maladies, and it does not necessarily spring from bone. Colloid cancer might possibly be confounded with enchondroma. We have already alluded to a rude mark of distinction between the two products ; further, colloid cancer rarely (never so far as our experience goes) occurs in bone, the chosen site of enchondroma ; the effects of the two products on adjoining tissues are essentially different — enchon- droma never infiltrates structures, colloid fre- quently does ; colloid never contains patches of bone, enchondroma does so commonly ; colloid is of protein basis, enchondroma yields chondrin, or (rarely) glutin. Certain sarcomata of the maxillEe have much outward reseniblance to enchondroma ; but thej' contain spherical cells with granules and fusiform corpihscles, and are besides of albuminous composition. § 3. OSTEOMA. The arrangement of abnormal ossifications has puzzled more than one pathologist. Excluding exostosis and hyperostosis (mere local and general hypertrophies) we propose to examine here all varieties of bone-produc- tion VI unnatural sites. We adopt this course, in order to avoid recurrence to the subject un- der the head of Pseudo Tissues, being aware that ossiform masses, having the generic attri- butes of Growths, ought alone to figure in the present place. Hypertrophy and new produc- tion of bone, as in the venereal node, are fre- quently associated ; and adventitious bone (whether springing from a new cartilaginous matrix or not) is very rarely perfect micro- scopically, perhaps never so chemicall}': two fundamental propositions. Adventitious bone forms (a) as an infiltra- tion of natural tissues ; {b) as the callus of fractured cartilage ; (c) as an osteophyte ; (d) as an ostema ; (e) as an osteoid ; (/) as an in- filtration of new products. (o) In the natural tissues. Articular carti- lages ossify in some situations with advance of hfe, as for instance, in the cranium; the ma- terial uniting eroded articular surfaces ossifies ; ossification of the costal and laryngeal carti- lages (perhaps more common in phthisis, in proportion to the age at death, than in other maladies) is af?ected by calcareous deposition in the cartilage cells and inter-cell substance, and by generation of new bone lacunre. Carti- lage miirbidly ossified, as that naturally ossi- fied, yields glutin and not chondrin. The anterior vertebral ligament is sometimes os- sified in tubercular caries of the spine. We have seen the tendons of the legs infiltrated with ossiform substance. The fibrous cap- sules of the spleen and kidneys are sometimes thus affected, and aponeuroses and fascicB are often, and the elastic ligamentum nuchae, more rarely, in a similar predicament. — Cellular membrane. The submucous tiissue of the gall- bladder; the subserous of the pleura (as a specimen before us proves) ; the subretinal; the intra-muscuJar; the parenchymatous (of the liver) ; are all the occasional seats of bone de- velopment. Muscle has disappeared and been replaced by bone in some rare cases ; the cri/s- talline lens has been similarly destroyed. {b) Fractured cartilage is healed not by cartilaginous, but by fibrous or osseous, sub- stance. (c) Under the name of osteophyte (Lobstein) we include ossiform products generated ex- ternally to, but under the influence of, some one of the natural bones. Formed from extra-osseous exudation an osteophyte may be separated from its parent bone, without necessary injury of this (herein differing from true exostosis); and is produced indepen- dently of, or in connection with, other pre- existing new formations. Osteophytes assume shapes singular and various, yet in some measure characteristic of their origin. Thus they are flat, and more or less broad in nodes ; narrow, triangular, and semicircular in cephalliEematoma ; Iblia- ceous, (yig. 97), stalactiform, cauliflower, Fig. 97, FoUaceous osteophyte of the clavkle; the folice (h) runninq at riqlit angles with the axis of the txme (a). {U. C:3Ius.) (U. C. Mus.), or stellate, when plunging into soft growths ; styloid when passing in front