366 RESPIRATION. with hydrogen gas * and the addition of a sahne solution, of the same strength as that existing in the blood -|-, will not impart to it the arterial hue, if oxygen gas be not at the same time present. The oxygen gas, there- fore, acts directly, and not indirectly by re- moving the carbonic acid, in changing the colour of the blood; but as a small quantity only of this gas is sufficient, when the salts are present in their usual quantity, to produce this effect J, the action of the oxygen, in changing the colour of the blood in respira- tion, will be aided by the presence of the salts. In the present state of our knowledge, there is some difficulty in deciding whether the reddening of the blood by the absorbed oxygen be entirely a physical action, or whether it be partly physical and partly che- mical, seeing that several accurate observers, who have recently investigated this point, have arrived at very different conclusions. The opinion, first promulgated by Dr. Wells ^, that the change from the venous to the arterial hue arises from an increased re- flection of light in the red particles, caused by the presence of the absorbed oxygen, and without any chemical change upon the haema- tosine, has of late obtained several supporters. Those who have adopted this view do not, however, agree in their explanation of the manner in which this increased reflection of light is effected; some maintaining that it arises from an alteration in the form of the red corpuscles, and that this change consists in the biconvex corpuscles of the venous blood, becoming biconcave in the arterial blood II ; while others believe that the action of the ox3'gen on the blood is analogous to that of the nitrous oxide on the solutions of * Bischoff, Dr. Maitland, Xasse, and Marchand. t Gregory and Irving (vide London ^Medical Ga- zette, vol. xui. p. 814. 1831:). Xasse (Wagner's Handworterbuch,&c., Bandi. S. 182) affirms that even concentrated solutions of mvuiate of soda, nitrate of potassa, and carbonate of potass, cannot impart the true arterial hue to venous blood, without the pre- sence of a small quantity of oxygen; and that when Stevens saw the blood redden under the air- pump, there must have been sufficient oxygen still present in the rarefied air to act on it with the aid of the salts. X Xasse (opus cit. p. 182). He also infers from his experiments that oxygen can redden the blood without the presence of salts (p. 187). § London Philos. Transact, for 1797, p. 41G. II Scherer, Eenter, and Gulliver. Mulder (The Chemistry of Animal and Vegetable Physiology, p. 341, 342.) also contends that the arterial hue depends upon the red particles assuming the bicon- cave form and reflecting more light, but he gives a verv different explanation of the cause of the change inthefoi-mof the red particles from the other support- ers of this view. According to Mulder, part of the oxygen absorbed miites with some of the proteine compounds in the blood in the limgs, and forms oxy- proteine, and this furnishes a thin envelope to the red coi-puscles, and by its contraction causes them to assume the biconcave form. This opinion is sup- ported neither by direct observation nor by experi- ment. Marchand (Journal fur praktische' Chemie, Band xxxviii. § 276, 277) and Dimias (Comptes Eendus for 1846, torn, xxii, p. 900) after separa- the salts of iron, changing their colour with- out entering into chemical union with them.* We may, in the meantime, conclude that the change in the blood from the venous to the arterial hue in the lungs, is a physical and not a chemical action; and that though there is pretty strong e\'idence in favour of the opinion that this physical change consists in an alteration of the form of the red corpuscles, yet it is not free from doubt. The various systematic works on Physiology are not included in the following Bibliography of Re- spiration. BiBLiOGRAPHT. — Mayow, Tractus Duo, quonun prior agit de Eespiratione: alter de Eachitide, Oxon. 1669. Lower, Tractus de Corde, &c. Caput iii. De Colore Sanguinis, Lugduni, 1722. Priestley, Observations on Eespiration and the Uses of the Blood, in Philos. Transact, of London for 1776. Lavoisier, Experiences sur la Eespiration des Ani- maux, et sur les Changemens qui arrivent a I'Air en passant par leur Poumons, in Me'moire^ de I'Aca- de'mie Eoyale des Sciences de Paris, for 1777, pub- lished in 1780. Lavoisier and La Place, Me'moire sur la Chaleur. Article IT. De la Combustion et de la Eespiration, in Me'm. de I'Acad, Eoy. des Sciences for 1780, published in 1784. Crawford, Experi- ments and Observations on Animal Heat, &c., Lon- don, 1788. Goodwyn, On the Connexion of Life with Eespiration, &c., London, 1788. Lavoisier and Seguin, Premier Memoire sur la Eespiration des Animaux, in Mem. de TAcad- Eoy. des Sciences for 1789; and Sur la Transpiration des Animaux, in Mem. de TAcad. Eoy. des Sciences for 1790. Men- zies. Tent. luaug. de Eespiratione, Edinburgh, 1790. Hassen fratz, Me'moire sur la Combinaison de I'Oxi- gene avec le Carbone et I'Hydrogene du Sang, sur la Dissolution de TOxigene dans le Sang, et sur la iNIaniere dont le Calorique se de'gage, in Aimales de Chimie, tom. ix. 1791. Coleman, On natural and suspended Eespiration, London, 1791. Vauquelitv, Observations Chimiques et Physiologiques sur la Eespiration des Insects et des Vers, in Annales de Chimie, tom. xii. 1792. Wells, Observations and Experiments on the Colour of the Blood, in Philos. Transact, of London for 1797. Sir Humphry Davy, Eesearches Chemical and Philosophical, See, Lon- don, 1800. Spallanzani, Me'moires sur la Eespira- tion, traduits par Senebier, Geneve, 1803. Bostock, On Eespiration, Liverj^ool, 1804. Henderson, Expe- riments and Observations on the Changes which the Air of the Atmosphere undergoes by Eespiration, particularly with regard to the^Absorption of Xitro- gen, in Xicholson's Journal of Xatural Philosophy, vol. vui. 1804. Brande, A concise Yiew of the Theory of Eespiration, in Xicholson's Journal, vol xi. 1805. Pfaff, Xew Experiments on the Eespi- ration of Atmospheric Air, &c., in Xicholson's Jour- nal, vol. xii. 1805. Lllis, On the Changes of At- mospheric Air in Eespiration and Vegetation, parts i. and ii. Edinburgh, 1807—1811. Allen and Pepys, On the Changes produced in Atmospheric Air and Oxygen by Eespiration, in Philos. Transact, of London' for 1808: and. On Eespiration, in Philos. Trans, for 1809. BerthoUet, Sur les Changemens que ting the red corpuscles from the other constituents of the blood, and washing them in a solution of sul- phate of soda, fomid that they still changed from the venous to the arterial colour on the addition of oxy- gen. Dumas concludes, that neither the presence of albumen nor fibrin is necessarA- to enable oxygen to redden venous blood ; and Marchand, after a careful experimental investigation, affirms that the supposi- tion that the changes of colour in the blood are from a chemical action, is attended vdxh. insuperable diffi- culties (opus ciL Band xxxviii. S. 278). * Magnus and Marchand.