Vertical section of the brain of the Orang-cetan. {After W. Vrolik.) compare these distinct views of the brain of the Orang-cetan with those of the Baboon represented by Leuret * {figs. 128,129,130), QUADRUMANA. 207 the inferiority of these to the Orang-oetan is so manifest, that it needs scarcely any further explanation. In the first instance, it appears that the brain of the Cynocejyhalns, and, ac- cording to the observations of Tiedemann, we could say the same for all the monkeys inferior to the Chimpanzee, the Orang-oetan^ and the Gibbons, differs from the brain of man : 1. By a greater breadth in proportion to the length, and consequently by a less elhptical and more triangular form. 2. By less development of the hemispheres of the brain, which do not cover the whole cerebellum. 3. By a smaller number and greater sym- metry of the convolutions, and less deep anfractuosities. 4. By less development of the corpus striae turn, thalamus nervorum opticorum, corpus cal" losum, and septum lucidum. Figs. 128, 129, 130. Views of the brain of the Baboon. {After Leuret.^ 5. By the want of digitations on the convex margin of the comu Ammonis. ' 6. By the want of the eminentia digitalis (pes Hippocampi ininor). 7. By the disposition of the corpora albi- cantia, which are united in one mass. 8. By the absence of calculous granulations in the glandula pinealis. 9. By less development of the cerebellum and of the pons Varolii. * F. Leuret, Anat. Comp. du Systeme nei-veux considcre dans ses rapports avec I'lntelligence, Paris, 1839, 8vo. All these manifestations of inferiority are not so distinct in the brain of the Orang-cetan, which approaches more to that of man. This approximation consists in : 1. The more elliptic, and consequently more human-like form of the brain. It is a most interesting fact, that the deviation, in the descending line, begins already in the Gibbons, the brain of which has a more triangular form, and less developed anterior lobes, than the brain of the Orang-oetan. 2. The larger cerebral hemispheres, which are protracted behind the cerebellum.