345 RESPIRATION. his experiments upon warm-blooded animals and reptiles, found that in some cases the quantity of azote in the air respired was increased, in others diminished, while in others it remained unchanged; but these changes in the quantity of azote did not equal the difference between the amount of oxygen absorbed and of carbonic acid exhaled. La- voisier and Seguin*, Allen and Pepysf, Va- lentin and BrunnerJ, and Dr. Thomson^, in their experiments on the respiration in the human species, detected no change upon the quantity of azote.]! Boussingault t, by a series of comparative analyses of the aliments consumed, and of the excrements in a turtle- dove, arrived at the conclusion by this in- direct method of research that azote was exhaled. Marchand**, in his carefully-conducted ex- periments on frogs, detected a quantity of ammonia in the tube of his apparatus, con- taining the concentrated sulphuric acid, and concludes that nitrogen in this combination is exhaled from the lungs and skin. From a review of all the experiments upon the nitrogen of the respired air, we perceive that though the evidence preponderates in favour of the exhalation of a small quantity of nitrogen from the lungs ff, yet that it is not sufficiently conclusive to justify us in stating that its operation is constant. It appears, * Mem. de I'Academie Royale for 1789, p. 574. f Opus cit. X Opus cit. § Animal Chemistry, p. 612. 1843. Dr. Thom- son says, in experimenting upon animals placed in vessels in which the air was renewed during the experiment, no diminution of the volume of air took place, but the case was very dilFerei^ when the animal Avas obliged to breath confined air. Nysten (Opus cit. p. 230) observed an evolution of azote in the hmuan species, both in a state of health and disease, when the same air was breathed several times. Marchand, on the other hand (Jovirnal fiir praktische Chemie, band xxxiii. S. 166), from his experiments on frogs placed in close vessels, con- cludes that it is exceedingly probable, if not certain, that, under this condition, these animals absorb part of the azote of the atmospheric air. II Vierordt remarks upon Valentin and Brunner's experiments, and the same observation applies to to the others on the human species, that the evolu- tion of a minute quantity of nitrogen, not readily detected during the short time each of these experi- ments was carried on, might amount to a notable quantity in the 24 hours. ^ Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. xi. p. 433. 1844. In taking the mean of the result of his experiments, he found a turtle-dove, weighing 2885-971 English Troy grains, evolved in 24 hours from the lungs 288-697 grains of carbonic acid gas, and 2-469 grs. of azote, or in volume 576-155 English cubic inches of carbonic acid and 7-689 cubic inches of azote,— a considerably smaller quantity than was obtained by Dulong and Despretz in their experi- ments by the direct method. This quantity of azote, according to Boussingault, constitutes the one-third of the whole of this substance which entered into the composition of the aliment of the pigeon. ** Opus cit. ft It must, however, be remembered that in the great majority and in the most trust-worthy of these experiments in favour of the increase of the nitrogen, the exhalations from the skin were luixed with those from the lungs. however, from the evidence adduced, that the nitrogen in the expired air is at least frequently increased in quantity in ordi- nary respiration, but not to the extent of affecting materially the percentage of this gas in the respired air.* Valentin and Brunner, in their carefully conducted experiments, could detect no traces of hydrogen, carbonic oxide, or carburetted hydrogen, in the expired air. By far the most im[)ortant chemical change the atmospheric air undergoes during its so- journ in the lungs, is a diminution in the quantity of its oxygen and an increase of its carbonic acid gas ; and it may be safely af- firmed that all the other changes in the respired air are of trivial importance in the function of respiration, when compared with this. There can be no doubt that the con- clusion drawn by Allen and Pepys from their experiments, that the amount of oxygen which disappears from the inspired air is exactly equal to the quantity required to form the carbonic acid that a[)pears in the expired air, is incorrect ; for all the latest and most accurate experiments have confirmed the general accuracy of the results obtained by Lavoisier and Davy on this point, and have satisfactorily determined that a larger quantity of oxygen disappears from the inspired air than what is sufficient to form the carbonic acid gas present in the expired air. Percentage and absolute quantiti/ of carhonic acid gas in the expired air, — The results of the earlier experimenters on this point are of so little value that we need not refer to them. The following results have been obtained by some of the later experimenters : — QUANTITY OF CARBONIC ACID GAS IN THE 100 PARTS OF THE EXPIRED AIR ESTIMATED BY VOLUME. Average. Max. Min. Difference between Maximum and Minimum. Prout Coathupe Brunner & \ Valentin j Vierordt Thomson 3- 45 4- 02 4-380 4-334 4-16 4- 10 7-98 5- 495 6- 220 7- 16 3-30 1-91 3-299 3-358 1-71 •80 t 6-071 2-196 § 2-86 II 5-45 t * Even supposing the nitrogen of the respired air to remain unaltered in quantity, yet as the quantity of oxygen absorbed is somewhat greater than what is necessary to form the carbonic acid exhaled along with the expired air, the percentage of the nitrogen in the inspii-ed air will be slightly greater than in the expired air when estimated by volume. t Thomson's Annals of Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 333. 1813. In some subsequent experiments by I'rout (same Avork, vol. iv. p. 331) the range in the quan- tity of carbonic acid gas in the expired air was be- tween 2-80 and 4-70, the minimum number occurring once only, and while he was sleepy. Prout's expe- riments were performed upon himself, and at eveiy hour of the day and night. X London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical aiagazine, vol. xiv. p. 401. 1839. These experi-