651 SKELETON. we shall have produced such a vertebra as Jig. ¥11. or 478., which, composed of the ele- ments 1, 4,5, happens in the tail of" cetaceans, saurians, fishes, and many species of even the quadruped mammalia. There are chevron os- sicles developed on the caudal vertebrae of the quadrumanous species. The caudal vertebra {Jig. 477.) having the chevron bones (4) and inferior spinous process (5) appended to it, is taken to be the typical vertebra by all ana- tomists. They regard it as containing all the elemental parts proper to all vertebrae, an opinion, the error of which I shall not here stay to point out, if it be not already demonstrated by what 1 have elsewhere spoken. Taken as quantities of osseous form, it would be as impossible to distinguish the same parts in such a " typical " vertebra, as either 9, 10, or i\. Jig. 479., and that which stands at the thoracic region of spinal series, as it would be to read the quantity a — b and a-\-b as equal. In Jig. 479., which represents the cetacean loins, it will be seen that the thoracic ribs 1, 2, .3, hold serial order Fis. 479. Tlie lumbar region of Showing a serial degradation of with the costiform pubic arch 7, and that this series is continued into the lesser quantities of chevron bones 9, 10, 11. This serial order indicates the homology of these several struc- tures. Prop. XXXVII. The sternal median line ranges from the maxilla to the pubic bones of the abstract archetyjml skeletal fabric. — In order to comprehend the truth of this propo- sition, the reader will have to exercise his mental as well as his bodily vision. He will have to expand l.is view over a large number of facts, and to compare these one with another, and sum together all the evidences, making them demonstrate the generaUzation which I here propose to establish. The ab- stract idea which general comparison has fur- nished me with respecting the sternal median series of osseous pieces, I shall endeavour to develope in the reader's mind, after the same manner in which it was furnished to my own ; and comparison of anatomical facts shall be my instrument. When I compare all skeletal fabrics by the sternal apparatus, I find that such an infinite variety marks them in respect to this par- ticular, that it would take a long and busy lifetime to make a record of one half of those varieties ; and, after all, it is most true, that such record would not be worth one jot to science, since it would leave us in the end no better informed as to the law producing this variety, than when we first began. The one great fact which I shall remark upon in reference to the sternal apparatus is, the Dugong^s skeleton, the ribs into the chevron bones. that it is a part which varies not only in several species but even in the one species, and that it is a structure the most indeter- minate and indefinable of all those consti- tuting the osseous skeleton. It is produced of variable lengths in the human body, and in every other animal species regarded per se. Now, assuming that the interpretation of sternal variety, and not the enumeration of it, is the sovereign and paramount object of com- parative research, I here venture to affirm, that there is no other mode of accounting for this variety, as it appears already created, or of interpreting the process which has yielded it, excepting that of regarding every variety of sternal apparatus as being propor- tional lengths cut from a whole linear sternal quantity, drawn in continuous order through the median line of the fore aspect of the animal fabric from end to end. The reasons which lead me to adopt this reading of the source of sternal variety are as follow. When I examine the human skeleton as a form isolated from all other forms of the four higher classes of animals, I find the sternal series of osseous pieces extending through that region of the median line in front where the fully produced ribs meet it and enclose thoracic space completely. This costo-sternal junction happens generally between the seven first ribs and the sternal apparatus. It is owing to this sternal union of these seven ribs, that the human anatomist terms them " true ribs." The five succeeding costal pairs he terms " false ribs," because they are