PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 95 sition chiefly takes place in the interlobular cellular membrane which has first undergone hypertrophy : he confounded cases of cirrhosis with true "fatty" change. VauqueHn found that by exposing slices of fatty liver to a gentle heat, incapable of causing decomposition of animal matter, their composition, as the mean of several experi- ments, appeared the following : yellowish con- crescible oil, 0.45; parenchyma, 0.19: mois- ture, 0.36. This fat unites with alkalies, and forms a soft soap with the usual properties. From a specimen immersed in boiling water by Dr.Bostock*, a quantity of oil exuded, rose to the surface, and, when the water cooled, was converted into a hard white sub- stance, physically resembling tallow. It be- gan to melt at 80°, and was completely fused at about 110°; in its chemical properties it generally resembled tallow. Of the causes of this condition of the hver little is known. The fact of its frequent exist- ence in France in phthisical subjects, already stated by Bayle and Laennec, was numerically proved by Louis.f This observer foimd fatty impregnation of the liver in 40 of 120 phthi- sical subjects, in 9 only of 230 persons dying of other affections; he also discovered that (uninfluenced by age) its proportional fre- quency in males and females is as 1: 4. An- dralj, speculating upon these facts, suggests that, inasmuch as, in consequence of the mor- bid state of the lung, a sufficient quantity of hydrogen is not expelled in the form of pul- monary aqueous vapour, this element is sepa- rated in excess from the blood in the paren- chyma of the liver, and there helps to form fatty matter. Mr. Bowman surmises, in a similar manner, that it arises from excess of carbon, (which it is the chief office of the liver to throw oft' from the system,) accumu- lating in consequence of imperfect respiration. But these conjectures are too exclusive in their bearing. Fatty liver occurs in non-phthisical subjects, whose respiration is naturally per- formed.§ Explanations of this class obviously fail to account for the unequal frequency of the fatty change in the phthisis of climates so closely similar as those of Paris and London; and leave unaccounted for the greater ten- dency of phthisical Frenchwomen than Frenchmen to the pecuhar change. (2.) The Hver we have described is the *' fatty liver," per eminentiam. But undue deposition of fat forms a not unimportant feature in other morbid states of the gland. In cirrhosis, for instance, as particularly shown by Gluge||, Hallmann^, and Valentin**, accu- * Bright's Hosp. Rep. vol. i. p. 114. t De la Phthisie, p. 115, ed. 1. X Anat. Pathol, t. ii. p. 598. § This condition of the liver is comparatively very rare, as we have elsewhere observed, (Physical Diagnosis of Diseases of the Lungs, p. 215.) in the phthisical population of this country. Of the nu- merous tuberculous subjects we have opened within the last four years, (1845,) not one presented this morbid state to any marked amount. II Op. cit. ^ De cirrhosi hepatis. Berol. 1839. ** Repertorium, 1840. mulation of fat, either free or in vesicles, is as perceptible a character of the disease, as obli- teration of the ultimate bile-radicles and blood- vessels and atrophy of the lobular structure. But we do not believe, with Oluge, either that this fat-deposition is the solitary element of the diseased state in cirrhosis; or that the "fatty" state of the liver already described (1) is the first stage of cirrhosis. On the other hand there can be no question that the^true history of this common disease is, in respect of its fatty element at least, yet undetermined. (3.) There exists a third form of fatty condi- tion of liver, of which we have as yet but little experience, but which may not be passed over in silence. We have now some three or four times found minute crystals of choles- terin among the hepatic cells, (gathered toge- ther in sufficient quantity to render the nuclei of these obscure,) in portions of the gland, of pale fawn tint, flaccid, fragile, and rather greasy in look and feel. In one of these cases the gall- bladder was greatly distended with deep- coloured but quite fluid bile. (b.) Pancreas.— The proper texture of this organ is sometimes infiltrated with fat, in such manner as to give it the aspect of being com- posed of that substance*, — a condition per- fectly distinct from that of mere accumulation of fat betw^een its lobules. (c.) Mamma. — The acini of the mamma are said to be found by Dupuytren similarly affected ; the observation, we think, requires repetition; certain it is, at least, that in fatty hypertrophy of the organ the acini continue distinguishable. {d.) Kidney. — The kidney is subject to dif- ferent species of fatty change, which have been confounded by writers under the general title of " fatty degeneration or transformation." First: in certain cases of atrophy the renal textures dependent on cyst-formation, or on chronic pyelitis (either of calculous or simple inflammatory origin), abundant accumulation of fat takes place in the cellular tissue sur- rounding the kidney and underneath the cap- sule, and encroaches on its proper substance. Secondly: unnatural development of fat may take place amid the tissue of the kidney in connection with similar atrophy, sometimes perhaps as the cause, more frequently as the effect of this morbid change. Thirdly: the kidney, in very rare instances, acquires the colour and many of the properties of " fatty liver," greasing paper, &c. In a remarkable case recorded by M. Pascal f, the quantity of oil present was so considerable that it exuded from the organ under pressure, almost as from a sponge. No particular symptoms ^/7;/;cfify to have occurred in connection with this state; but its symptoms and minute anatomy both require investigation. Fourthly: M. Gluge J, some years since, taught that one variety of alteration, found in the kidneys of persons cut off" with the symptoms of Bright's disease, w as * Lobstein, Anat. Path. pi. ix. fig. 1. t Journal Hebdomad. 2e serie, t. xii. p. 347. 1833. X Op. cit. Zweites Heft, S. 130. 1841.