REPTILIA. 320 of the penis a canal which at one extremity communicates with the cavity of the peri- Fig. 238. ostrich Section of the Penis of the Tortoise to show its internal Structure. (^After JBojanus.) 10, tendinous floor of urethral groove; 55', ten- dinous insertions of the retractor muscles of the penis; /, tendinous Avails of the urethral groove enclosing the peritoneal canals ; e, lateral cavernous substance of the penis; 4, median cavernous sub- stance separated from the preceding by the tendinous septum 9; 5, urethral groove bounded on each side by the cavernous bodies. toneum on each side of the bladder, and by its other end it is prolonged into the substance of the penis as far as the glans, where it ter- minates in a cul-de-sac, without being per- forated by any orifice throughout its whole extent. The penis of the Chelonians is furnished with two retractor muscles (Jig. 239. 55), which arise from the pelvis, and are prolonged as far as the under surface of the glans ; these fold up the organ into the cloaca in such a manner that it closes up the orifice of the rectum, and also that of the urinary bladder, as in the ostrich. Erection is doubtless produced by the action of the sphincter muscle of the cloaca. In Crocodiles the penis is likewise single, and not enclosed in a sheath like that of other Saurians and of Ophidians. This penis is conical in shape, and is grooved along the whole length of its dorsal region by a deep urethral furrow : it is principally composed of a fibrous and elastic corpus cavernosum, the texture of which is very firm. That portion which represents the glans is softer than the rest, being composed of vascular and erectile tissue: it advances above the apex of the corpus cavernosum, and is prolonged beyond it, so that there are two points thus formed, one situated above the other ; these points are united together on each side, and also in the middle by a vertical septum which di- vides the interspace between them into two culs-de-sac. The urethral groove is con- tinued as far as the extremity of the upper point. The substance of this penis is, generally speaking, solid, and composed of a very dense fibrous substance, without any inter- mixture of erectile tissue ; in this respect the penis of the crocodile resembles that of the There is no erectile tissue discernible except at the root of the corpora cavernosa, Fig. 239. The Penis of the Tortoise. A B, the rectum ; c, vas deferens; f, terminations of the vasa deferentia, in the commencement of G, the urethral groove; h, corpus cavernosum; i, the glans penis; k, end of urethral groove ; 55', re- tractor muscle of the penis. from which part it is continued along the sides of the urethral fissure as far as the glans, the substance of which it principally forms. The peritoneal canals, which exist in the crocodiles as well as in the Chelonian reptiles, do not in the former enter into the com- position of the penis, as they do in the latter ; they merely pass along the base of the penis to open into the cloaca by a wide orifice: neither have they in their course any com- munication with the body of the penis; an arrangement very different from that described above as existing in the tortoises, where they terminate in a cul-de-sac in the substance of that organ. In the other Saurians the penis is either doubled or bifurcated, each portion consisting of a conical or cylindrical portion which forms a sheath that during erection becomes unrolled like the finger of a glove, in such a manner that what f before constituted a cul-de-sac becomes, when developed, the extremity of the penis. When thus developed, the two penises protrude from the two lateral com- missures of the lips which bound the trans- verse opening of the cloaca ; when thus pro- truded, they are generally found to be studded