SECRETION. 456 economy. The cells of the woody stem have a long and almost indefinite duration, espe- cially after they have become consolidated by the fiUing-up of their cavities with resinous or sclerogenous secretions ; but those of the leaves, which are much more actively con- cerned in the vital operations, have a short and limited term of existence. The " fall of the leaf" is not the cause of the death and decay of the organ, but its result; for the de- composition of its tissues is already far ad- vanced, when its detachment occurs : — its functions have been fulfilled; its term of life is expired ; and it is cast off, to be replaced by a new development of cellular parenchyma, which in its turn will discharge the same im- portant function, that of preparing the ma- terials for the growth of the more permanent parts of the fabric. This kind of passive change is more constantly going on in the animal body than is usually supposed, espe- cially during the period of its growth and in- crease. A goad illustration is afforded by the deciduous or milk teeth. " We trace each of these developed from its germ, and, in the course of its own development, separating a portion of itself to be the germ of its suc- cessor ; then each, having attained its due perfection, retains for a time its perfect state, and still lives though it does not grow. But at length, coincidently, not consequently, as the new tooth comes, the deciduous tooth dies ; or rather, its crown dies, and is cast out like a dead hair; while its fang with the bony sheathing, and the vascular and nervous pulp, degenerates, and is absorbed. It is here especially to be observed, that the de- generation is accompanied by some spon- taneous decomposition of the fang, for it could not be absorbed unless it was first so changed as to be soluble. And it is degeneration, not death, which precedes its removal; for when a tooth fang really dies, as that of the second tooth does in old age, then it is not absorbed, but is cast out entire, as a dead part. Such, or nearly such, it seems almost certain, is the process of assimilation every- where ; these may be taken as types of what occurs in other parts, for these are parts of complex organic structure and composition ; and the teeth-pulps, which are absorbed as well as the fangs, are very vascular and sensi- tive, and therefore, we may be nearly sure, are subject to only the same laws as prevail in all equally organised parts."* All the epidermic and epithelial structures, including the secre- tory substance of glands, are continually un- dergoing the same change, by the exuviation of the old cells when their term of life is ac- complished, and by the production of new ones; the durability being different according to the particular endowments of the part, but also varying with changes in the supply of blood, which increase or decrease its vital activity. Generally speaking, those parts which live most slowly are those of which the dir ation is the greatest, and in which there ie con- sequently the least frequent change. Of the exuviation of epidermic structures en masse — a process altogether comparable to the fall of the leaf—\<e have striking examples in the entire desquamation of serpents, the moulting of the plumage in birds, and the shedding of the hair in the mammalia ; and in the shedding of the antlers of the stag, we have an example of the exuviation of a highly organised and vascular part, which periodically dies, and which, being external, is cast off entire. "What means all this," says Mr. Paget*, " but that these organs have their severally appointed times, degenerate, die, are cast away, and in due time are replaced by others, which in their turn are to be developed to perfection, to live their life in the mature state, and in their turn to be cast off? " There can be little doubt that a similar change is continually taking place, with more or less activity, in every part of the internal struc- ture ; the products of decay, however, not being at once thrown off, because there is no direct means of getting rid of them ; but being received back into the current of the circula- tion, to be eliminated by instruments ex- pressly provided for that purpose. Now, this interstitial change must take place constantly, during the whole life of the entire structure ; but its activity varies ac- cording to certain conditions to which the fabric is subjected. One of the most im- portant of these conditions is hent. It is well known that the tendency to decomposition, which is characteristic of organic compounds, is dependent upon the heat to which they are subjected : thus a compound which passes rapidly into decomposition at 100°, shall be much less prone to decay at 60°, and shall be permanent at 32°. And again, the vital ac- tivity of the several parts of the organised fabric is so dependent upon the same stimulus, that a very moderate depression of tempera- ture serves to reduce it, or even to suspend it altogether. Now, when the activity of a part is thus reduced, so that it lives more slowly, its duration is proportionally increased, and interstitial change and renewal are scarcely required. We have obvious examples of this in the activity of all the functions in warm- blooded as compared with cold-blooded ani- mals ; in the superior energy of all the vital operations of birds, whose temperature is 10° or 12° above that of the Mammalia ; and, on the other hand, in the torpor of cold-blooded animals, and of hynernating Mammalia, when the temperature of their bodies is depressed nearly to the freezing point. In the state of greatest activity, all parts of the body live fast ; their duration is proportionally dimi- nished ; interstitial death and decomposition are continually taking place; the results of this decomposition have to be got rid of from the body ; and a corresponding demand is set up for nutrient materials, to be applied to the renovation of the structure. On the other hand, a reduction of temperature, which di- Paget, Lectures on Xiitrition, &c. * Loc. c't.