438 SCROTUM. This fact is mentioned on Sir Charles Bell's authority, from whom we also quote the fol- lowing short passage : — "We would do well to remember this double office of the scapula and its muscles, that whilst it is the very foundation of the bones of the upper extre- mity, and never wanting in any animal that has the most remote resemblance to an arm, it is the centre and "poijit d'appui " of the muscles of respiration, and acts, in that capacity when there are no extremities at all. " Percussion and auscultation are constantly practised over the scapular region, the super- ficial position of the spine of the scapula causing it to furnish satisfactory results when percussed, w hilst the nature of the respiratory sound, in the subjacent portions of the lung, may be easily learned by applying the stetho- scope to the supra- or infi-a-spinal fossa. The scapular region is sometimes the seat of fui'uncular viflammation, and of anthrax, which selects in general the posterior a-pect of the body, where the sub-cutaneous areolar tissue is most dense, often shows a special preference for the scapular region. Here likewise practical surgeons are well aware that chronic abscesses ("absces froid ") not un- frequently occur. Collections of matter in this situation are generally unconnected with any other local disease, but at the same time indicate consti- tutional derangement, more or less profound. Chronic abscess in this locality is not always superficially seated ; it may have for its site the loose areolar tissue beneath the scapula, which connects the sub-scapularis to the ser- ratus magnus muscle. Here it may attain a great magnitude, and displace the scapula outwards to a considerable distance from the trunk. Fractwes of the body of the scapula are met with as the result of direct violence only, and occur less frequently than the slightness of the bone would lead one a priori to expect. The numerous muscles covering the bone, which form for it an elastic cushion, and its strong projecting spine, are sources of protec- tion to which the scapula is indebted for its comparative immunity from this form of injury. Ablation of large portions of the scapula, or even the complete removal of that bone with part of the clavicle, and the scapulo-humeral articulation, has been had recourse to in cases of extensive injurj' of the shoulder, as from gunshot wounds. (Larrey.) In the Hopital des Invalides at Paris may be still seen hving examples of the success which sometimes attends even such severe mutilations; whilst the records of British sur- gery also furnish successful instances of the complete removal of the scapula, scapular end of the clavicle, and upper extremity, for tumours of great magnitude occupying the region of the shoulder, of w hich the cases by Mr. Fergusson and the late Mr. Liston are amongst the most remarkable. {B. Geo, M'Dowel.) SCROTUM. Latin, per metath. a scor- turn, i. e. pellis ; koovkoc, wrx^oc, 6\fvc, Gr. ; der Hodeiuack, Germ. Neither the Endish nor French language appears to have retained any word exclusively significant of this part of the body. In the former tongue, the Saxon word' " cod," a husk, or shelT, or bag, seems to have been originally applied to it in common with other legumentary tissues ; e. g. " peascods." Subsequently, however, the meaning of the word was extended, and from the containing tissues came to imply the contents. It is now obsolete, and the only term popularly retained in both languages is *' the purse,' " les bourses,"^ either in allusion to the scrotum resembling a purse, or from its tegumenlary nature (orpcra, pellis). The scrotum is the pouch or fold of integu- ment in which the testicles are placed, where they occupy an external position. It is com- posed of skin and areolar tissue, and is plen- tifully supplied with vessels and nerves. It contains the testicles, their cremaster rauscie, and serous membrane, together with their ar- teries, veins, nerves, and efferent duct, and a considerable length of the spermatic cord, which continues these into the abdominal canty. The skin of the scrotum is continuous above and in the middle hue with that which covers the inferior or urethral surface of the penis, and on each side with that of the lower part of the belly, the inguinal region, and the inner side of the thigh : behind, it is continuous with the perineum. Its colour is darker than the neighbouring in- tegument, and in the adult its surfiace is sparmgly occupied with hair; in health it is rendered irregular by the presence of nu- merous rugae or furrows, the larirer of which take a transverse direction. The median line offers a prominence which extends back- wards to the anus, and which, from its like- ness to a suture, modem anatomists have named the raphe* {oaoi), sutura). The areolar tissue of the scrotum is conti- nuous with, or, in anatomical language, de- rived from, that of the perineal and inguinal regions. The more superficial or subcuta- neous fascia, together with that deeper lavCT which is attached to Poupart's ligament and to the ramus of the pubes, converges towards the scrotum; the two layers uniting t^ en- sheath the spermatic cord and testicle of each side in a cylindrical prolongation, the apposi- tion of the two bags in the middle line form- ing a common partition, the septum scroti. The texture of this covering of areolar tissue is peculiar, or even sui generis, and perhaps led to its receiving the appellation of the dartos (^caproCf tunica). It is xery deli- cate, and highly elastic, and is usually of a reddish or pink colour ; but it is not unlikely that this phenomenon maybe of post-mortem occurrence : and it has the additional pecu- liarity of being destitute of the fat which is * Its prof>er Greek name is iff*s- The etymology of the word is unknown, but it is used by Aris- tophanes and GaJen.