648 SKELETON. While clavicles, coracoid bones, and ribs appear identical, we then can readily under- stand liovv a bird or re[)tile may possess two or more clavicles, according as the laws of form shall subject two or more of the original costae to clavicular modification. The cla- vicles, therefore, of the mammal and the cla- vicles and coracoids of the bird or reptile being costal quantities under metamorphosis, these bodies are to be regarded as the ribs proper to those cervical vertebrae, opposite to which they af)pear in all skeletal forms.* Prop. XXXV. Marsupial bones, pubic and ischiadic bones, and ribs, are identical parts of the costo-vertebral luhole quantities or archetypes. — Wherever we find these parts, viz. sternum, rib, and vertei)ral piece, occurring in skeletal fabrics, we shall never find that they take the place of each other. The sternum, even when appearing isolated from the other parts, is still holding its proper locality at the median line in front. The rib is always found laterally, and the vertebral piece always behind. The sternal pieces hold serial order, and hence we know them throughout all variety of modifi- cation. The costae in like manner hold serial order, and hence we also recognise these parts. The vertebral pieces hold their own serial order, and thus we know them. The costal, the sternal, and the vertebral serial orders are never interrupted by the introduction of a new and unknown element among the bodies which form each serial line. There never occurs among the vertebral pieces behind any other thing which by being diffbrm to vertebrae, may disconnect that vertebral series. The same remarks apply to the sternal bodies in ii'ont, and the same to the costal pieces ar- ranged laterally. Every body which holds serial order with the sternal bone is a sternal bone, and constituting sternal serial order. Every body which holds serial order with a vertebral bone is a vertebral bone, and consti- tuting vertebral order. Every body, also, which takes serial order with a rib is a rib, and constitutes costal-serial order. Every body, therefore, which on first sight shall seem to be specifically distinct from that order with which it holds series, is in fact only rendered special in such order by modification; origin- allv it is identical with all the pieces of that same order. Just as the clavicle and coracoid bone hold series with ribs, and are ribs originally, but rendered special by modification, so does it appear that the marsupial, the pubic, and is- chiadic bones, which hold serial order with ribs are ribs originally, but now presenting in such conditions of modification as we mark by * The same reasoning which leads the author of the " Homologies" to refer thecoraco-scapular arch to the occipital vertebra, induces him to pronounce the mammal clavicle to be naturally related to the atlas vertebra. Now, I cannot understand why the author's views, which are certainly correct, in so far as he is led to believe the pair of clavicles to be the inferior arch of some one of the cer\ncal vertebrre, should make choice of the atlas so remote, in prefer- ence to that cervical vertebra, opposite which the clavicles appear. nomenclateric difference. A clavicle, a cora coid bone, a marsupial bone, a pubic bone, and an ischiadic bone, are thus differently named in order to point to their several sj^ecialitits of caste. But through these special characters their costiform original character is still visible, and therefore I call them ribs modified. These modifications which clavicles, coracoids, mar- supial, pubic, and ischiadic bones present, when contrasted with each other and with rihs, are in reality of no greater amount than those varieties which are apparent among those bodies which we name ribs, enduring as such through the skeletal axis. At the present day we well know that the thing named rib is not necessarily confined to that region of the skeletal axis named thorax. Ribs are found embracing the ventral region of fishes, and all spinal regions of ophidians. Ribs of unequi- vocal character are also developed embracing the venter of Saurians. Ribs are jutting out laterally from the loins of the draco volans, supporting the parachute of that animal. In fact we can readily distinguish the costal cha- racter of many bones, even though they are separated from their proper vertebral centres behind. See these osseous quantities, which project from the sternal bone behind, ensheath- ing the venter of the bird's, and the Saurian's skeleton, and standing free from the lumbar vertebral pieces, to which, nevertheless, they refer, — are they not ribs, which special laws have dissevered from the spinal axis behind ? It is not, therefore, necessary to the bone named costa, that it should always hold at- tached to the vertebral form posteriorly, and to the sternal form anteriorly. And why, therefore, not extend the name costa to those Fig. 473. c osseous parts which do not present greater varieties compared to ribs, than ribs do when compared to each other. The law of serial