200 QUADRUMANA. bones, and meets there the sagittal suture, which is evidently a proof of inferiority, as A. G. Otto indicated a few years ago.* The depressed chin, the narrowness of the inter- orbital space, the single nasal bone in most of the genus, are the other characters by which the Semnopitheci show their lower rank in the animal kingdom. This lower rank, however, is much more evident in the Inui, in which the prominent bony muzzle, the elevated superciliary ridges, the depressed forehead, the flat receptacle for the brain, the chin falling backwards, the long and narrow palate, the single nasal bone, ap- proach to the form of many Carnivora, and manifest an evident inferiority. The facial suture of the intermaxillary crone disappears only in the very old ones. All this is still more apparent in the Inuus sylvanus {fig. 119), Fig, 119. 8hdl of Inuus sylvanus. (^Original, Mus. Zoot Soc. Amsterdam.) in which the face is more flat and the chin more depressed than in the other species. In the skull of an adult, I found the facial suture of the intermaxillary bone almost obliterated. In no monkeys, after all, the expression of animality is more distinct than in the CT/nO" cephali(fig. 120), in which the contracted fore- Fig. 120. Skull of Cynocephalus porcarius. (^Original, Mus. G. Vrolik.) head, the flattened occiput, the formidable canine teeth, the huge jaws, the strong ex- panded zygomatic arches, the largely deve- loped cranial ridges, the projecting superciliar tuberosities, and the small extension of the cerebral cavity, contribute to form a hideous aspect, principally in the Mandrill, in which * A. G. Otto, De rarioribus quibusdam Sceleti humani cum Animalium Sceleto Analogiis. Vratis- lavise, 1839, p. 9. the convex supermaxillary ridges give an ad- ditional feature to their ferocious appearance. For the description of the skeleton of the monkeys of the old world, we shall select the two extremes, the Chimpanzee and the Mandrill, {figs. 121 and 122). The vertebral column of Fig. 121. Skeleton of tlie Cliimpanzee. (After Owen.) the C/iimpa7izeepvesentshut few deviations from that of the human subject. The number of true vertebrcB is the same, but an additional pair of ribs takes one from the lumbar, to be added to the dorsal or costal series. The spines of the seven cervical vertebrae are simple and elongated, not short and bifurcated as in the human subject; that of the third vertebra is the shortest, with the exception of the atlas, where the spine is wanting. The bodies of the lumbar vertebrcs are proportion- ally smaller in the Chimpanzee than in man, where they are enlarged in reference to his erect position. This difference from the bi-