333 RESPIRATION. "tory membrane is closely packed in a par- ticular part of the organism, and the function of respiration is at the same time energetic as in the Mammalia, the blood is circulated with great activity, and in great quantity, through vessels distributed in this membrane, and appropriated solely to this purpose. When the respiratory membrane is extensively dif- fused, as in insects, throughout the organism, and the atmospheric air is brought into contact with it in the different tissues, a particular set of canals for carrying the nutritious juices to and from the respiratory membrane is not required ; and were we, in such animals, to examine the circulatory apparatus without any reference to the nature of the respiratory apparatus, we could not understand how a circulatory apparatus, apparently so imperfect, is yet equally efficient in carrying on the nutri- tive processes as in other animals where its mechanism is much more complicated. Apparatus for renewing the air in tJie lungs in the human species. — In man, as in the other Mammalia, this consists of three distinct parts : — 1st, of a movable framework composed of articulated bones and cartilages, but chiefly of the former, termed the thorax ; 2dly, of muscles for enlarging and diminishing the capacity of the thorax ; 3dly, of nerves through which the movements of these muscles are excited and regulated. The uses of this apparatus are not, however, restricted to respiration. The bones of the thorax furnish a certain degree of protection to the lungs, heart, and other important parts enclosed by them ; and during certain violent efforts of the voluntary muscles, as in lifting a weight, they are no longer mobile as in the respiratory move- ments, but are rendered fixed, and afford a firm and steady point d'appui to the powerful muscles passing between the external surface of the thorax and the thoracic extremities, during their contraction. The same muscles which act involuntarily in dilating and contracting the chest in respiration, are frequently engaged in the performance of voluntary muscular movements, as in articulate speech, straining, &c. They also, in connexion with other muscles, or even alone, perform various in- voluntary muscular movements which are not respiratory, as in the excito-motory movements of coughing, sneezing, defecation, and urin- ation, and in the sensational and emotional involuntary muscular movements of laughter, sighing, yawning, vomiting, &c. The thorax can be enlarged in all its dia- meters by the action of its muscles, — in the vertical or atlanto-sacral, in the antero-pos- terior or vertebro-sternal, and in the trans- verse. Its enlargement in the antero-posterior and transverse directions is effected by the elevation of the ribs, and its enlargement in the vertical direction by the descent of the diaphragm, and by the elevation of the upper part of the thorax, but chiefly by the former. As the ribs in the human species differ in length, in the degree of their incUnation to the spine,* in the form and extent of their curva- ture, in the manner in which the anterior extremities of their cartilages of prolongation terminate, and in some other anatomical points which must influence their mode of action, the phenomena attending the elevation of the ribs are not the same over all parts of the chest, but it will be sufficient for our present purpose to state the general effects of these movements.* As the osseous arches formed by the ribs are so inclined upon the vertebral column that their lower edges form acute angles with that column, and their anterior or sternal are placed lower than their vertebral ends, and as their vertebral or posterior ends have a very limited extent of motion f, their elevation brings them to or near the horizontal plane, and carries forward their sternal extremities ; and as the greater num- ber of the ribs are attached to the sternum through their cartilages of prolongation, this bone must by this movement be pushed for- wards, and the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax be enlarged. The transverse diameter of the thorax is increased by the circumstance that the ribs during their elevation do not simply ascend, but perform a slight rotation round an axis passing between their anterior and posterior extremities, by which two effects are pro- duced ; 1st, their lower, which form a segment of a somewhat larger circle than their upper edges, are turned somewhat outwards, and the upper slightly inwards, so that the con- cavities of the arches formed by the ribs are now perpendicular, or nearly so, to the median plane of the body, instead of being oblique as before their elevation ; 2dly, the middle portion of the greater number of ribs, which before was placed below a straight line passing through their two extremities, in consequence of the shaft of the rib bending upwards near the sternal end at what has been termed the anterior angle, is now placed on the same plane with the two extremities, and the whole rib rendered horizontal. This rotatory motion is greater at the middle of certain of the ribs as they rotate upon their two extremities, so that each rib in the performance of this move- ment may be considered as forming two levers, the two extremities being the pivots, and the middle of the ribs the ends of the levers most remote from the pivots.J The forward move- ment of the sternum is greater at its lower than at its upper part, in consequence of the greater length and inclination of the lower vertebro-sternal or true ribs, and the greater length of their cartilages, and the more acute * Mr. Sibson has lately (Philos. Transact, of London, Part IV. for 1846, p. 528) given an elabo- rate analysis of the movements of the thorax in respiration. Dr. Hutchinson has also lately (Me- dico-Chinu-gical Transactions of London, vol. xxix. 1846, p. 183) published some of the residts of his observations on this subject. t According to the observations of Haller (Ele- ment. Physiologia?, torn. iii. p. 23. 1766) the great- est movement at the vertebral extremity of a rib is scarcely the one-sixth part of a line. X These observations do not apply to the inferior ribs, especially the two last or floating ribs, as they are depressed in inspiration, and not elevated.