14 POLYGASTRIA. The genus Chilodon presents a very simi- lar organisation, but is remarkable from the circumstance that its mouth is furnished with a tubular fasciculus of setaceous teeth, while the anterior part of its body is advanced forward in the shape of an expanded membrane or prolonged on one side, so as to form an auriculated appendage. In Nassula, likewise, a similar dental structure exists, but this will be best described hereafter. Nutritive system.—By employing coloured organic substances as food for these animalcules, Ehrenberg at length succeeded in developing the organisation of the nutritive apparatus in these microscopic beings. For this purpose he made use of pure indigo, carmine, sap- green, and other vegetable colouring substances which are insoluble in but miscible with water, very finely levigated, and which the animal- cules readily swallow, so that in a few minutes the coloured particles are distinctly visible in the interior of their transparent bodies. From observations conducted in this manner the following results were obtained :—1st. That there is no absorption of the coloured fluid through the general integument of the bodies of infusorial animalcules, although this was formerly supposed to be the only manner in which they could be nourished; but, on the contrary, that they were all furnished with a special mouth and internal nutritive apparatus. 2nd. That the smallest species of Infusoria which can be observed with our instruments, even those not more than of a hne in length, have an internal set of nutritive organs as well as the largest, so that in the Monads even four, six, or eight sacculi are visible in the interior of the body, which are obviously filled through an oral aperture. In the genera Enchelis, Paramecium, and Kolpoda, moreover, an intestiniform tube was discovered traversing the whole length of the body, and opening by a distinct anal orifice. To this central canal are appended numerous blind vesicles, giving the whole apparatus the appearance of a bunch of grapes. In Para- mecium aurelia and Paramecium chrysalis Ehrenberg counted from one to two hundred of these vesicles, which became filled with blue, red, or green, according to the colouring matter employed. We have, however, already, in the prece- ding pages, described the different arrange- ment of the alimentary canal in the va- rious forms of polygastric animalcules, so that few further observations are necessary in this place. Whoever wishes to observe these little beings swallow coloured food, and thus witness the filling of the nutritive sacculi, must, in order to avoid disappointment, carefully observe that the materials he employs are per- fectly pure, the indigo, carmine, and sap green sold in the shops being generally so much adulterated that the animalcules refuse to swal- low it; secondly, that it be reduced by leviga- tion to the most extreme state of division— grinding it for a length of time with water on a slab, with a muUer, is the best way to ac- complish this. When thus prepared, by placing a little with a camel's hair brush in the drop of water which contains the animalcules, but very few minutes are required with some species to exhibit numerous vesicles filled with the co- loured substance. When filled, Ehrenberg has observed that sometimes one of them will in a short time empty itself, and its contents be suddenly transferred to another, whereby it seems as if the vesicle itself had a power of voluntary locomotion, which it has not. But however easy it may be thus to fill the stomachal vesicles, it is by no means so easy a matter to detect the central canal to which they are ap- pended, insomuch that the generality of ob- servers are quite unable to detect its presence. Upon this point Ehrenberg remarks, in reply to those who have doubted its existence, that there are only some animalcules in which it is possible to see it clearly; and it is therefore necessary to seek out such species in order to obtain a view of it. In many it is of all things most difficult to see it; but the cause of this does not lie in its absence, but in the nature of the functions it has to perform, for this canal, like the oesophagus of larger animals, only serves for the transmission of food, not for its retention and digestion. It becomes dilated while food is passing through it, at will, like the mouth and oesopliagus of a snake when it swallows a rabbit, and immediately collapses again, and becomes quite invisible when not actually in use. Provided the indigo and carmine employed for the purpose have been sufficiently levigated, nothing is easier than to demonstrate the presence of the stomachal vesicles; but to exhibit the central canal, and the tubes that communicate between it and the gastric sacculi, is a much more difficult task, and can only be done under very favourable circumstances. We were, in- deed, long sceptical concerning their existence; but after examining Professor Ehrenberg's pre- parations of these structures, we were ulti- mately convinced of the accuracy of his views concerning them. Whoever wishes to see the intestinal tract distinctly must examine it in large specimens of some of the following species, most of which are sufficiently common :—Chelodon cu- cullulus, Trachelius ovum, Epistylis plicatilis, Vorticella chlorostigma, Vorticella convallaria, Opercularia articulata, or Stylonychia mytilus. On putting a little indigo into the water with some of these, it may be readily seen to enter their large mouths, and pass into their stomachs, from which it is again speedily ejected. In the Monads and allied families the ali- mentary apparatus consists of several distinct cells, from eight to twenty in number, but which are not all of them filled at the same time. When contracted they are quite invisi- ble; yet sometimes, when filled with a clear fluid, they are to be distinguished under the form of minute transparent vesicles in the in- terior of the animalcule. The mouth may sometimes be easily perceived under the form of a clear transparent spot, situated at the base of the proboscis, to and from which streams of water may be seen to proceed, bringing