464 SECRETION. by tne restoration of the uterine flux, or by the establishment of a similar discharge from some other organ. Hence cases of vicarious menstruation may really be placed on the same footing with those of metastasis of secretion ; and they serve to illustrate and establish the same general truth. Such cases are by no means uncommon, the menstrual flux being replaced by haemorrhages from various parts of the skin, from the mucous membranes, or from glandular surfaces, especially the mammae. The following case, quoted by M. Brierre de Boismont* from the " Medecine Pratique" of Pinel, is of peculiar interest from the variety of phenomena which it presents. " Madlle A. had been subject, from the age of eleven; to attacks of hysteria, which were followed by vomiting of blood. She men- struated at fourteen ; her health was re-es- tablished, and the catamenia continued to flow regularly for several months. A sudden fright suppressed the menses, and again hys- teria came on. Vicarious menstruation now occurred. The legs swelled and were covered with vesicles, and during six months blood was regularly discharged from them. The left arm swelled, and the legs recovered ; and for a year there was a regular sanguineous discharge from the arm. A third deviation occurred from the left thumb, which had been slightly wounded ; the catamenia flowed from this opening for six months. In the fourth year two wounds were formed on the face irom an attack of erysipelas ; one, on the side of the nose, the other on the upper eyelid. For two years the periodic discharge took place from these openings, and it no longer occurred from the thumb. The abdomen in its turn was attacked with erysipelas, and for five months regularly there was a discharge from the navel at each menstrual period. For four months the discharge proceeded from the inner ankle of the left foot; for two months from the left ear ; for three from the left nipple. When the discharge did not flow from any one part, bleedings at the nose and vomitings of blood took place, preceded by convulsions, pains in the head, and giddiness. After remainmg some time at the Sal- petriere, the health of this young female im- proved, and regular menstruation was es- tablished." It is probable that although the statement of Haller, already quoted, is universally true as a j)ossibility, yet that it is practically verified only in the case of the excretions, the mate- rials of which differ considerably from the nu- tritious elements of the blood, and accumulate in it when their usual exit-pipe is no longer open, forcing their way (so to speak) through other channels. If it be true, as we have suggested, that the materials of the rea^emen- titious secretions, as they have been termed, are nothing else than the materials of the blood itself, slightly modified for their special pur- pose in the very act of elimination, we see * De la Menstruation consideree dans ses Unp- poi ts Physiolcg ques et Pathologiques. why, when they are suspended, there is no accumulation of their materials in the circu- lating system, and no attempt at the sepa- ration of them by other organs. Influence of the nervous system on the secreting process. — That the eliminating ac- tion of the various secreting organs, and the amount and nature of their products, are greatly influenced by the conditions of the nervous system, cannot be doubted by any one who takes a general survey of the facts of this department of physiology. For although we can no more increase, diminish, or other- wise alter any one of our secretions by a mere effort of the ivill, than we can, " by taking anxious thought, add one cubit unto our stature," yet there is ample evidence that the state of the feelings has a powerful in- fluence upon many of them, increasing or diminishing their amount, or altering their character * A brief review of the phenomena which manifest this influence, will serv^e as the most appropriate foundation for an inquiry into its nature and extent. The mammary secretion affords, perhaps, more remarkable evidence than any other, of the influence exercised over it by states of mind, in increasing or diminishing it, or in producing a complete change in its properties. Of the increase in the development of the gland at puberty, and still more during lacta- tion, no definite explanation can be given; to say that it takes place by " sympathy " with the genital organs, being obviously a mere verbal evasion of the difficulty. But the ac- tivity of its function, w hen once it has been fully established, is mainly dependent upon the sensations and emotions connected with the act of suction, and with the thought of the offspring. Although the formation of milk may be constantly going on, yet it is greatly increased by the application of the infant to the breast. The quantity which can be squeezed from either breast at any one time, and the secretion of which may have occupied several hours, is about two ounces; and yet during a quarter of an hour's suction, an in- fant may draw three or four times that amount. * True it is that there are cases in which secre- tions would seem to be voluntarily produced, as when real tears are shed by performers on the stage, in the personation of their assumed parts. But in such instances, a strict investigation of the mental state leads to the conclusion, that the emotions pro- per to the assumed character are for a time really felt; the effort of the will being rather exerted in the change of indi\iduality (so to speak) than in the production of the several movements of gesture or expression Avhich are significant of the mental state. And it is always observable that where the actor, possessing the requisite qualifications, can thus transform himself into the character he fl^)er- sonating, so that his tones, looks, and gestures sliall be the spontaneous and natural expression of his temporary feelings, he produces a much greater in- fluence upon the spectators, than he can do by the most carefid vohmtary realisation of his intellectual idea of the mode in Avhich the character should be manifested. In these cases, then, as in all others, it is through the emotions, not directly by the will that the secretion is really excited.