265 REPTILIA. but varies with the proportion which the diameter of the pulmonary artery bears to that of the aorta. From this proceed diffe- rences of energy and sensibiUty much greater than can exist between one mammiferous animal and another, or one bird and another. Accordingl}', the reptiles exhibit forms, movements, and properties much more various than the two preceding classes ; and it is more especially in their production that nature seems to have sported in the formation of fantastic shapes, and to have modified in all possible ways the general plan which she has followed for vertebrated animals. The comparison of their quantity of respi- ration and their organs of motion has, how- ever, given foundation for their separation into three distinct orders, viz. : — 1st, The Chelonians, or Tortoises (Che- Ionia), in which the body, supported on four legs, is enveloped by two plates or shields, formed by the ribs and the sternum. 2d, The Saurians, or Lizards (Sauria), in which the body, supported on four or on two feet, is covered with scales. 3d, The Ophidians, or Serpents (Ophi- dia), in which the body is always destitute of limbs. order I. CHELONIA. Family 1. — Testudinid^e. Testudo (Land Tortoise), Emys (Fresh- water Tortoise), Chelonia (Turtle), Cheljs, Trionyx. order II. SAURIA.* Family 1.— CRocoDiLiDyE. Gavial, Crocodilus, Alligator. Family 2. — Lacertid.e. Monitor, Crocodiku-us, Tupinambis, Ame- iva, Lacerta, Algyra, Tachydromus. Family 3. — Iguanid^. Stellio, Cordyliis, Stellio, Doryphorus, Uro- mastixy Agama, Agama, Tapayes, Tra- peluSy Leiolepisy Trojndolepis, Leposoma, Calotes, Lophyrus, Gonocephalus, Lyrio- cephalus, Brachyloplms, Physignathus, Is- tiurus, Draco, Sitana, Iguana, Ophryessa, Basiliscus, Polychrus, Ecphimotes, Opiu- ms, Anolius. Family 4. — GECKOTiDiE. Gecko, Platydactylus, HemidactyluSy Theca- dactylus^ Ftyodactylus^ Splieriodactyliis, Slenodactylits, GymnodactyluSy Phyllunis. Family 5.— CuAaiyELEONiDiE. Chamaeleo. Family 6. — SciNCiDyE. Scincus, Seps, Bipes, Chalcides, Chirotes. ORDER III. OPHIDIA.f ^ Family 1. — Anguidte. Anguis, Pseudopus, OjihisauruSy Anguisy Acontias, * ffuZ^o;, a lizard, f o(fi?, a serpent. Family 2. — SERPENTiDiE. Amphisbaena, Typhlops, Tortrix, Boa Scytaliis, Eryx, Frpeloiiy Coluber, Py- thoriy Cerberus, Xenopeltis^ Hcterodon, Hiirriay Dipsas, DendrojMs, Dryimis, Dryophys, Oligodon, Acrochordus, Cro- talus, Trigonocephalus, Vipera, Kaia^ Flaps, Afio'uriis, Platurus, Trimeresurus^ OplocephaluSy Acanthophis, Echis, Lan- gaha, Bongarus, Hydrus, Hydrophis, Pe- lamides, Chersydrus. Family 3. — C^ciliad^. Caecilia. Osteology.— The Chelonian reptiles are distinguished from all other vertebrata by the pecuHar construction of their skeleton ; the bones of the thorax being in these re- markable animals literally placed externally so as to form a suit of armour that encloses the muscles as well as the viscera, and within which the bones both of the shoulder and of the pelvis are lodged. The greater part of the dorsal shield or carapax is formed by eight pairs of ribs {fig. 177, i) united to each other towards the mesial line by a longitudinal series of angular plates, which are in fact the spinous processes (jie ural spines^ of as many vertebrae spread out horizontally. The ribs are connected by suture to the margins of these plates, and likewise to each other, either along their whole length, or to a greater or less extent, according to the species or the age of the animal. In front of the carapax there are eight vertebrae which do not enter into its compo- sition {fig. 177, e) : of these the seven anterior ones, which are ordinary cervical vertebrae, are quite free in their movements. The eighth vertebra, which may be called the first dorsal, is placed obliquely between the last moveable cervical and the first vertebra entering into the composition of the carapax; posteriorly this vertebra (the eighth) has its spinous process somewhat elongated and slightly en- larged, for the purpose of its attachment by synchondrosis to a tubercle that is situated upon the lower surface of the first of the series of the mesian plates of the carapax. The ribs which, by their external broad plates, enter into the composition of the ca- rapax, give off from their inferior surfaces a process which corresponds with what in ordi- nary skeletons is called the head of the rib. This process is always connected with the spine between the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae, as are the heads of the ribs in other animals; and, carrying out the comparison, that part of the ribs which articulates by suture with the median plate may be regarded as the " tubercle," only here it is connected with the expanded spinous process instead of the transverse. In the Turtles the ribs are not united to each other throughout their whole length; towards their external extremities there only remains the narrow central portion, the inter- vals between the contiguous ribs being in this