POLYPIFERA. 22 to lose its distinctness of outline, audits parts become dim and confused, for the process of digestion has begun, and speedily all that is digestible is dissolved, nothing being left but the hard shell and other intractable portions, which are at length expelled from the digestive sac through the same opening by which they were admitted. From the transparency of the Hydra, Trem- bley thought to be able to ascertain the man- ner in which the digested nutriment became appropriated, and observing that the polypes became coloured in accordance with the kind of food upon which they lived, proceeded to feed them with the red larvae of certain insects, in hopes of seeing how the colouring matter became diffused through their bodies, and in this he was partially successful ; the result of his experiments proving that it was through the medium of the granules floating in the semifluid transparent substance of the Hydra that the diffusion of the coloured particles was accomplished, the granules themselves assum- ing the tint of the coloured food, while the gelatinous matter in which they were sus- pended remained colourless. Another remarkable fact observed by Trem- bley was, that the digestive powers of the Hydra had no influence over the tissues of its own body, for frequently he observed that the long-armed species swallowed their own ten- tacula along with their food, the former re- maining quite intact while the latter was in process of solution, and on one occasion when two Hydrae had both of thera seized on the same prey, and were contending for the possession of it, one of them decided the con- test by swallowing the subject of dispute and his rival into the bargain. Naturally supposing that the death of the swallowed polype would be the result of such an apparently tragical termination to the dispute, Trembley was not a little surprised to see the successful polype disgorge his antagonist safe and uninjured along with the egestainenta of the meal, and to all appearance none the worse for its tem- porary incarceration. If a Hydra be divided transversely, by means of a knife or a pair of scissors, both halves not only survive, but in the course of a short time each moiety reproduces the portion of which it has been deprived, the hinder extremity developing a new set of tentacula, and the an- terior portion acquiring a sucker to replace that which was lost ; nay, it has been proved that even when divided into several fragments, eich piece retains its vitality, and in [)rocess of time regains all the characters of a perfect individual, just as the cutting of a plant speedily puts forth roots and leaves similar to tliose of the original stock from M'hich it was taken. Not less wonderful than their capability of recovering lost parts after mutilation are the powers which they possess of multiplying their species by various modes of generation. The most usual manner in which they produce off- spring is by gemmation, the nature of which, owing to the transparency of their bodies, they are admirably adapted to elucidate. The process by which this kind of reproduction is effected in the case of the Hydra is as follows. After keeping one of these polypes for a few hours well provided with food, a little bud or gemma is seen to sprout from some portion of the surface of its body, which at first seems to be a shapeless excrescence, but in the course of a short time assumes the shape of the parent animal by developing tentacula from around the oral orifice, which gradually becomes more and more distinct. For some time the newly formed polype remains attached by the little pedicle at its tail to the body of its parent, with which it seems to enjoy a sort of com- munity of existence, the food caught and di- gested by the one passing freely through a little aperture in the caudal extremity of the young polype from one to the other. At last, when the growth of the off-sprout is com- pleted, it detaches itself, and assumes an in- dependent existence ; yet sometimes even before its separation is accomplished the bud of a third generation may be observed ap- pended to the side of its body ready to under- go the same process of development. The formation of the reproductive gemmae may even be determined by extraneous causes: thus Trembley noticed that by snipping the side of an adult polype with the points of a fine pair of scissors, a bud would soon develope itself from the wounded part; and this experi- ment might be repeated again and again, both upon the original polype and the progeny thus made to sprout from its sides, until as many as seventeen have been obtained, all con- nected with each other, and thus forming a httle tree of living polypes. Besides the gemmiparous mode of repro- duction, Hydrae have been occasionally ob- served to divide themselves spontaneously by transverse fissure, and thus separate into two animals, in the same way as some of the Poly- gastric animalcules. The anaton)y of the Hydra has been recently closely investigated by Corda, whose obser- vations upon this subject are possessed of extreme interest.* According to this observer each tentacule of the Hydra consists essentially of a long, pellucid, and extremely delicate membranous tube {Jig. 27) containing an al- most fluid albuminous substance, which in certain definite localities swells into denser wart-like knots (/;), arranged in a spiral line, along which are appended organs of touch (rf), and also instruments of prehension (c). Si- tuated within the tube, and running imme- diately beneath the above-mentioned nodosities, which are arranged in a quatcrnian series, are situated (bur longitudinal bands of muscular fibres of a slightly yellow colour (<?), which seem to be the extensors of the tentacles. These extensors of the tentacula ai'e more- over united to each other by transverse mus- cular fasciculi (/) of the same colour as them- selves, which Corda names adductors of the * Anatome Hydrje fuscse exposuit Augustus Joseplius Corda, cum tabulis tribus. Acta acad. Cses. Leopold. Carol, naturae curiosoioim, vol. xviiu