559 SHELL. striation is seen to be a thickening of the cell- wall in those situations ; which will of course jRg. 41L Calcareous prisms of the shell of Pinna; from Chalk. produce a corresponding series of indentations upon the contained prisms. This thickening seems best accounted for by supposing (as first suggested by Prof. Owen) that each long prismatic cell is made up by the coalescence of a pile of flat epidermic cells, the transverse striation marking their lines of junction ; and this view corresponds well with the fact that the shell-membrane not unfrequently shows a tendency to split into thin laminje along the lines of striation, as shown in the lower part of^g. 410; whilst we occasionally meet with an excessively thin natural lamina, composed of flat pavement-like cells resembling those of the epithelium of serous membrane, lying between the thicker prismatic layers, with one of which it would have probably coalesced but for some accidental cause which pre- served its distinctness. That the entire length of the prism is not formed at once, but that it is progressively lengthened and consolidated at its lower extremity, would appear also from the fact that where the shell presents a deep colour (as in Pinna nigrina) this colour is usually disposed in distinct strata, the outer portion of each layer being the part most deeply tinged, whilst the inner extremities of the prisms are almost colourless. The prismatic arrangement of the carbonate of lime in the shells of Pinna and its allies has been long familiar to conchologists; but it has been usually regarded as the result of crystallisation. It is now, however, perfectly evident that the calcareous prisms are nothing else than casts of the interior of the prismatic cells; the form of which, however irregular, they constantly present; whilst the markings of the membrane are faithfully transferred to the surface of the prism. Further, the prisms in a thick layer of shell frequently present a decided curvature, which would not be the case if their form were due to crystallisa- tion. Not unfrequently, moreover, they are altogether destitute of angular boundaries ; the large quantity of animal matter disposed between the contiguous cells giving them a rounded contour, as seen in Jig. 4-12, and thus causing the calcareous casts of their interior to be cylindrical rather than prismatic. It is only in a few families of Bivalves, how- ever, that the cellular structure is seen in this very distinct form, or that it makes up a large part of the substance of the shell ; and these families are for the most part nearly aUied to Pinna. In all the genera of the MargaritacecB^ we find the external layer of the shell formed upon this plan, and of considerable thickness ; the internal layer being nacreous. In the Unionidce, on the contrary, nearly the whole thickness of the shell is made up of the inter- nal or nacreous layer j but a uniform stratum Fig. 412. Lamina of outer layer of shell of Ostrea edulis, showing its cellular structure, with a large amount of intercellular substance. Magnified 250 diameters. of prismatic cellular substance is always found between the nacre and the periostracum. In the OstracecB the greater part of the shell is composed of a sub-nacreous substance, the successively-formed laminae of which have very little adhesion to each other; but every one of these laminaj is bordered at its free edge by a layer of the prismatic cellular substance, distinguished by its brownish-yellow colour: this structure presents itself again in the family PandoridcB, which belongs to quite a different section of the class ; and it is curious to ob- serve that the marked diflTerence in the struc- ture of the shells of Pandora and Lyonsia from that of the Anathiidce and other neighbouring families, harmonises completely with the pecu- . liar combination of characters presented by the animals of these two genera.* In all the foregoing cases, a distinct cellulo-membranous residuum is left after the decalcification of the prismatic substance by dilute acid ; and this is most tenacious and substantial where, as in the MargaritacecB, there is no proper perios- tracum,— as if the horny matter which would have otherwise gone to form this investment had been diffused as an intercellular substance between the proper cell-walls. In many other instances, a cellular arrange- ment is perfectly evident in sections of the shell ; and yet no corresponding structure can be distinctly seen in the delicate membrane left after decalcification. In all such cases, the animal basis bears but a very small propor- tion to the calcareous deposit, and the shell is usually extremely hard. A very characteristic example of this is presented by the outer layers of the shells of the genus Thracia and other Anatinidce. But there are numerous other cases, in which no traces of cellular structure can be detected in the fully-formed shell, and in which we can only be guided by analogy in * See Forbes and Hanlev's British Mollusca, vol. i. pp. 207, 213.