SHELL. 560 assigning to them a similar origin with the preceding. We seem justified in doing so, however, by two considerations. In the first place, where the fully-formed shell is destitute of cellular arrangement, this may be frequently detected in the embryonic shell ; as the author is informed by Dr. Leidy of Philadelphia, who has carefully studied the embryology of many Mollusca. And secondly, there are certain shells which exhibit so complete and gradual a transition from a distinct cellular arrangement to an apparently homogenous structure, that we can scarcely doubt the common origin of both substances. This is particularly well seen in the common Mya arenana^ a careful examination of which shell brings to light nu- merous interesting varieties of cellular organ- isation. Thus in J?g.413. we see in one part of Fig. 413. Section of shell of JL/a arenand, s/toiring in one part distinct cellu/ar partitmis, with large nuclear spots; whilst in another part of the same layer, the celL- houndaries become fainter, and then disappear alto- gether. Magnified 150 diameters. the section a very distinct set of cell-boun- daries, with a large nuclear spot in the centre of each cell ; whilst on the other side we ob- serve that the cell-walls have completely dis- appeared,— the nuclear spots, however, still remaining to mark the cellular origin of the substance. A little further on, these also might disappear, and thus all traces of the original organisation might be lost, though no reasonable doubt could be entertained as to its prior existence. A very curious variety of cell-structure is seen in the large hinge-tooth of Mva, in which there is a layer of large cells occupied by carbonate of lime disposed in a radiated form of crystallisation, resembling that of the mineral called Wavellite. Ap- proaches to this beautiful arrangement may be seen in many other shells. Here, too, we find the partitions between the cells gradually becoming less distinct, as we pass from this peculiar stratum into the surrounding substance, until we lose them altogether. In general, a cel- lular layer may be detected upon the external surface of bivalve shells, where this has been pro- tected by a periostracum,or has been prevented in any other mode from undergoing abrasion : thus it is found occasionally in Ayiomla and Pecten, and generally in Chama, Cleidotlicerus^ Fig. 414. Section of the hinge-tooth of Mya arenaria, showini radiating arrangement of carbonate of lime withir, the cells, and the gradual disappearance of the cell- boundaries, so that the texture becomes homogeneous. 3Iagnified 80 diameters. Trigonia, Anatina, Solen, Glycimeris, Solemya. &c. In the last-named genus it is very firm, and leaves a distinct membranous residuum after the calcareous matter has been removed by acid, which is not the case with the others. The cells of which the outer layer of the shell is made up are frequently ratherJusi/onn than prismatic in their shape, and are disposed with their long axes nearly parallel to its surface, so that their extremities " crop out" very ob- liquely on its exterior, where their rounded terminations, containing nuclei, may often be distinguished when the surflice has not suffered abrasion. (See Jig. 416.) The internal layer of Bivalve shells rarely presents a distinct cellular structure, when examined in a thin section ; and the residuum left after decalcification is usually a distinct but structureless membrane, closely resembling the "basement membrane" of Mr. Bowman. (Mucous Membrane.) This form of shell- substance may consequently be distinguished as membranous. In the Margaritacece and many other families, this internal layer has a na- creous or iridescent lustre, which depends (as Sir D.Brewster has shown*) upon the stria- tion of its surface with a series of grooved lines, which usually run nearly parallel to each other. As these lines are not obliterated by any amount of polishing, it is evident that their presence depends upon something peculiar in the texture of this substance, and not upon any mere superficial arrangement. Wh(in a piece of nacre is carefull}' examined, it be- comes evident that the lines are produced by the cropping-out of laminae of shell situated more or less obliquely to the plane of the sur- face. The greater the dip of these laminae, the closer will their edges be ; whilst the less the angle which they make with the surface, • Phil. Trans. 1814.