QUADRUMANA. 206 the three small muscles for the little finger on the opposite edge of the hand. The con- sequence of all this is, that the hand of the monkeys of the Old World approaches to the perfection of the human hand, from which it differs by the length and the narrowness of the palm of the hand, the length of the fingers, the backward position of the imperfect thumb, and a less variety of movements. For the physiological results which can be derived from this difference, I refer to my Rech. d'Anat. comp. siir le Chhwpanse, p. S-i. The muscles of the posterior extremities differ more from those of the human subject. The glutcEi are feeble, and inserted very low on the femur; the gracilis is much broader than in man, and inserted very low in the tibia ; the same is the case with the semitendinosiis, the semi- membranosus, and the biceps femoris. The result of this low insertion must be, that the knee can only be maintained in a bent, and consequently the trunk in a semi-erect at- titude. The gastrocnemius and soIcbus remain sepa- rate until their insertion in the calcaneum, where they unite to form one tendon. They are flatter than in man, and consequently do not form the calf of the leg, which is so cha- racteristic in man. There is a plantaris^ as in man. The monkeys seem to be the only brute animals which possess it. The flexor magnus of the great toe or thumb of the posterior extremities is not confined to this toe, but gives tendons to the other toes. Consequently it combines its action with that of the flexor magnus 4 digit, pedis. The monkeys possess also a flexor brevis, lumbricales, an abductor and adductor hallucis, a flexor brevis, adductor brevis digiti minimiy pei'onceus longus and brevis, and tibialis posticus. All the muscles on the sole of the foot are more isolated than in man, and consequently they produce more distinct and separate movements for the digits, and prin- cipally for the hinder thumb. They have no peroncBus tertius, but the tibialis anticus differs from the same in man, by its separation into two fascicles, of which the inner seems to act as a tibialis anticus, while the outer is a long abductor hallucis. I found this disposition in all the monkeys I had the opportunity to dissect, and it is also confirmed by the observations of E. Burdach. The last myological peculiarity which I shall mention is, that the tendon of the ex- tensor communis longus quatuor digitorum is surrounded and fixed by a ligamentous loop, about which I can add the historical pecu- liarity, that this ligament, hitherto unknown, has been described in the same year, and per- haps in the same month, by A. Retzius in Stockholm, and by myself in Amsterdam.* * A. Eetzius, Bemerk. iieb. ein Schleuderformiges Band in dem Sinus tarsi des INIenschen u. mehrere Thiere in J. Muller, Arcli. Berlin, Jahrg. 1841, Th. V. p. 497. W. Vrolik, Rech. d'Anat. Comp. sur le Chimpanse, p. 22. tab. v. fig. 2. Neurology. — The brain of the monkeys of the Old World represents an imperfect outline of the brain of man. By the form and the number of convolutions, Leuret * proved that it approaches to the brain of the human subject; but however great this analogy may be, there remains, however, no doubt that there are some typical differences between the brain of man and of the monkeys, and that from the Chimpanzee to the Cynocephali, the gradual tendency to inferiority is as manifest as in the other points of organisation. We still want perfect representations of the brain of the first, but we may supply this defect by drawings of the brain of Xhe Orang-cetan, of which TiEDEMANx has represented the basis, Saxdifort the superior surface, and I a ver- tical section. (Figs. 125, 126, 127.) If we Fig. 125. Basis of the brain of the Orang-cetan. (After Tiedemann.) Fig.\26. Superior surface of the brain of the Orang-cetan. (After Sandifort.) * F. Leiu-et, Anat. Comp. du Systeme nen-eux conside're' dans ses rapports avec I'intelligence. Paris, 1839, 8vo.