4C2 SECRETION. of cases referred to by the last of these authors of the different forms of this curious affec- will give some idea of the relative frequency tion : — Vomit. Stool. Ears. Eyes. Saliva. N"ose. jMammae. Navel. Skin. Total. 33 20 4 4 5 3 4 34 17 124 It is to be borne in mind, however, that cases of hysterical ischuria are frequently compli- cated with that strange moral perversion, which leads to the most persevering and in- genious attempts at deceit; and there can be little doubt that a good many of the instances on record, especially of urinous vomiting, are by no means veritable examples of metastasis. The proofs of the fact we are seeking to establish are, therefore, much more satisfac- tory when drawn from experiments upon animals, or from pathological observations, about which, from their very nature, there can be no mistake. Thus Mayer* found that when the two kidneys were extirpated in the guinea-pig, the cavities of the peritoneum and the pleura, the ventricles of the brain, the stomach, and the intestinal canal, contained a brownish li- quid having the odour of urine ; that the tears exhaled the same odour; that the gall-bladder contained a brownish liquid not resembling bile ; and that the testicles, the epididymis, the vasa deferentia, and the vesiculae semi- nales, were gorged with a liquid perfectly si- milar to urine. Chirac and Helvetius are quoted by Haller as having tied the renal ar- teries in dogs, and having then remarked that a urinous fluid was passed off from the sto- mach by vomiting. A remarkable case is quoted by Nysten from Zeviani, in which a young woman having received an incised wound on the external genitals, which would not heal, the urine gradually became more scanty, and at last none could be passed even with the assistance of the catheter ; at last dropsy supervened, with sweats of a urinous odour, and vomiting of a urinous fluid, which continued daily for thirty-three years. On post-mortem examination, the kidneys were found disorganised, the right ureter entirely obliterated and the left nearly so, and the bladder contracted to the size of a pigeon's egg. In some other instances, the urine ap- pears to have been secreted, and then re-ab- sorbed in consequence of some obstruction to its exit through the urinary passages. Thus Nysten quotes from Wrisberg a case in which, the urethra having been partially obstructed for ten years by an enlarged prostate, the bladder was so distended as to contain ten pounds of urine ; and the serosity of the pericardium and of the vesicles of the brain exhaled a urinous odour. He cites other in- stances in which the presence of calculi in the bladder prevented the due discharge of the secretion ; and in which a urinous hquid was ejected from the stomach by vomiting, or was * Zeitschrift fiir Physiologie, torn. ii. p. 270. discharged by stool. A still more remarkable case is recorded, of a girl born without either anus or external genitals, who nevertheless remained in good health to the age of fifteen years, passing her urine from the nipples, and getting rid of faecal matters by vomiting. There are cases, moreover, in which it would seem that the mucous lining of the urinary bladder must have had a special power of secreting urine ; the usual discharge having taken place to the end of life, when, as ap- peared by post-mortem examination, the kid- neys were so completely disorganised that they could not have furnished it; or, having been prevented by original malformation, or by ligature of the taatfeiia, from discharging it into ^ca the bladder. A considerable number of these have been collected by Burdach.* In all the older statements of this kind, there is a defi- ciency of evidence that the fluids were really urinous, urea not having been obtained from them by chemical analysis, and the smell having been chiefly relied upon. The urinous odour, however, when distinct, is probably nearly as good an indication of the presence of the most characteristic constituent of hu- man urine, as is the sight of the urea in its separated form. The passage of a urinous fluid from the skin has been frequently ob- served in cases in which the renal secretion was scanty ; and the critical sweats, by which attacks of gout sometimes terminate, contain urates and phosphates in such abundance as to form a powdery deposit on the surface. It has lately been ascertained, that in warm climates urea is an element of the perspiration even of healthy persons.-|- The metastasis of the biliary secretion is familiar to every practitioner, as being the change on vih\c\\ jau7idice is dependent. It is not, however, in every case of yellowish brown discolouration of the tissues, that we are to impute such discolouration to the pre- sence of biliary matter ; and we can only safely do so, when we have at the same time evidence of concurrent disturbance of the biliary apparatus. This disturbance may be of two kinds : either the secreting function of the liver itself may be diminished or sus- pended, so that the original elements of bile accumulate in the blood; or, the secretion being formed by it as usual, its discharge may be prevented by obstruction of the gall-ducts, so that it is re-absorbed into the blood. The former condition is much the most dangerous of the two ; the re-absorption of the secretion after it has been once eliminated not being * Op. cit. pp. 253, 254. t Landerer in Heller's Arcliiv, vol, iv. p. 190.