227 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. Q 2 the same vessel which meets it just before entering the metacarpal interspace. Where, as is by no means infrequent, the radial is larger than ordinary, its increased size is prin- cipally expended in supplying, through a large superficialis volae artery *, one or more of the outer digital branches which usually come from the superficial palmar arch: or, by means of a dorsal metacarpal of unusual magnitude, digital branches to the opposed sides of the index and middle fingers. The high origin of the ulnar is contrasted with that of the radial in another respect beside that of its lesser frequency, since it is almost always conjoined with an important difference in the situation of the vessel in the forearm, which lies superficial to the flexors ordinarily covering it, and immediately beneath the fascia: — sometimes it is even sub-cutaneous. Its course is also somewhat affected by this origin, the vessel approaching the inner side of the forearm at a higher point than usual: in other cases, however, it possesses almost a median position during the greater part of this region, and only turns inwards to its ordinary distribution near the wrist. In size, the ulnar artery is more frequently diminished than increased by variations. The decrease is compensated sometimes by a radial vessel supplying one or more of its digital branches or contributing to its palmar arch : at others, its long branch which accompanies the median nerve is enlarged to a vessel of considerable size, which similarly assists it ; while, in a few instances, the dilated anterior interosseous has an analogous termination. The origin of the interosseous artery is subject to some variation, being liable to occur as a divarication from the radial or brachial, or though rarely — from the axillary : its en- largement aids a deficient radial or ulnar vessel, just as its diminutive size is supplied by them. The branch with the median nerve enlarged to a " median " artery, has been already men- tioned ; it passes under the annular ligament as it enters the hand, and may reinforce the deficient radial or ulnar; but most frequently the latter of the two, by joining the super- ficial palmar arch. Finally, as to the varieties in the hand, the mode in which a diminished superficial palmar arch is obviated, has already been described; and an unusually small deep arch is compen- sated by the uhiar communicating, which is generally little inferior in size to the radial conti'ibution. For individually smaller digital branches are substituted enlarged dorsal meta- carpal ; and in the case of the magna pollicis the superficial palmar arch, the superficialis volas, or the median artery, may either of them make up the deficiency. It may be desirable to attempt a generaliza- tion of these special variations; in order to this, let us return for a moment to the ordinary * Such a vessel, occupying from a high origin the place of the artery, but more superficial than it, has on this account been mistaken for a " hard " pulse, and the patient depleted accordingly. anatomy of the vessels of the forearm and hand considei'ing them as a whole. Such a view assisted somewhat, it must be confessed, by our knowledge of these varieties, would dis- cover in the forearm five longitudinal trunks, all possessing some feature, whether of size, length, or constancy, which especially recom- mends them to our notice. They are the radial, ulnar, and anterior interosseous vessels, together with the posterior branch of this lat- ter, and the branch with the median nerve. The anastomosis and distribution of the ex- tremities of most of these, forms around the wrist an arterial circle which is nmch more pronounced posteriorly.* In the hand, two arches which are continuations of the larger vessels occupy its surface of flexion, at diflc- rent heights and depths ; defended from the pressure inseparable from prehension by a strong fascia, whose protective effect is aided during flexion by a tightening muscle. They join by anastomosis with the extremities of the longitudinal vessels, or the imperfect anterior carpal arch. Three branches i-un lengthwise in most of the metacarpal interspaces ; one on the dorsum from the posterior part of the carpal circlet, two at different depths in the palm from these arches; the dorsal and deeper palmar uniting at the superior extremities of those intervals, and all three inosculating at their inferior terminations near the clefts of the fingers. All the varieties above mentioned would be referrible to the increased developiuent either of one of these longitudinal branches, or ot some portion of this complete and large anas- tomosis. The several varieties are, in fact, an exaggeration by turns of a different vessel; which in its course towards distribution may return its contents to the ordinary channel by any one of these series of inosculations ; whe- ther it be the superficial or deep arch, the posterior carpal arch, or finall}^ the superior or inferior extremity of the aforesaid interos- seous spaces. Thus from these vessels alone might be de- duced the law, of which the origin of the ob- turator from the epigastric, or the sublingual from the facial, are familiar and miportant in- stances; viz. that varieties of arteries occur as the exaggerations of an ordinary anasto- mosis f : while it is no less evident that the deviations are compensative in the strictest sense ; i. e. that the amount of blood entering the limb is no ways affected, for that an in. * Unless we considered the deep palmar arch as the anterior half of the carpal ring, a view Avhich the comparative infrequency of the minute "ante- rior carpal arch " would almost allow of. f It may be urged against such a generalization, " that it would scarce^ include the varieties of those vessels Avhich immediately spring from the heart or aorta: since anatomy shows the amount of their ordinary anastomosis, and the number, size, and regularity of the vessels effecting it, to be utterly disproportionate to the magnitude of these vari- ations." But a reference to the aorta and branchial arches, from which they are developed in the foetus, Avould again include them in the category of dilated inosculations.