1G2 PROTEIN. 1847. Raihke, AbliancU. und Beitrage, 1830. Valentin, Entwickelungsgescliichte, Berlin, 1835. Baer, Eiitwickelungsgeschichte, 1837. Coste, Em- bryogenie comparee, 1837. Bischoff, Entwicke- lungsgeschichte der Siiugethiere und des Menschen, 1842. Weber, Zusiitze zur Lehre vom Baue der Geschlechtsorgane, Leipsig, 1846. Morbid Anatomy.—Bonetus, Sepulchretum,1700. Morgagni's De Sedibns et Causis Morborum, 1760. Hunter on the Venereal Disease, 1788, 2d edition. Baillie's Morbid Anatomy, 1793. Home, Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Prostate Gland, 1811. Wilson on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 1821. Howship on Diseases affecting Urinary Organs, 1823. Lallemand, Observations sur les Maladies des Organes Genito-Urinaires, 1825-27. Amussat, Lemons snr les Retentions d'Urine Causees, &c. &c., 1832. Guthrie on the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and Prostate Gland, 1834. Ilercier. Re- cherches sur les Maladies de la Prostate des Vieillards, 1836. CarswelVs Pathological Anatomy, 1833-38. Crosse^s Pathological Anatomy, vol. ii., Boston, 1839. Coulson, Diseases of the Bladder and Prostate Gland, 1840. Civiale, Maladies des Organes Genito-Uri- naires, 1841. Sir Benjamin Brodie on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 3d ed. 1842. Rokitanski, Handbuch der Patholog. Anatomic, 1844. Guy on Diseases of the Prostate Gland, 1845. Erigel, Entwurf einer Pathologisch Anatomischen Propa- deutik. 1845. Walshe on Cancer. Concretions and Calculi.—Marcet, An Essay on the Chemical History and Medical Treatment of Calculous Disorders, 2d edition, 1819. Prout, An Enquiry into the Nature and Treatment of Diabetes, Calculus, and other Affections of the Urinary Organs. Cuveilhier^s Pathological Ana- tomy, 1828. Sir Astley Cooper''s Lectures, by Tyn-ell, 1824-7. Crosse on the Nature and Treat- ment and Extraction of the Urinary Calculus, 1835. Catalogue of Calculi of Royal College of Surgeons, 1842. Dr. C. H. Jones on Calculous Concretions of the Prostate ; see Medical Gazette for Aug. 20. 1847. VogeVs Pathological Anatomy, translated by Dr. G. E. Day, 1847. Dupuytren sur les Calculs de la Pros- tate, dans Bull, de la Gal. de Med., torn. vii. p. 135. {John 4dams.) PROTEIN, (from Trpcorei^w, I am first,) is the name given by its discoverer, Mulder, to a chemical substance of the highest interest and importance ; since it appears to form the basis of by far the greater portion of the bodies of all animals. When pure fibrin, of which animal flesh or muscle chiefly consists, is analysed, it is found to be composed of C^^ N^ O^^ and a small quantity of sulphur and phosphorus. Albumen, whether obtained from the serum of the blood, white of egg, or any of the albumi- nous tissues of the body, is found also to con- sist of Ng antl a little sulphur and phosphorus. Casein, too, or the curd of milk, yields on analysis N^ 0^2 and a little sulphur, differing from the others in not containing any phosphorus. Hence it appears that^6;m, albumen, and casein, are, chemically speaking, almost identically the same ; and that if we were enabled to separate from each the minute portion of sulphur and phos- phorus, we should obtain a compound in every case the same. Such a substance is protein ; so called from its being the initial letter, as it were, of all this class of organic principles. I shall first describe it as obtained artifi- cially, together with the changes produced upon it by reagents, and afterwards speak of its more common natural modifications, which play so important a part in building up the fabric of organic beings. Protein is most readily obtained from the white of egg, which, as is well known, consists of a solution of nearly pure albumen, contained in a delicate network of cellular membrane. This substance should be well beaten up, in order to break the minute cells in which the albumen is lodged, mixed with about an equal bulk of water, and filtered through a linen cloth to separate the cellular matter, which is insoluble in water ; or it may be allowed to stand until this has subsided to the bottom of the vessel, when the clear liquid may be poured off", or removed by means of a syphon. The solution should then be evaporated to dryness on a water bath, the residue pounded in a mortar, and washed successively with alcohol, ether, and dilute hydrochloric acid, by which means it is purified from extractive matters, fat, phosphate of lime, and the other salts with which it is associated. The pure albumen thus obtained is digested for several hours in a dilute solution of caustic potash, at a temperature of from 120° to 130° ; it readily dissolves in the alkaline solution, and the sulphur and phos- phorus are gradually separated, forming sul- phuret of potassium, and phosphate of potash. Acetic acid is now added in very slight excess, when the protein separates in the form of a white flocculent precipitate, which, when washed with water until all soluble matter is removed, and dried at 212°, is pure protein. In order to asertain, however, whether the whole of the sidphur is removed, a small quan- tity should be dissolved in potash, and some of the solution boiled in two test tubes, to one of which a drop of solution of acetate of lead is added. They will both become rather brown, owing to the decomposition of the protein; but if any sulphur is present, the portion to which the lead had been added w-ill become, after boiling for a few minutes, much darker in colour than the other, owing to the formation of sulphuret of lead. Protein, when dry, is a hard, semitransparent brownish yellow substance, having a good deal the appearance of amber. It is without taste or smell, and when exposed to damp air rapidly absorbs moisture, which may be expelled by heating it to about 220°. When further heated it melts, and almost immediately afterwards begins to decompose, leaving a residue of char- coal, which, if ignited for some little time in the air, burns completely away, leaving scarcely a trace of incombustible ash. Protein is in- soluble in water, alcohol, and ether ; it appears to combine with most of the mineral acids, forming compounds which may be considered neutral, some of which are soluble in water, though insoluble in an excess of the acid. Tribasic phosphoric, and acetic acids, how- ever, do not reprecipitate it when added in excess. It combines also with the alkalies, giving rise to soluble compounds, from which the protein may be again separated by the ad- dition of an acid. It may be thrown down in an