433 SCAPULAR REGION. F F VOL. IV. its edible nests. In the woodpecker the glan- dular mass is of extraordinary size, extending from the angle to the symphysis of the jaw on each side, and opening by the confluence of the two ducts into a single orifice at the apex of the mouth. In Mammalia the salivary glands present considerable variation. In the Monotremata they are partially deficient : in the Echidna there appears to be no parotid ; the submax- illary, on the other hand, is highly developed, extending from the meatus auditorius along the neck, and upon the anterior part of the thorax. Its ducts terminate by numerous orifices on the membranous floor of the mouth, and pour out a secretion for the lubrification of its long and slender tongue. In the Cetacea the salivary glands are absent. In the Dugong, however, one of the herbivo- rous Cetacea, the parotids are highly deve- loped. In the Ruminajiiia the three pairs are highly developed, particularly the parotid; and in addition to these there is a group, apparently continuous with the molar, which mounts up along the superior maxillary bone, beneath the zygoma, to the globe of the eye, as observed in the ox, the sheep, and the horse. The excretory ducts pierce the mu- cous membrane near the posterior margin of the superior alveolar ridge. In the armadillo, among the Edeiitata, the submaxillary gland has appended a reservoir or bladder, receiving the saliva by small ducts, which open into it posteriorly in a valvular manner. A single duct comes off from its anterior part, and terminates just behind the symphysis of the lower jaw. The saliva is very tenacious, the serous part being pro- bably absorbed during its detention in the reservoir, and is expelled at the extremity of the mouth, in order to lubricate the tongue, which is by this means rendered subservient, as in the ant-eater, to the catching of insects. In the latter animal the salivary secretion takes place from two glands, situated, accord- ing to Cuvier, the one in contact below with the upper edge of the masseter, and filling up a great part of the temporal, zygomatic, and orbital fossae; the excretory duct opening into the mouth behind the superior maxilla: the other, probably furnishing the viscid secre- tion that coats the tongue in front of the tendon of the masseter, behind the angle of the lips, and then running along the edge of the lower lip as far as the middle. Its canal opens externally at the commissure of the lips. In the Carnivora the variations of the sali- vary glands are but slight. The submaxillary in them, as in the Rodentia and Ruminantia, are large. The sublingual gland is absent in the cat. The writer of this article has to acknowledge his obligations to the undermentioned sources, for the preceding account of the comparative anatomy of the salivary glands: — Cuvier, Le- 90ns d'Anatomic comparee ; Owen's Lectures on the Invertebrata; R3^mer Jones, General Structure of the Animal Kingdom ; Wagner, Elements of Comparative Anatomy, trans- lated by Tulk ; Kelp, De Systemate Salivali, and the various articles on Comparative Ana- tomy in this Cyclopaedia. Bibliography. — JS^ck, Disquisitio Anatomica de Ductibus Salivalibus, 1656. Wharton, Adeno- graphia sive Glandularum totius corporis Descriptio, 1659. Haller, Dispiitationes Anatomicae, vol. i. p. 1, ad 92. Stejw (iV.), De Musculis et Glandulis Ob- servationum Specimen, &c., 1664 ; Observationes Anatomicae quibus varia Oris Oculorum et Narium Vasa describuntur, novique Salivas et Muci Fontes deteguntur, &c., 1662. Vater, Novi Ductus Sali- valis in Lingua Excretorii Demonstratio, 1723. Siebold (J. Barth), Diss. Inaug. Med. sistens His- toriam Systematis Salivalis Physiologice et Pa- tliologice consid., &c. Jenae, 1787. Murat, Sur la Glande Parotide consideree sous ses Rapports Ana- tomiques, Physiologiques, et Pathologiques, 1803. Midler, De Glandularum Secernentium Struct. Pe- nitior, 1830. Bordeu, Recherches Anatomiques sur la Position des Glandes, et sur leur Action. Panizza (5.), Remarques Chirurgicales sur la Glande Paro- tide. Annales de la Chirm-gie, Paris, 1844, t. x. p. 54. Vide also the Bibliography of GLAND. {Nathaniel Ward.) SCAPULAR REGION (Descriptive AND Surgical Anatomy of). The term sca- pular region is intended by some anatomists to comprise all the structures which lie on the scapula, on its anterior as well as on its pos- terior surface; but, in accordance with the arrangement of Velpeau and others, we limit the term scapular region to the posterior as- pect of the scapula, regarding its anterior, or subscapular, surface as appertaining to, and forming one of the boundaries of, the axillary region. Under the denomination then of scapular region, v/e include a portion of the posterior aspect of the shoulder, presenting a triangular outline, to which the following boundaries may be assigned. Its base, which is placed internally, is constituted by the ver- tebral margin of the scapula; its apex, placed externally, becomes continuous with the re- gion of the shoulder joint; inferiorly, it is limited by the lower oblique edge of the la- tissimus dorsi muscle, which likewise separates it from the region of the axilla ; and above, the superior costa of the scapula constitutes its extreme boundary, and separates it from the great posterior triangle of the neck. Between the integuments and the dorsum of the scapula, which forms the floor of the region under consideration, lie numerous muscles, layers of fasciae, vascular inoscula- tions, branches of nerves, &c., which we shall describe in the order in which they present themselves in dissection. The muscles, which are numerous, may be divided into the extrinsic and the intrinsic; the latter are, the fleshy portions only of the supra- and infra-spinati, and of the teres major and the teres minor muscles. Under the former class, we shall have to speak of portions of the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, and deltoid muscles. Numerous other muscles are at- tached to the different borders of the scapular region; but these have been already described in the several articles treating of the regions to which they more properly belong (vide Neck, Back, Arm). The projection back- wards of the spine of the scapula naturally