295 REPTILIA. The stomach is closely connected with the liver, and in some species, as, for ex- Fig.2\o. Draco volans. a, ventricle of the heart; h, the right auricle; c, the left auricle ; d d, carorid arteries ; e e, the vena jugularls ; //, the subclavian arten,-; g, the trachea ; h, the right lung ; i, the left lung ; k, the liver; / /, the loAver venous sinus, which commences from the liver and extends to the right venous sinus; m, the biliary duct; o, the stomach; p, the commence- ment'of the small intestine; qqq, the windings of the small intestine; r, the commencement of the large intestine; s, its attenuated region; 11, the kiclneys; u, the cloaca; v, the bladder; iv, the anus. ample, in Eint/s concina, absolutely imbedded in its substance. The diameter of the small intestine in the Chelonians gradually diminishes from the py- lorus to its termination in the large intestine, the diameter of which is much larger, and its extremities much thicker. The parietes of the whole intestinal canal are indeed thicker than in most other reptiles. The calibre of the intestine is uniform throughout, and its lining membrane presents folds of variable breadths in different species, which are gene- rally united together so as to form a kind of net-work at the commencement of the small intestine, but subsequently these become longitudinal and parallel. In the large in- testines these folds become less regular in their arrangement. It may be added to the above general de- scription, that the alimentary canal of the reptiles belonging to this order presents ditier- ences in each genus, and even in some species of the same genus, which are in relation with corresponding differences in the nature of their food. The tortoises and the turtlts, which live principally upon herbs or fuci, have the intestinal canal long ; the large in- testine longer than the small; the latter being inserted into the former laterally, so as to leave a small caecum behind the j>oint of entrance. In the different species of Emydes, which are more carnivorous in their habits, ami in the Trionyx. the alimentary canal is shorter — at least the large intestine, which is not longer than the small; and the latter is continuous with the large intestine, without there being any insertion of one into the other. The CrocodiliclcE differ from all other saurian reptiles in the form of their oesophagus and stomach. The cesophagus is a narrow canal, easily distinguishable troni the stomach on account of the globular form of the latter, and also by the different structure of mucous and ce.lular coats, the former of which is plicated and villous in the oesophagus, while the latter is very thin, and hardly perceptible. The stomach is a great rounded globular cul-de-sac (;%, 213.),into which the oesojihagus opens, at no great distance from the pylorus. Close to this insertion there is, interiorly, a small cul-de-sac {g), the cavity of which is se- parated from the larger cul-de-sac by a narrow passage, and which opens into the intestine by a constricted orifice. Necessarily, ali- mentary substances must pass through this channel into the pyloric cul-de-sac, in order to escape from the stomach. This structure evidently corresponds to the pyloric portion of the stomach in ophidian reptiles, to be described hereafter. Generally, the parietes of the stomach are very strong; the mucous lining is smooth, thick, and very glandular, forming here and there broad Iblds, which run in a serpentine manner, like the convolutions of the brain. The cellular tunic, which was not vtry dis- tinct in the oesophagus, becomes so in the stomach, whilst the muscular coat almost equals in thickness that of the cellular and raucous tunics combined : it is principally con^posed of fasciculi, which radiate from the centre towards the circumference, arising from an aponeurotic disc, which exists on both the abdominal and dorsal aspects of the organ. This stomach very nearly resembles the gizzard of a bird ; and the resemblance becomes more striking if it be compared with the gizzard of a heron, the wals of which are thin, and which also opens into a little appendage. The small intestine in the Nilotic crocodile may be distinguished into two portions : the first of these is wide, with thin walls, and is bent four times upon itself, so as to make four permanent folds : this portion is equal in len^jth to about four-tenths of the whole I 4