PROSTATE GLAND. vein of the penis, and behind with branches terminating in the internal iliac vein. Many branches of the prostatic venous plexus are necessarily divided in the lateral operation for the stone; and in old persons, from their in- creased size, they occasionally pour out so large a quantity of blood as to endanger the life of the patient. They often contain cal- culous concretions, to which the term phle- bolithes has been given. The following is the mode of connection between the prostate and the coats of the bladder ; the mucous coat is of course continuous from the bladder to the urethra ; the submucous cellular coat is firmly adherent to the capsule of the gland, whilst the inferior fibres of the detrusor urinas are arranged thus, the longitudinal fibres split into two layers, one, the thickest, adheres ta the submucous cellular coat of the bladder just behind the prostate; and the other, thin and indistinct, is implanted into the base of the gland itself. Harrison has described a long, delicate, and distinct band of muscular fibres as entering the notch in the base of the gland, beneath the uvula vesicae and middle lobe, into which it is sometimes inserted ; but it can frequently be traced nearly an inch further to be inserted into the veru montanum.* 1 can- not satisfy myself of the existence of any muscular fibres at the under sui'face of the prostate. On either side of the gland we perceive a muscle, the levator prostates. It is frequently confounded with the anterior edge of the levator ani, from which however it is occasionally separated by a layer of cellu- lar tissue. It arises from the posterior part of the symphysis pubis by a tendinous slip, and its origin extends for a short distance backwards from the anterior true ligament of the bladder of the corresponding side; as it descends, its fibres spread out over the side of the prostate, and are inserted into the under part of its capsule its use is to sup- port the gland, and by compressing it laterally to assist in the evacuation of its ducts. The prostate rests on the anterior surface of the rectum, a thin layer of fascia passing under- neath the gland and the vesiculae seminales. Behind the prostate are the vesiculae, which diverge from each other as they recede, and are in front received into the interval between the lateral lobes, their anterior extremities are placed beneath the third lobe ; the vasa defe- rentia run on their inner side, and the common ejaculatory ducts pass upwards in a curved direction, between the lateral and middle lobes, to terminate by the side of the sinus pocu- laris. The anterior surface, which is grooved by a shallow longitudinal depression, is attached to the back part of the symphysis pubis on either side by two ligamentous or tendinous bands, which are continuous with the cap- sule of the gland below, and above with the true anterior ligaments of the bladder; * See Art. Bladder, vol. i. p. 381.; 'and for de- scription of the arrangement of the circular fibres, see the same article. they are termed the Ugamenta puho-jnosta- tica media et lateralia; they serve to support a,bladder; h, section of the middle lobe of the pros- tate ; c, left vas ejaculatorium; d, left vas deferens. the prostate and sling it to the pubis, thus contributing to the support of the neck of the bladder. The posterior surface of the pros- tate is smooth and is traversed by a lon<iitudi- nal depression, at the bottom of which two smaller grooves are visible, inclining towards each other in front, they bound two sides of a small triangular portion of the gland ; this is the under surface of the third lobe, on either side of which a vas ejaculatorium takes its course. The prostate is surrounded by a dense capsule derived from the vesical fascia; this gives it a complete investment,^ and adheres so firmly to the tissue of the gland as to be separated from it with great difficulty. It is divisible into two layers, between which the prostatic plexus of veins runs. The gland itself is of a lightish brown colour, of a fleshy feel, and when cut it offers the resistance ot soft cartilage : it is one of the firmest glands in the body. It is principally formed of tw o lateral lobes, a right and a left, of equal size in the healthy condition, of an ovoid shape, with their long axes from before backwards ; they diverge from each other behind, leaving an in- terval between them, already mentioned; the lateral lobes are connected together beneath the urethra by an isthmus of variable depth and breadth. Between the two lateral lobes, which make up the bulk of the gland, we fimi the middle or third lobe. The name of Sir Everard Home is usually associated with the description of this lobe. Although not the dis- coverer of it, he gave the first full description of it. Mr. (now Sir Benjamin) Brodi(; made dissections of it under Honie's direction ; in the first subject in which it was examined, it appeared as a distinct gland, resembling Cow- per's gland in size and shape ; but in the ex^ amination of this body in five different subjects, the appearance was not the same in any two of them. The following is the account given by Home of what he considers the mo^t natural condition of this part of the prostate : — " On turning off" the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales, exactly in the middle of the sulcus, between the tw o lateral portions of the prostate gland, there was a round, pro-