POLYGASTRIA. 2 ther in front of the heart; but in the adult human subject this is not the case, the pericar- dium coming into immediate contact with the anterior thoracic parietes. Also the pleurae are prevented by the adhesion of the pericardium to the diaphragm from adhering to one another below the heart. It is almost superfluous to state that the heart and pericardium encroach more upon the left pleural cavity than upon the right. The median thoracic septum of the hu- man subject is able, partly on account of its small antero-posterior extent, to resist any con- siderable lateral displacement, such as might result from accumulation of effusion into one pleural cavity ; but in deep-chested animals it admits of displacement to such an extent that the whole of the chest may be filled with an effusion into one pleural cavity. In a Chetah, which died of pleurisy at the gardens of the Zoological Society, dissected by the author, the immediate cause of death was suffocation occa- sioned by effusion into the right pleura, which, occupied the whole chest, and compressed the left lung, the left pleura being unaffected. The mediastinum may be regarded as a kind of mesentery to the heart, and in some reptiles it is very obviously seen to be a part of the great median mesentery wherein all the viscera are suspended. This great median mesentery of reptiles is attached to parietes in front as well as behind as far down as the falciform liga- ment of the liver; as though a fold of serous membrane had been pulled down by the umbi- lical vein. In some reptiles, as the chame- leon, the anterior parietal attachment is conti- nued even down to the small intestines, so that the stomach and part of the small intestine are enclosed between the layers of the mediasti- num. The serial homology of this septum is ob- scured in Mammalia by the diaphragm being interposed between it and the other mesenteries. The only fold or duplicature made by each pleura that is comparable to the mesenteries or omenta formed by the peritoneum is that called the broad ligament of the lung (ligainentum latum pulmonis). It is a fold carried down- wards and backwards from the root of the lung. It may be described as having four edges, the upper one of which is attached along the lower aspect of the root of the lung; the outer one is attached to the inner aspect of the lung from its root to its lower border; the inner one is attached to the mediastinum from the root of the lung downwards and backwards to the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm; the remaining edge is free and directed outwards, downwards, and backwards. Its inner or mediastinal attachment is by far the longest, so that its figure is four-sided, with one corner extremely drawn out or prolonged. There are frequently found, especially about the pericardium, numerous pyriform masses of fat covered with pleura, like appendices epiploicae. The outer surface of the pleura is but loosely adherent to the ribs and intercostal muscles; it is more firmly connected with the diaphragm and pericardium, and still more firmly with the lungs. The adhesion of the two pleurae in the mediastinum is extremely loose in the human subject, large quantities of areolar tissue and frequently fat being interposed; so that in many subjects they can hardly be said to come into immediate contact at all. The pleura covering the ribs and that forming the mediastinum is strengthened by a fibrous layer, but that covering the lungs is destitute of such fibres, and consequently extremely thin and delicate. The terms pleura pulmonalisy pleura costalis, and pleura diaphragmatic a, are applied respectively to those parts of the pleurae which are connected with the lungs, the ribs, and the diaphragm : and these expressions are frequently found extremely convenient. From the extreme frequency of abnormal adhesions of the apposed surfaces of the pleura it appears that this serous membrane is un- usually liable to inflammation, which liability may be due to its being unusually exposed to external circumstances through its extreme proximity to the air in the lungs. The pleura is peculiar to the class Mammalia. In Birds the lungs are adherent to the thoracic parietes; and in Reptiles, there being no dis- tinction of thorax and abdomen, they are in- vested by the peritoneum. To this, however, there is an exception in the Crocodilians, in which reptiles a rudimentary diaphragm exists. The pleurae of these animals are disposed around the outer, anterior, and posterior, but not the inner aspect of each lung; so that the lung seems to be adherent to the mediastinum. (Simon Rood Pittard.) POLYGASTRIA. —A name applied by Professor Ehrenberg, of Berlin, to an immense class of microscopic animalcules which exist in countless millions in water of various kinds, both salt and fresh, more especially m such as contains decomposing animal or vegetable substances. Many forms of these beings are indescribably minute, some of them measuring not more than the 32,000th part of an inch in length, and all of them are of such tiny dimensions as to require the utmost penetration of the micro- scope and the most patient industry on the part of the observer to make out their organization. A few of the largest are, indeed, barely distin- guishable by the unassisted eye; but, generally speaking, they are quite invisible; and had it not been for the invention of the microscope, we should, even at this day, have been ignorant of their existence. The numbers in which these creatures abound baffles all expression. It has been ascertained, and the fact may easily be proved with a good microscope, that, possessing the dimensions above referred to, say the 24,000th part of an inch, many of these living atoms crowd the water in which they are found to such an extent that they are not separated from each other by a space greater than the size of their whole bodies; so that by a very little calculation it will be seen that a single drop of such water contains more of these active existences than there are human beings upon the surface of this globe. And when the mind reflects upon their