RESPIRATION. 354 only of the absolute quantity of carbon which escapes from the body in the form of carbonic acid gas in the different classes of animals, but also the relative proportion of tliis to the weight of the body, is a matter of considerable physiological interest, especially with refer- ence to the source of animal caloric. From the experiments of Scharling, Andral, and Gavarret, it is evident that the young of the human species relative to their weight consume considerably more oxygen gas, and evolve more carbonic acid gas by respiration, than the middle-aged; and that the latter again evolve more carbonic acid than those far advancetl into old age. Valentin and Brunner have calculated, from experiments performed on Valentin, who at the time was 33 years of age, that for every gramme weight (15"433 Troy grains) of his body, there w^as evolved "0089 Troy grain of carbonic acid gas, containing *0024 Troy grain of carbon ; and this calcu- lation approximates pretty closely to one based upon the results of Andral and Gavarret upon the evokition of carbon, combined with those of Quetelet upon the average weight of the body at this period of Hfe. * The follow- ing table, calculated from the experiments of different observers, to show the quantity of carbon consumed in the 24 hours for every 100 grammes weight (1543'3 Troy grains) of the body in the four divisions of the verte- brata, is given by Vierordt : — Troy Grains. Tench (Provencal and Humboldt) -370 = 1 Frog ( March and) 1 '342 = 4 Man (Scharling) 4-506= 12 Pigeon (Boussingault) 42-317 = 114 Quantity of oxygen absorbed at the lungs.— That a quantity of oxygen gas greater than what is necessary to form the carbonic acid gas in the expired air disappears from the inspired air, is now placed beyond a doubt. The quantity of oxygen gas that disappears from the inspired air by absorption at the lungs is not uniform, even in the same indi- vidual, for any length of time, and the varia- tions in this respect are in all probability determined by the same circumstances which affect the evolution of carbonic acid gas, the absorption of oxygen being increased when the evolution of carbonic acid is increased, and vice versa. Dalton calculated that he himself respired 500 cubic feet of atmospheric air, containing 105 cubic feet of oxygen, in the 24 hours, and that 25 cubic feet of the oxygen, weighing 15,120 grains, or 2*6 lbs. Troy, were absorbed at the lungs. Valentin and Brunner, in 34 analyses of the air expired the quantity of carbonic acid evolved in respiration in different classes of animals up to the period when the work Avas published, are thrown into a tabular foi-m in Burdach's Physiologic, 2nd edition, trans- lated by Joiu-dan, toui"^ ix. p. 512. * A table constructed on these data, exhibiting the probable quantity of carbon which combines "nith oxygen to fonn the carbonic acid gas evolved at the liuigs at different ages in the hmuan species, is given-at p. 569 of Valentin's Lehrbuch. by 3 individuals between 33 and 54 years of age, found the average quantity of oxygen gas to be 16 033, the maximum 17-246, and the minimum 14-968 parts by volume in the 100 parts of the expired air. Proceeding on these results of Valentin and Brunner, we may esti- mate the average amount of oxygen that dis- appears from the inspired air at 4-78 by vohmie in the 100 parts. While the experiments upon the relation of the quantity of oxygen absorbed at the lungs to that of the carbonic acid gas evolved, made by Lavoisier, Sir H. Davy, and Dalton on the human species, by Legallois, Dulong, Despretz, and Dr. W. F. Edwards upon the warm-blooded animals, by Treviranus upon several cold- blooded animals, and by Marchand upon frogs, all concur in making the oxygen absorbed greater than what is necessary to form the carbonic acid exhaled, they exhibit very con- siderable differences in the relative propor- tions of the absorbed oxygen and exhaled carbonic acid gas. In some of these experi- ments, the ox} gen absorbed was considerably greater than what is necessary to form the carbonic acid gas. In Marchand's experiments on frogs subjected to prolonged fasting, the relation of the oxygen absorbed to the car- bonic acid evolved constantly increased, until it amounted to between 410—430 : 100.* Valentin and Brunner, in their experiments on the human species, found the relative proportions of these two gases to approximate so closely to their diffusive volumes, that they believed the small difference between the results obtained by actual experiment and when calculated according to the law of the diffusion of gas, discovered by Graham, arose from incidental circumstances; and as the diffusive volume of carbonic acid gas is to oxygen gas as 1 : 1*1742, they maintain that for every 1 volume of carbonic acid gas evolved from the blood, 1-1742 volume of oxygen gas is absorbed. Valentin has given the following table, constructed from facts furnished by Quetelet, Andral, and Gavarret, conjoined with calculations of the relative quantities of oxygen absorbed and carbonic acid evolved according to the law of the diffusion of gases, to exhibit the weight of the body, the quantity of carbon consumed in respiration, and the probable amount of oxy- gen absorbed and carbon consumed at the different periods of hfe in the human spe- cies f: — * At page 563 of Valentin's Lehrbuch are two tables exhibiting the relative proportions of oxygen gas absorbed and carbonic acid evolved, as ascer- tained by direct experiment, and as calculated ac- corthng to the law of the diffusion of gases. We shall have occasion to make some remarks on this subject when we come to discuss the theorj- of respi- ration. t Opus cit. p. 571. The weights and measures in the original table are here reduced to Troy Aveight and English cubic inches.