67 PORIFERA. Fig. 71. a, c, d, Spicuia of Tethea Cranium; d, three forked spicuia; c, fusiform spicuia; a, cuticular spicuia; 6, spicuia of Tethea Lyncurium. {After Johnston.^ cavity within them, extending from the one point to the other ; and on the inflated part of each spiculum we observe a ragged open- ing, as if a portion had been driven out by the expansion of some contained fluid. In those spicuia which had suffered little change of form by their incandescence, I have never failed to observe the same cavity within ex- tending from one end to the other, and a dis- tinct open rent on their side by which the contained matter has escaped." The exist- ence of this central cavity has likewise been recognised by Mr. Bowerbank, who, more- over, observes, that it is " lined with an ani- mal membrane, which becomes converted into a thin film of carbon when the spicuia are exposed to the action of the blow-pipe." Gelatinous cortex.—" In the recent and living sponge, all its canals and pores are filled with a glairy colourless fluid like the white of an egg, which flows freely out on the removal of the sponge from the water. The quantity af this fluid varies according to the species. In some, it is copious even to nauseousness, but in the compact Halichandriae, there is little of it, and in the Grantiae it appears to be en- tirely wanting." * It " has an unctuous feel, emits a fishy odour when burnt, leaves a thin film of membrane when evaporated, and appears to the naked eye, transparent, colour- less, and homogeneous, like the white of an egg : but when a drop of it is examined on a plate of glass under the microscope, it appears entirely composed of very minute, transparent, spherical or ovate granules like monads with some moisture. These monad-like bodies, nearly all of the same size and form, resemble the pellucid granules or vesicles which Trem- bley has represented as composing the whole texture of the Hydra, or the soft granular matter we observe in the stems of living Ser- * Johnston, loc. cit. tulariae; and indeed most of the fleshy parts of organized bodies appear to be composed of similar pellucid granular or monad-like bodies in different states of aggregation."* The sen- sible qualities of this glairy material vary in different species of sponge," the odour of .some being decidedly animal, while others belong to common and well-known vegetables. The Spongia coalita, when newly taken out of the water, smells very strongly of the com- mon mussel, and when burnt it still resembles the same bivalve burnt ; the Spongia com- pressa, on the other hand, smells strongly of the common mushroom ; some, as the Spongia oculata, have scarcely a perceptible odour." Irritability. — According to Audouin f and Milne Edwards, when a living Tethea is allowed to remain for some time perfectly undisturbed in a vessel of sea-water, its oscula may be observed widely expanded, and the currents, hereafter spoken of, passing through them may be readily observed. But if, in this con- dition, the animal is disturbed or removed for an instant from the water, the currents grow much feebler, or cease altogether, and the oscula, contracting slowly and insensibly, be- come at last almost obliterated. In other genera of sponges, however, this contraction has been looked for in vain ; and although the openings of the oscula have been watched with the utmost attention, and measured at intervals with miscroscopic accuracy, not the slightest movement has been perceptible. Circulation of Water.— In the living sponge, as was first remarked by Professor Thomas Bell, and subsequently by other observers, a constant circulation of the surrounding ele- ment, is, by some mysterious agency, kept up throughout its substance, the water being perpetually sucked in, as it were, through all the minute pores, upon the periphery of the mass, and again emitted in continuous streams through the larger orifices (oscula) of the sponge. Fig, 72. Living Papillaris, showing the jets of water emitted from the oscula. (^After Blainville.) Dr. Grant put a small branch of Spongia coalita with some sea water into a watch-glass, in order to examine it with the microscope, and thus describes the phenomena it pre- * Grant, loc. cit. t Hist. Nat. du Litt. de la France, vol. i. p. 78. F 2