REN. 248 specimen shows the abrupt tenniuation of the ci- liated epitholiiun, e }), within the capsule, a a, Some rounded particles,which are sometimes seen in considerable numbers, either on the surface or in the •wall of the vessels c. The basement membrane of the capsule, h m, beyond the termination of the ciliated epithelium appears quite naked. Magnitied 200 diameters. I am not aware that ciliary motion has been detected in the kidneys of Mammaha or Birds. I shall presently show that in certain fishes and reptiles the ciha are not confined to the situation in which they were first discovered by Mr. Bowman ; but that they exist through- out the greater part, if not the whole length, of the uriniferous tubes. It appears desirable to allude here to some observations which have been made since the publication of Mr. Bowman's paper, and to inquire how far certain statements which have been opposed to his account of the jNIalpighian bodies are worthy of consideration. It is not my intention to occupy time and space, by giving a history of all the contradictory opi- nions which this subject has elicited. It may be fairly inferred that inability to detect ciliary motion within the Malpighian capsule, or to verify any observation in reference to w hich several competent authorities are agreed, is the result of some defect in the microscope employed, or in the eye or mind of the ob- server. Objections have been made to two parts of Mr. Bowman's description ; first, to his account of the relation which the Malpighian capsule bears to the basement membrane of the tube and to the blood-vessels; and, secondly, to his statement that the Malpighian capillaries lie uncovered within the capsule. Bidder* made his observations on the kid- ney of the male triton (Triton taeniatus). The anterior part of the kidney of this animal is exceedingly well adapted for the hivestigation in question, since it is very thin and transpa- rent, and is thus fitted for microscopical ex- amination w ithout further artificial preparation by tearing or other means. Bidder believes that the vessels do not perforate the capsule to enter its cavity, as described by Mr. Bow- man ; but he considers the basement membrane to be introverted so as to form a covering for the vessels and a complete partition of a semi- lunar form between the cavity of the tube and that of the INIalpighian capsule. I have exa- mined the kidney of the triton with great care, and have satisfied myself that INIr. Bowman's account of the perforation of the capsule by the vessels is strictly correct, and that there is no partition, but, on the contrary, a free communication, between the cavity of the capsule and the orifice of the tube. When the vessels are distended with blood, they almost fill the capsule; on the contrary, when they are empty, they shrink into a small com- pass. I have examined them under both conditions, and could never detect any ap- pearance of a membrane reflected over them. The free communication between the cavity * Miiller's Ai-chiv. 1845, of the capsule and the orifice of the tube is sufficiently shown by two phenomena which I have repeatedly witnessed: first, when the cilia are in action, the liquid filling that part of the capsule which is unoccupied by the vessels is freely propelled from the cavity of the capsule into the tube; and, secondly, ■when water is added to the specimen, loose particles of epithelium from the tube are often driven into the capsule, until they fill that part of its cavity which is not occupied by the collapsed blood-vessels. Dr. Gerlach * describes and figures the Mal- pighian capsule as being not a blind termi- nation of the uriniferous duct, but a lateral diverticulum of the same structureless base- ment membrane which forms the duct ; and he believes that the capsule communicates with the duct by means of a short neck. It is not impossible that there may, in some rare instances, be a diverticulum from a tube as represented by Gerlach; but as I have never yet seen such a mode of connexion between a tube and a capsule, and as I have seen numberless instances of tubes terminating directly in the dilatation which constitutes the Malpighian capsule, I do not hesitate to de- clare my decided conviction that Mr. Bow- man has correctly described the structures in question.f With reference to the second point above alluded to, namely, to Mr. Bowman's state- ment that the Malpighian capillaries lie un- covered within the capsule, the observations of Gerlach deserve more consideration. He states that when the Malpighian capillary net- work is examined after the capsule has been entirely detached from it, it may be seen in its whole extent covered by a thick layer of nucleated cells, which are continued from the inner wall of the capsule upon the ^Malpighian vessels ; so that the latter lie introverted with- in a layer of cells like the intestine within the peritonaeum ( /%. 160.); and he supposes that the secreting structure of the Malpighian bodies differs from the ordinary structure of glands * Miiller's Archiv. 1845. f Dr. Gerlach's opinion of the manner in which the tubes are connected with the Malpighian cap- sules, is fomided upon appearances which he ob- served after injecting the m-inar^- tubules from the peMs of the kidney. He believes that in this man- ner he succeeded in filling the Malpighian capsiiles as well as the tubes, and that, too, as he says, after he had foiled m filling these parts by injection of the Malpighian vessels from the arter*- in the man- ner before described. (Vide ante, p. 241.) On a careful consideration of the drawings by which Dr. Gerlach's paper is illustrated, there seems reason to believe that the appearances which he describes as Malpighian bodies may result ti-om a sudden bulging of the tubes produced by forcible distension with the rejected material. (See Miiller's Archiv., 1845, plate 13.) It cannot be a matter of siu-prise that a forcible injection of the tubes from the pelvis should give rise to umiatural appearances in these stmctxu'es; whereas a slow infiltration of injection from the niptured Malpighian vessels, or an ec^ually slow extravasation of blood during life, whUe it fills the capsules and the tubes, leaves these parts as nearly as possible in their normal condition, and affords the most satisfactory- e^^dence as to the na- tui-e of .theii" coimexion with each other.