SEMEN. 490 nipulation, pressure, &c., whereby the sepa- rate constituent elements can be demon- strated. In Staphylinus cyaneus {Jig. 371. b) these bundles are wraj)ped up into one roundish knot (excepting the anterior ones, which are still covered by the remains of the cysts) ; in Panorpa communis they have curled arrangement. In many cases, several of such fibres join themselves lengthwise into one restiform mass, which is still covered in the interior of the testicles by a common gelatinous enclo- sure. This produces the long vermiform bodies, which are so frequently met with in the testicles of the butterflies, but which also occur in some few other insects, as in Diptera (e. g. in Scatopsis). ^ In their gradual advance through the vas deferens, the spermatozoa lose this mode of grouping;—their bundles separate. In the |)lace of this they are, however, very fre- quently enclosed in masses by peculiar baglike enclosures, the so-called Spermntophora^^ such as we find in the spermatozoa of the Ce- phalopods, only of a much more simple struc- ture. By the aid of these formations, the spermatozoa are transferred into the female generative organs. Formerly it was usual to look upon the remains of these bags as the torn-off generative organ of the male. The spermatophora of insects have usually the form of a pedunculated globule (for instance, in the Locustinae and Lepidoptera). Through a series of transition-forms they reach ulti- mately the shape of a long thin cylinder, of which a striking example is afforded in Clivina Fossor. The spermatozoa lie either irregularly in the interior of the spermato- phora, or united into regular bundles. This mode of grouping has an extremely elegant appearance in the Locustinae. The tails of the fibres join together on either side of a furrow, from which the several fibres start to the right and left like the barbs from the shaft of a feather. Spermatophora are want- ing in many of the Hexapoda. Instead of them we sometimes find (as in Carabaea, Titfigoria, &c.) a number of long and rather broad bandlike transparent strings, which are fre- quently wound in the shape of a spiral, and, like the spermatophora, are also formed in the vas deferens of the male. These strings, on being treated with water, separate into a great number of spermatozoa, the separa- tion taking place either gradually from the ends, or more suddenly in their whole ex- tent. The entire mass thus proves itself to be one large seminal string, a formation which, in its whole quality, approximates very nearly to the second form of the seminal bundles from the interior of the testicles enumerated by us. The cause of such an arrangement and grouping of the spermatozoa is equally as unknown to us as that of the formation of the bundles of spermatozoa in the cysts. Whether they are peculiar phenomena of at- traction, or whether they are other relations caused by external influences and circum- stances, we know not. We must therefore for the present be satisfied with a simple statement of the facts. Although, from the great uniformity of the spermatozoa in the class of Insects, we might reasonably expect a corresponding simi- larity in the other groups of the Arthropoda, observation teaches us that such is not the case. Instead of the filiform formations, which, however, are here the usual constituents of the seminal liquid, there are found in some cases quite peculiar bodies of a re- markable shape. The history of their de- velopement alone can prove that the ele- ments alluded to are not, as one might perhaps suppose, morphologically different formations, but that they owe their origin to a mere modification in the application of the ordinary stages of developement. It can be proved that the bodies in question in most cases are immediately connected with the former stages of developement of the spermatozoa. Thus our conjecture (above expressed) gains in probability, that many of such-like little bodies are mere forms of de- velopement of ordinary filiform spermatozo;i. The following investigations, however, will afford us a confirmation of the truth of our conjecture: — Arachnida. — In the class of the Arachnida, the usual filiform appearance of the sperma- tozoa has only been observed among the scor~ pions. The spermatozoa of these animals are about long, and rather thickened at one end. They develope themselves, according to Kdliikcr, in the usual manner in the interior of vesicles, which are contained, in numbers, in a larger cyst-like cell. In the Arnnc^e, on the other hand, which, owing to the difficulty of an anatomical ex- amination, have hitherto but rarely been submitted to a careful inspection, the sper- matozoa are said to present a very dif- ferent shape. V. Sicbold*, to whom we are indebted for the only statements regarding them, describes them as round or reni- form cellular bodies, on the interior wall of which a round or oblong nucleus is situ- ated. We have also met with such corpuscles, and that in great quantity, in the testicles of the most different species of spiders; we must however dispute the assumption of V. Siebold, viz. that such are the developed spermatozoa, since we have succeeded in discovering filiform bodies besides these for- mations, which former undoubtedly develope themselves from the latter, and are the real spermatozoa. These relations we have re- ^ cognised most distinctly in Clubiona claus- ' traria. The contents of the testicles here consist of a large number of small round cells oi\^~'^,\n which a very perceptible nu- cleus is contained. The nucleus is at first round (Jig. 372. a), but gradually elongates Vid. Stein. * Lehrbuch der Verglucheiiden Anatomie, § 544.