REPTILIA. 291 breath with facility whilst only the tip of its Fig. 213. varies, it is insensible, and not by any sudden dilatation. Bat its diameter is generally much greater relative to the stomach, than in Mammalia or birds. In the Ophidians it is even more capacious than the stomach, at least when the latter is not distended with food : this happens because the walls of the stomach are more muscular than those of the oesophagus, and, consequently, contract more forcibly. When the oesophagus gra- dually dilates as it approaches the stomach, it often becomes difficult to say where one termi- nates and the other begins, and, consequently, to assign the situation of the cardia. The stomach is generally without any cul-de-sac, and its form much elongated. Most reptiles living upon prey have the digestive apparatus, and more particularly the stomach, of carni- vorous animals. The latter viscus is always single, never multiple ; its cavity being simple, never complicated. Even in those reptiles that feed on vegetable substances, the same plan of organization is retained, very slightly modified by such opposite habits. The oesophagus of some Chelonian reptiles Fie. 214. Throat, CEsopliagus, and Stomach of the Crocodile. a, nostrils; h, postorbital plate ; c, tongue; d, valves of the fauces; e, oesophagus; f, muscular portion of stomach; i, central tendons of ditto; g—k, commencement of duodenum. noseys above the surface of the water, {fg. Digestive Si/stem. — The oesophagus of rep- tiles is never dilated into a crop, as in birds ; it either preserves nearly the same diameter throughout its entire length, or, if its capacity Homy Processes in (Esophagus of Turtle. presents internally its whole inner surface crowded with long, hard, conical papillae (/cr. 214.), the points of which are directed backwards towards the stomach, and doubt- less serve to prevent the return of substances swallowed towards the mouth. The muscular coat is generally very strong. The stomach is generally of an elongated form and cylindrical shape; its longest por- tion is directed backwards ; it then suddenly bends at an angle, and runs forwards. The second portion, which terminates at the py- lorus, is always shorter than the first; its muscular coat is thicker than in the cardiac portion, and its lining membrane here forms longitudinal folds, \\hich are more numerous and distinct. The pylorus is indicated by a circular elevated ring, which is sometimes very thick, or else by a fold. Generally the walls of the stomach in the Chelonian reptiles are thick, partly owing to the strength of the muscular tunic, partly to the thickness of the mucous and cellular coats, the latter being penetrated by numerous crypts.