SECRETION. 460 t Lancet, July 8. 1848. * Edinb. Med and Surg. Journ. vol. xliv. being received into the circulating current ; that being eliminated by the kidneys, in the state of health, as fast as it is formed, it has no time to accumulate in the blood ; but that when such elimination is checked or dimi- nished, whilst its formation continues, the minute quantity originally present gradually increases, so as at last to become easily de- tectible by chemical processes. However probable such an explanation might be felt to be, it is yet satisfactory to find it confirmed by direct experiment.* Simon and Marchand some time since obtained satisfactory evi- dence of the presence of urea in the healthy blood of the cow; and Dr. Garrod has lately succeeded in obtaining urea from the serum of healthy human blood. The amount, as might be anticipated, was very small, only l-200th of a grain of urea being procurable from 1000 grains of serum.f The pre-existence of tiric acid in the blood might in like manner be inferred from the well-known fact of its deposition in gouty con- cretions : this inference, also, has been con- firmed by Dr. Garrod, who has discovered uric acid in the blood of gouty subjects. It might be not unreasonably asserted, however, that the presence of uric acid in the blood is the result of a disordered condition of the system generally ; and it is hence satisfactory to find that in this case also Dr. Garrod has succeeded in obtaining the substance itself from healthy blood. He states that the amount seems liable to considerable variation, and to have some relation to the period that has elapsed since food was last taken, being least where this was longest : thus in one in- stance, where food had not been taken for twenty-four hours, 1000 grains of serum yielded only 2-1000th s of a grain of uric acid ; whilst a similar quantity of serum from the blood of other healthy subjects yielded 7-lOOOths ; and a like amount of serum from the blood of a man of full habit, but other- wise healthy, yielded 37-lOOOths of a grain of uric acid. Of hipjniric acid, which exists in small quantity in human urine, but in much larger amount in the urine of herbivorous animals, Dr. Garrod states (loc. cit.) that he thinks he has detected traces in the blood. There can be no reasonable doubt that kreatine and kreatinine are normal elements of healthy blood, since they are constituents of the "juice of flesh," which seems to be the result of the disintegration of the muscular tissue, and must be taken into the circulating current to be conveyed from the muscles into the urine, where we again meet with these substances. In like manner it is probable that lactic acid * Dr. Front states (On Stomach and Renal Dis- eases, 5th ed. p. 531. note), that when engaged in examining the blood in the year 1816, he found nrea (or a substance having most of its properties) in tliat fluid; but not crediting the fact, and think- ing it might be accidental, he did not pursue the enquiry, though he made a memorandum of the circumstance. is normally present in the blood in very mi- nute proportion; for it abounds in the juice of flesh, and must be taken into the current of the circulation, in order to be eliminated from the body. In the healthy state it seems to be eliminated through the respiratory organs as fast as it is generated; being con- verted by oxidation into carbonic acid and water. It was formerly supposed to be a normal constituent of the urine; but it has been clearly proved by Liebig not to have a real existence there. Even when lactate of potash has been introduced by the stomach, the potash is thrown out by the kidnevs in combination with other acids, the lactic acid not being eliminated in the urine, but passed off through the lungs. In certain dis- eased states of the system, however, lactic acid unquestionably presents itself in the gas- tric, urinary, and cutaneous secretions ; and as it has been shown to be one of the results of the disintegration of the muscular tissue, its pre-existence in the blood cannot be reason- ably doubted. The less definite nature of the constituents of hde prevents them from being as certainlv re- cognised in the blood as those of urine "have been ; nevertheless, the evidence of their pre- existence in the circulating fluids is sufficiently clear. Thus cholesterine may be obtained from the serum of the blood by an analytical process of no great complexity ; and its pre- sence there is also manifested by its occasional deposit, as a result of diseased action, in other parts of the body, especially in the fluids of local dropsies, as hydrocele, ovarian dropsy, &c. Again, the colouring matter of the bile seems to be nearly identical with certain normal elements of the blood, since the hue exhibited by a departing ecchymosis is identical with the characteristic colour of b;le. In cases of jaundice, the presence of the colouring matter in the blood is often made evident, not nierely by the communica- tion of its peculiar hue to the several tissues and secretions of the body, but also by the tint visible in the serum of the blood itself. It would seem probable, however, that in many of these cases there has been an actual re-absorption of the bihary matter subse- quently to its elimination by the liver, as a consequence of obstruction to its exit by the gall duct. But in the most severe and ra- pidly fatal cases of jaundice, as pointed out by Dr. Alison*, the secreting process has never taken place, and the colouring matter must then have been generated in the blood itself. Neither cholesterine, nor the colouring matter of bile, seem to exert the poisonous influence on the nervous system which is manifested in the casi'S alluded to ; and it is probable that this must proceed from the accumulation of the peculiar organic constituent of the bile. As the precise nature of this, however, is still a matter of discussion amongst chemists, we cannot be surprised that it has not yet been obtained by analysis from the blood.