48 POLYPIFERA. We do not doubt that all polyparies, whether flexible or calcareous, are formed in a similar manner, the horny matter of one and the calcareous axis of the other being entirely produced by the conversion of soft gelatinous matter into hard substance through the agency of the membrane which always invests the polypes. Moreover, this infundibular mem- brane must offer a thousand modifications of form in different families, genera, and even species. Sometimes it is very extensive and irritable; at others, adhering to the parietes of the cells throughout their entire length ; the polype is immovably fixed at the opening of its tube. We consider this membrane as one of the most essential organs for the produc- tion of the polypar}', having observed it in Flustraj, Sertulariae; and, as far as we know, the same is the case in Madreporigenous polypes. When the calcareous tube has grown to a certain height, the animal proceeds to form the external horizontal stage, by means of which it becomes united to the tubes in its vicinity. In order to effect this the soft in- fundibular membrane spreads itself out hori- zontally, so as to form by its duplicature a kind of rim round the margin of the tube (fig. 2, a) ; in this state it loses the irritabi- lity that it previously possessed, and its two opposed surfaces becoming united to each other, it is gradually solidified by the depo- sition of calcareous matter in its substance, so as to form a firm horizontal plate. It generally happens that several of the neigh- bouring polypes construct similar horizontal stages at the same time, and precisely upon the same plane, in which case all the stages coalesce at their circumference, and become so intimately conjoined as to form but a single floor, which, when calcified, exhibits no marks whatever of the union which has been thus effected. After the formation of this stage the growth of the tube again proceeds up- wards, in the same manner as before, until it arrives at its full height. It is difficult to say how the ova formed upon the ovigerous filaments make their escape ; for, seeing their size, it seems impos- sible for them to jiass out by the mouth ; and it seems more probable that it is not until a |)olype dies that the germs of its progeny leave the tube of their parent, and settling down upon the horizontal stage constructed by the preceding generation commence their deve- lopment. When first attached in this position the young Tuhipore exhibits not the slightest trace of the future polype, but consists of a simple gelatinous membrane folded upon itself so as to resemble a little turban. This turban-shaped mass gradually elongates itself by its upper part, and, as its development proceeds, produces a polype in its interior, the tube which encloses it remaining soft and flexible above, while it is gradually calcified below. And it may here be remarked, that from the small diameter of the commencement of its tube, it is evident that the animal in- creases in all its dimensions during its advance to maturity. SertularidcB.— The depths of the ocean are inhabited by innumerable zoophytes equally remarkable for the beauty of their appearance and the peculiarity of their structure; these are the Sertulariae, whose arborescent stems have so much the appearance of vegetable productions that they are still regarded by the uninformed as " sea-weeds." On putting a Uving specimen of a Sertularia {fig, 54) Fig. 54. Branch of Serhdaria geniculata, magnified, showing cells, polypes, and ovigerous vesicles. into a jar of its native element, and watching it attentively with the aid of a magnifying glass, its real nature becomes at once appa- rent, and instead of being of vegetable origin, all the elegant ramifications of which it consists are found to be peopled with numbers of hydrlform polypes, all actively employed in catching prey, and apparently ministering to the support of the general community formed by their aggregation. The stem of a Sertularia consists of a hol- low tube, composed of a flexible horny sub- stance, diversely ramified in different species, in the interior of which is enclosed a soft animal substance, which constitutes the living portion of the zoophyte. At regular intervals every branch is studded with little cells, com- posed of the same horny material as the general stem, in each of which is lodged a Hydra, or at least a polype similar to the Hydra in its general characters, the base of which is continuous with the central living pith that