SECRETION organ, however complex its structure may be. The progress of comparative anatomy has shown that neither the form nor the in- ternal arrangement of the parts of a gland could have any essential connection with the nature of its product (see Gland) ; since even those glands (the liver and the kidney, for example) in which there is the greatest complexity of structure, make their first appearance at the lower end of the animal series, as in the early embryo of the very highest, in the simplest possible form. Still something was wanting to prove that the structural elements immediately concerned are in all instances the same; and there seemed no analogy whatever between the secreting membrane of the animal and the secreting cell of the plant. The doctrine was first propounded by Purkinje * and Schwann f, adopted and extended by Henle J, and fully confirmed by the researches of Goodsir^ and Bowman ||, that the true pro- cess of secretion — under whatever form it may present itself—is always performed by the intervention of cells; which, as part of their own regular vital actions, select and withdraw certain ingredients from the nu- tritive fluids, and afterwards set them free again, generally by the rupture or dissolution of the cell-wall, but sometimes perhaps by a simple act of transudation. For the proper comprehension of this doctrine in all its ge- nerality, it is necessary to give some attention to the history of cell-development, as mani- fested in the simplest forms of organic ex- istence ; those cryptogamic plants, namely, in which every cell is a distinct and inde- pendent individual. The earliest condition of such a cell is a minute molecide, which cannot be discerned except under a considerable magnifying power, and in which even the highest ampli- fication fails to exhibit any distinction of parts. When placed under circumstances favourable to its development, — namely, when supplied with the materials of its nu- trition, and stimulated by the requisite de- gree of warmth, — this germ increases in size; and a distinction becomes apparent between its transparent exterior and its coloured interior. Thus we have the first indication between the cell-wall and the celUcavity. As the en- largement proceeds, the distinction becomes more obvious; the cell-wall is seen to be of extreme tenuity and perfectly transparent, and to be homogeneous in its texture, whilst the contents of the cavity are distinguishable in the Algae by their colour, which is green in the Chlorococciy and bright red in the Hcsma- tococci; but in the simple fungi, such as the Torula cerevisiiy or yeast-plant, they are colourless. The contents of the cell-cavity * Isis, 1838, No. 7. f Froriep's Notizen, Feb. 1838. X Mtiller's Ai-chiv. 1838, p. 104—108 ; 1839, p. 45. § Trans, of Royal Society of Edinburgh, 1842. II Art. INIucous Membrane ; and Phil. Trans. 1842, " On the Structure and Uses of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney." have no relation whatever to the material of the cell.wall. Of this we have a remarkable example in the cases just cited ; for whilst the red and green coloured products of the Algae are probably nearly related to each other and to the chlorophyll of higher plants, being simple ternary compounds of water and carbon, the cell-contents of the yeast-plant are closely allied to the protein compounds ; and yet the cell-walls in both instances are composed of the same material, cellulose. It is evident, then, that the inherent powers of the cell are not confined to the application of nutrient materials to the extension of its own walls, and the consequent enlargement of its cavity ; but that they are exercised also in selecting from (and it maybe in combining or modifying) the same materials, in order to fill this cavity with a certain product, which may be altogether different in its constitution and its properties from that of which its wall is composed. This latter process is as essential to our idea of a living cell, as is the growth of its wall; and must never be left out of view when the history of cell-development is being considered. The nature of the compound thus stored up in the interior of a cell depends in part upon the original inherent endowments of the cell itself, derived from its germ ; and, in part, upon the character of the nutriment supplied to it. Thus we find that the simple Algae will grow wherever they can obtain, from the air and moisture around, the elements of their cell-walls and of their cell-contents; which elements they have themselves the power of combining into those peculiar com- pounds, of which analysis shows that they are composed. But out of the very same materials, and under circumstances to all appearance identical, the Chlorococcus manu- factures a green product, and the Hsemato- coccus a red one. On the other hand the yeast-plant, like the fungi in general, will only grow where it meets with an azotised compound already formed; and from this it elaborates the product which occupies its cell-cavity, its cell-wall being apparently formed by the same process as that of the simplest Algae. It could no more vege- tate, as they do, upon cold damp surfaces, than they could develop themselves in a solution of fermentible matter secluded from the light. A similar variety of function is seen amongst the cells, whose aggregation makes up the structure of any one of the higher plants, and which are all the descendants of the single cell which constituted its original germ. Thus we have in the green cells of the leaves the representatives of the simple Chlorococci ; these, under the influence of solar light, com- bining the carbon which they derive from the atmosphere, or from the soil, with the water transmitted from the roots, and elaborating these elements into a variety of new products, amongst which chlorophylf and cellulose are still pronainent ; but also operating upon the azote which they draw from the atmosphere