587 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. By the coraco-acromial vault we mean a concave surface, looking downwards, formed internally by the coracoid process, and ex- ternally by the acromion; the intervening space being filled up in front by the proper triangular ligament of the scapula, and com- pleted behind by a portion of the under-sur- face of the acromial end of the clavicle This coraco-acromial arch in the normal state overhangs much the head of the humerus, and its inferior surface is not articular, but, on the contrary, is separated from the head of the humerus, which is beneath it, by an in- terval of about three or four lines, measured in vertical height. This interval is normally occupied by the long tendon of the biceps and the capsular ligament, as they pass from the upper margin of the glenoid cavity to the hu- merus —the capsular ligament having above it the tendon of the supra-spinatus, a special bursa mucosa, much cellular tissue, and the fibrous bands, which pass from the humerus to the coracoid and acromial processes. Under the influence of the most usual form of this disease, all these parts intervening between the head of the humerus and the coraco-acromial arch or vault are absorbed ; and the superior extremity of the head of the humerus at length comes into immediate con- tact with the concavity of the arch. The first effect of this morbid process in bringing about the remarkable changes which we have been describing, may be to cause the absorp- tion of those tendons, viz. the supra-spinatus and the long tendon of the biceps, which pass over the head of the humerus, and which, by virtue of their muscular attachments, restrain within proper limits the degree of elevation * which the head of the humerus is normally susceptible of. When, however, these tendons are absorbed, and consequently the muscles to which they belong have lost all power of re- pressing the humerus, the latter is then drag- ged upwards, and its head being constantly pressed against the under-surface or concavity of the coraco-acromial arch, not only do the processes of the scapula which form this arch at length show manifestly the effects of fric- tion, but the outer portion of the acromial end of the clavicle does so equally. All these portions of bone are rendered con- cave, and are usually covered by a porcelain- like deposit, corresponding to an analogous polished surface which covers the convexity of the summit of the humerus. In many cases in v/hich the shoulder joint has long been the seat of this chronic disease, the acromion jjrocess has been found traversed in the line of junction of its epiphysis, by a complete interruption of its continuity, as if fractured : we say as if fractured, for we are convinced that this solution of continuity of the acro- mion process is not really a fracture produced by violence, but a lesion, which so frequently exists in combination with chronic rheumatic * If the long tendon of the biceps be dislocated find thrown inwards over the head of the hun:ierus, the same effects will be produced as if it -were ab- sorbed. arthritis of the shoulder, that we are com- pelled to look upon it, in these cases, as a peculiar organic change, the result of chronic rheumatic disease. We do not pretend to account for the separation of the acromion process into two portions ; nor can we say why it is that the division usually occurs in the original line of the epiphysis, particularly at the late period of life at which we generally witness this phenomenon. In some of these cases we have found the acromion in a state of hypertrophy ; in others in a state of atro- phy ; but in no case did there seem to be any attempt at ossific deposition on the contigu- ous surface of the separated portions of the acromion, a circumstance which might be ex- pected if a fracture hud occurred. The glenoid cavity of the scapula, under the influence of this disease, is generally much en- larged ; and by becoming wider above, it loses much of its ordinary ovoidal figure, approach- ing in its outline more to a circular form. The surface of the cavity appears preternatu- rally excavated, its brim being elevated into a sharp margin. The cartilage of incrustation, as well as the glenoid ligament, are generally removed altogether, some parts of the surface are porous, and some covered with porcelain- like enamel. Near the margins of the glenoid cavity, where the capsular ligament arises, we may often find osseous productions attached to the capsular ligament, adding depth to the receptacle for the enlarged head of the humerus. The glenoid cavity will of course be found to present nuich variety of form. Sometimes the head of the humerus occupies its upper portion, and habitually remains in contact with the under surface of the acro- mion and coracoid process, thus leaving the lower part of the glenoid cavity unoccupied. Sometimes part of the head of the hume- rus remains within the glenoid cavity, while the remaining portion of it occupies the neigh- bouring part of the subscapular fossa. Occa- sionally the head of the humerus will be found to have descended on the axillary mar- gin of the scapula *; while in other cases equally rare, which we shall hereafter have occasion to refer to, the head of this bone may, under the influence of this disease, pass backwards on the dorsum of the scapula: under all these circumstances, the glenoid cavity must undergo special changes of form adapted to each variety. Those who carefully study the anatomical characters of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder, cannot fail in the course of their investigation to observe many deviations from the normal state of the joint, the result of this disease, which are well calculated to mislead those who are unacquainted with it; to which we may here advantageously advert. It has been re[)eatedly remarked, that one of the most constant anatomical observations we had to make in post-mortem examinations of the shoulder joints of those w ho had been * Catalogue of the Museum of the College of Sur- geons, Dublin, vol. i. p. 399. Prepar. E. b. 905.