ROTIFERA. 409 same faculty of resuscitation after desiccation. On account of the slow movement of Macro- biotus, they have been called Tardigrada j an objectionable term, because applied to a family higher up in the scale of development. On account of their habit of crawling, and not swimming as the great mass of Rotifers, Du- jardin names them Systolides marchess. They are interesting as connecting the Rotifers, not only with the Annelida, but also, through their four pair of feet, with the higher forms of the Articulata, and on the other side with the Helminthida. Ehrenberg regards Macro- biotus not as a Rotifer, but as an animal re- lated to LerncBa. This epizoon and its con- geners have undoubtedly more affinity with the articulate than with the molluscous tribes ; and the relation of the Tardigrades with the Rotifers establishes for that family a more decided tendency towards the articulate groups than any other. Although the organisation of the Rotifera is included in too small a space to permit of dissection, the transparency of their integu- ments is so great as to permit of an easy ex- amination of their internal organs. From the previous descriptions of the families of this order, it will be seen that their organis- ation is very complicated, and that their size is by no means the measure of their position in the animal scale. Tegumentary system.— The Rotifers are all covered with a resisting tegument, more or less flexible, and which is the last part of the body to decompose. The composition of this tunic, although possessing various degrees of density, appears to be entirely organic; and the absence of siliceous or calcareous matter will account for these animals being never seen in a fossilised state. The investing membrane is open in front, to allow of the contact of the fleshy interior with the water in which the creatures live. There is, also, an anal orifice. In those species in which this membrane is not hardened, so as to form a shield, it is capable of being folded by the action of the muscles, and possesses a number of false articulations. The anterior part, to which are attached the vibratile ciliae consti- tuting the rotatory organ, is capable of being retracted into, or thrust out from, the rest of the body. All the parts of the body retract within the skin into a kind of globule, when the animal is removed from the water. The tegument has attached to it various organs, as the claws in Emydium, the cirrhi, or fins, of Polyarthra, and the elongated setae of Tri- arthra {Jig. 297.), the teeth in the dense tegu- ment, or lorica, of BracMoiKsa (fig. 296. g,g). The tail, or foot, must be regarded as an elongation of the tegument. It varies much in size and length. Sometimes it consists of a single styliform seta, as in Triarthra longi- seta {fig. 297.) ; in the genera Monura and Monostyla it is styliform, but is also articu- lated. In some of the species of the genus Anuraea there is no tail at all. In most in- stances the tail is forked, as in Hydatina, Etcchlanis, Pkilodina, Rotifer, Brachionus^ Sfc. {figs. 293—296.). Sometimes the tail is di- vided from the point of its origin with the tegu- Fis. 297. Triarthra longiseta. (^After Ehrenherg'). a, a, muscular fibres; h, contractile vesicle; c, c, intestinal glands. ment of the body, as in Notommata longiseta (/jg.298.) and in Hydatina senta (fig.293.). More frequently a portion intervenes between the body and the terminal processes. This is soft and movable in every part in Brachio- niis pala (fig, 296.) ; forms a series of sheaths