536 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. pared. The appearances of the pus present the varieties met with in this fluid generally. In the most favourable cases, the fluid ra- pidly diminishes in quantity ; and the pus-cells, which are incapable of further organization, disappear, the substances which compose them being, in all probability, absorbed subse- quently to the breaking up of their structure ; while the remaining parts of the exsudation become organized together with the adhering walls of the cavity, and result in the complete obliteration of the serous structure. In other instances, the suppurative process takes a more unfavourable course ; the pus assumes a sanious appearance and a very of- fensive smell ; and, finally, after ulceration or sloughing of the serous membrane, is dis- charged through the opening into the cavity of the viscus, or into a neighbouring serous membrane, or on the surface of the body. Sometimes this process appears to be modi- fied by the occurrence of a less ccmiplete ab- sorption. The pus, deprived of certain of its constituents, is slowly transformed into a rnortar-like mass, lining the membranous wall by which it appears to be secreted. The sandy or gritty consistence of this substance shows that it contains chiefly the inorganic constituents of the exsudation ; and sometimes the fluid, gradually thickening, passes into a cheesy pultaceous mass, and thence, by long duration, into a cretaceous substance, resem- bling that into which tubercle often degene- rates. The so-called chronic inflammation presents no differences which can be called essential ; most of them chiefly referring to the duration and intensity of the process, rather than to any peculiarities in its nature and appearances. For instance, if the general symptoms are less prominent than usual, and the disease pro- gresses slowly, with frequent remissions and exacerbations, it is called chronic." So, also, the same name would be applied to a case which, originally "acute" in the intensity of its symptoms, and the rapidity of its progress, had overpassed the violence of the first attack ; the effusion remaining with diminished con- stitutional disturbance. Or a recurrence of the inflammation, pouring forth a new effu- sion in and within the already dense and har- dened layer of a previous exsudation, is called chronic. In such a relapse, the unorganized exsudation has been said to be the seat of the secondary inflammation ; but it may be ques- tioned how far the inflammatory process can occur in a tissue which is as yet unprovided with vessels : and even were the absence of these as complete as it seems to be, the in- flammation of the lymph would scarcely be a necessary supposition, since it would be dif- ficult to deny the possibility of a physical transudation of fluid, derived from the nearest vascular surface, or that of the original mem- brane. Besides these divisions of inflammation ac- cording to its duration and results, there are others, in which the process is compli- cated^ by its occurrence in connection with other diseases, or by its dependence upon some specific cause. Amongst these the " haemor- rhagic " eff"usion, first recognised by Lgennec, holds a very conspicuous place. In this dis- order the inflammatory exsudation is mingled with more or less blood, which communicates its colour and appearances to the whole mass, in a degree varying with the quantity in which it is present. By longer duration, it separates into two parts: a peripheric layer of whitish or slightly-coloured lymph, which covers the serous surface ; and a fluid which contains the greater part of the blood corpuscles and serum, and is included in the cavity formed by the plastic layer. This liquid |)ortion is only capable of a very slow absorption, and prior to this event it passes through many gradations of colour and appearance. Ge- nerally, it slowly loses its red colour ; but in the case of the hasmorrhagic inflammations of the peritoneum, it very frequently becomes darker, and, finally, almost black ; a change which seems due to the action of the intes- tinal gases. This conjunction of inflammation and ha2morrhage occurs in many diseases, but with the greatest frequency in tubercular ca- chexia, in fevers, and in other exanthemata. In all these disorders, the mass of the blood is greatly affected, and in many of them suffi- ciently so to exhibit marked deviation from the composition and properties of the healthy fluid. And in addition to these, the gene- ral conditions of its occiu-rence, Rokitansky * points out a local circumstance which greatly favours its access ; viz. the previous existence of a plasma, in which organization is com- mencing. And he refers this aptitude for haemorrhage to the probable state of its vas- cular apparatus, which, in this early stage of its development, offers simultaneously the greatest delicacy in the texture of its walls, and a deficiency of anastomosis with the neighbouring vessels; two conditions which would respectively diminish its capacity of re- sistance to any distensive force, and increase the amount and duration of this distension. And in illustration of this his opinion, it may be pointed out, that a granulating surface on the exterior of the body seems closely to imi- tate these local conditions; while the resulting haemorrhage, often traceable to the congestion mechanically producible by posture, often de- pending on exciting causes of a more recon- dite nature, affords a parallel to some of the effusions noticed above. The events of inflammation are mainly in- cluded in the preceding sketch of the effusion which constitutes its most important feature : in this manner adhesion, suppuration, ulcera- tion, and more rarely sloughing, occur. But they also happen, though with less frequency, as secondary affections of the serous mem- branes, in connection with diseases of the viscera or cavities which they cover. Thus, a morbid process in the immediate neighbour- hood of a serous membrane frequently causes * Haudbuch der Pathologischen Auatomie, Band ii. S. 2ti.