548 SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. bourhood of the transversalis faciei artery. They mostly terminate in the upper half of the orhicularis oris, and in the buccinator, on which muscle they join with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth. This latter nerve is distributed to the mucous membrane and integuments, and probably has no share in the supply of the muscle. The lower of these buccal branches join another portion of the network, which results from the ramification and union of the next division of the facial. The cervico-facial division^ of smaller size than the temporo-facial, passes do\vn\\ard3 and forwards from the seat of bifurcation of the portio dura, and emerges from the parotid gland near the angle of the lower jaw. Here it divides and subdivides in the same manner as the preceding portion. It is divided into a facial and cervical, or a supra and infra- maxillary part. Its siipra-maxillai't/ part is constituted by one or two large branches, which, breaking up as they pass forwards to the interval be- tween the jaw and mouth, enter beneath the platysma and triangularis menti; and besides supplying these and the other muscles of this region, they join with a branch of the inferior dental which comes through the mental fora- men. The infra-maxillary^ or cervical portion of the facial nerve, consists of two or three branches, which, directed still more obhquely downwards, soon divide into very numerous filaments. These pass beneath the platysma to gain the upper and anterior part of the neck, where they form looped ramifications, the most inferior of which are traceable in a vertical direction to a short distance below the hyoid bone. They are chiefly distributed to the platysma, and above they join with the neighbouring supra-maxillary branches just mentioned. They unite beneath the platysma with one, or more usually with two, branches from the superficial cervical nerve of the cer- vical plexus, which turns round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to supply the integuments of the same part of the neck. Little can be said with respect to the exact nature of these very numerous junctions of the facial nerve, either with the terminal branches of the various divisions of the fifth, or with the cutaneous nerves of the cervical plexus. They olfer a very obvious anatomical resemblance to that intermingling of different nerves which constitutes a plexus; but with- out here specifying other distinctions, it may suffice to point out that, in many instances, the branches of the facial seem visibly con- tinued in their previous direction beyond their connections with the fifth. In the absence of more minute investigations, this apparent in- dependence can only be received as indicating a partial involvement of the two nerves, or an incomplete mixture of their fibres, in which one gives to the other, or each gives to each, a small number of its filaments, but retains the large majority. . We next proceed to consider those minuter features in the anatomy of the seventh nerve, which require a more artificial dissection or examination for their verification. The origin of the portio intermedia, rather more externally than the facial, has been al- ready spoken of, and the nerve was then traced to an union, more or less complete, with the neighbouring vestibular portion of the auditory nerve. Beyond this point the views adopted respecting it, from being some- what conflicting, become absolutely discor- dant. The very different nature of the numerous opinions upheld by various anatomists pre- chides the possibility of enumerating them here at full length. Some of these, however, have been already very briefly noticed ; and perhaps, on the whole, the most prevalent was that which supposed the portio intermedia to give a branch which united with the vestibular nerve, while the remaining portion passed itself into the facial. More recently, the anatomy of the distribu- tion and connections of this nerve seems to have been fully made out by Morganti in an elaborate monograph on the Geniculate gang- lion * ; which is, I believe, chiefly known in this country through the medium of an ex- cellent analysis contained in one of Mr. Paget's Reports.-f- By careful dissection of the nerves, which he had previously hardened in nitric acid, Morganti' succeeded in unravelling their filaments ; and thus in separating the portio intermedia from the facial and vestibular nerves to a much greater extent than had hitherto been accomplished. The general result of this process was, that many of the so-called anastomoses were shown to be mere relations of propinquity, due to an intricate entangle- ment, but not implying any real junction or interchange of fibres. In the human subject. — The portio inter- media {fig. 40o, b), shortly after its origin, and 7^-!^. 405. Diagram of the Portio intermedia and its bra7iches. {After Morganti.) * Op. cit. t Eeport on the Progress of Human Anatomv and Ph}-siology in the year 1844-5. British and Foreign Medical Keview.