REN. 261 s 3 transparent appearance of the tubes, which in the human kidney is the result of disease, may constantly be seen in the kidneys of some of the smaller animals ; as, for example, those of a mouse or a young rabbit. On examining thin sections of the kidneys of these animals it will be found that the delicate and semitransparent tubes, embedded in the surrounding fibrous network, constantly pre- sent more or less of the cyst-like appearance represented in fig. 171. It can scarcely be supposed that these appearances in the kidney of the mouse indicate the existence of isolated cells. In short, Mr. Simon's theory of renal cysts is so opposed to all analogy, and so en- tirely unsupported by facts, that it appears needless to occupy the time of our readers by a further detail of facts and arguments in opposition to it. Renal Hcemorrhage. — Under this head I will allude in a few words to a condition of kidney which I have never had an opportu- tunity of examining in the dead subject, but the nature of which is sufficiently manifested by the symptoms, and particularly by the con- dition of the urine, as ascertained by a micro- scopical examination during life. It is well known that great irritation of the urinary organs is a frequent consequence of the inter- nal administration of oil of turpentine, or the application of cantharides to the cutaneous surface. The urine in these cases is generally bloody, and is passed very frequently and in small quantities ; there is great pain and irri- tation about the kidneys and bladder ; but there are no symptoms of suppression of urine, such as drowsiness and tendency to in- flammation of internal organs, symptoms which are present, in a greater or less degree, in all cases of " desquamative nephritis." In the last-mentioned cases the epithelial lining of the urinary tubes is the seat of disease, and the imperfect elimination of the solid consti- tuents of the urine is a necessary consequence of the pathological changes which the secret- ing epithelium undergoes. In the condition of kidney now under consideration the Mal- pighian capillaries appear to be the only parts of the organ primarily affected. The irrita- tion produced by the turpentine or the can- tharides leads to engorgement of the Malpig- hian tufts, which commonly ends in rupture of the vessels, hsemorrhage into the tubes, and so the admixture of blood with the urine* On a microscopical examination of the urine fibrinous moulds of the tubes may be seen in great numbers (^fig. 175), blood corpuscles are entangled in the fibrine, but no epithelium is found combined with them. The inference is, that the epithelial lining of the urinary tubules is unaffected, and this conclusion is further supported by the fact already men- tioned, viz., the absence of the usual symp- toms resulting from a deficient excretion of urea and the other solid constituents of the urine. I have never seen a fatal case of strangury ; but when haemorrhage from the Malpighian capillaries has occurred in con- nection with other pathological conditions which have terminated fatally, haemorrhagic spots are seen scattered over the surface and through the cortical substance of the kidney. Fig. 175. Fibrinous moulds of the urinary tubules from the urine of a patient who had strangurv' after taking oil of turpentine. Some hlood corpuscles are entan- gled in the fibrine, as well as some octohedral cr\-s- tals of oxalate of lime which the patient was ex- creting at the time the hjemorrhage occurred. It is important to observe that in this form of fibrinous mould there is no epithelium from the tubes. Mag- nified 200 diameters. These spots, when submitted to a microsco- pical examination, are found to be composed of convoluted tubes filled with blood which has escaped from the 3Ialpighian capillaries, and after filling the capsule has passed into the tube {fig. 176). This fact was first pointed out by Mr. Bowman. F\g. 176. INIalpighian capsule and portions of the urinary- tubes containing blood which has escaped from the Malpighian capillaries. Magnified 200 diameters. See also fig. 149 d. The condition of kidney to which turpen- tine and cantharides cive rise mav result from