REN. 252 blood after leaving the capsule, but he thinks it probable that the veins form a plexus on Fig. 162. 2 1 1. The anterior extremity of the kidney of the JBdellostoma Forsteri, of the natural size. a, the ureter; b, a short uriniferous tube proceed- ing from it; d, the capsule at the extremity of the tube ; /, the arterial branch entering the capsule ; g, the anterior blind extremity of the ureter. 2. Distribution of the blood-vessels in the kidney of the Bdellostoma Forsteri. A, the ureter; B, a uriniferous canal proceeding from it; C, section of the capsule covering the blood- vessels; D, the vascidar mass injected; a, the affe- rent vessel of the same ; b, the efferent vessel; c, an artery unconnected yv^th. the vascular mass distri- buted to the m-eter; d, a branch of the renal vein. This figure is slightly magnified. {After 3Iiiller.) the outer surface of the tubes. It is to be regretted that Miiller has not given some account of the microscopic appearances pre- sented by the inner surface of these tubes, since without some observations on this point, and particularly with reference to the charac- ter of the epithelium, it is not possible to form a definite notion as to the exact nature of the parts in question. Ejnihelium. — In examining the epithelium of the kidney, it will be convenient to com- mence with that of the Malpighian bodies, and thence to trace this structure through the tubes into the pelvis and ureter. It is scarcely possible to overestimate the importance of a careful study of the epithelial cells in different parts of the kidney, since accurate observations upon this point must form the basis of an exact knowledge of the physiology of the gland, and of the pathological changes to which it is liable. Epithelium of the Malpighian bodies.—^^With reference to the epithebum of the Malpighian bodies, it will suffice to recapitulate here what has already been fully detailed in speaking of the structure of these bodies. The epithelium of the Malpighian bodies consists of two dis- tinct portions : first, that which covers the vessels ; and, secondly, that which lines the capsule. The vessels of the Malpighian tuft appear to have in many instances a more or less complete investment of small, delicate, and transparent nucleated cells. {Fig. 160.) These cells differ entirely from those on the inner surface of the capsule, as well as from those which line the urinary tubes. The epi- thelium covering that part of the capsule which is contiguous to the orifice of tlie tube is very transparent, and clothed with vibratile cilia. This ciliated epithelium covers about one-third of the inner surface of the capsule ; beyond this point the cilia cease, and the epithebum is of excessive delicacy and translucence {figs. 158. and 159.), while in many instances it is impossible to detect the slightest appearance of epithelium beyond the line where the cilia cease. The cilia in this situation have been observed only in reptiles and fishes, but they probably exist in all classes of Vertebrata. Epithelium of the uriniferous tubes. — The epithelium of the uriniferous tubes presents itself in two distinct forms, the one kind exist- ing in the convoluted tubes of the cortex, and the other in the straight tubes of the medullary cones. The epithebum in that part of the uriniferous tubes immediately continuous with the Malpighian capsule, presents the same characters as that which covers the contiguous portion of the capsule, consisting of delicate transparent particles, which in fishes and rep- tiles are furnished with vibratile cilia. In the remaining portions of the tubes which intervene betN\een the neck of the Malpighian capsules and the bases of the medullary cones, the epithelium presents itself under the form to which the term sp)heroidal or glandular is commonly applied.* The particles are of a more or less rounded form, and are thus distinguished from the flattened cells of the lameUiform or scaly variety of epithelium. , {Fig. 163.) They usually form a single layer Fig. 163. a, portion of a convoluted tube from the cortex of the Iddnev, shoAviug the appearance of its epithelium. b, portion of a straight tube with its epithelial lining from a medullaiy cone. Magnified 200 dia- meters. * Vide article Mucous Membrane.