REN. 238 monly named the tubes of Bellini, that anato- mist having been the first to show their true tubular character; they are united by a firm network of fibrous tissue in the substance of which there are some large veins, which take, for the most part, a straight course between the tubes. No Malpighian bodies exist in the medullary cones. The capsule of the kidney is a firm, white, fibrous membrane adherent by its external sur- face to the adipose tissue in which the kidney is imbedded, and connected by its internal face to the entire surface of the kidney. It sends numerous fibrous processes into the cortical substance, and small vessels pass from the sub- stance of the kidney into the fibrous capsule. These connecting bands between the kidney and its capsule are easily torn when the cap- sule is stripped from the surface of the kidney. At the hilum of the kidney the capsule be- comes continuous below with the ureter and above with the fibrous layer of the pelvis ; at the same point the blood-vessels receive an investment from this fibrous membrane, which is continued upwards with them until they finally break up into minute branches about the bases of the pyramids. Calipees, Infundibula, and Pelvis.—The caly- ces are membranous or fibro-mucous cylinders which receive in their upper extremities the apices of the mamillary processes. Where the membrane is reflected over the apices ot the cones, it is perforated by numerous orifices of the tubes of Bellini, from which a liquid may be seen to escape when pressure is applied to the cones. The calyces are less numerous than the mamillary processes, two or three mamillary processes being occa- sionally received into one calyx. The caly- ces unite into three small tubes, one cor- responding with each extremity and one with the central portion of the kidney ; these have somewhat of a funnel shape, and are called infundUnda. The infundibula soon unite to form the jjelvis of the kidney, which is a mem- branous reservoir of a flattened oval figure, terminatingbelowin the ureter. The pelvisand infundibula are usually surrounded by loose reticular and adipose tissue. The blood-ves- sels of the kidney are placed in front of these parts. The fibrous and mucous coats of the ureter are continuous with those of the pelvis, infundibula, and calyces. Before passing on to the description of the minute structure of the kidney, it is de- sirable to examine the position of the blood- vessels about the medullary cones, so far as this can be ascertained by the unaided eye. The renal artery, as it enters the hilum of the kidney, breaks up into four or five branches, and tliese again subdivide, a few of the branches passing behind the pelvis, while the greater number remain in front; they pass up- wards between the calyces enclosed in folds of the fibrous membrane, and so they come in contact with the sides of the medullary cones. Each cone appears to be supplied by two arterial branches, which, passing up one on each side, form an anastomosing arch over the base of the cone (Jig. 146). From this arterial arch branches proceed in all di- Section of the kidney, shoeing the position of the arterial and venous branches by the sides of the medullary cones, a, a, a, a, arteries; b, b, b, veins. rections, the greater number passing into the cortical substance. The venous branches in this situation likewise form arches over the medullary cones, and have the same general arrangement as the arteries ; they unite into four or five trunks which are placed in front of the pelvis. There is no anastomosis be- tween the arteries of neighbouring cones; each medullary cone, with its investing cortical substance, corresponds with one of the sepa- rate lobules of the embryo kidney; and al- though in the fully developed human kidney, scarcely any trace of the original lobular division remains, yet the separation of the lobules, so far as their vessels are concerned, remains as complete as it is in the perma- nently lobular kidney of the porpoise. When an injection is thrown into the vessels of one lobule, that lobule only is injected, without the transfer of the injection through anastomosing vessels to neighbouring lobules. Obstruction of the artery passing to one lobule will effec- tually prevent the injection of that lobule, while the surrounding parts are completely injected. It occasionally happens during life that the vessels supplying one or two lobules become obstructed, and as a consequence of this obstruction those lobules become atro- phied while the rest of the gland is perfectly nourished. Additional evidence of the com- plete isolation of the lobules of the human kidney is afforded by certain other patho- logical conditions, which may, with advantage, be briefly alluded to in this' place. Fig. 147 represents a section of a kidney, the glan- dular structure of which has been destroyed by cysts developed in its substance; the part which remains is a framework or skeleton, con- sisting of the capsule (a) continuous below with the pelvis [b), which is much dilated.