279 REPTILIA, in the turtles appears to have no scapular origin. Fig. 197. ( Myology of the Tortoise 71, pronator teres (insertion of); 72, pronator quadratus; 75, radlalis internus; 88, flexores digi- torum breves; 90, interossei digitorum manus in- temi. There is only one supinator*, which is in- serted into the wrist; it arises from the ex- ternal condyle, but in the turtles this muscle is wanting. Both the pronators of the fore- arm are present in the land-tortoise ; however, the pronator quadratus is very small, and situated close to the carpus. Muscles of the Hand. — The muscles of the Fig. 198. Myology of the Tortoise. 86, abductor digiti tertii, quarti et quiuti; 90, interossei digitorum manus intemi. fingers are, in the turtle, few in number, their hand being so flattened out into the shape of a fin or oar as to require neither flexors nor extensors of the fingers; in these, therefore, the analogue of the extensor digitorum com- munis is confounded with the general apo- neurosis. The flexor communis is sliiihtly more distinct; and the interossei, the abduc- tors and adductors of the thumb and of the fifth finger exist, the latter serving to expand or to contract the oar. * Bojanus regards the muscle marked 79 {fg. 192) as a supinator brevis. In spite of the extreme shortness of the hand in the land-tortoises, the muscles are well developed, and the extensor communis, the extensor, and the long abductor of the thumb, the flexor sublimis, the flexor pro- fundus, the adductor of the thumb, and the abductors of the little finger, as well as the interossei, are met with. Muscles of the Pelvis. — In the tortoise the Myology of the Tortoise. a, glans penis; 6, bulbus penis; c, vein derived from ditto; 50, flexor caudae lumbalis; 51, flexor Cauda? obturatorius; 52, flexor caudae ischiadicus; 55, protrahens penis. muscle analogous to the quadratus lumborum spreads out beneath the carapax between the antepenultimate ribs: it is inserted into the ileum near the articulation of that bone with the sacrum, that articulation being in the Chelonians moveable. This mobility of the pelvis is aided by the analogue of the rectus abdominis, which, instead of spreading out beneath the belly, is attached under the posterior extremity of the plastron by two fleshy bellies, one in front and the other behind ; both run to be inserted into the anterior margin of the external ramus of the pubis. Muscles of the Thigh. — In the land and fresh-water tortoises, although the ossa ilii are very narrow, the muscles belonging to the thigh are of considerable thickness. The glutaeus maxiraus, which might almost be mistaken for a pyramidalis, is only attached to the ileum by a small proportion of its fibres, the remainder are derived from the transverse apophyses of the caudal vertebrae. The glutaeus medius and minimus, united together at their origin, constitute a mass which arises from all the external surface of the ileum, from its anterior border, slightly from its internal surface, and even from the inferior surface of the seventh rib : this muscle divides into two tendons, one of which, that of the glutaeus medius, is inserted into the trochanter ; the other, that of the glutaeus minimus, a little lower down into the body o. the femur. The obturator internus is a very strong muscle arising from the upper aspect of the internal ramus of the pubis, and winding around the ischium, as in mammalia, to be inserted into the great trochanter. The quadratus femoris exists, but neither gemelli nor pyramidalis are present. There is no psoas; but the ihacus is strong, and arises from the upper part of the internal T 4 Fig. 199.