296 REPTILIA. length of the intestine, and corresponds to the duodenum of birds. The other part is of smaller diameter, and has thicker walls, en- closing between the mucous and muscular tunics a layer of glandular substance, re- sembling a greyish, semitransparent pulp. The lining membrane of the intestine which covers this glandular layer is disposed in longitudinal zig-zags, connected together by little folds that pass from one to another, so as to constitute a fine net-work. These zig-zags are replaced by delicate villosities in the first portion of the small intestine, where the glandular layer is not perceptible ; and towards its termination in the large intestine, they become reduced to undulating folds, rarely joined together by transverse plicae. In the larger intestine itself, they are con- verted into irregular projections, which form a sort of villous surface. In the other families of saurian reptiles, the form and structure of the stomach may be referred to the common type which we have already seen in the Chelonians. The oesophagus is wide, with very extensive walls, as is indicated by the longitudinal folds of its lining membrane; it is generally of the same diameter with the stomach, which latter forms a cylindrical or conical bowel, directed from before backwards, and generally bent a little towards the right near its termination, so that we may distinguish a pyloric portion extending from the bend to the pylorus, the length of which is very variable, and which is distinguishable from the rest of the stomach by the greater thickness of its coat. At the entrance of the duodenum there is a promi- nent muscular ring, serving the office of a pyloric valve. The great curvature, which is generally more dilated, is sometimes, though rarely, prolonged into a small cul-de-sac {Monitor of the Nile). The small intestine of the Lacertidcs\?, short and sometimes very capacious in the first half of its extent; the other half presents ligamen- tous bands, which produce puckerings and constrictions corresponding internally with transverse ridges that intersect the oblique folds of the lining membrane. This latter in the large intestine forms transverse valves, dividing its cavity into numerous pouches. The Iguanas, which live entirely upon fruits, grains, and leaves, have no caecum, properly so called, indicative of this regimen ; but their large intestine is prodigiously de- veloped, and its cavity extended by numerous internal folds of the lining membrane. In the Ophidian reptiles, the oesophagus and stomach form a continuous canal of va- riable length, in which it is generally difficult to say where the one terminates and the other begins ; it may be remarked, however, that the walls of the oesophagus are thin, and the longitudinal folds of its fining membrane small and few in number, whilst the commencement of the stomach is indicated externally by a strengthening of the muscular fasciculi, and internally by thicker and more numerous longitudinal plic£E of the lining tunic, which often undulating, and here and there ir- ilar. These folds are only visible when Fig. 216. Alimentary canal of Draco viridis. a, tongue ; b, larynx; c, opening leading into the guttiiral sac; d, laryngeal sac, e, oesophagus; /, stomach ; g, g, small nitestine ; h, caecal appendage to the commencement of the colon ; i, colon ; k, the cloaca. the stomach is empty. Sometimes the cardiac commencement of the stomach is indicated by a kind of cul-de-sac. The stomach of serpents is remarkably short in relation to the length of the animal and the extent of the oesophagus; its situation also is very far back, so that the prey which the animal swallows will be lodged partly in the oesophagus and partly in the stomachal cavity. The latter may be divided into two portions, one of which Cuvier calls the "sack'" and the other the pyloric portion. The " sack " has a very different appearance when empty to that which it presents when distended with prey: in the first case, its walls appear thick and muscular, whereas in the second they are very thin and extensible. Before terminating in the intestine, the stomach becomes considerably diminished in its diameter, and is converted into a narrow channel of variable length in different genera and even in different species, which is but little susceptible of dilation, and into which the food only passes after being digested in the first portion. This second division of the stomach may be continuous with the axis of the former; at other times it seems to be given off" from one side. It may be more or less bent upon itself, or even form several curvatures in different directions, or pass straight into the intestine. When the stomach