PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 141 in these productions ; carcinoma may even, in predisposed persons, be formed in their walls, but not (so far as evidence goes) be produced in their cavity as an evolution of bhistema exuded from their Hning membrane. Miiller has recently applied the name cysto- sarcoma to growths, principally composed of a fibro-vascular texture, but invariably found to contain solitary cysts in their substance. The cysts may be solitary or compound ; the solid substance, of greater or less density, has an indistinctly fibrous structure, contains no cells, and is of albuminous basis. This growth is essentially distinct from carcinoma, but that it differsgenerically from sarcoma seems ques- tionable. Secondary cysts are not spontaneously generated, but form through the influence of bodies foreign to the site they occupy: around effused blood, after a series of modifications (the apoplectic cyst), around adventitious pro- ducts, extra-uterine foetuses, and bodies intro- duced from without, as musket-balls, shot, pins, &c. A sort of pseudo-cyst is sometimes produced by distension and closure of small natural cavi- ties, or of the excretory ducts of glands. In the first class we find dilated cutaneous follicles, intestinal crypts, and solitary glands; to the second class belong cysts of the lactiferous and pancreatic tubes, of the labial and sub- maxillary glands, some of those in the testicle, and, it is commonly believed, in the kidney.* Fibrous and Elastic Pseudo-Tissues.—Of the production of white fibrous-tissue of an im- perfect kind, numerous examples have been referred to in the past pages, — it is one of the commonest of new formations. Less common by far is the generation of the yellow fibrous element, which is distinguished by resisting the action of acetic acid ; the mesh-like arrangement of bifurcated fibres is much rarer in the imitation new tissue than in its prototype,— nor does the former occur (so far as we know) in masses of any size. The modification of this texture which con- stitutes the main element of artery is doubtless produced in new vessels. Osseous Pseudo-Tissue.—The most perfect imitation of a complex natural texture is ex- emplified by adventitious bone,— produced for the reparation of injuries (Permanent Callus). It is even said that the permanent callus has all the characters of true bone,— a proposi- tion which appears to us to require more absolute proof than it has yet received. The new bony shaft, produced to supply the ravages of necrosis of the long bones, is a ruder imitation of original bone ; it is darker in colour, rough, and tuberculated on the surface, * Cystic productions in tlie kidney still require investigation — from tlie minute apparently soli- tary cyst, to those clustered masses causing de- struction, more or less complete, of the proper renal substance. Dr. Johnson (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. XXX.) adduces arguments of a novel kind to prove that the simple cyst is in reality a dilated tube; Mr. Simon (eod. tom.) seeks to show that it is a new development within the parenchyma. and often much denser than the latter. (See 0STE03IA, p. 134.) Nervous Pseudo-Tissue.—In certain of the simpler varieties of neuroma the induration- matter mainly forming the tumour appears to contain a larger proportion of tubular fil)res, than would in the natural state fall to the share of a portion of nerve of similar length. The tissue in excess (admitting the fact to be substantiated) might, however, be rather re- garded as an hypertrophy than a new produc- tion. The regeneration of voluntary nerve (ren- dered probable by the experiments of Haigh- ton) has been proved by those of Steinriick*, Nasse, Giintherf, and Schron.J The tubules produced in the exudation, connecting the cut ends of a nerve, differ from the natural ones in being more widely apart, of smaller diameter, less parallel to each other, more intertwined, and more mixed with cellular fibrils. The time required for their produc- tion varies,—a month appears to be the shortest period yet observed ; the length of nerve which may be excised is yet unsettled. In the majority of cases, even where reproduction is seemingly perfect, the physiological action of the injured cord remains imperfect; probably because the corresponding parts of the same fibres are not, or because sensitive and motor fibres are, brought into connection ; besides the new tubules are not the 2yrecise physical counterparts of the old, nor is their number as great as in the original texture. Cerebral substance removed from animals is replaced by a brain-like matter : the precise nature of this matter (as of that appearing in hernia cerebri in man) has not been examined sufficiently. It seems very doubtful that dynamic vesicular texture ever forms adventi- tiously. Blood-vessel.—The development of new blood-vessels, though so common, is but ill understood. They must obviously be pro- duced from pre-existing trunks, or be evolved independently. Viewed as productions from the old vessels, they have been supposed to be mere prolonga- tions of these,— a notion set aside by the fact that vessels do not terminate by open mouths. Or, again, they have been considered the pro- duce of a looping process — the increased impulse of the circulation towards the site of vascularisation being supposed, when com- bined with a relaxed state of their own tex- ture, capable of elongating the old trunks into loops : it seems probable that increased vas- cularity may, to a limited degree, be produced on this plan. Or, again, it has been conjec- tured that processes, first solid, subsequently hollow, spring from the sides of the original vessels,— an hypothesis unsupported by direct evidence and deficient in plausibility. Or, lastly, it has been maintained that the first step in the process consists of rupture of original * De Xerv. Regenerat. Berol. 1838. t Milller's Archiv. Heft V. S. 405. 1839. X Mailer's Archiv. 1840.