SECRETION. open into a common channel, like those of the liver of the lobster or cray-fifeh {fg^ 308.) ; Fig. 308. {Fig. 2U. Vol. II.) Lobule of the liver of Astacus fiuviatilis. (^JFiiUer.') nor, again, whether the tubes are few and of great length, lying loose in the cavity of the body, and passing from one end of it to the other, like the biliary vessels of insects Fig. 309. {Fig. 431. Vol. II.) Alimentary canal of Pontia hrassica. (fg. 309.); or whether they are very nu- merous, of less proportional length, and aggre- gated in a compact mass, as in the kidney of the higher animals. In all instances, then, the excretory organ essentially consists of a limitary membrane, which forms part of the integument of the body, or of one of its involutions ; and of cells covering the free surface of that membrane, and, consequently, in direct relation with the external surface. Thus we have the hmitary membrane of the true skin, and of the mu- cous membrane of the alimentary canal which is directly continuous with it, sunk into follicular depressions ; and the tree surfaces of these are lined with cells, the layers of which are continuous with those of the epidermis and of the gastro-intestinal epithe- lium respectively. (See Mucous Membrane.) We trace inwards another extension of the same membrane along the genito-urinary passages, up to the -kidneys, where it form's the walls of the tubuU uriniferi; and there, too, its free surface is covered with an epithelial layer of cells, which is the efficient instrument of the selection of the constituents of the lu-inary fluid, and which, when ex- uviated, is conveyed along the urinary- passages to the exterior of the body. So, too, the hepatic cells, by which the bihary matter is eliminated from the blood, are brought into direct continuity with those of the external surface, through the hepatic ducts and gastro- intestinal raucous membrane. The case is not different, in any essential respect, with regard to the organs by which the recrementitious secretions are formed. Thus the lachrymal, salivary, pancreatic, and mammary glands are in like manner composed of a continuation of the limitary membrane of the true skin, or of the mucous membrane lining the alimentary canal, involuted into tubes and follicles, the free surfaces of which are covered with epithehal cells. These cells, drawing into themselves certain constituents of the blood, are cast off when they have completed their full development ; and their contents, set free by the disintegration of the cell-walls, are carried off by the ducts, which collect them from different portions of the glandular structure, and deposit them in the situation where the purposes of the secreted product are to be answered. If we attentively consider the character of what is commonly designated as the absorbent system, we shall see that this, too, may be re- garded as a glandular apparatus ; possessing, as it does, the essential characters of a gland in regard to its structure, and being analogous to the true glands in its mode of performing its function, and the difference of its purpose in the general economy being accordant with the difference of its anatomical relation. Putting out of view for the time the absorbent glands, or ganglia, we find the absorbent system to consist of two series of long tubuli, one set ex- tended through almost the entire body, whilst the other is distributed upon the intestinal canal. These tubes appear to commence either in cEecal origins or in loops; they coalesce with each other; and at last dis- charge themselves into a common receptacle, just as do the tubuli of the kidney. That their origins should be widely scattered, in- stead of being bound together in one compact mass, is a fact of no physiological importance ; having reference only to the remoteness of the sources, whence are derived the materials on which the particular agency of this appara- tus is exerted. These materials are of two kinds; for they consist in part of the crude materials selected by the lacteal division of the system from the contents of the ahment- ary tube, over whose walls the origins of the