PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 118 § 5. DIPHTHERITIC DEPOSIT. The inflammatory action giving rise to the deposits which we inchide under the title Diphtheritic (AKpOep-q, a membrane), is cer- tainly of special kind, though the intimate nature of its peculiarity is yet undiscovered. These deposits form on the tegumentary sur- faces, mucous and cutaneous. (a.) White Thrush {Mugiiet of the French). — The matter of white thrush forms on the mucous membrane of the mouth, fauces, oeso- phagus, and nasal passages, in patches of milky colour, cheesy consistence, variable size, and irregular form. Adhering closely to the mucous surface when first exuded, it gradu- ally becomes more and more easily separable; if artificially removed, the subjacent surface loDks slightly hollowed and somewhat raw, but is not abraded. The microscope exhibits molecules ; cells of oval, spherical, or elongated form, with or without nuclei; epithelium cells, in more or less abundance ; and fibrils. These fibrils, almost transparent, of delicate and sharply- defined outline, of cylindrical form, gene- rally uniform in thickness, but sometimes swollen irregularly, and occasionally bifur- cated, are not affected by water, acetic or nitric acids, or alkalies, but dissolve in sul- phuric acid. Hence it appears obvious that this substance is in part entophytic ; but it is only secondarily so, — the rapid development of fungi depending on the constitutional state, or, perhaps, upon the chemical condition, of the local secretions. The smallest cells are pro- bably sporules. There is no structural difference between the matter existing in the white thrush of children, and that appearing on the mucous membrane of the mouth in adults towards the close of lingering chronic diseases, especially phthisis. But it has ap[)eared to us from numerous observations, that it is less prone to become entophytic. (6.) We have examined with some care the white material of cheesy consistence which forms, in certain states of the constitution, on blistered surfaces, kept open by irritant ointments, and find no particular difference between it f.nd the similar produce of mucous membrane. Entophytic formation occurs here. Obder II.—Growths. $ 1. Growths possess texture which differs in physical characters from all natural tissues, the arrangement of their septa and loculi being, among other things, distinctive of themselves. They differ, further, from natural structures, in a total deficiency of modelling faculty; they enlarge in all directions indiffer- ently, careless, as it were, of the mechanical mischiefs their presence may inflict. They are composed of evanescent vegetating cells, in- capable of propagation by artificial moculation into the tissues of the individual producing them. $ 2. The existence of structure in the order Growths is apparent on superficial in- spection. And there is one unfailing charac- teristic of this structure, as displayed to the naked eye; it consists of a stroma and an in- terstitial matter occupying its meshes. This, which is the most striking peculiarity on the surface of some tumours (enchondroma, col- loid cancer), is much less evident in others (milt-hke variety of encephaloid, many spe- cimens of simple scirrhus) ; but in these latter it is clearly disclosed by slight maceration. And the want of a clear definition at first of stromal and interstitial parts depends, not on their non-existence, but on the more than ordinary similarity in physical characters of both. Generally speaking, in truth, there is a very obvious difference in this respect: the stroma of fully developed colloid has the aspect of cellulo-fibrous membrane, opaque and close; its interstitial matter all the out- ward appearances of a jelly-like substance ; in enchondroma, the interstitial matter, resem- bling jelly of a different tint, is enclosed in a stroma, in many cases formed of laminae of bone. But, on the other hand, in some casts (as those referred to), there is no such obvious difference in the visible character of the two divisions, as they may be called, of the growth. In yet other cases, again, the outward cha- racters of the stromal and interstitial parts differ in colour, transparency, density, tenacity, when roughly examined, and yet their intimate constitution is almost identical ; this is the case in fibrous tumours. In the majority of Growths, the stromal substance encloses spaces inclining to the spherical form, a form most distinct in en- chondroma, colloid cancer, and fibrous tu- mours ; only imperfectly seen in encephaloid; almost completely absent in simple scirrhus and in erectile growths. The manner in which the sphericity of the loculi is produced will be considered further on. Another element of Growths, which is vi- sible to the naked eye, or may be rendered so by means of injection, is blood-vessel. In varying proportions all Growths possess vessels, which may be limited to their stromal substance, or permeate both stromal and intrastromal substances. These vessels are in part those of the textures invaded by the new formation, in part adventitious pro- ducts. Lymphatic vessels and nerves are occa- sonally found within the area of a Growth ; but there is no evidence that they are ever of new formation. § 3. The ultimate essential elements of tumours are granules, molecules, cells, free nuclei, and fibrils. With these elements are accidentally associated Precipitates, Deposits, Exudation-Products, and certain of the sim- pler Pseudo-Tissues. (a.) The elementary granule is spherical in shape, flattened or amorphous; averages in size yo^ogth of an inch ; and is seated in the interior of cells, or on the surface of fibres, or is free. The molecule is too minute for mea- surement. (b.) Some portion of the substance of all