620 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. Case. — A woman, named Judith Doyle, died upon the 8th of February, 1839 : she had been a patient for fifteen years in the lunatic department of the House of Industry; was subject to severe epileptic convulsions, which were the cause of her death. While making the examination of the brain, the unusual ap- '3earance which the left shoulder joint presented accidentally attracted the author's attention. The head of the humerus appeared to have been dislocated on the dorsum of the scapula. Finding that the opposite shoulder presented precisely similar appearances, he had no hesitation in expressmg his opinion that the case was one of double congenita! Inxation of the head of the humerus backwards. The two shoulders resembled each other so perfectly, not only in their external conform- ation, but likewise in their anatomical cha- racters, that the description of one will be sufficient. The coracoid process, owing to the removal of the head of the humerus from its vicinity, formed a most remarkable projection, and the subject being emaciated, the coraco-brachialis Fig. 443. Congenital malformation of the left humerus. and the short head of the biceps could be seen passing very obliquely downwards and out- wards, and the anterior margin of the coraco- acromial ligament stood out in strong relief. The acromion process was unusually promi- nent, although it did not project as much as in any of the accidental dislocations of the shoulder. The glenoid cavity could not be felt, although the head of the humerus was so far removed from its natural position. The shoulder appeared higher than natural, and was flattened anteriorly; but posteriorly a round, solid tumour plainly indicated the situation of the head of the bone placed on the dorsal surface of the scapula, hnmediately below the spine and posterior angle of the acromion. The head of the bone thus dis- placed could be seen and felt to accompany all the movements given to the shaft of the humerus. The transverse diameter of the shoulder was much greater than natural, the distance between the coracoid process and the external surface of the head of the humerus being three inches and a half; the arm was directed obliquely downwards and inwards ; the elbow was in contact with the side, and the hand and fore-arm in a state of prona- tion. Upon removing the muscles and ex- posing the interior of the joint, I found that there was no trace of a glenoid cavity in the natural situation ; but upon the posterior surface of the neck of the scapula there was a well-formed socket, which received the head of the humerus. It was an inch and three quarters in length, and one inch in breadth ; it was a little broader above than below, and its summit was less than a quarter of an inch from the under surface of the acro- mion process. It was directed outwards and forwards, was covered with cartilage, and sur- rounded by a perfect glenoid ligament. The tendon of the biceps muscle arose from the most internal part of its superior extremity, from whence it passed downwards and out- wards very obliquely, in order to reach the bicipital groove of the humerus. The axillary margin of the scapula, if pro- longed upwards, would have passed nearly altogether internal to the abnormal socket. The surfaces of the acromion process had not their normal aspects, but looked directly upwards and downwards, being on the same continuous plane with the surfaces of the spine of the scapula that contribute to form supra- and infra-spinatus fossa ; a circumstance in itself sufficiently showing that the mal- formation was congenital, and not altogether limited to the shoulder joint itself. The capsular ligament was perfect; the scapula was smaller than natural, and its muscles badly developed. The head of the humerus was of an oval form on the right side, somewhat broader above than below; its anterior half was in contact with the glenoid cavity: this portion was covered with cartilage, the re- maining half being rough and scabrous, and destitute of articular cartilage. The greater tubercle was normal as to form, but the lesser was elongated for the extent of one inch, and curved upwards, forming a concavity on its upper surface to receive the tendon of the biceps ; on the left side, the head of the humerus presented almost similar appear- ances. The hypertrophy of the lesser tube- rosity, Mr. Smith observes, appears to ha\e been the result of a process established to counteract the danger to which the very oblique course of the tendon, with regard to the muscular fibres, exposed it. The history of this case, so far as the mo- tions which the head of the humerus was ca- pable of performing, is not known ; but we may conclude from the post-mortem examination, that there was here a complete congenital dislocation on the dorsum of the scapula. A well-formed ?:ocket existed on the dorsum of the scapula, upon which the head of the humerus was permanently lodged ; it did not shift its position during the motions of