668 SKELETON. this dorso-ventral form (/g. 487.), and the re- (3, 3) encloses the haemal or visceral space suit is fig. 488., having a pair of symmetri- (4), and this arch, like the one above, lias The dorso-veniral archetypal quantity, taken from the spinal seines of the osseous fish. cal ribs (c c) terminated by symmetrical palms or fins (9). The ventral space (r, r,/o-. 488.) is now an apartment enclosed by ribs, in which are located the blood-circulating organs, together with the viscera of sell- nutrition and reproduction. The dorsal space (4) encloses the nervous axis. In fig. 487. the superior or neural arch (3,3) encloses the neural space (4), and is sur- mounted by the interspinous bones (2, 2), to which is appended the symmetrical dorsal palm (1, l). The haemal or inferior arch Fig. 488. 77i€ dorso-ventral archetype, ShoTnng how the ventral azygos ray is converted into the opposite pair of ribs by a vertical bi- cleavage through the median line. attached to it ventrad the interspinous os- sicles (2, 2), to which is appended, in like manner, the symmetrical ventral palm (1, 1). All these elements of the dorso-ventral arche- typal quantity (fig. 487.) are bicleavable by the common median line (6, 6) passing per- pendicularly through the centrum 5. If the ventral laminae (3, 3) be sundered apart from each other to a width equal to the circle 4*, 4*, then these laminae will enclose ventral space like the symmetrical costje. The dor- sal laminae (3, 3) are quantitatively equal to the ventral laminae ; and it is possible for the former to be sundered apart so as to form a neural circular space equal to 4* 4* ; but it never happens that this circular space has occasion to be formed around the neural axis, for already the neural arch (4) is suffi- ciently capacious for its contents, and there- fore the space (4) formed between the dorsal laminae (3, 3) is of dimensions, in all spinal axes, equal to the spinal cord. But the symmetrical sides of the ventral ray of the archetype (^g. 487.) do actually widen apart from each other to a degree