278 REPTILIA. oin its tendon to that of the deltoid. In the turtles it is prolonged over all the posterior 3Iyologi/ of the Tortoise. 2, pter\-goideus; 4, dilator tubse: 29, rectus ca- pitis anterior longus; 30, rectus capitis anterior minor; 31, rectus capitis posterior major: 32, rectus capitis posterior minor; 36, intertransversarii colli ; 37, transversarii colli obliqui; 39. longissimus dorsi; 42, diaphragmaticus. face of the acromion, and is inserted a little higher up than the deltoid. The subscapularis (Jig. 201. 61) is the strongest muscle of the arm ; it arises from all the posterior surface of the scapula, and from three-fourths of the superior face of the coracoid, and runs to attach itself broadly to all the anterior tace of the internal tube- rosity ; its coracoid portion describes nearly a quarter of a circle to arrive at its destination. Its action must be powerfully to rotate the arm at the same time that the scapular portion advances it forward. The teres major arises from the posterior edge of the scapula, and unites its tendon to that of the latissinius dorsi. In the turtles there is a teres minor, which arises from the anterior portion of the pos- terior border of the scapula, and runs to be inserted close to the deltoid. The coraco-brachialis consists of two por- tions, as in some mammalia, one of which, the larger, arises broadly from the inferior surface of the coracoid bone; the other, much smaller, arises between the preceding and the biceps : both are inserted near the sub- scapularis into the internal tuberosity of the humerus. It will be seen from the above account that the muscles of the arm in the Chelonian reptiles are very similar to those of mam- malia, only their different portions are more widely separated on account of the great prolongation of the acromion, and of the coracoid. JMusdes of the Fore-arm. — The bones of the arm and the fore-arm not having undergone the same distortion as those of the shoulder, the muscles are less changed from the usual arrangement. The biceps alone coming from the coracoid bone, must necessarily follow its Fig. 196. Jli/olopt/ of the Tortoise^ 9, oliliquus oculi superior; 10, obliquus oculi inferior; 27, retrahens capitis collique; 52, flexor caudc ischiadicus. Other muscles indicated by same letters as in preceding figures. movements ; it, however, always arises from its anterior margin, and passes along the bicipital groove when that exists in the Che- lonians. It is only fleshy at its coracoidal extremity ; all the rest consists of a tendon. w hich runs along the humerus to be inserted into the radius. The brachialis internus occupies its usual situation, as also does the triceps brachii; the latter, however, is proj)ortionally small, and