ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 609 the head of the bone is found altered in its the longitudinal axis of the limb passing from form, the surface towards the scapula being below upwards, is much altered, being thrown flattened, a complete capsular ligament en- ^ Fig. ^6, Fia. 435. Axillary dislocation; case of long standing. virons the head of the os humeri. The glenoid cavity is filled entirely by ligamentary matter, in which are to be found small portions of bone. These must be of new formation, as no portion of the scapula or humerus is broken. A new cavity is formed for the head of the OS humeri on the inferior costa of the scapula, but this is shallow, hke that from which the os humeri had escaped. 2. Dislocation forwards. — This species of dislocation is much more distinctly marked than the former. The acromion is more pointed, and the hollow below it, from the depression of the deltoid, is more considerable. The head of the os humeri can be felt through the skin and pectoral muscle, and its con- vexity seen, in thin persons, just below the clavicle; and when the arm is rotated, the protuberance may be observed also to rotate and accompany the motions of the arm. The coracoid process of the scapula is placed above and on the outside of the head of the bone, which we know is covered by the pectoris major muscle. The elbow is thrown out more from the side, and further back than it is in the case of dislocation into the axilla ( Jig. 436.). Much difference of opinion seems to pre- vail as to whether the arm is lengthened or shortened, as the result of this dislocation of the head of the humerus forwards. Mal- gaigne and Dupuytren both assert that the arm on the dislocated side is longer than na- tural ; Sir A. Cooper expresses himst If in opposite terms ; he says, that in the disloca- tion forwards and inwards of the head of the humerus, the arm is shortened. In our experience we have never found in the living subject the arm shortened ; and in the speci- men from which^g. 436. has been taken, the centre of the new glenoid cavity is several lines below the centre of the original cavity, and the arm therefore must have been by, so much, longer than natural. The direction of VOL. IV. Dislocation of the head of the humerus forwards and inwards. inwards towards the middle of the clavicle The pain attending this accident is less than it is in the case where the head of the bone is thrown into the axilla, because the nerves of the axillary plexus are less compressed ; but the motions of the joint are much more materially affected. The strongest diagnostic marks of the dislocation are these. The elbow is separated from the side and thrown backwards, and the head of the humerus can be felt to move below the clavicle when the arm is rotated. Sir Pt^ilip Crampton has adduced the following example of the ordinary dislocation forwards, in which the head of the bone was thrown at once on the neck of the scapula, without previously passing into the axilla. " James Wilson, aet. 30, fell into a lime- kiln, in the innnediate neighbourhood of the Meath Hospital, while the lime was still burning ; he was dmwn up by ropes, but just as he reached the top of the shaft, the rope broke, and he aiiain fell to the bottom, a dis- tance of about fiiteen feet, on the ignited stones. It appeared, on examination, made in the Mea h Hospital, that in addition to several extensive burns and lacerations, there was a dislocation of the humerus, under the pectoral mus- cle. Mr. Macnamara, without assistance, re- duced the di>location, by merely drawing the arm gently forwards and downwards with one hand, while he pushed the head of the bone towards the glenoid cavity with the other. The man died in the course of the day, from the conjoint effects of the burn and the fall. Eighteen hours after death the