272 REPTILIA. and the third of four, and the fourth of three, the same as in the hands. It was an observation made as far back as the time of Aristotle, that the division of the anterior and of the posterior feet of the chameleon is effected in an inverse manner, the latter having the thumb and first finger only conjoined and turned inwards, but the other three turned outwards, whilst, as has been stated above, the anterior limb has three turned inwards and only two turned outwards,—a beautiful provision for ensuring the steadiness of the creature's grasp. The dragon {Draco) possesses fourteen pair Fig. 190. Skeleton of Draco vol an s. of ribs, viz., six genuine, short, and curved ribs, which reach the breast-bone, and eight pairs of false straight ribs, which are seated in the wing membrane, and support the same. The posterior extremity of the ribs has a little head, in which there is a small socket of articulation, which is merely inserted upon the spherical articulating surface on the point of the transverse processes, and not at all into the bodies of the vertebrse. Owing to this re- markable mode of insertion, a very free joint is produced, enabling the ribs (especially those that are implanted in the wing membrane) to move forwards and backwards, and upwards and downwards, in different directions. Of the genuine ribs, the anterior ones are the short- est, and the posterior ones the longest ; they all terminate in a cartilaginous point, which attaches itself to the breast-bone. Of the eight pairs of false ribs, the five first pairs are very long, and the three following pairs are short, especially the twolail pairs, which can- not be seen at all in the wing membrane. The false ribs become gradually thinner, and terminate at the edge of the wing membrane, in very fine cartilaginous points. In the whole animal kingdom, it is the dragon alone that exhibits this isolated and most remarkable structure. The wing membrane of the dragon distinguishes itself from the wing membrane of the flying squirrel by the circumstance of being supported by the ribs, which is not the case in the latter animals : the same cir- cumstance likewise distinguishes their wing membrane from that of the bat, in which the prolonged anterior extremities, particularly those bones which are analogous to the finger joints, are continued into the wing. The ribs, when flying, are moved by se- veral muscles. Strong triangular muscles spring laterally from the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae, and are inserted into the lower edge of the commencing part of the false ribs. These muscles move the ribs, when flying, together with the wing membrane, downwards and slightly backwards. Other broad muscles, which have their source at the upper surface of the vertebra, and which attach themselves to the ribs, move the ribs with the wing membrane. The alternating contractions and expansions of these muscles effect the flutterine or flying of the dragons. Thin muscles are likewise seated between the ribs, analogous to the intercostal muscles. Osteology of Ophidians.— In the true ser- pents, the vetebral column itself constitutes the principal portion of the skeleton, and the number of pieces of which it consists is some- times prodigious, varying in different species, from about a hundred {Acontias) up to three hundred {Boa} or even four hundred {Pt/- thoii) distinct vertebrae. These have pretty much the same shape throughout the whole length of the spinal column, each presenting the centrum or body, and the spinous, trans- verse, and articulating processes forming the bonds of connexion between them, or the levers by which they are wielded. The bodies of coi>tiguou3 vertebrae are