627 SKELETON. And it cannot be doubted, for 'a moment, that both these elemental pieces, marked 4 in both figures, are identical; for many facts go to prove it: first, both elements marked 4 are posited in the same situation with re- spect to the other pieces (3, 2, ], 5) of the vertebrae; second, both are autogenous, that is to say, they are developed as sepa- rate and isolated deposits; third, they hold the same serial order in the spinal axis ; fourth, the anterior element (4) of the cervical transverse process (^g. 445. b), is that which is occasionally converted into a rib, as seen in B, Jig. 444., and thereby simulating more closely the thoracic rib (4) of the dorsal verte- bra {Jig. 445. A.) ; fifth, a negative evidence may be adduced to prove that the anterior half (4) of the cervical transverse process of fg. 445. B, is the true counterpart of the tho- racic rib (/%. 444. b,4) ; for the more clearly it can be shown that the posterior half (3) of the cervical transverse process of Jig. 445. b, is the homologue of the dorsal transverse pro- cess {Jig. 444. c, 3), the more evident must it appear that neither one or the other of these last-named pieces are homologous to either of the two former ; sixth, the posterior half (3) of the cervical transverse process {Jig- 445. b) and the dorsal transverse pro- cess {Jig. 444. c, 3) are ''exogenous " growths ; that is to say, they are produced of ele- mental nuclei common to them and the *' neural " * or laminar arches marked 2 ; and therefore it appears that the cervical vertebra {Jig. 445. b) possesses a costal element (4), just as the dorsal vertebra (/g.445.A) does, the only difference between these vertebrae being, that the costa of the latter is produced of greater dimensions than the costa of the former. Prop. VI. All the cervical vertebrce develop costal appendages. — The identity which has been proved to exist between the seventh cer- vical vertebra and the first thoracic costo-verte- bral quantity will allow it to be inferred, that all the cervical vertebraj,the atlas not excepted, which are fashioned of an equal number of elemental nuclei, must therefore be identical with all the thoracic costo-vertebral quan- tities. The only difference which exists be- tween the cervical vertebrae, even that named atlas {Jig. 446.), and the thoracic costo-ver- Fig. 446. tebral quantities {Jig. 444.) is one of quantity; and this difference in quantity appears upon comparison to be alone attaching to the costal * This term, " neural arch," is used by Professor Owen, from whom the term originates. " By " neural arch, I mean both neui-apophysis and neural spine, or the totality of the distinct parts of which such arch is composed." Homologies of the Vertebrate Skeleton, p. 190. appendages marked 4. — The thoracic costae are of larger dimensions than the cervical costae. Prop. VII. The lumbar vertebra develops the costal appendage.—When I take the dor- sal vertebra {c,Jig. 444.) (of human anatomy) separated from its costae, and hold it in comparison with the lumbar vertebra (r. Jig. 444.), I find that the elemental nuclei of both are, for the most part, equal in num- ber and similar in position and shape. The points by which anatomists doubt their ab- solute identity are the processes (3 of c and 4 of e), named " transverse" in both, and the process (3 of e) named *' tubercle " in the lumbar form. The cause of this doubt I find to be occasioned by an error as to the identity of elementary nuclei, and a consequent mis- application of terms. The cause of the anatomical error originates with human ana- tomy having described as a complete dorsal vertebra that figure (c, ^g. 444.) which has never been seen separate from its ribs, as it appears in T>,^g. 444. The best mode, there- fore, whereby we may correct this error, is to take nature as she presents to us, and inter- pret her by her own evidence, not through the artificial system of any "human invention. While I compare the first lumbar vertebra {Bfjig. 447.) with the last costo-vertebral tho- Fig. 447. racic form {x^Jig. 447.), I discover that nature has developed them of the same elemental pieces. In both the spinous element (1), the neural or laminar elements (2), and the bodies or centra (5), are apparent. In both are to be traced the true transverse processes which are homologous to each other in every re- spect, I mean the process named " tubercle " (3) of the lumbar vertebra (b), and the pro- cess named " transverse " (3) of the thoracic figure (a). Both these processes are identical in form, mode of growth, relative position in regard to the other vertebral elements (1, 2, 4, 5), and in serial order with regard to each other. They are the true transverse pro- cesses by every anatomical proof, for they are produced of elemental pieces common to them