204 QUADRUMANA. degree to anticipate its total absence in the to account for that sedateness of character Colobi. This defect necessarily impairs the and indisposition to violent activity for which function of prehension in the Semno2ntheci, they are so remarkable, and, according to the views of Ogilby, helps Fig. 124. a, scaphoid; h, semilunar; form; A, intennediaire bone ; Carpus of the Orang-cetan. ( W. Vrolik.') c, triquetrum; d, trapezium; e, trapezoides; /, os magnum; g, unci- i, OS sesamoideum for the tendon of the abductor longus poUicis. The femur of the Chimpanzee is slightly bent in the anterior direction, as in the human subject; the neck of the bone has the same comparative length, but stands out more ob- liquely to the shaft. The whole of the bone is flatter or more compressed from before backwards. The head of the femur is at- tached to the acetabulum by the ligamentum teres, which is most remarkable, because it is wanting in the Orang-cetan, and exists in the other monkeys. The tibia in the Chimpanzee is proportionally thicker at the upper end, and the fibida considerably stronger at the lower end than in man; the interosseous space is wider, and the anterior convexity of both bones may be perceived to be slightly increased. The patellae are proportionally smaller. The relative size and position of the tarsal bones more nearly correspond to the same in the human subject than is found in any other quadrumanous animals; but they deviate nevertheless as much as is necessary to produce that position of the foot which is adopted for climbing, viz. on the exterior edge of the foot, with the sole bent up, and inwards. The os calcis is relatively weak, as compared with that of man, being more com- pressed from one side to the other, and smaller in all its dimensions ; but it projects backwards more than in the Orang-cetan or in the lower SimicB. From the inclination of the tarsus to rest on its outer edge, the os naviculare is further developed downwards, so as to pro- ject considerably below the bones of the same row, without inconvenience from pressure on the sole. The internal cuneiform bone has a corresponding inclination, and thus the hallux is attached to the tarsus, in a position best adapted for its being opposed against the other toes. The whole foot of the Chimpanzee is relatively longer and narrower than in man; and the digital phalanges are more inflected towards the sole. All these deviations are still more apparent in the Orang-cetan, as I have stated in my Recherches Anatomic comp. sur le Chimpanse ; in which I compared the anatomical disposition and the physiological action of the foot of the Oravg-cetan with those of club-foot (pes varus^. There can be no doubt that this direction of the foot ren- ders it unfit to support the animal upon a level surface, while it is on the contrary very convenient for the action of climbing. For the same reason the hallux or the thumb of the posterior extremities has a great deal of mobility. I saw many times the two Orangs- cetan of our gardens at Amsterdam grasp objects with the hinder hand, scarcely with less agility and ability than with the fore- hand. The frequency of these movements of the hinder thumb, and the friction it has to support, when the animal climbs, seem to be the cause why its nail and ungual phalanx sometimes become atrophied, as I have proved by many examples, and as may be concluded also from the perusal of the works of Camper, Temminck, Owen, Vosmaer, and Oskamp. In the Siaijjang, and in the other Gibbons, the foot approaches more to the human than in the Chimpanzee and Orang-cetan. The