REPTILIA. 318 and conforms very closely to what exists in the class of birds. The testicles are invariably two in number, and situated in the abdominal cavity on each side of the spine, their po- sition being more or less advanced forwards according to circumstances: they are, how- ever, constantly in juxtaposition with the kidneys, beneath or in front of which they are always placed. In the Chelonians they are always found to be connected with the in- ferior surface of the renal glands, which are here situated at the bottom of the abdominal cavity. In the Saurians they are placed in front of the kidneys on each side of the spinal column. They occupy a similar position in the Ophidian order, except that the right testis is in all serpents advanced further forwards than the left. The intimate structure of the testis is es- sentially similar in all the reptilia. Each testis Fig. 234. Male Organs of Generation, and Kidney of the Tortoise. (^After Bojanus.^ M, :!M", the urinary bladder laid open ; o, the left kidney; p, the renal capsule; 8, uriniferous tubes derived from the kidney, which by their union form the u^reter; N, ureter; F, common termination of the ureter and of the vas deferens at the neck of the blad- der, close to the commencement of the urethral groove; M, ditto of the opposite side; y, the testes; c, the vas deferens; e, the bulb of the penis; G, commencement of the vxrethral groove, just anterior to the openings common to the ureters and the vasa deferentia. is found to consist of large fascicles of semi- niferous tubes, which are; connected together by a delicate cellular tissue, and are, generally, easily separable. The seminal ducts derived from all these fascicles unite to form the com- mencement of the vas deferens, which is very tortuous and folded upon itself, so as to form an epididymiis situated at the side of the testis. In the Chelonian reptiles the con- voluted mass of tube which forms the epididy- mus is continuous with a very flexuous vas deferens, which is continued as far as the cloaca, into which it opens close to the root of the penis, and in the immediate vicinity of the grooved canal, which, in these animals, represents the urethra. In Saurians the epididymus forms a detached mass of a pyramidal form, which is longer than the testis itself. The vas deferens de- rived from it, runs along the external border of the kidney as far as the cloaca, into which it opens. In Ophidian reptiles the epididymus is proportionally of smaller size, and is in like manner continuous with a flexuous vas de- ferens, which terminates in the cloaca. The terminal orifices of the vasa deferentia are always situated in the upper wall of the cloaca, external to or above the ureters, and Hinder Part of the abdominal Cavity of Draco volans. a a, depressor muscles of false ribs; b, testes; c, vas deferens; d, bladder; e, rectum. are disposed in such a manner, that when the penis is double, the orifice of each vas de- ferens is close to the commencement of the urethral groove of the corresponding penis when in a state of erection. When the penis is single, both the orifices of the vasa de- ferentia open in the vicinity of the single urethral canal. In some Ophidians the vasa de- ferentia, near their termination in the cloaca, dilate into a kind of ampulla, which seems to be a reservoir for the reception of the seminal fluid. The cloaca in the reptilia is a wide cavity which receives the terminations of the rectum, of the ureters, of the allantoid bladder, when that viscus is present, and likewise of the vasa deferentia. In the Chelonians and in the crocodiles, which have a single penis, that organ, when in a state of repose, is entirely concealed in the cloacal cavity, the external opening of which is in these genera an oval or longitudinal opening. In the Chelonians the cavity of the cloaca may be divided into two portions : the one anterior, which is of a cylindrical shape, and receives the termination of the rectum, has its mucous membrane gathered into numerous longitudinal folds, and is surrounded with two layers of muscular fasciculi; the external assuming a longitu- dinal, and the internal a circular arrangement.