672 SKELETON. to correspond with the bisected vertebral centrum (6) of a. In c the laminae (4) and the ribs (8) project in the same way from the centrum (6). In c the transverse processes (7, 7) project from the lamina (4), just in the same relative position as the acromion pro- cesses (7) project from the scapulge (4 of b). In A there are no processes corresponding with these ; but we should recollect that these processes are merely apophyses, and not as distinct elementary constituent parts of the vertebral quantity. In A the symmetrical haemal spines or ossi- cles (11) correspond to the bones of the fore- arm (11 of b). In c the ribs (8) unite at the sternal median line (10), and the ossicles (11) are not existing. In A the ventral ray is terminated by the palm 12, which is symmetrical; while in b the scapulary members are terminated by the palms 12, which are also symmetrical. These palms are lost at the point 1 2 of c. When we compare a with b, we find that all their parts correspond, except in this par- ticular, viz. that A produces dorsad the bones 2 and the palms ]. In b these parts are lost. "When, again, we compare c with a, we find that the parts 1 and 2, as well as the parts 11 and 12, are lost to c. It is this loss of quantity which differences b and c from a. The existence of the parts 1, 2, 4 at the dorsum, and of the parts 8, 10, 12 at the ventrum of fig. a., renders this fig. symmetri- cal and equal at the back and venter. The obliteration of the parts 1 and 2 at the dor- sum of B renders the figure unequal as to back and venter. But the loss of the parts I and 2 from the dorsum of c, and the parts II and 12 from its venter, leaves this form still similar as to back and venter, although unequal to the dorso-ventral archetype (a). This difference is merely quantitative. Notwithstanding this quantitative variety between figs, a, b, and c, we still find them symmetrically cleavable by the common me- dian line, and this circumstance points to their analogy. Fig. a. is a dorso-ventral hmb ; fig. B. is a ventral limb ; fig. c. is a ventral costiform limb ; and it is a remarkable fact that this latter quantitative form, though usually performing those motions which are required in the act of respiration, is, in some species of animals (the ophidian and the lizard), operative as a locomotive member. Fig. A. encloses neural and haemal space at the points 5 and 9, and stands in spinal series with all its fellows of that series. It is an archetype compounded of the parts called vertebra; at the dorsum and venter of which stand the parts called the hmbs. Fig. b. is a proportional quantity of such another arche- type as A ; and having suffered bicleavage through its median line, it falls asunder on either side of the animal, and encloses the thorax between its opposite halves, at the space 5, leaving the prehensile organs, con- sisting of 8, 11, 12, playing freely on either side of the body. Fig. c is a proportional quantity, also of sucii another archetype as fig. A, and stands in spinal serial order with this latter, enclosing neural and hsemal space at the points 5 and 9. The spinous ossicle (3) which surmounts the laminee (4 of c), is part of the quantity marked 2 in a, the archetype. The spinous ossicle (3 of c) and the epiphyseal nucleus (3 of b), which borders the bases of the two scapulae, correspond. When fg. c. forms the sternum (10) bv a union of the ribs (8, 8), this sternal line in"all animals may be regarded as that median place where the archetypal quantity (II and 12) is lost; and in the same way, when c forms the spinous union at the dorsum, surmounted by the bilateral spinous ossicles (3), this spinous point of the skeletal axis of all animals mav be said to be that place where the archetvpal quantity (1 and 2) has been subtracted. * The mode in which the vertebriform sca- pul^ contract a connection with the costiform clavicles and coracoid bones*, is similar to the mode in which the vertebriform ihac bones become joined to the costiform pubic, and ischiadic bones, as a reference to fig. 491. will prove. When the two iliac bones, to which are appended the hind limbs, fall from vertebral spinal series, bicleft on the animal's sides at the lumbar region, they abut on either side of that region of vertebral series, which hence Fig. 491. Showing the signification of the bones of the shoul- der and hip ; that the clavicles, pubic and ischia- dic bones refer to the ribs, while the scapulje and iliac boues refer to the vertebra?. becomes the sacrum; and the ilio-sacral svm- physis is thus formed. in A {fig. 491.) the iliac bone (/?, h) will be * I mean the bones called " coracoid" in birds and reptiles, not the mammal coracoid processes, for I have already named these latter to be the bicleft centrum of the scapular vertebra.