7 POLYGASTRIA. a single cubic line, to eight thousand millions, and a cubic inch of such water containing 1728 cubic lines, will be peopled with thirteen billions eight hundred and twenty-four millions of these living and active beings !! I It has been possible to detect, even in these smallest of nature's works, an apparatus that seems to perform the functions of an instrument of progression. This consists in one or some- times two filaments of extreme tenuity, which resemble somewhat the tail of a tadpole ; here, however, the organ performs the functions of a proboscis, being appended to that part of the body which advances first in swimming. The shape of the Monads is not always globose, but sometimes egg-shaped, pear-shaped, elon- gated, or fusiform. In Monas tingens we have Fig. 1. 1. Uvella glaiccoma. 2. Polytoma uvella, 3. Afi- crofjlena monadina. 4. Bodo socialis. 5. Lagenella euchlora. 6. The same crushed, showing its shell. 7. Gonium pectorale. 8. Gonium pectorale, hrediYing up into its component animalcules. 9. Eudorina. 10. One of the animalcules comprising Eudoritui detached. 11, 12, 13. Developement of Volvox. an example of the last form, and also of the manner in which they are sometimes found associated by their tails into beautiful groups, their double proboscides being all protruded externally. This faculty of clustering together is still better exemplified in the genus Uvella, (1, Jig. 1^) which somewhat resembles a trans- parent mulberry rolling itself about at will, whence the name grape monad," which these animalcules bear. In Polytoma (2, fig. 1) this clustered appearance is due to the fact that the original animalcule is continually dividing into a greater and still greater number, which, at last breaking loose from each other, become solitary and independent. Some animalcules of this family, as Chilo- monas destruens, live in the interior of dead Rotifers and other minute beings, in which locality they seem to revel luxuriously; whilst others, as Bodo, (4, fg. 1,) are met with in the intestinal canal of many living animals,* from the fly and the earth-worm up to fishes and even men. One species (B. ranarum) seems particularly partial to the intestmes of Frogs, in the contents of which it is usually found. Many species of this genus are fur- nished with long tails, by the aid of which * Ehrenberg, Infiisionsthierchen. they are bound together in bunches of very beautiful appearance, as represented in the figure. In the Cryptomonads, (5, fig. 1,) which seem to be merely Monads invested with a shell, the proboscis is of a similar character; but these animalcules are never found asso- ciated in bunches. Perhaps few more beautiful objects exist in nature than the next group of animalcules belonging to the Monadine type. These are the Volvocinidae, embracing several genera composed of numerous Monads, associated together and connected by a common envelope, which constitutes a kind of compound poly- pary or monadary, as it has been recently called, through which the proboscides of tlie com.ponent Monads are exserted. In Gonium, (7, 8, Jig. 1,) one of the simplest forms belonging to this family, the common body resembles a minute square- shaped flattened tablet, so transparent as to be detected with great difficulty, in which the green Monads are set like the gems in the breastplate of the Jewish high-priest, from which circumstance one species, G. pectorale, has been named. The organisation of Gonium pectorale, as far as it has been made out, seems to be as follows ;—The mantle or proper covering of each individual animalcule, wliich can only be properly examined after the division of the little tablet, is neither four-cornered nor table- like, but pretty nearly round, and in the form of a lacerna, which the animalcules can quit and renew again at intervals. The table-like investment of the compound body is produced by regularly repeated spontaneous fissure in the longitudinal, but not in the transverse di- rection, which is in fact only an imperfect division into single tablets. In a little tablet of this kind all the animalcules of which it is composed appear to be connected to each other by riband-like prolongations. It is only in Gonium pectorale that locomo- tive organs have been satisfactorily detected, presenting themselves under the usual form of two thread-like proboscides, appended to the mouth of each individual Monad entering into its composition. These are seen to be in con- stant motion, so as to have the appearance of cilia. Each individual animalcule inclosed in the common envelope of the compound being a}> pears, moreover, to possess a distinct nutritive apparatus, consisting of transparent vesicles visible among the green matter that fills its interior; but these have not yet been observed to fill themselves with colouring matter. Eh- renberg likewise supposes that each of the component animalcules of the Gonium contains the essential parts of a double sexual system, regarding the green-coloured particles in the body as eggs, and an opaque spot and con- tractile bladder, which is occasionally discern- ible, as the male apparatus; but these parts will be more particularly described hereafter. The most beautiful animalcules belonging to the Volvocinidee are the Volvocts, from which