65 PORIFERA. a remarkable class of organized beings, dubi- ously admissible into the animal series, usu- ally known by the name of Sponges, which are met with in great abundance in the seas of most climates, either growing in isolated masses from the rocks or f^preading out so as to encrust the surfaces of submarine bodies with a kind of living carpet, the texture of which varies in accordance with the nature of the sponge. By recent naturalists, the term Amorphozoa (afx6p(pos, shapeless; ^<2ov, animal) has been considered a preferable de- signation, and accordingly these names will be applied indiscriminately throughout the present article. According to the most recent authors, the members of the class before us may be ge- nerally described as follows : — " Organized bodies growing in a variety of forms, perma- nently rooted, unmoving and unirritable, fleshy, fibro-reticular or irregularly cellular, elastic and bibulous, composed of a fi|)ro- corneous axis or skeleton, often interwoven with siliceous or calcareous spicula, and con- taining an organic gelatine in the interstices and interior canals ; reproduction by gelati- nous granules generated in the interior, but in no special organ. All are aquatic, and, with a few exceptions, marine." * The families composing the class thus cha- racterised are distinguished by the nature of the skeleton or solid framework upon which their shape depends, in accordance with which Blainville has arranged them as follows : — Alcyoncellum.—Body fixed, soft, sub- gelatinous, solidified by tricuspid spicula, phytoid ; branches not numerous, cylindrical, fistular, terminated by a rounded orifice, with thick walls composed of regular granules ; polygonal, alveoliform, pierced with a pore externally and internally. Spongia. — Body soft, very elastic, multi- form ; more or less irregular, very porous, traversed by tortuous canals, which are nu- merous, opening externally by distinct oscula, and formed by a kind of subcorneous sub- stance w hich anastomoses in every direction ; entirely without spicula. Calcispongia.—Body not very soft,formed in irregular masses, porous, traversed by irre- gular canals, which open externally by oscula, and composed of a subcartilaginous substance, supported by calcareous spicula that are, for the most part, stelliform. Halispongia (xctAis, silex). — Body more or less rigid or friable, in an irregular mass, porous, traversed by tortuous canals termi- nating by oscula scattered over the whole sur- face, and composed of a subcartilaginous sub- stance supported by simple spicula, which are silicious. Spongilla. — Body an irregular mass, more or less rigid and friable, pierced with pores, but without true oscules, composed of a fibro- cartilaginous substance, which is in small * History of British Sponges and Lithophytes, by George Johnston, M.D., Edinburgh, 1842. VOL. IV. quantity compared with the great number of simple silicious spicula which solidify it. Geodia. — A fleshy body, tuberifurm, irre- gular, hollow internally, and formed externally by a sort of crust or envelope pierced with a great number of pores, and contaiiTing a group of oscules or larger pores placed in a little subcircu'ar space. Siphonia. — Body polymorphous, free or fixed, composed of dense fibres, forming two sorts of canals, some larger ami longitudinal, opening by oscula at the bottom as well as on the summit, the others transverse and anastomosing, radiating towards the periphery, and provided with a terminal depression, more or less considerable, in which the oscules are collected in a radiated manner. ScYPHiA. — Body C}lindrical, simple or branched, terminated by a large rounded os- cule, and entirely composed of reticulated tissue. EuDEA. — Body filiform, attenuated sub- pedunculate at one extremity, large, round, and pierced with a great oscule at the other, with pores scarcely visible in irregular lacunas ; whole surface reticulated. Hallirrhoa. — Body turbinated; almost regular, with the circumference circular or lobed, covered with cellules or pores, which are indistinct externally, with a large oscule in the centre of its enlarged part. Tethium. — Body subglobular, irregular, tuberiform, sarcoid but firm, suberous, re- sisting, supported by and mixed up with an immense quantity of aciculi, which are simple, Fig. 67. a, Tethea Cranium of the natural size; h, section of the same. (^After Johnston.') F