PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 113 var \ing degrees of dilution of the acid. That the involucium fades simply, without being, as was at one time supposed, destroyed, is commonly obvious on simple inspection ; it appears as a sort of thin, transparent halo round the nuclei. But, were there any doubt, this would be removed by the addition of solution of iodine *, which restores the clear definition of the cell-wall. The fading of the involucrum is, however, an early stage of so- lution ; for, if much acid be added, the halo disappears and cannot be restored. In re- spect of this disclosure of the nucleus tliree opinions have found their supporters : (a.) that a simple or compound nucleus, pre-exist- ing in either form, is simply rendered visible by the acid ; (b.) that it is exposed and, be- sides, split up into parts; (c.) that it is an ap- pearance altogether produced by the acid. That the first of these opinions is the correct one, appears (if on no other grounds) from what has been said in a previous page on the discovery of the nucleus in recent unchanged pus. Mineral acids, if dilute, do not dissolve the corpuscles; if concentrated, dissolve them completely. [Caustic alkalies form a jelly with them ; their carbonates, as also muriate of am- monia, change them similarly but more slowly. The action of the latter on pus was observed by J. Hunter on a large scale, and ascribed by him to coagulation of the liquor puris. Dr. J. Davy showed, i)y allowing the corpuscles to settle, decanting the supernatant fluid, pour- ing some of the muriate upon this, and observ- ing that no viscidity followed, until corpuscles had been added, that the change depended upon these. Dr. Wood f ascertained that the muriate causes the corpuscles to adhere with some closeness to each other. Pus-corpuscles contain a very little phos- phate of lime, and consist essentially of a pro- tein-compound. Their constituent substance has been given the special title pur'ium by Koch, piirutina by Michelotti; a mode of naming it which must be abandoned if, as Lehmann and Messerschmitt maintain, the nu- cleus and involucrum belong to two different varieties of protein, — the former being com- posed of venous, the latter of arterial, fibrin. J But this view is, it is scarcely necessary to add, itself far from being established, — as also that of persons who (imitating Ascherson) hold the centre of the nucleus to be composed of fat, and i"ts peripheral part of albumen. Pus differs chemically from blood in the states of health and of hyperinosis in the proportion of its ingredients, much more than in their nature —as might readily be imagined. But quantitative analyses are as yet so imper- * The corpiiscles, and especially the nuclei, attract the iodine from the fluid in w hich they swim; for, while they darken, this fluid loses its yellow-brown colour. t De pirns natura atque formatione. (Berol.) X Medicin. Vierteljarhschrift von Roser and Wun- derlich, 18-i-2, S. 247. The same Avriters regard the molecular granules of pus as composed of yet ano- ther variety of proteiu-compound, resembUug Ke- ratin, VOL. IV. feet, that very different general inferences may be deduced from them according to the selec- tion made of published analyses; — it is true this may also in part depend on the actual vari- ation in the proportions in different specimens of pus. Thus we may prove by one set of experiments that pus contains more w ater than healthy, and d fortiori than hyperinotic, blood ; and, by another, that pus is on the contrary a more concentrated fluid than either. And whichever be the opinion adopted, theoretical explanation and support may readily be found for it. The following general inferences are likewise, we confess, to be accepted with caution. Pus contains more albumino-fibrous sub- stance than the liquor sanguinis of either spe- cies of blood, less than the blood in mass, com- prising the red corpuscles. The latter point obviously depends on the fact that the cor- puscles are, as such (unless jiccidentally and in very minute proportion), retained within the vessels ; whereas pus is formed outside them. But how comes it that pus contains proportionally more albumino-fibrous material than the liquid part of the blood — that part of the blood which is exuded in infian^ma- tion, and which forms the substance for the evolution of the purulent matter ? The pecu- liarity (as suggested by Lebert) is probably due to partial solution of the red-corpuscles in the liquor sanguinis, and transudation ol that dissolved substance ; an explanation not, we may observe, without apparent connection with the established fact of the decrease of red corpuscles in hyperinotic blood. To this source (as w ell as to extravasation) may, perhaps, be referred the occasional appearance of a little iron among the elements of pus. Fat is much more aliundant in pus than in blood ; the high ratio of cholesterin in the former (as ascertained by Valentin *, Von Bibra and Wright) comes in confirmation of the fact established by Becquerel andRodierf, that the ratio of cholesterin in the blood is always in- creased in inflammation. The saline consti- tuents of the two fluids do not differ very materially. Pus possesses a remarkable power of re- sisting decomposition ; at the end of months some corpuscles may still be found unchanged, among others that are dissolved. It even re- tards the putrefaction of substances with which it is brought in contact, as shown by the experiments of J. Hunter and Everard Home. The latter observed that pieces of flet>h placed in fresh pus underwent gradual dimi- nution of weight, and eventually solution, without any evidence of putrefaction being manifested. Ultimately, pus does i)utrefy however ; the occurrence of the change being much hastened by the presence of blood, mucus, or other organic fluids. Aciditv, as already hinted, is one of the earliest signs of the change. * In one of Valentin's Analyses (Repertorium S. 307,1838) the proportion of cholesterin is so high as 11.86 per 1000. t Gazette Medicale de Paris, 18-14.