475 SEMEN. Of this by far the greatest part is occupied by the fihform tail. For the anterior body there hardly remains more than -i-^^to -f^^^^. The body is rather flattened on the sides, so as to represent the shape of an almond. Viewing it from the surface (Jig. 323. a), it looks like an oval disc, the longitudinal dia- meter of which exceeds the greatest width by Fig. 323. A B Spermatozoa of 3Ian. A, vieAved on the surface; b, viewed edgeways. about one half, and which extends itself to- wards the posterior part into the filiform caudal appendix. The anterior extremity of the body is usually rather pointed, almost like the lower part of a pear or the point of an egg. If the body is situated on its edge {Jig. 323. b), it resembles a short rod, rather pointed towards the anterior part, the transverse dia- meter of which measures about from one half to one third of the greatest transverse diameter of the lateral surface. The tail is cylindrical, thin at the posterior part, and prolonged into a very fine point, which can only be perceived by the application of the highest magnifying power. At its anterior part, on the other hand, the double outline can distinctly be traced. But the thickness even here is always less than the thickness of the body. Mammalia.—The spermatozoa of the Mam- malia have quite a similar form, but frequently a more considerable size. The genus Mus, the smallest mammals, remarkable to state, are distinguished in the latter respect. The length in Mus decumanus amounts to yV'^^ Mus musculus -r}^^^^,'m Hypudacus arvalis, Sciurus, Talpa -V ^ Plecotus auritus, Cercopithecus ruber -gV^' many other cases,— in Canis, Fells, Erinaceus, Lepus, Cervus, &c., the length of the seminal fibres is about the same as in man. But even then the body is gene- rally of a considerable size; as, for instance, in Sciurus, Cervus, and Lepus, where it mea- sures ■J^■o'^^ as also in Talpa. The size of the body in a rat amounts even to Yi-o^^^' The difference, however, is frequently less considerable. In Canis, Rhinolophus, Hy- pudacus, Mus musculus, &c., the body only measures ^s^'^^ eyen still less in the horse and cat. The form of the body varies extremely*; all, however, exhibit parts corresponding to those of the spermatozoa of man. The fun- damental form likewise is always that of a * Vid. R. Wagner's Icon. Physiolog. Table I. Elements of Physiology, p. 13. flattened oval. The spermatozoa of the mon- key tribe are very similar to those of man ; likewise those of the cat, in which the body has a similar inverted oval shape; as also those of the hedgehog. The body of the spermatozoa in the mole, as also in the horse, is uniformly rounded off at both cxtren)i- ties. In the Khinolophus it presents the same regular form, but at its anterior ex- tremity it seems to be furnished with a short and thin appendix, resembling a point. In other manuualia the posterior extremity of the body, which is in connexion with the tail, is the narrower one, whilst the free an- terior end appears to be rounded off, or even to be more or less flattened. If the an- terior extremity decreases gradually, the body assumes the usual egg form (Cervus, Lepus), whilst it exhibits more the shape of a pear in cases where that extremity is rounded off (Canis, Sciurus). The width of the body, as well as the la- teral flattening off, likewise increases with the enlargement of the longitudinal diameter. Its extreme developement is reached, as it seems, in Sciurus (Jig. 324?.). Here the body is very Fig. 324. Spermatozoa of the Squirrel (^Scivrus vulgaris^. Viewed in different aspects. expanded and thin, like a fine, transparent leaf- The lateral surfaces are hollowed out, like a spoon, or shovel. The margins, or edges, however, do not participate in this. They appear, especially at the anterior end, much thickened. Another very remarkable form is seen in the body of the spermatozoa of the Muridae. It is attached to the anterior end of the caudal ap- pendix, hke the blade of a knife, but in such a manner that the tail, when viewing the body on the surface, is not situated as usual in the central longitudinal axis of the body, but passes over into one of the lateral margins. It might almost give rise to the conjecture that the one lateral half of the body had arrived at its full developement, Avhilst the other had dwindled away and been lost. In fact, the whole appearance of the body seems to justify the assumption of such a non-sym- metrical kind of developement. At the point which usually corresponds to the centre of the body, the lateral part, distinguished by its thickness, is prolonged into the tail. The thickness gradually decreases towards the upper extremity, which is bent in an arched manner, presenting a convexity towards that