398 ROTIFERA. Whilst the Polygastria descend in structure to a point where it may be well questioned, whether they partake most of the animal or vegetable character, the Rotifera have always' a decided animal character. The Polygastria are even said to perform functions, such as the absorption of carbonic acid and the evo- lution of oxygen, which would seem to throw doubt on their animality altogether; but no such function can possibly be attributed to the Rotifera. They appear to be distributed as widely on the earth as the Polygastria; and Ehrenberg has recorded their existence in various parts of Europe, Asia, and Africa. They have also been found in America. They inhabit both salt water and fresh, although the species which inhabit the latter are by far the most numerous. Like some of the higher animals, the same species are found inhabiting both salt and fresh water, whilst others are peculiar to brackish water. Although they are capable of pursuing their way in the open water, they are generally found swimming around, or attached to, the leaves and other parts of aquatic plants. In our own country the leaves of Ceratoi)hyllum are found to be a favourite resort of species Limnias^ Alasti- gocerca, Dinocharis, Moiiura^ and others. The floating roots of the various species of Lemna are also the favourite resort of several species, whilst others are found in abundance amongst the fibrilliform fronds of the fresh-water algoe. Some of them even take up their residence in the interior of the cells of plants. Roper first discovered them in the cells of Sphagman obtusifolium. Subsequently Unger described a peculiar movement in certain tubercles which he had observed to be developed upon the stalk of Vaucheria clavata. The same phe- nomenon was witnessed by Professor Morren, of Liege, who, on investigating the subject more closely, found that the movements of the tubercles was due to the presence in their interior of the Rotifer vulgaris. Others, again, are found in turfy and bog waters; whilst some, especially the species of Notommata, are found parasitic upon other animals. The Rotifera are more susceptible to the in- fluence of either high or low temperatures than the Polygastria. Ehrenberg observed the latter constantly come to life after the water in which they were contained had been frozen. Species of Diglena, Metopidia, ColuriiSy and Lepadella frequently came to life after they had been frozen for a short time. Other species experimented on, as Hydatina senfa, Brachionus urceolaris, and s{)ecies of Salpina, all died. Although they are easily destroyed by being frozen, some of them will bear a great variety of temperature. Thus the Phi- lodina roseola, which we have found in the streams of Yorkshire, has been discovered by Professor Agassiz amongst the red snow of the Alps, where it must have been exposed to a much lower tempeiature than in the former habitat. Polygastria bear also a higher de- gree of heat than Rotifera. Brachionus urceo- laris and Hydatina senta were found alive after having been exposed for thirty seconds to a temperature of 104° Fah. Higher tempera- tures speedily destroyed them. One of the most remarkable points in the economy of the Rotifera is the power they possess of recovering their vitality after having been apparently perfectly desiccated. This fact was first made known by Leeuwen- hoek, who, at the same time that he disco- vered the existence of the common Rotifer, had an opportunity of observing this remark- able property. In one of his original papers, contributed to the Royal Society of London, he says : — "In October, 1702, I caused the filth or dirt of the gutters, when there was no water there, and the dirt was quite dry, to be ga- thered together, and took about a teacupfid of the same and put it into a paper upon my desk, since which time I have often taken a httle thereof, and poured upon it boiled water, after it had stood till it was cold, to the end that I might obviate any objection that should be made, as if there were living creatures in that water. These animalcula, when the water runs off them or dries away, contract their bodies into a globular or oval figure. After the above-mentioned dry substance had lain near twenty-one months in the paper, I put into a glass tube, of an inch diameter, the remainder of what I had by me, and poured upon it boiled rain water after it was almost cold, and then inmiediately viewed the small- est parts of it, particularly that which sub- sided leisurely to the bottom, and observed a great many round particles, most of which were reddish, and they were certainly ani- malcula ; and some hours after I discovered a few that had opened or unfolded their bodies, swimming through the water ; and a great many others that had not unfolded them- selves, were sunk to the bottom, some of which had holes in their bodies ; from whence I concluded that the little creature called the mite had been in the paper, and preyed upon the aforesaid animalcula. " The next day I saw three particular ani- malcula swimming through the water, the smallest of which was 100 times smaller than the above said animalcula. "Now,ought we not to be astonished to find that these small insects can lie twenty-one months dry, and yet live, and as soon as ever they are put into water fall a swinnning, or fastening the hinder parts of their bodies to the glass, and then produce the wheels, just as if they had never wanted water. In the month of September I put a great many of the last- mentioned animals into a wide glass tube, which placed themselves on the sides of the glass presently, whereupon I poured the water out, and then observed that several animal- cula, to the number of eighteen or nineteen, lay by one another in the space of a coarse sand, all which, when there remained no more water, closed up themselves in a globular figure. " Some of the bodies of these animalcula were so strongly dried up, that one could see the wrinkles in then), and they were of a