657 SKELETON. point to which I direct the reader's attention, for it is upon this assertion that I found the present reading. If, for example, from fore- going remarks I have proved that the spinal vertebra is not a whole quantity, as it exists either in the cervical lumbar sacral or caudal regions, but that it is in reality a proportional metamorphosed from the sterno-costo-verte- bral archetype, then it must follow that the figure which has been named cranial vertebra is also a proportional metamorphosed from the like archetype; for that which is true of the form we name spinal vertebra, must un- questionably be true of the cranial form, which we liken to a vertebra. Now, in each of those spinal forms which hold serial order from cranium to the other extreme, there exists, as I have already shown, some proportional of the rib. In the thoracic spinal segment, the rib is plus, and meets its fellow of the opposite side at the sternal piece. This thoracic costo-vertebral form I have named archetype, and com|)ared with it I have shown that all other spinal vertebras vary from it, not because of the introduction of any new elemental part found in any of them, and not found in the archetype, but simply because they are, compared with this archetypal or plus quantity, the minus propor- tionals of such plus archetypes. However, it is still most true that the quantity which we recognise as the cervical lumbar or sacral vertebra, does contain within itself the rudi- ment of the rib, and therefore I repeat that t.'iis rib makes an integral part of all vertebrae -*-of all those, at least, which possess a certain quantitative character. It must have already appeared evident to the reader that it was premature to have sought to establish an identity between cranial and spinal segments, without having first ascertained the quantitative nature of the thing which was named vertebra. For as it was evident that something was yet to be proved by the comparison of spinal vertebrae, so therefore it was not possible to prove all that might be known of cranial vertebrae, while prematurely referring one unknown quantity to another equally unknown — I mean the spinal vertebra to the cranial verte- bra. Since it was by no means as yet demon- strated that the form which anatomists recog- nised as the spinal vertebra was a quantity of fixed and invariable character, how then could it be proved that the form to which it was likened in the cranium was of fixed and un- varying dimensions ? When anatomical science, lighted by the torch of Oken's genius, first pierced the mist and obscuring cloud of nomenclature, which described the cranial structures as distinct from the spinal forms, and when it expounded the facts and doctrine of that radical homo- logy of caste which related both classes of structure together under the conmion name vertebrae, it did not in truth progress nuich nearer to the explanation of the law of form than when it first explained, despite of no- menclature, the analogy which existed between VOL. IV. sacral bones and lumbar vertebrae. In the one case it only related hitherto unknown forms to vertebrae, without knowing the tvpi- ral form of vertebrce themselves ; in the other case it related the sacrum (sacer) to the lum- bar vertebrae, and called both vertebrae, with- out having any idea of the vertebral archetype or whole quantity. The facial apparatus is to the cranial forms just what the thoracic costae are to the dorsal vertebrae, namely, the integral parts of whole sacral quantities.* As in thoracic series, it is required that we should take the dorsal ver- tebra, holding its natural connection with the thoracic rib, and describe both as the parts of whole thoracic quantities; so in cephalic series, we are reminded, from the natural connection which facial structures hold with cranial forms, to describe both orders of parts as constituting the whole cephalic quantities. It is upon this connection apparent between facial and cranial structures at one region of series, and between vertebral and costal struc- tures at another region of the same serial order, that I am induced to draw a likeness or resL'mblance, as well between costal forms and maxillary forms, as other anatomists have recognised between cranial foriiis and spinal vertebrae. The identity which is already j)roved to exist between the latter n)ust prove the identity of the former likewise. The homology of caste which d priori reasoning establishes between cranial and spinal forms, wiil lead us to interpret by a posteriori reason- ing that an homology of caste must charac- terise the costal and the maxillary forms ; for if we are already forced to acknowledge iden- tity between cranial and spinal vertebrae, so must we, I contend, be induced to name the maxillae of cranial vertebrae to be the homo- logues of the costae of spinal vertebrae (even it special modification had rendered homology still more obscure than it is at present), and for this reason, viz. that costae are the natural attendants upon vertebrae, wherever we find vertebrae, whether in the head or in the spinal serial axis. As all spinal segments whatever contain some proportional of a rib, it must follow that the rib is to indicate the presence of the ver- tebral piece as nuich as the vertebral piece implies the presence of the rib ; and if the cranial forms are proved to manifest a struc- tural identity with spinal vertebrae, w hile we see that the latter are always attended with * If the facial be to the cranial structures just what the thoracic costje are to the dorsal vertebra;, then it will appear evident to the reader that, when Oken, or Spix, or Goethe, or Geoffiw likened the facial structures to vertebra?, they committed an error as evident as if they saw an analogy of form between the thoracic ribs and the verteljral pieces. Schultz (De Priniordiis Systeniatis Ossium et de Evolutione Spina? Dorsi in Animalibus) was the first to pronounce the gross error into which the trans- cendental anatomists had fallen in respect to liken- ing the facial apparatus to the vertebral piece3. Bojanus, in like manner, prudently freed himself from this error. Professor Owen considers the facial apparatus to consist of the " inverted arches" of the cranial vertebrre. u u