513 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. A mixture of these two elements consti- tutes the areolar tissue, which enters so largely into the formation of almost all the organs. The bands of the one and the fibres of the other are closely interwoven, although with- out mutual continuity; each givingctf'branches which again unite with the other neighbouring subdivisions of the same kind, so as to form a compHcated interlacement of the two net- works. This arrangement results in an innu- merable series of meshes, which everywhere communicate with those in their immediate proximity, and the size and shape of which varies within very wide limits. And these limits are frequently still further extended, since the separation of some of these micro- scopic meshes, and the approximation and condensation of others, gives rise to the for- mation of a secondary net-work, which is visible to the naked eye, and which, though still open in every direction, possesses, espe- cially in inflated and dried preparations, an appearance sufficiently resembling that of cells to remind one of the name formerly applied to this structure, which was called, as if KUT iloxvv, " the cellular tissue." The proportion in which these two consti- tuents are mixed varies greatly in the areolar tissue of different parts of the body ; the pre- ponderance of one over the other following that of the conditions which were previously stated to regulate their separate presence. Thus, the likelihood of its frequent and great distention is often a requisition of increased elasticity, and is then accompanied by an increased proportion of the yellow element. Similarly, the amount of this compound structure present in different parts appears to depend mainly on its uses. Its offices of uniting the different textures, and of convoying the vessels and nerves, render it necessary that more or less of the tissue should always be present on the exterior of an organ ; and the same circumstances would lead us to expect a slight penetration of its surface. In the interior of organs, however, its absence is by no means infrequent, and is very significant of its use. Thus, the minute elements of the osseous tissue are physically insusceptible of movement; the permissive and facilitating structure becomes unnecessary and impossible; and is therefore absent. The highly delicate nervous pulp not only pos- sesses no inherent mobility, but, by the ex- treme delicacy of its structure, offers a physiological obstacle to movement of equal importance with the preceding, and is accom- panied by a similar absence of the tissue. The intimate mutual connection of the mus- cular fibres of the heart, and their association in a common and nearly simultaneous move- ment, is associated with a like deprivation of this interstitial structure. The same absence at once of the necessity and of the tissue is seen in glandular organs, the situation of which shields them from injurious external force, as appears to be the case with the liver. But where opposite circumstances obtain, VOL. IV. where extent and variety of movement imply considerable mobility of the neighbouring muscles of a limb, or situation exposes an organ to external violence, a large quantity envelopes these different textures, penetrating between the diflTerent muscles and isolating their several fibres, or breaking up the gland into numerous subdivisions, moveable on each other : of this latter, the mamma is a familiar instance. A similar relation might be traced in the wider circumstances of its application. Not only does it form a web of union to the whole body, but it also presents a special layer of considerable thickness, which invests its sur- face, and partitions which isolate its muscles. And something of a corresponding minimum is found in those animals whose locomotive movements are few and simple, or whose situation and habits little expose them to external violence. So that a rbugh gradation might be traced through fishes, cetaceans, and reptiles, to mammals; in which last class man stands pre-eminent in the number and complexity of his voluntary motions, and in the remarkable amount of this subservient tissue. An increase in the freedom of movement of contiguous parts is associated with an increased laxity of this web, the meshes of which become both longer and wider, so as to be more capable of stretching. They thus allow a greater amount of separation to take place between the parts which are attached to the extremities of their irregular net-work. BuRSTE.— Here and there throughout the body, where integument or tendon glides over a bony prominence, a further provision occurs, as the development of distinct cavities, which are lined by a smooth shining surface. By dissecting their parietes from the sur- rounding looser cellular tissue, they may be artificially exhibited as a membrane ; and hence these sacs, closed at all points of their circumference, have received the appellation of burs<jB. In the majority of instances, their interior is almost void of contents ; but, in exceptional cases, they contain a considerable quantity of a glairy, mucus-like fluid, which closely resembles that before alluded to, as naming, from its consistence, the synovial membranes. This similarity of their contents was till lately su[)posed to be the only analogy borne by these structures to the synovial membranes of the articulations ; and hence they have been included by Henle* and other systematic writers in a class of " Pseudo- serous membranes," and characterised as lack- ing an epithelium on their inner surface. Reichert|, however, detected a layer of nucleated cells lining their interior. He stripped ofi^ a fine layer from this surface uncler water, and, upon expanding and com- pressing it, found that it was covered by nu- merous darkish nuclei, of somewhat elon- gated shape, and upon which acetic acid * Allgemeine Anatomic, S. 364. t Miiller's Archiv., 1843. Jahresbericht fiir Mi- kroscopiscli Anatomie, S. 339. L L