119 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. Growths consist of hollow vesicular bodies or cells. The quantity of these cells varies extremely in different genera of Growths ; constituting the greater part of the mass of simple sarcoma and of enchondroma, abun- dant in colloid cancer, they are comparatively rare in scirrhus, and may be sought for in vain in the main substance of fibrous tumours. In form the cells of Growths are sphe- roidal, as in sarcoma ; or ovoid, as in enchon- droma ; and plump, or flattened, and discoid, in proportion to the abundance of their con- tents. In respect of size they vary within wide limits, from the simple fact that it is the nature of some to go on increasing in bulk (for instance, the cells of colloid and of en- chondroma), of others to retain persistently the dimensions originally acquired. This ana- tomical distinction is connected with a very important physiological difference in the mode of increase of Growths. We do not depart much from the truth in assigning 40^0 ■g^Q of an inch as the extreme measurements of these bodies. Further, the cells of the same Growth vary in size, independently of endogenous enlargement. Cells are either set beside each other, and cohere by their contiguous walls, or they re- main free. The thickness and transparency of the wall of cells vary; the wall may be collapsed and corrugated, or stretched and smooth ; the nucleus (when this exists) of the cell may be distinctly parietal or not. The contents of cells are of four kinds : — fluid; granules; nuclei; young cells. Fluid, in more or less abundance, is constantly pre- sent in sound cells; upon its amount mainly depends the plump or shrivelled aspect of these. Granules exist in abundance in the cells of sarcoma and of scirrhus. A free nucleus may be found sometimes in the cell of colloid cancer and of enchondroma. Young c<?//^,themselves provided with a free or parietal nucleus, are seen in the interior of the large cells of the two Growths just named. (c.) The next element requiring consider- ation is the Nucleus. Nuclei are found in the great majority of Growths; either free, in connection with cells (parietal or central), or attached to fibres. Free solid-looking cor- puscles are found in the substance of scir- rhus; these appear (whether generated free as they are seen, or originally connected with cells, and released by the disintegration of these) to be the germs of future cells. Of the parietal and central nucleus enough has already been said. The slightly granulated look of the fibres of Fibrous Growth depends on the permanent character of their nuclei, which appear set superficially in their sub- stance. In whatever condition nuclei exist, they are distinguishable commonly by their comparative opacity; this is rendered more obvious by acetic acid, which increases the transparency of cell-walls, or by ioduretted solutions, in consequence of the tendency of nuclei to absorb coloured matters. (d.) Fibrils.—Fibrillar substance occurs in Growths in many varieties of form and de- grees of abundance. Peculiar fibres, of excessive transparency and delicacy, constitute the chief mass of the " fasciculate" variety of cancer. " It is im- possible," as w^e have elsewhere said, " to look at these fibrils without being struck with their similarity to those of the buffy coat of the blood, or without conceiving the idea that blastema has been prochiced in connection with extravasated blood." Fibres, differing but little from those of natural fibrous tissue, form the staple element of fibrous Growths, and are abundant in scirrhus. An appearance of fibrous structure is pro- duced in some Growths by linear juxtapo- sition of fusiform or straight caudate cells. These corpuscles have the aspect of spherical cells with two opposite points of their periphery prolonged into very minute tapering fibrils. (See.^g. 93, p. 127.) Usually single, the fibril is sometimes bifid. The cell is obscurely nucle- ated, and frequently granulated; excessively abundant in sarcoma and cysto-sarcoma, ap- pearing occasionally in hoematoma, cystoma, angeiectoma, melanoma, and carcinoma, they cannot be discovered in fibroma. Their pre- sence signifies that of blastema of simple plastic character; and there is no certain evidence that the proper cell of cancer (in which formation they were at one time sup- posed to be of peculiar significance) is capable of assuming the p£>r/e'c% fusiform shape. Our opinion on this point has of late grown much more decided. A shapelessly caudate cell, with irregularly curved fibrils, or lateral superadded fibril, is more closely allied to cancer, and will be described with that product. The accidental and non-essential elements of Growths belong to the other divisions of Adventitious Product. F rom the class Pre- cipitates may be found saline matter, amor- phous or crystalline, in minute quantity, or so abundant as to convert (in the instance of fibroma) portions of a Growth into true con- cretions. Fat occurs in the various forms mentioned in a previous page; rare in some genera, as fibroma and enchondroma; it abounds in carcinoma. From the order De- posits appear melanic matter and pus; the latter an element generated by inflammation in Growths as in natural textures. Growths, too, of one kind may (as entozoa of one species grow in the bodies of another) find a nidus for development in Growths of a dif- ferent kind; cancer may thus appear wdthin the area of an erectile tumour. Exudation-Products exhibit themselves in the form of compound-granule corpuscles and induration-matter ; while of Pseudo-tissues, there occur epithelium, cartilage, cellular, seious, fibrous, elastic, osseous, cutaneous, pilous, and dental tissues; the last three limited to Cystoma. The elementary cells of Growths may either lie in juxtaposition, or interspaces, filled with so-called intcrcell substance, may