SEMEN. 487 1 I 4 strongly, owing to its shape, of a group of vorticellae {Jig. 362.). i^^g. 361. i^^g. 362. Spermatozoa of Helix po- A group of Spermatozoa matia at their extrusion of Helix pomatia, from the mother cell. partialhj protruded from the mother cell. As soon as the heads of the spermatozoa have projected, the remainder of the mother cell lengthens itself, and becomes a delicate cylindrical envelope. These remains still ad- here to the spermatozoa when completely ex- tended, exhibiting the appearance of a couple of larger or smaller knobs on the tail: the same thing occurs in the spermatozoa of the frog. This mode of developement is not changed by the presence of a greater number of sper- matozoa in the interior of the mother cell. All the difference that may be seen is, that one spermatozoon comes forth rather earlier than another. The free spermatozoa are, however, by no means distributed without order over the surface of the central globule to which they still adhere. On the contrary, they are grouped together into one com- mon fasciculate mass, in the same manner as we have already described in the singing birds. This circumstance is remarkable, be- cause it shows us that the formation of a bundle of spermatozoa is not occasioned every- where by the same means, and therefore does not always justify the inference of the persistence of an enclosing cell. A separation of the bundles of spermatozoa happens in Helix : the central globule (which forms the common cement that holds together the individual spermatozoa, in the same way as the tough albuminous mass in the C3'sts of the singing birds) gradually passes away. The developement of the group of vesi- cles in Helix is very interesting and im- portant. It is at once apparent that the same has originated from the brood of a single, originally simple, cell, and that through a continual endogenous increase. Our re- searches have afforded us the immediate proof of the truth of th^s, confirming, at the same time, the conjecture of KoUiker; viz. that the primitive spermatic cells are the same formations which have been described as epithelial cells of the follicles of the testicle. In the interior of these cells, the contents of which consist of a brownish granular homo- geneous substance, a certain number of vesi- cles are gradually produced, which continually increase in an endogenous manner, until the bursting of the mother cell, when the daughter cells deposit themselves around the globidar remainder of the cellular contents (^fg. 363.). Formation of groups of vesicles around the epithelial cells of the testicle in Helix pomatia. The developement of the spermatozoa in the other Gasteropods is similar to that describ- ed, although not in all cases so distinct as in Helix. The endogenous formation of the spermatozoa can only with difficulty be per- ceived in Lyma, Lymneeus, &c. ; it would rather appear as if they were produced by immediate growth from vesicular elements. The general rule is, that they are united with each other into groups, in which, how- ever, the interior central globule is some- times wanting (as in Cyclobranchiata, in Turbo, Buccinum, &c.) ; but this does not change in any way the developement and mode of grouping together of the sperniatozoa. We have also, in this instance, in the united vesicles of a group, unquestionably only the brood of a common mother cell, which group may have enlarged after the destruc- tion of the external membrane that sur- rounded it. The only difference would consist, in the circumstance that the entire contents of the mother cell are employed for the structure of the daughter cells, leaving no remainder, which perhaps might induce a more firm connection of the separate ve.-ii- cles in the shape of a round mass. Acephala. — In comparison with the variety in the form of the spermatozoa among the Gasteropods, we meet with bat slight differ- ences ill the class of the Acephala, at least among the Lamellibranchiates.* The sperma- tozoa of these Mollusca consist of delicate fibres of about ^iQ^'Mn length, the anterior end cf v/hich supports a short and distinct body of Fis.SQ^. variable size (from -oW'— ^ 4io"0 (/^-Sei.). This body j| is usually (as in Unio, Cyclas, j Clavagella) cylindrical ; in other cases (for instance in Mytilus, Pholas) pear-shaped. Respecting the formation of these fibres we only know Kol^ hker^s opinion of it, viz. that they are produced in bundles from round cellular masses, and through an apparent prolonga- tion of the vesicles ; as, for in- Spermatozoon ^^^^ . of Unto. . \ r TT • amination or Unio was not calculated to give us an insight into it. * VideV. SieboldinMuUer's Aichiv. 1837, S. 381.