RODENTIA. 390 three inches from its extremity 275.). The constrictions, apparent externally, correspond to the windings of a spiral valve, which runs nearly along the whole length of its cavity. The small intestine, at the point where it is about to enter the colon, dilates into a cavity (/), the w alls of which are thick and glandu- lar. At its- commencement (e) the colon is quite as capacious as the caecum, but it soon begins to contract in its diameter, (g) At its commencement there are three rows of sacculi, divided by as many tendinous bands, but further on these sacculi disappear. The rectum is much dilated, and contains, at in- tervals, small pellets of excrement moulded in the sacculi of the colon. In all the species belonging to this genus, as well as in the rats and hares, including the Lagomys, the ex- tremity of the caecal bag, opposite to that which receives the termination of the small intestine, is terminated by a long, smooth, cylindrical appendage {fig. 275. d, b) the walls of which are glandular, and somewhat resemble those of the glandular stomach of a bird. The above examples will suffice to put the reader in possession of the general structure of the alimentary canal in the rodent order of quadrupeds ; and for farther details we must refer him to the last edition of Cuvier's Le9ons d'Anatomie comparee, where the principal varieties met with in the different genera are recorded. Liver.—In the Rodentia the liver is very largely developed, and presents the usual division into five principal lobes. The gall- bladder, though generally present, is some- times wanting, a circumstance more particu- larly observable in the family of rats. Another circumstance which may be noticed is that the bile is frequently poured into the intestine at a point remote from that where the ])ancreatic fluid enters it ; when such is the case, the biliary secretion enters the duodenum very near to the pylorus, above the entrance of the pancreatic duct. In the porcupine the ductus communis choledochus is formed by the union of two hepatic canals with the cystic duct; it enters tlie intestine close to the pyloric ring, opening into a furrow excavated in the latter, in such a manner that the bile would seem to flow as easily into the stomach as into the duo- denum. The opening of the pancreatic canal is at a considerable distance from the pylorus. The fjancrcas is very large, and generally divided into two portions. The spleen occupies its usual position sus- pended from the stomach by the gas^ro-splenic omentum. The lymphatic system of the Rodentia con- forms in all respects to the usual arrangement of these vessels met with in other quadrupeds, and exhibits nothing worthy of particular remark. The arterial system, as far as the general distribution of the blood-vessels is concerned, offers a few peculiarities worthy of notice. In all those genera of rodent quadrupeds wliich become dormant during the winter months, the vertebral artery considerably surpasses in size the internal carotid ; to such an extent, indeed, that some authors have described the latter vessel as being entirely wanting. In this case the basilar artery forms by itself a very considerable part, and some- times the whole of the circle of Willis, giving off the anterior cerebral arteries as well as the posterior arteries of the brain.* The arrangement of the carotids, moreover, varies remarkably in different genera. In the beaver the internal carotid is larger than the vertebral. In the porcupine the internal carotid, after following for some distance the direction of the internal maxillary, without undergoing any sinuous flexures, enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum anterius, where it immediately joins with the basilar, which surpasses it in size, to form the circle of Willis. In the Guinea-pig and the agouti there is, properly speaking, only an external carotid, of which the mternal carotid is but a small branch. This little cerebral branch is derived from the internal maxillary, of which it seems to be a continuation; it enters the cranium through the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone, and joins the circle of Willis, which is here principally formed by the vertebral artery. In the squirrel the internal carotid enters an osseous canal in the tympanum, through the jugular foramen, passes between the crura of the stapes, and then penetrates the cra- nium through a hole in the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; it there divides into two branches, the smaller of which enters a deep groove in the os petrosum, issues from the cranium through the foramen lacerum an- terius to enter it again through the oval foramen of the sphenoid bone. It is only after all these windings that it divides into small branches, and of these only one or two go to form the circle of Willis, the rest being meningeal arteries. The continuation of this branch subsequently becomes the representa- tive of a portion of the ophthalmic artery. The other branches usually given off from the ophthalmic artery are derived from the second branch of the internal carotid above mention- ed, which previously gives off branches to the dura mater. It will thus be seen that the in- ternal carotid supplies very little blood to the brain, and this blood only arrives at its desti- nation by a very circuitous route, f In the marmot the internal carotid at first follows the same course as in the squirrel; it enters the canal of the tympanum through the jugular foramen, and then traverses the opening between the crura of the stapes, after which it divides into two branches : of these the internal, which is the smallest, runs * Vide Memoire sur les vaisseaux cephaliques de quelques niammiferes qiii s'en coui'dissent pendant I'hiver, par M. Otto, Anuales des Sc. Xatur, t. xi. p. 200. t Vide Barkow, Disquisitiones circa originem et dccursum arteriaiiun auimalium. Lipsise, 1829.