396 ROTIFERA. spines, and is, moreover, provided on each side with a broad plate of horn, adherent to the glans by its inner border, while all its outer free edge is armed with strong sharp teeth resembling those of a saw (fig. 285.) ; a structure which is additionally remarkable from the circumstance, that in the females of the species thus barbarously armed, the vagina offers no peculiarity in its appearance. In connection with the male organ of generation may be noticed the preputial glands, which, 'in some of the Rodentia, are very largely developed. This is more espe- cially the 'case with the beaver, in which animal they secrete the drug castoreum, once much used in medicine. These glands form Fig. 286. remarkable on account of the prominence and number of the ova which they contain, giving Fig. 287. Preputial glands of the Beaver. a, the prepiice laid open; c, attachment of the prepuce around the neck of the penis; d, body of penis ; e, e, opening of the inferior preputial glands; f, i, in, stylets passed into the ducts of these glands; h, I, o, the glands which on the right side are laid open, to show their internal structure; p, superior large glandular sac; r, ditto of the opposite side, laid open to show its interior; q, opening of these sacs into the preputial canal. several wide pouches (Jig. 284, e,f, g,h, /, k), situated on each side of the perputial sheath. The structure of these glands is shown in fig. 286. ; they are arranged in two sets, of which the lower, three in number on each side (/i, /,o), are found when opened, as represented on the right hand side of the figure, to be hollow, the walls enclosing their central cavity being made up of numerous small glandular masses, that secrete a thick yellowish fluid. The upper set consists of two capacious bags (p), which, when opened, are seen to have their lining membrane (?•) deeply rugose. The secretion of these pouches is of a deep grey colour, and, if possible, more disagreeable. Female organs of generation. — The ovaria in the female Rodents occupy the same posi- tion as in other Mammifera, and are chiefly Generative organs of the female Hare. a, vulva; h, vagina; c, orifice of the urethra; d, urethra; e, f, comua uteri; g, termination of the comua uteri by two separate orifices (ora uteri), into which the probes, h, i, have been introduced; k, I, the ovaria; n, a, Fallopian tubes ; p, the anus ; g, anal gland; r, canity situated between the vulva, a, and the rectum, k them a somewhat racemose appearance. The uterus is always deeply divided into two long cornua, and this division is in some cases carried to such an extent that the body of the uterus constitutes but a very insignificant part of this viscus, and is even absolutely wanting, as, for example, in the hare and in the rabbit, in which animals the cornua uteri open separately into the upper part of the vagina, so that the uterus is literally here double, as represented in the appended figure (fig. 287.), where two probes (h, i) are introduced into the two distinct openings, whereby the two cornua uteri communicate with the vagina. The vagina presents no peculiarity of struc- ture, even in the females of those genera in which the penis of the male is furnished with the remarkable armature described above. The mammary glands in the Rodentia vary much in number, some, as the agouti, having as many as from twelve to fourteen nipples ; whilst in others, such as the Guinea-pig, there are but four. (T. Rymer Jones.) ROTIFERA, or ROTATORIA, the name of a class of invertebrate animals which are characterised by the absence of a medullary chord and pulsating vessels; by the possession of a simple tubular ahmentary canal; a defi- nite form ; a reproduction neither fissiparous nor gemmiparous ; the reproductive organs of both sexes in the same individual. Their movements are eflected by peculiar rotating organs, and they have no true ar- ticulated feet, but mostly a single false foot. The creatures thus constituted are often called wheel-aniraalcnles, from the wheel-like motion