ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 597 Q Q 3 above the course of the tendon of the biceps was divested of all cartilaginous coverini;, was of a yellowish colour, and remarkably hard, and presented an appearance as if the summit of the humerus had been prepared for the polish of eburnisation, but as yet no ivory-like enamel had formed, because as yet bone had not come in contact with bone. The head of the humerus was much en- larged and altered from its normal figure, par- ticularly above, in the neighbourhood of the great tuberosity, which bulged out much ex- ternally ; the usual deep groove above, sepa- rating the tuberosity from the head, and here marking the anatomical neck of the humerus, was effaced. The under surface of the neck of the hu- merus was furnished with a vast number of the synovial fimbriae before noticed by us when describing the anatomical characters of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder and other articulations. * These were in the recent state of a very red colour. The humerus seemed habitually to have remained in contact with the glenoid cavity, rotated inwards, and in this position these synovial fimbriae lay in contact with the inferior and broadest part of the glenoid cavity ; and it was very remarkable that wherever these red sy- novial fimbriae had been in exact apposition with the cartilage of incrustation of the gle- noid cavity, exactly in the extent of the con- tact the cartilage had been removed, satisfac- torily proving that these vascular fimbriae had been absorbing villous surfaces. The glenoid articular surface presented but little worthy of notice, except a porous ap- pearance where its cartilaginous investment had been removed by the absorbing vilH, and the commencing state of disintegration of the glenoid ligament. The cartilage which re- mained on a portion of the head of the hu- merus, as well as that which still adhered to the surface of the glenoid cavity of the sca- pula, was rough, and altered from its natu- ral state. The acromio-clavicular articula- tion of this side seemed enlarged externally, the periosteum about it thickened. When the articular surfaces were exposed, it was found that the cartilaginous covering had been re- moved, and that the articular surfaces were nearly double their normal size. It is quite plain that the movements of the head of the humerus in the glenoid cavity in this case had been confined to those of a species of sem.i-rotation only; the adhesions which were found to exist between the head of the humerus and the inner surface of the synovial membrane of the joint sufficiently suggest this, as well as the new form which the head of the humerus had assumed. The left shoulder joint in almost every re- spect was symmetrically affected with the right, but particularly as regarded the dis- location of the tendon of the biceps, the ex- istence of fimbriae, &c. &c., and therefore it does not require a separate description. * See Dublin Journal, vol. xv. p. 159. It does not appear to us necessary to enter into any details here, relative to the condition the other articulations were found in. The lungs and other viscera were sound. Whether the patient ever had rheumatic fever or not we are not now able to learn ; but we may mention that upon looking to the state of the heart j'.nd its membranous coverings we found the peri- cardiunj adherent to the heart on all its sur- faces except where it lay on the diaphragm. It seems to us plain that hereafter, when the tendon of the biceps shall be found displaced interna!!}', we are not at once to refer the dislocation to accident, but that inquiry must be made as to whether chronic rheumatic arthritis may not have been its cause. That the tendon of the bicej^s should, under the influence of changes which the structures of the joint may have undergone from disease, be thus thrown off the head of the humerus over which it arches, does not appear to us extraordinary, because we have known similar displacement of tendons under analogous circumstances ; indeed, we have generally found the extensor tendons of the fingers displaced, and the ligament of the patella and patella itself are sometimes thrown on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur when the knee joint has been the seat of chronic rheumatic arthritis. In Mr. Soden's case accident may have had just so much to do with the displacement of the tendon, that the injury was the inmiediate exciting cause of the development of a local disease, a predisposition to which had pre- viously existed in the constitution of the patient. The writer regrets much that he has not as yet had any opportunity of examining the preparation of the shoulder joint presented by Mr. Soden to the museum of King's Col- lege, London ; but he requested his friend Dr. Macdowell, at the time in London, and who was familiar with the many preparations of chronic rheumatic arthritis contained in the Richmond Hospital Museum, to report to him his opinion on the appearances the pre- paration presented, and he writes to say, " that from the partial examination he could make of the preparation he had only to re- mark, that the head of the humerus is con- siderably enlarged, and that the long tendon of the biceps, which has been dislocated in- ternally, is in a state of atrophy." In these two additional circumstances, as well as those already mentioned, the preparation resembles those of the shoulder joints in the case of Mailly. Although we have as yet said but little of any displacement of the head of the humerus occurring as a consequence of this chronic rheumatic disease, except in the di- rection upwards, and upwards and inwartls, yet we would now call attention to facts to prove that the head of the humerus, un- der the influence of the changes induced by this disease in the structures of the shoulder joint, may suffer a partial displacement di- rectly inwards under the coracoid process ;