37 POLYPIFERA. CaryophylUa has not exceed, and consequently their masses are always separate, and not agglomerated like those of Madrepores, Astreae, isic, which grow indefinitely. The polypes of Meandrinae oc- cupy the bottom of the furrows, and are va- riously coloured in different individuals. When attentively examined, they are seen to form membranous expansions, which cover the lamellae of the ambu- lacra but rarely mount to the summit of the ridges, the white- ness of which indicates the line of separation between the different rows of polypes. They are, in fact, Caryoj)hylliae or Fungias much elongated. They secrete, from all parts of their body, a mucosity so abundant that, on reversing the mass, it runs off* like albumen. The same is the case with Agaricae and Pavoniae. When exposed to the sun the living part becomes black by pu- trefaction. On splitting the globular stony polypary of a Meandrina, the mode of its growth is very beautifully demonstrated. Commencing at the centre of the mass, the deposition of calcareous matter is seen to have progressed regularly in all directions, layer after layer, like the coats of an onion, every stratum having, of course, in turn been the outer surface of the polypary and marked with the same sinuosities or con- volutions as are exhibited by the existing ex- terior, affording a very striking illustration of the mode of growth common to all the litho- phytous zoophytes, and of the mathematical precision with which they build their w onder- ful edifices. We are progressively conducted through various intermediate species of laminated zoo- phytes from the broadly extended disc of Fungia and the diffiise surface of Meandrina to more concentrated forms of these lithogenic polypes. In Turbinolia (Jig. 41), for example, the superior laminiferous disc is evidently an approximation to the structure of the real polype-bearing cells of Caryophyllia {Jig. 42), where the stony pohpary is made up Fh. 41. species already described ; the principal differ- ence between them being in the number of the tentacula, corresponding to that of the radiating lamellae, wherewith their bases cor- respond, which, in the many-armed species, Fi'i. 42. fascicidata. A portion of the calcareous polypary been denuded. (^After Quoy et Gaimard.) are numerous. Another important circum- stance in the economy of these races of zoo- phytes is, that the radiating lamellae contained in the abdominal cavity situated beneath the stomach are progressively calcified from be- low upwards, and thus become converted into stony plates instead of membranous septa, so that on making a section of these poly- paries perpendicular to the axes of the cells, each cell presents the appearance repre- sented in Jig. 43 ; and even in fossil polyparies. Fig. 43. Turbinolia rubra. (After Quoy ct Gaimard.)] of infinite numbers of distinct cells united to each other by an interposed calcareous ce- ment, and every one of them containing a many-armed polype, the essential structure of vhich- IS similar to that of the eight-armed Section of calcareous polypary of Astrea abnormalis. (After Quoy et Gaimard.^ where the whole substance of the mass has become solidified, the original radiating laminae are permanently conspicuous, as many a mar- ble chimney-piece will testify. In their living state the polypes inhabiting these cells are most variously and gorgeously coloured, so that when protruded they are indescribably beautiful, resembling the flowers that adorn the gayest parterres in our gardens. Yet if such be the interest of this spectacle, even to the eye of the ordinary observer who an)uses himself by contemplating the indications of life exhibited by a little patch of a coral reef, what D 3