674. SKELETON. a nucleus, around which are arranged, in pal- mate order, the rays of nine archetypes, which bending towards each other, and to the hori- zontal ray (9), fashion the fan-shaped caudal fin. This caudal fin, whose rays describe the arc p Q, is composed of the palms of nine arche- Fig. 492. The cramo-Jacial apparatus of the osseous fish {Pleuroneetidce), Indicating tlie metamorphosis of twelve or more spinal quantities in its composition. types, radiating from the common centre (a). The nine inferior pahns are those which num- ber from 17 to the palm 9 ; and the nine supe- rior palms are those which number from 1 to the palm 9; while the azygos palm 9 may be regarded as composed of the dorsal and ven- tral palms of the last archetype bent towards each other, and becoming in the horizontal line fused together. The bones (o, p, g), are the counterparts of the neural and haemal laminar arches, assuming the same palmate order as the pahns. The head (Jig. 492.) and the caudex (Jig. 493.) constitute the origin and termination of spinal series, and are ex- amples of special modifications exercised upon the original archetypal quantities. Prop. XLVI. The uniform archetypal se- ries iindergoes a graduated metamoj'p/iosis of its quantities for the j^rodui^tion of all varieties of skeletal species.— In ^g". 494. I represent the archetypal series of the dorso-ventral quanti- ties constituting the uniformity, forasmuch as all the segments are plus and quantitatively equal. The segment 1 is equal to the segment 38, and to all the intervening segments. This uniform series of quantities appears finite, like the right line (c d) which passes .through its centre; but as the right line itself is but a part or proportional of that ideal line which is infinite or boundless, so of the series of archetypal quantities, numbering in the figure from 1 to 38 ; for this series may like number be produced to infinity in imagina- tion. In the serial hue (Jig. 494.) which is com- posed of 38 archety pal dorso-ventral quanti- ties, we do not as yet distinguish any special differences ; and this is owing to the fact that all the quantities composing the series are simi- lar or homologous; neither can we discover any reason why we should name either of the extremes of this serial line (d c) as the origin or the termination in preference to the other extreme, for the segment 38 is equal to the segment 1 ;^ and hence it matters nothing to the entities themselves at which end of the series we commence the enumeration. In nature there is no instance of a skeletal axis constituted of such a uniform serial line of quantities as those of Jig. 494., but yet it is possible to prove that every skeletal axis is part of such an original series. That skeletal axis which approaches nearest to the abso- lutely uniform condition of Jig. 494. is to be found amongst the class Pisces. The skele1:al fiibrics of all animals are sym-