35 POLYPIFERA. liering to it; sometimes they are fixed to other madrepores by an elongated pedicle, and occasionally, as we learn from a recent author, grow from the substance of the parent zoophyte. His account is as follows : — " The specimens of Fung'ia which I have seen generally lie in hollows of reefs, where they are in some degree protected from the more violent agitation of the sea by the sur- rounding portions of branching coral which enclose the hollows, and at the same time allow sea-water free access through their in- terstices. It appears that although the older and larger individuals are quite unattached and present no mark of former attachment, yet that in the young state they are fixed sometimes to rocks, and frequently to the dead remains of their own species ; in this Fig. 39. Fungia actiniformis. (^ifter Quoy et GaimardS) State they grow upon a footstalk, and gene- rally remain attached till they acquire the size of nearly an inch in diameter, when they separate at the top of the peduncle." "At this time the coral, when divested of the fleshy part, shows a circular opening be- neath, through which the radiating plates of the upper surface are visible. In a short time a deposit of coral matter takes place, which cicatrises the opening, the marks of which, however, can be traced for a consider- able time ; at length the increase of this de- posit, which continues with the growth of the animal, entirely obliterates all appearance of it. It will not appear surprising that this cir- cumstance should hitherto have been un- noticed, when it is recollected that it has very rarely occurred to naturalists to visit the places of their growth, and that to general collectors the smaller specimens would appear hardly worth the trouble of presen-ing and bringing home." " The sheltered situation in \\ hich the Fungice are found are particularly well adapted to their nature, as ihey would be liable to injury if they were exposed to the full force of a stormy sea ; and the circumstance of their being attached in the young state is a beau- tifid provision of nature for their preservation at that period, as from their light weight, when first developed, they would, if unat- tached, be exposed to great injury-, even by a slisht agitation of the water. I have ali^o to remark\ipon this fact, that the Fungiae, while attached, agree in every respect with Lamarck's genus Caryophyll'ia, ruore especially in their D 2