308 REPTILIA. the right side of the heart, a branch ascending from the division to form the axillary and carotid arteries; whilst tiie two great lateral trunks bend outwards right and left ; the left, after giving off some branches to the intesti- nal canal and liver, unites on the vertebral column with the right and larger branch, form- ing with it the descending aorta M'hich sup- plies the other parts of the body, a vascular circle being thus produced precisely as in the frog. A second circle, as has been proved by the observations of Meckel and Munniks, is formed by the pulmonary artery, which, like the aorta, is furnished with two semilunar valves, and immediately after its origin divides into a right and left branch, each of which enters one of the lungs ; but, at the same time, commu- nicates with the corresponding branch of the aorta by means of an arterial canal (ductus Bo- talh ), which, probably, is permanently pervious. As a consequence of these dispositions, but a small part of the blood is exposed to the action of the atmosphere, and the oxidation of the blood would be even less perfect than in fishes, where all the blood passes through the gills; were it not that in the latter the respiration is merely of water, and that pro- bably in these and other amphibia there is, in addition to the pulmonary respiration, a res- piration of an aqueous kind performed by the permanently existing allantois. As to the veins, it is remarkable that here, according to the investigations of Bojanus, the blood of the whole posterior part of the body, the abdo- minal coverings, posterior extremities, &c. (with the exception of the venous trunk belonging to the kidneys and sexual organs), is carried into the liver by two trunks, in order to circulate partly in this organ, and partl}^ according to Jacobson, by means of inferior renal veins in the kidneys, previous to arriving at the heart. The venous blood of the body, as well as that of the lungs, is collected into a venous receptacle for each, close to the auricles, which it then enters in the manner already described. In seiyents, the heart is situated towards the middle hne of the body, in front of the lungs, and above the liver. Here, also, it is furnished with a left pulmonary auricle, and a right systemic one, which is nearly as large again as the former; both open into the simple and fleshy oblong ventricle, from which arises a double aorta, the branches of which meet again on the vertebral column. The pulmonar}' artery is single in those ser- pents where the lung is single. In lizards, the structure of the heart offers a great similarity to that of tortoises, consisting of two separate auricles, and a single ventricle, which, however, is generally divided into seve- ral cells. In several species, e. g. the croco- dile, the heart is attached by a tendinous ligament to the pericardium. The situation of the heart is here again usually immediately above the liver ; though, according to Cuvier, in the iguana, at a considerable distance from it, and quite in the front part of the thorax. Its auricles are proportionately smaller than in tortoises, and separated by a thin septum, which is perforated in the La- certa opoda. The ventricle, the form of which is tolerably similar to those of the human heart, is divided, in the crocodile, into three anastomosing cells, in such a manner that the blood of the venae cavee passes from the right auricle into the two inferior cells on the right side, from which the pulmonary artery and left ascending aorta arise; whilst, on the contrary, the pulmonary venous blood flows from the left auricle into the left superior cell, which is more distinct from the other two, and which gives origin to the right aortal, carotid, and axillary trunks : the latter vessels, consequently, are not only filled b\' blood that is more oxidised than that of the left aorta, but also contains a smaller propor- tion of venous blood than the arteries of the tortoise, inasmuch as but little blood penetrates this from the other two cells. According to Mr. X. M. Hentz, the American alligator (Crocodilus lucius) pre- sents a much more perfect structure of the heart than any other of the reptilia, the two ventricles not having any immediate com- munication. From his description the fol- lowing particulars are derived. The vena cava superior follows the course of the right subclavian artery in its passage through the chest, and descends to the pericardium to join the vena cava inferior opposite the right auricle. In its course upwards, the inferior cava runs upon the right side of the spine until it reaches a straight channel in the substance and near the edge of the liver, where it receives four or five ven£e cavs hepaticse. A vein analogous to the right subclavian enters the upper part of the right auricle at its left side. The auriculo-ven- tricular opening of the right heart is furnished with two valves. The right ventricle opens into two arterial tubes, of v>hich one is the pulmonary artery; the other, at the left and upper part of the ventricle, is furnished at its base with two semilunar valves, and termi- nates in the left aorta There is not any direct communication between the cavities of the two ventricles. The left ventricle, which is rather smaller than the right, and situated behind and somewhat above it, has also two valves at the orifice by which it communicates with the auricle. Like the right ventricle, also, it opens into two arterial tubes, of which the first leads into the left aorta, and is separated from the corresponding orifice of the right ventricle by a cartilaginous septum only. It is important to observe that this septum interrupts the immediate communi- cation between the cavities of the two ven- tricles (for they communicate intermediately by means of the artery from each opening into the left aorta), and constitutes the most essential variation of the structure of the heart in this, from what is found in other Saurians. This first branch, arising from the left ventricle, is bordered by a valve at its origin that nearly closes its cavity. The second artery from the left heart divides