PORIFERA. 70 yellow colour, somewhat translucent, pear- shaped, tapering more or less at their narrow end in different species ; their whole outer surface is covered with delicate projecting cilia, and when viewed through the micro- scope, in connection with the parent, we see that the rapid vibration of these cilia produces a distinct current in the water immediately around them, flowing always from their rounded free end towards their tapering fixed extremity, thus assisting the small granular bodies in producing the currents of the sponge during the period of their attachment to the body. They separate from the canals, and are propelled through the fecal orifices early in spring. None of these ova are seen in the sponge in summer, though we can detect no diiFerence in the velocity of the currents at that period. For some time after they are propelled from the interior of the sponge, they swim about by means of the cilia on their surface, and exhibit all those extraordinary phenomena of spontaneous motion which Cavolini, nearly half a century ago, discovered in the ova of the Gorgonia and Madrepore. They at length fix themselves, Uke the ova alluded to, on a spot favourable to their growth; they lose entirely their original form, and become a flat transparent circular film through which horny fibres shoot; they soon spread, and assume a form similar to that of the parent." * Genimules. — Mr. Bowerbank has given the following description of the gemmules of Halichcmdria Johnstonia. " The gemmules of this sponge are dispersed in great abundance throughout every part of its substance ; they are of an oval form, the longest diameter being 2T-7th, and the shortest, the ^^^th of an inch. They vary considerably in size, but the above are their average dimensions. When seen by direct light, with a power of 100 linear, they appear of the same colour as the surrounding fleshy matter ; but when viewed as transparent objects they assume an iron or slate-gray colour, having their surfaces closely studded with minute papillEB, which are produced by the projection of the points of numerous very small spicula, which are imbedded in the crust or shell of the gemmule, and are dis- posed in lines radiating from, the centre to the circumference of the body." The form of these minute spicula is ex- ceedingly various ; but the best developed ones appear conical, having their bases towards the centre of the gemmule, and their apices slightly elevating the parts of the outer in- tegument immediately above them. The mode of disposition of these spicula is best observed, w hen a small portion of the sponge has either been treated with boiling nitric acid, or by incineration in the flame of a lamp. The dissolution of the gemmules is not effected by either of these agents, and, to view them with the greatest effect, they should be gently * Edin. Phil. Journ.; and Edia. New Phil. Journ. vol. ii. p. 128, &c. triturated with a little water between two pieces of glass, until some of them be broken into small pieces. In these fragments, the spicula may be seen in situ, cemented together apparently by siliceous matter, which appears to abound in the outer integument of the gemmule. Upon measuring some of these minute spicula in situ, Mr. Bowerbank found the average length to be 3-5V0 inch, or about equivalent to the diameter of a disc of human blood, and their average thickness the 2 gi^o inch, so that they are of exceed- ing minuteness as compared wdth those found in other parts of the same sponge. The pro[)agation of Tethea is by means of sporules or gemmules generated within the fleshy substance. The sporules, ac- cording to Dr. Johnston, resemble the parent Fig. 73. a, Oviform bodies found immersed in the paren- chyma of Tethea Cranium magnified; b, one of these bodies viewed through the microscope after compression between two plates of glass. {After Johnston.^ sponge in miniature ; but they have no dis- tinct rind or nucleus, being composed of simple spicula woven together by the albu- minous matter ; and there seems no way of escape for them, except by the dissolution of the body of the parent sponge, which most probably is an annual production. " The natu- ralist*, who believes that sponges have an affinity with the fungi, will see, in these par- ticulars, a correspondency which may strength- en his belief. The Tethea,he may say, is the sea's copy of the earth-born Sclerodern)a, and he may remind us that, like the sporules of sponges, the sporules of fungi are equally locomotive. The Chaos fiingorum of Linnaeus is thus described : — " Habitat uti semen Ly- coperd', Agarici, Boleti, Mucores, reliquorum- que fungorum, in sua matre usque dum disper- gatur et in aqua exclusum vivit et moritur, demum figitur, et in fungos excrescit. Zoophy- torum metaphorphosis e Vegetabiliin Animale fungorum, itaque contrario ex Animali in Vege- tabde." — Svst. p. 1326. The admissibility of sponges into the animal series is, indeed, extremely problematical, and wc doubt not that among naturalists of the present day the balance of opinion would be unfavourable towards retaining them in the rank which they at present occupy in zoolo- gical classification. {T. Rj/mer Jones.) * Johnston, p. 82.