SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 520 adhesion of the cells, one might imagine that the stratum ordinarily lasts a considerable period without experiencing any desquamation or substitution of new cells. And although the ease with which a layer of cells is stripped off by slight force might at first sight seem opposed to such a notion of their durability, yet it is tolerably certain that the mechanical relations of the cells are so adjusted as to allow the free gUding movements of their moist, smooth surface with perfect impunity. While, on the other hand, where the presence of the tissue seems to fulfil its main object, a mechanical one, and where the flattened epi' thelium does not include the elements of a secretion in any quantity, and consequently would hardly fulfil any secretory purpose by its occasional or exceptional separation ; to what purpose should it be ever shed at all ? The serous membrane exhibits one layer of solid cells, all of which are related by one (the nucleated) surface with the neighbouring vascular supplies, while they present their o[)- posite surface to receive a slight friction ; and it does seem possible that the effete ma- terials may be removed, the losses of friction made up, and, in a word, the gradual exchange which constitutes the nutrition of a tissue accomplished, without the disruption of the old cell and the substitution of an entire fresh one. The cell-form does not necessarily imply evanescence, and the centre of attraction which it constitutes can hardly be supposed unfitted for the processes of ordinary nutri- tion, because it sometimes collects materials which imply its destruction, or is thrust away from the sources of nourishment by its fellow vesicles. And if it should be asked, " Why is the serous membrane constituted of cells, if the ordinary form of nutrition would suffice?" it might be pointed out that, although the form of nutrition be the same, its pace may and probably does attain a greater rapidity in cells than in the more permanent textures, and that by their instrumentality the rubbing surfaces are everywhere separated by an ap- preciable interval from the delicate capillaries, a condition that could scarcely obtain in areolar or ligamentous tissue, however it were disposed ; and that in addition to this, cells ofl^er the mechanical advantage of forming a smooth tesselated pavement, while they possess the physiological merit of readily repairing the accidents to which this tissue seems compa- ratively more liable than others. The synovial membranes seem to differ from the serous membranes in most of these respects. The cells which cover the general surface of the membrane are more spherical, less uniform in size, and less accurately tes- selated ; while on the highly vascular fringes, the large, globular, and distended epithelia, with their plentiful blastema, strengthen the indications of active secretion thus afforded. The presence of synovia in considerable quan- tity, and the recognition of the ordinary se- cretory process, by the detection in it of relics of celis, chiefly nuclei, form another ground of distinction. This secretion of viscid fluid VOL. IV. appears to be indirectly referrible to the greater pressure exerted on these surfaces, and the consequent necessity of a further protection against friction ; while it is no doubt immedi- ately the result of the separation of this active cell-growth, alone, or accompanied by fluid derived from the vessels. The bursting of the distended and delicate cell is probably the agent of the separation, and may be due solely to a distention beyond the [)hysical power of resistance which its wall possesses. The resistance of the cells on the general or capsular part of the synovial surface, and the irregular and isolated manner in whicii force detaches them, have been previously noticed, and contrasted with the facility of removing the whole layer of serous cells. They seem to denote, not only a mechanical adaptation to greater friction, but perhaps a corresponding independency of the cells, which possibly form a continuous and active growth, scarcely any two portions of which are exactly of the same age. And not only is the secretory activity of these membranes much greater, but there is every reason to suppose their absorptive fiinc- tions are still more increased. Assuming, from the preceding appearances of active cell- growth, that a greater quantity of fluid is se- creted by them into the cavity of the joint than the amount of serum which finds its way into the interior of the serous membranes; — since only a tolerably uniform and small quan- tity is discovered to be present there,— it will follow, that the rapidity of its removal has corresponded with that of its introduction : and as this removal cannot be attributed to any other cause than that of absorption, we must therefore regard its increase as parallel with the increase of secretion. But there is another circumstance which renders it likely that the former of these two processes is even disproportionally greater. However carefully the surfaces of diarthrodial cartilage may be lubricated by li^e synovial fluid, a very slight knowledge uf mechanics would inform us, that some friction of these must of necessity obtain ; and that from the conditions of its density, homogeneous nature, &c., it is probable that the amount of this is, though diminished, yet by no means incon- siderable. So also, from the structure of this substance, it is physiologically probable that its tissue grows towards this surface, and that the arrival of any one particular portion at this point is, mediately or immediately, the cause of the termination of its existence. While the anatomy of this free edge abun- dantly confirms the fact of such an attrition: vertical sections show an irregular border, from which some cells are seen slightly projecting, while others appear (as mJigAO'Z) ground down to its level. Whatever be the amount of cartilage which is thus rubbed off" and set free in the cavity of the articulation, or whatever may be the cohesive form which it assumes, the thick and solid cartilaginous lamina wliich is interposed between this " debris" and the JM M