3¥J RESPIRATION. those of Vierordt. He found that the quan- tity of carbonic acid gas evolved from the body at the freezing point, was double of that at an elevated temperature, in the two mice and guinea-pig, and a little more in the canary and pigeon. There can, therefore, be no doubt that more carbonic acid gas is evolved from the body in a cold, than in a warm tem- perature. Effect of the seasons.—Dr. W. F. Edwards* ascertained, by several well-devised experi- ments, that birds placed under exactly the same circumstances, and with the surrounding air of the same temperature, consumed more oxygen in winter than in summer, and this appears to be connected with that change in the constitution of the warm-blooded animals in the colder regions of the earth, by which they are enabled to generate more caloric in winter than in summer. Barometric pressure. — Legallois found that when warm-blooded animals breathed air in a vessel under an atmospheric pressure reduced to 30 centimetres (] 1*811 English inches), the quantity of oxygen gas consumed was dimi- nished.f Prout, on the other hand, informs us, that, in every instance in his experiments, any remarkable increase in the percentage of carbonic acid in the expired air was accom- panied by a sinking barometer. J Vierordt tested the effects of a range of the barometric scale between 330''^ (29-309 English inches) and 340''' (30-197 English inches), and has thrown the results into a tabular form. The measure of the expired air was calculated under the ordinary pressure of 336"^ (29-84'l English inches). He found that a rise of 5''^*67, (the mean between the experiments at the lower and those at the higher pressures,) produced the following effects : — It increased the pulsations in one minute 1 '3 „ respirations O'T-i „ expired air (cubic in.) 35*746 As, however, the percentage of the carbonic acid in the expired air was greater at the lower than at the higher pressures, in the Centigrade scale, but we believe that it was the latter. For a Canary For a Pigeon For two Mice For a Guinea Pig Surrounding Temperature. From 150to 20° From 30Oto40° At the freezing point. grammes 0-250 0-684 0-498 2-080 grammes 0-129 0-366 0-268 1*453 grammes 0*325 0-974 0*531 3-006 * De rinfluence des Agens Physiques sur la Vie, chapitre vi. t Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. iv. p. 113. 1817. X Thomson's Annals of Philosophy, vol. iv. p. 335. proportion of 4*450 to 4*141, the difference between the absolute quantity of that gas in the expired air at tlie higher exceeds so little that at the lower pressures, that it may be reckoned as nil.* Age, sex, and constitution of body. — The quantity of carbonic acid evolved from the body is not only influenced by the ingesta and the varying conditions of the surrounding media, but also by the age, sex, and constitu- tion of the body. The only important re- searches into the effects which these last con- ditions of the body have upon the evolution of the carbonic acid, are those of Andral and Gavarretf, and Scharling J ; and though they are far from having exhausted the subject, they possess the merit of having been care- fully and accurately conducted, and of being carried on in the right direction. Andral and Gavarret availed themselves in their ex[)eri- ments of the apparatus suggested by Dumas and Boussingault. Part of this apj)aratus consists of a mask, which can be fitted air- tight to the face, and having a tube on each side, on a level with the commissures of the lips, provided with valves permitting the ex- ternal air to pass in, but preventing its pas- sage outwards. In front of the mouth there is a large aperture for conducting outwards the expired air; and to this a tube can be at- tached for conducting it into the receivers and other parts of the apparatus prepared for ascertaining the quantity of carbonic acid gas. A person can breathe through this apparatus without constraint; and the experiments were all performed between one and two o'clock P.M., each lasting from eight to thirteen mi- nutes, and the individuals experimented upon were placed, as far as possible, under the same conditions with regard to food, muscular exertion, and state of the mind. They ex- perimented upon sixty-two individuals of dif- ferent ages, and of both sexes. They restricted their valuation of the quantity of carbonic * Dr. Hutchinson (Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions of London, vol. xxix. p. 228) has given some expeiiments upon the effects of an increased barometric pressure upon the frequency of the re- spiratory movements. These were made upon six persons before and after descending a nunc, 1488 feet deep, where the barometric pressure was 1-54 inch more than at the level of the sea. As there was a difference of 10 degrees in the temperature at the top and bottom of the mine, this, ought to be taken into account in judging of the results. The pulse was increased at the bottom of the mine on an aver- age 1-3 per minute, and the respirations 2*4 per mi- nute. The accounts given by travellers of the effects upon their respiration in elevated regions are so discordant that we can deduce no very satisfactory conclusions from them. t Annales de Chim. et de Phys. tom. ^^ii. p. 129. 1843. X Annalen der Chemie vmd Phannacie, band xlv. S. 214. 1843, translated in Annales de Chim. et de Phys. tom. viii. p. 478. 1843. In Scharling's ex- periments, as in those of Andral and Gavarret, the absolute quantity and not the percentage of car- bonic acid gas in the expired air was determined. In Scharling's first experiments, the carbonic acid gas given off at the external surface of the body was mixed with that given off by the lungs.