491 SEMEN. itself, and then becomes a short, and gene- rally curved, cylinder (b), one end of which Fig. 372. BCD Seminal cells in the testicles of Qubiona claustraria. is frequently club-shaped. The nucleus at the same time generally urges itself to- wards the outside, its point penetrating through the external cellular membrane. The projecting part of the nucleus generally ap- pears like a protuberance at the margm of the cell, the greater part of it being still situ- ated in the interior (c, d). In some cases, however, it breaks forth in its whole length (e). It then looks like a peduncle-shaped appendix. We have Fig, 373. Seminal fibres of Cluhiona. not been able to discover further stages of develope- ment in the interior of the testicles ; but we have suc- ceeded in detecting, besides the already mentioned cor- puscles, a number of dis- tinct linear fibres of Jq^'" — (^Jig. 373.) in the spoon- shaped capsules on the pal- pi of the males, which, no doubt, were developed sper- matozoa. The anterior half of these was generally bent in an arched cylindrical form, and thicker than the pos- terior tail-like part. Very similar, only rather longer, seminal fibres are likewise found in the seminal capsules of the palpi in a species of Tetragnathus. It can hardly be doubted that these fibres have originated from the previously described spermatic cells. The changes of form to which the nucleus is subjected in the course of developement present a gradual approximation to this form of spermatozoa, at least to the form of the anterior thick- ened corpuscles, with which the nucleus moreover corresponds in its physical cha- racters. In order to render the metamor- phosis of the nucleus into spermatozoa com- plete, it certainly is necessary that the external cellular wall should disappear; but this is a general rule in the developement of spermatozoa, and probably also takes . place here, although we cannot furnish any * immediate proof of it. It must, however, appear remarkable that we have never met with developed spermatozoa in the testicles them- selves. We could only trace in tliem cells of developement, formations which, besides the spermatozoa, also occur in the capsules of the palpi. The question might be asked whe- ther this would not render the inference justifiable that the spermatozoa only at- tained their final developement at the latter spot, and therefore at a distance from the place of their formation. From our described observations we c&nnot yet venture to decide this question with certainty. The circum- stance is, at all events, very remarkable, and would be the more so in case V. Siebokrs statement that the cellular seminal corpuscles are to be met with even in the receptacula seminis of the female spiders, were to receive confirmation. In our description of the developement of the spermatozoa in Clubiona we have left the question undetermined, whether they ori- ginate directly from a metamorphosis of the nucleus, or through endogenous formation in the interior of it. — We have not been able to arrive at any decisive result respecting it with regard to Clubiona, although the latter appeared to us more probable from analogy. Of some importance in this respect are our observations on the developement of the spermatozoa in a large species of Epeira. The seminal cells measure { fig. 374. a) -^^-o"\ the Fig. 374. Developement of the spermatic cells of Epeira. nucleus which they contain ^Jo^'^ The cells are enclosed in larger cysts {o^-^'^'—-sV'^O J but besides these there is also no want of in- dividual solitary cells. The most interesting circumstance con- nected with this is, that the spermatozoa are produced quite distinctly in the interior of the nucleus of the spermatic cells. At first they are lying (b) like a bent cylinder at the interior surface of the wall, so much bent that both ends nearly touch each other. We have never perceived a change of shape in the nucleus, nor does the same ever or anv where penetrate beyond the cell. It constanth re- mains round, and in the interior of the cell, until it is dissolved, which takes place pretty rapidly after the formation of the spermatozoa. The spermatozoon now arrives in the cavity of the cell (c—f), where it increases in size (to Too'''); It usually exhibits here some slight and irregular windings, u hich sometimes change the form of the cell into an oval. The spermatozoon only becomes free afterwards, when the membrane of the cell has disap- peared. It is only if the external cyst hapj)ens to persist that the spermatozoa still remain enclosed for a time (h), but always in a greater number, which naturally is equal to the number of the cells formerlv contained in