298 REPTILIA. smooth, or nearly so, like the first ; but the communication between it and the third is always very narrow. Generally speaking, every arrangement seems to have been made to retard the passage of alimentary substances, and of the residue of digestion ; or at least to prevent their passage from being too much accelerated by the act of creeping, and the contractions of the abdominal nuiscles ne- cessary for its performance. The lining membrane of the small intestine is thrown into longitudinal folds of variable breadth, and more or less thick and numerous, which extend throughout its whole length, but which sometimes are connected together by transverse bands, so as to form cells. Some- times these folds are beautifully fringed in the first portion, so as to give the mucous lining a villous appearance ; and they have been observed quite white, with chyle filling their lacteal vessels. The liver of reptiles is but indistinctly di- vided into lobes, and frequently is only irre- gularly notched upon its free border. Its relative size, in this class of animals, is very considerable. When the body is broad, it occupies a large proportion of both the hy- pochondriac regions ; but when the body is elongated, it is situated in the right hypo- chondrium only, but extends very far back by the side of or beneath the intestines, in which position it is maintained by fokis of peritoneum, resembling those which form the air-cells of birds. In the Clielonians the liver is divided into two rounded irregular masses ; one of which fills the right hypochondrium, whilst the other, which is connected with the smaller curvature of the stomach, extends into the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions : these two divisions are only connected to- gether by two narrow processes, which bound a space through which the principal hepatic vessels pass. In the crocodiles, whose digestive organs, in many respects, resemble those of birds, the liver consists of two distinct lobes, united to- gether by a narrow central portion. In the spectacled Caiman {Crocodilus scle- rops), the right lobe is the largest, whilst the left is small and triangular. Tliese two lobes separate anteriorly to receive the heart. The gall-bladder is always connected with the right lobe, but is here quite detached and separate from it,—a circumstance which holds good likewise in the Gavials; whilst in the Crocodile it is closely connected with the right lobe. Among the LaccrtidcE, the monitors have likewise tv^o lobes to their Uver, which are sepft*'«4ed by a deep fissure. In the safe- guards (Av^eiva) this fissure is less decided, and the right portion of the viscus is prolonged backwards to a long, narrow, pointed appen- dage. This form conducts us gradually to the shape of the liver most generally met with in other Saurians, in which the organ consists of a single mass, rarely divided by deep fissures, but slightly notched at its mar- gin. This mass is generally of a triangular shape, which is lengthened out in accordance with the form of the body, sometimes ex- tending backwards quite to the posterior boundary of the abdominal cavity. In the Ophidian reptiles the liver is not divided into lobes, but forms a long cylindrical mass. The gall-bladder is, in the Chelonian rep- tiles, almost entirely imbedded in the right lobe of the liver, and is generally of very great size ; whilst in the Saurian reptiles it is generally situated at the bottom of the fissure which separates the two lobes. In the Ophidian reptiles, the position of the gall-bladder varies ; in the genera Anguis, Am- phisboema, and Cecilia, it is more or less in- crusted by the substance of the liver; but, in the true serpents, its position is very remarkable, for it is not only entirely se- parated from the liver, but is removed to a considerable distance from that viscus, and placed in the immediate vicinity of the pylorus. In all reptiles the bile is conveyed into the gall-bladder by the branches of the hepa- tic ductSy which open either into its fundus, its neck, or into the commencement of the cystic canal: in the (^helonians, a very large proportion of the bile would seem to pass through the gall-bladder. In the Tor- toises, which have the gall-bladder imbedded in their liver, the hepato-cystic vessels open immediately into its cavity. In the Emydes, the hepatic ducts unite to form a canal, which joins the neck of the gall-bladder. Amongst the Crocodiles, the spectacled caiman has its bile-ducts arranged almost in the sa*me manner as in birds ; the right hepatic canal opening immediately into the gall- bladder. In the other Saurians, and also in Ophidian reptiles, the hepatic duct unites v.ith the cystic, so that the gall-bladder is filled by the reflux of the bile; generally, there is only one hepatic duct, but in other cases there are several, which enter the cystic duct near the neck of the gall-bladder, as, for instance, in Trigonocephalus. The pancreas is present in all reptiles, and is generally situated close to the point where the stomach terminates in the intestine, to which it is most generally adherent. In the Chelonians its shape is irregularly triangular, being narrow and thin in the vicinity of the pylorus, broad and bifurcated at its opposite extremity, by which it adheres to the spleen and to the large intestine. In the Saurians it is generally placed close to the pyloric por- tion of the stomach, and is divided into two branches, one of which accom[)anies the biliary canal ; the other adheres to the spleen. These two branches unite in the vicinity of the pylorus, and furnish a duct which o()cns into the intestine along with that of the gall-bladder, which not unfrequently is imbedded in the substance of the [pancreas. A similar dis- position occurs in all the Ophidian genera. The spleen is in the Reptilia always present, but its relations with the stomach are by no means so constant as in birds and Mammalia.