RESPIRATION. 336 the lower part, and women by the upper part of their chest, and this independentk of the effects of particular articles of dress ! * This difference in the mode of respiration in the two sexes is, in general, maintained even in dyspnoea, unless it be very severe. As the costo-inferior and abdominal types of respi- ration would be impeded in the female when pregnant, the ordinary costo-superior type of respiration in the female has apparently a reference to that condition.-}- Valentin J, Dr. Hutchinson^, and Men- delssohn 11, have lately made experiments upon the force of the muscular movements of in- spiration and expiration. Those of Dr. Hutch- inson are much the most extensive, and are loOO in number. He found that the power of expiration is nearly one third stronger than that of inspiration ; and he states that whenever the expiratory are not stronger than the inspiratory muscles, that some dis- ease is present. He tested the force of the two classes of respiratory muscles by causing persons to make the most powerful efforts of which they were capable when breathing through the nose into an instrument con- structed for the purpose, and the subjects of experiment were taken from individuals of the male sex, following very different occu- pations. In examining the results of the whole experiments, and including all the thirteen classes of men subjected to expe- riment, the power of the inspiratory muscles is found greatest in men of o feet 9 inches in height, their inspiratory power being equal, on an average, to a column of 2'7o, and their expiratory power to 3*97 inches of mercury ; while in four of these classes, composed ge- nerally of active, efficient, and healthy indi- viduals, viz. Firemen, Metropolitan Police, Thames Police, and Royal Horse Guards, the inspiratory power of the men of 5 feet 7 inches was the greatest, being equal to 3'07 inches of mercury, and those of 5 feet 8 inches to 2 96 (nearly 3 inches). The aver- age power of the 5 feet 7 inches and 5 feet 8 inches men of all the thirteen classes was only 2"65 inches of mercury. The inspiratory power of twelve six-feet men in the first bat- talion of Grenadier Guards was only 1*92 inches, while that of thirty-one of the same * These observations of Beau and Maissiat upon the differences in the respiratory movements in males and females are confirmed by Dr. Hutchin- son (Op. cit. p. 195), and they were known so far to Boerhaave and Haller. t These authors also state that this difference in the respiratory^ movements of the two sexes have impressed upon the chest certain anatomical differ- ences ; for while the intercostal spaces at the upper part of the chest are larger in the female, those at the lower part are larger in the male ; and wliile the first rib is moA'able in the female, it is almost or entirely immovable in the male. X Lehrbuch der Phvsiologie des Menchen, band i. S. 524. 1844. § Journal of the Statistical Society of London, vol. vii. p. 193. 1844 ; and Medico-CMrurg. Trans- actions of London, vol. xxix. p. 197. 1846. II Der Mechanismus der Respiration und Circu- lation, S. 116—120. BerUn, 1845. height in the Blues (Life Guards) was 2-71 inches. He infers from these experiments that a healthy man of 5 feet 7 inches or 3 feet 8 inches, should elevate by inspiration 3 inches of mercury. The force of the expi- ratory muscles is more liable to be affected by the ordinary occupation of the individual than that of the inspiratory muscles, and therefore the state of the former is less to be relied upon in judging of the health of the individual than that of the latter.* The elas- ticity of the walls of the chest is, no doubt, one cause of the greater force of the expi- ratory over that of the inspiratory muscles. In inspiration the pressure of the elastic air in the lungs causes these organs to ex- pand, so as to keep their outer surface in contact with the inner surface of the dilating thorax; and by this the air of the lungs be- comes rarified, and a quantity of fresh air rushes along the trachea and bronchial tubes to restore its equihbrium: in expiration, on the other hand, the lungs are compressed, and a portion of air is forced outward along the same passages. In these movements the lungs are not quite passive. The external surface of the lungs, and of the numerous lobes into which they may be divided, is covered with an elastic membrane, and this, conjoined with the weight of their tissues, must favour the expulsion of the air during expiration, and present a certain amount of resistance to its entrance during inspiration.-f- * Valentin's experiments upon the respiratory forces were performed upon six males between 1*8 and 32 years of age. In ordinary tranquil respira- tion the force of each of the acts of inspiration and expiration was equal to the weight of a column of mercur}- of from 4 to 10 millimetres (or from -1574 to -3937 of an English iach); in the least forcible respiration it ranged between 20, 35, and 4<J milli- metres of mercury (from -7874, 1-377, and 1-5748 of an English inch). In ordinary tranquil respiration in the same indi^-idual, at different periods, the range of the respiratory force was even more than be- tween 5 and 10 millimetres (or between -1968 and •3937 of an inch). The average force of an ordinary tranquil respiration, when the nose was held and the individual inspired and expired through the mouth, was 6-45 mill, (-2539 of an inch); when they in- spired through the nose and expired through the mouth alone, it was 10*6 mill. (-4173 of an Inch); and when they inspired through the nose and ex- pired through the nose and mouth, it was 5 mill. (-1968 of an inch), or about one hah' of the .strength when they expired through the mouth alone. He found that the strongest inspiration of which these individuals were capable was equal to 144-3 mill. (5-6812 inches) of mercury, and the strongest expi- ration to 204 mill. (8-0316 inches) of mercury. Men- delssohn's experiments were performed upon seven individuals, and they breathed through one nostril, the other nostril and the mouth being shut. He foimd that the force of the most powerful expiration was greater than that of the most powerful inspi- ration by about one inch of mercury. The most powerful expirations were on an average between 4-4 and 4-8 inches of mercury. In performing such experiments it is necessary 'to breathe through the nose, the mouth being shut, as in those of Dr. Hutchinson and Mendelssohn, if we wish to obtain the force of the muscles of the chest, apart from that of those of the cheeks. t Dr. Carson (Philos. Trans, of London for 1820, p. 42), states that in his experiments on " calves.