496 SEMEN. other hand, are cell formations, which de- velope a seminal fibre in the interior of the enclosed nucleus. Of the same filiform shape, and probably also of the same mode of developement, are the seminal fibres of the Pychnogonides, which, according to an observation of Kolliker, mea- sure upon an average about -^q"' in Pychno- gonura Balaenarum. Equally filiform and also pointed at both ends, are the developed spermatozoa of the Fig. 385. Developement of the Spermatozoa in Chthamalus Philippii. (After Kolliker.') Cirripeds, the size of which, in Chthamalus Philippii, amounts to about rV^''. They are produced from smaller nucleated cells (of —-5ho"% which would seem, from ex- ternal appearances, simply to grow out into seminal fibres {fg. 385.). An exact research into the mode of their production is prevented by the smallness of the cells ; but we need the less hesitate in inferring the usual en- dogenous mode of formation, since we know how often spermatozoa, on liberating them- selves from a mother cell, present, in a mo.st deceiving manner, the appearance of vesicles that are growing out. Little is as yet known respecting the spermatozoa of the Entomostraca. Here also, however, the usual filaments occur in the seminal liquid, in some instances. This may be proved in the genus Cypris, in which such formations can readily be traced.* They are of a considerable length (about V"), and usually wrapped up in the shape of a reel. Such a form of the spermatozoa does not, however, seem to be the only one among the Entomostraca. V, Siebold-\, in Daphnia rec- tirostris, describes oblong semilunar sper- matozoa, whilst Cyclopsina, and probably also AcanthocereusJ, possess small finely granular corpuscles of an oval shape, as the elements of the semen. Similar corpus- cles one of us {R. Leuckart with Dr. Frey§,) * We beg to direct attention to the simultaneous appearance of eggs together Avith the spermatozoa in the same individual; and therefore to tlie her- maphrodite condition of the genitals in Cypris. t Yergleich : Anat. S. 483. j According to Scholler, in Wiegman's Archiv., 1846, Th. i. S. 367. § Ibid. p. 135. has discovered in Caligus. The production of these elements, which could be observed in the latter case, is the same as in luliis. They at first appear as roundish nuclei in the in- terior of the seminal cells, which have a size ofaW—sW''- At this period the nuclei measure s^'" ; they subsequently grow, change their shape to an oval, and in so doing not unfrequently project outwards a little be- yond the cell wall. Vesicular seminal elements are also pos- sessed by Branchipus*, and oblong cylin- drical corpuscles by Staurosoma.f In their passage through the vas deferens, the spermatozoa in Cyclopsina, as well as in the Cephalopoda, &c., are enclosed by one common jelly-like spermatophore. In some other cases, on the other hand (as in Onis- cus), the spermatozoa unite into long flat rib- bon-like strings (of V^^), which present quite an uniform structure, betraying at the ends only that they are composed of separate semi- nal fibres.J Annelida.—The spermatozoa, in the divi- sion of the Annelida, also possess very gene- rally a hair-like form, excepting among the Nematoda. They are thin delicate fibres, ge- nerally without any very considerable length (in Hirudo ^o'^', Planaria varicosa ^V^'j Branchiobdella, on the contrary, quite ^"^), which are either pointed towards the ends, or every where equally thick (in the Tre- matoda, Acanthocephala, and Cestoidea), or enlarged at one end. In Lumbricus {Jig. 386. a) the enlarged part is of an oblong cylindrical form ; in the Nemertinae (b) and the branchiated Annelida, Fig. 386. Spermatozoa of Lumbricus (a) ; of Nemertis Ehren- berqii (b) : and Planaria verrucata (c). (After Kmiker') WW on the other hand, they are round or pear- shaped. In some few cases the spermatozoa among the Annelida exhibit some spiral twin- ings; as, for instance, in Planaria verru- cata (c), Leptoplana atomata, and especially * Frev and Leuckart in Wagner's Zootomie, 2d edit. Part II. p. 259. f Will in Wiegman's Archiv., 1844, Th. I. S. 340. X Vide Siebold in MUller's Archiv. 1836.