ROTIFERA. 402 fibres, with ganglia, are seen in Conochiliis, and two red eyes are seen in both genera, r Confined to an in- Lorica, or shield. J dividual. (Ecistes, L Common to many. Conochilus. In the less circular rotatory organ than in Ptygura we see the tendency in these animals to the more compound forms of that organ. The lorica, in this family, is not homologous with this organ in many of the other loricated species ; but a case formed by a secretion from the surface of the body of the animal, as is seen in some Annelides, and occasionally in the aquatic larvae of insects. The social habit of Conochilus is very remarkable in this group, as many as forty individuals being frequently found together, attached by their tails, and the consequence of the action of their rotatory organs is a circular movement of the whole mass {fig. 290.). This habit is not confined to Conochilus amongst the Roti- fera ; but it is interesting as connecting this class in habit with the compound Polygastria on the one side, and the Cirripedia and com- pound Ascidia on the other. Fig. 290. The animals of Conochilus volvox, half contraeted, forming a circle. {After Ehrenberg.^ Family 3.—Megalotroch(EA. Character. Monotrochous rotatory animals, with the mar- gin of the rotatory organ incised or flexuous, not inclosed in a shield. The flexuous extended rotatory organ is used for locomotion, swimming, and the sup- ply of nutriment. Muscular bands are evident in the interior, by which the form of the body is changed. In Megalotrocha, the alimen- tary canal is supplied with a stomach, two caeca, jaws with a double row of teeth, and two pancreatic glands. In the other two species there is a single canal, without sto- mach or caeca. Microcodon has jaws with two teeth. Cyphonautes is toothless. The re- productive organs consist of an ovarium. The ova in Megalotrocha are attached to the parent by a thread. Vessels, and tre- mulous gill-like organs, are observed in Megalotrocha. The organs of the senses are in two genera — the red eyes. Mega^ lotrocha exhibits radiated nervous masses, and above these four dark glandular bodies in the neighbourhood of the mouth. These have been erroneously regarded as eyes {fig. 291.). Analysis of genera. Eyeless. Cyphonautes. ™.. , rOne eye, Microcodon. VVitn eyes. |Two eyes. Megalotrocha. Of these three genera, Megalotrocha is the only one that is well known, or that appears to answer to the description of the family. Cyphonautes is a marine animal, of which Eh- renberg has seen but two specimens. Micro- codon has also doubtful characters. Megalo- trochay of which there is only one species, M. albo-fiavicansy has often been described by the older observers. Megalotrocha fla vicans. (^After JEhrenberg.^ a, a, nervous ganglia; b, jaws ; c, ovum ; d, d, bodies whose functions are unknown; e, e, e, e, trans- verse vessels. Family 4. — Floscularia. Character. Monotrochous loricated Rotifers, with a ro- tatory organ, with sinuous lobed or multifid margins. The rotatory organ is divided more or less deeply into two, four, five, or six divisions. In the last case they may be almost said to be compound. The alimentary canal gene- rally exhibits a stomach, and is supplied with jaws and teeth. Floscul-iria has no stomach. Lacinularia has two caeca. Semilunate pan- creatic glands are seen in all the species. A short ovarium, producing a few ova at a time,