SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. 543 but is absent in many Marsupials. In Birds it is usually, but not invariably, present; there are even sometimes tw^o, one placed above another. In those aquatic birds which have the tuberosity of the tibia prolonged npvi^ards as a large process, a patella is always found placed just behind it*, sometimes closely adapted to it, and extending beyond it so as apparently to form its summit.f No patella has been met with in any reptile. Other sesamoid bones. — Opposite the plan- tar aspect of the distal joint of the fore and hind foot of Solipedes, there is a long super- numerary bone, called by farriers the shuttle bone, placed transversely. This, like the sesamoid bones above described, enters into the composition of the subjacent joint ; a broad slip of the perforans tendon is inserted into its proximal side, whilst on the distal side a portion of the synovial capsule alone, and that not so strong as one would expect, attaches it to the ungual phalanx ; the main part of the tendon passes over it to be inserted into the ungual phalanx, leaving a cavity lined by a synovial membrane between itself and the sesamoid bone in question. This bone re- minds one of that which, as above mentioned, is occasionally found at the distal joint of the thumb and great toe in the human subject. Small bones are found in one or both heads of the gastrocnemius in all Mammalia except Man, the Seals, Pig, and all Rimiinants but Cervus, in which genus they are found, yet only in the external head of the muscle. A sesamoid bone is met with in the inser- tion of the tendo Achillis of certain Birds, as the capercailzie J ; and the tendons of the legs of birds are very commonly ossified, not, how- ever, where they correspond to the joints. Use. — Sesamoid bones serve much the same purpose as processes for the muscles that are inserted into them, without the incon- venience inseparable from a process, of giving an angular form to the joint. They also pro- tect the long flexor tendons at points where perhaps they might be injured. But after all, taking into consideration all the facts related above, and many others that have presented themselves to me in the course of this inquiry, I cannot but believe, that some higher law than that of adaptation concurs in deter- mining the presence, if not the size, of even these Httle bones. (S. R. Pitlard.) SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES (Sie- tenter Nerv, Germ. ; Le Septieme Nerf, Fr.). In laying the foundations of the natural sci- ences, few circumstances would seem to have occasioned more serious and permanent embar- rassments than the immediate necessity of in- dicating the various new objects which they presented by specific names, and the difUculty of finding suitable ones. A nomenclature based upon their properties, would, perhaps, readily have suggested itself; but, generally speaking, the recognition of the object so * Vol. I. p. 286. t Meckel. X Vol. I. p. 288. greatly preceded the discovery of its proper- ties, that this attempt was almost impossible. In the science of anatomy, this was especially the case; and a large proportion of the human structures were named, either according to their form, or, if this was not sufficiently de- fined, by their real or fancied resemblance to some previously known object; or failing this, by the proper names of their discoverers, however polysyllabic or uncouth they might happen to be. In some one or other of these modes, the different parts of the complicated nervous centre received their various designations. But the cerebral nerves, although very similar to each other in the outward properties of their shape, size, and appearance, yet offered, by their fewness, a sufficient ground of distinction in the application of the ordinal numbers. By denying the claims of the olfactory lobes, and overlooking the fourth and sixth, the earlier anatomists made a smaller number j but the arrangement of Willis, which is more usually adopted in the present day, counts nine of these soft round cords, and reckons them from before backwards. Yet even this apparently simple method of distinction comes far short of real accuracy. Thus, some of the so-called nerves ofJer the essential structure of nervous centres; and include, in adtlition to the ordinary nerve- fibres, those globular vesicles which modern physiology recognizes as the generators of the nervous force. In others of them, the limited resemblance implied by this numerical ar- rangement is modified by their arising as two or more roots, which subsequently, by their junction, form one nerve. While in the seventh nerve, which forms the subject of the present article, the close proximity of two such cords during a part of their course has led to their being united under one name ; although in their distribution, properties, and functions, they present a marked contrast with each other. The facial and auditory nerves proceed to- gether from the medulla oblongata to the bottom of the meatus auchtorius internus in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Up to this point they are included in the term seventh nerve; but beyond this situation their courses widely diverge. In conformity with these diflf'erences, the following short account will describe them separately from each other. It will first mention such of their anatomical features as are manifest on simply laying bare their surface, and will afterwards refer to the appearances afforded by a more artificial dissection or separation of their fibres. Subsequently we shall briefly examine the bearing of these their structural peculiari- ties, and the effect of their morbid changes, with a view to attempting the deduction of their function. The auditory nerve is of a considerably softer texture than the facial ; a difference which is in great part attributable to the much more delicate neurilemma by which it is enveloped, but which is, no doubt, to some extent the result of a peculiarity of its constituent nerve-