177 PTEROPODA. terior (interior) (23, b) is the shortest of the series. The stem upon which these are fixed (22, w) is sloped off in the same pro- portion, and has a somewhat triangular shape. When crushed under the microscope, it is found to consist entirely of muscular fibres ar- ranged with considerable regularity, and prin- cipally disposed in two opposite directions, so that they cross each other; and doubtless a part of their office is to raise and depress the individual teeth, implanted upon the common stem. The hinder portion of the cyUnders (x) containing this extraordinary dental apparatus, is muscular, and composed of longitudinal fas- ciculi, by the aid of which the stems that sup- port the teeth are retracted, their protrusion being effected apparently by the conjitruction of the capsules themselves. The manner in which the Clio makes use of these teeth may, therefore, be inferred from their anatomical arrangement. The cylinders wherein they are lodged are so much bent (Jig. 111. 18, 19, i), that when the two dental organs of the oppo- site sides are protruded the apices of the teeth with which they are armed must meet together outside the mouth, and when in this condition the teeth of each organ are widely separated and spread out, they will form, as it were, a couple of long combs (19, i^), and evidently perform the functions of a pair of tenacious jaws. The tongue may be divided into two por- tions ; the one free, and the other fixed, studded with a number of booklets that can scarcely be estimated at fewer than from six to eight hundred, the disposition of which at once indicates their office to be to facilitate the propulsion of the food into the oesophagus, as is the case in the Cephalopods and various other Mollusca. The oesophagus is, for the greater part of its length, surrounded by the two salivary glands, which extend quite into the abdominal cavity, where the}' are connected to each other, and to the liver by lax cellular mem- brane. The stomach is a mere dilation of the oesophagus, and is entirely embedded in the substance of the liver. The latter organ appears, when examined superficially, to be entirely made up of a multitude of Aci7ii, each of which contains within it a cavity that communicates through a wide aperture with the interior of the stomach; and hence it re- sults, that, although the exterior of the liver is seemingly composed of large granules, the walls of the stomach are perforated all over with openings, leading into blind cavities, so as to have a completely cellular appearance. The intestine is a simple tube, passing straight from the termination of the stomachal portion of the alimentary canal to the anal orifice, which is situated on the right side of the neck immediately behind the correspond- I ing fin. I The course of the circulation in the Ptero- i poda has not been as yet completely made out. i In the Clio borealis, the heart enclosed in its i pericardium is situated on the right side of the i posterior end of the abdominal cavity just at VOL. IV. the point where the dorsal and ventral bands of muscle separate to form the wide lateral opening. The pericardium is pointed in front and broad behind : its walls are thin and trans- parent, but at the same time very strong. On opening the pericardium, the ventricle of the heart is seen to have the shape of a triangular pyramid with rounded angles, the apex of the pyramid being directed towards the head, whilst its ba^e is turned towards the hind part of the body. From the apex of the heart arises a large vessel, which immediately pierces the pericardmm, and supplies branches to the liver and to the internal organs of generation ; it then advances forward, and supplies the parts about the neck, more especially the lateral fins, and most probably is ultimately distri- buted to the head and its appendages. This vessel is evidently the aorta. Fig. 113 (25 to 31). Clio Borealis. 25. One of the lingual teeth, magnified 400 di- ameters. 26. INIale generative apparatus, removed from the body and unfolded. 27. Female generative organs displayed. 28. Convex surface of the testes. 29. One of the pigment sacs of the integument, magnified 120 diameters. 30. Nervous system, magnified 12 diameters. 31. One of the eyes, magnified 40 diameters. (After Eschricht.) Generative system.— The reproductive or- gans in the Clio boreahs occupy a very con- siderable portion of the abdominal cavity.