4-t POLYPIFERA. longitudinal prominent biinds, the free edge slightly enlarged and rounded, a pedicle in the middle like the stem of the vase, and the transparent vesicle lining its interior through- out. Fig. 49. A. series illustrating the development of Tiihularia by free gemmcc, from the first indication of the bud to the time when it becomes detached. 1. A hollow tubercle or elevation, in the interior of which a movement or circulation of the glo- bules, indicated by the arrow, takes place; a, a cell just beneath the surface. 2. The same, sho-wdng the cell more advanced; a, indicates this cell in all the figures. 3. This, and the following figures, represent the development of the gemma more and more ad- vanced; 6, a tubercle, situated beneath the cell, which becomes the stomach of the embryo; this organ is indicated by the same letter in the other figures. 4. c, tubercles shooting up from the sides; they are hollow, and communicate Anth the cavity of the stomach, and are the first indication of four vessels proceeding from the stomachal cavity. In the fol- lowing figures the letter c indicates these vessels. 5. b, the tubercle become more elevated, indenting the cell a; the four secondary tubercles, c, more distinct and prominent. 6. The stomachal and its four surrounding hollow tubercles still further prolonged. 7. In this figure the four smaller tubercles have become vessels, and united with one another in front. 8. The four vessels have more completely united in front; the arrows here, as in the other figures, in- dicate the current of the ckculatiug fluid. 9. d, The first indications of the tentacles,' con- sisting of tubercles sprouting from the four vessels. 10. The tubercles, d, at the end of the four ves- sels, c, have become sufficiently elevated to make a projection on the exterior. 11. These tubercles, become considerably salient externally, are now manifestly the four tentacles of the embryo. 12. Minute cells are now visible at the extremity of the tentacles. 13. The tentacles still more advanced; the line of separation of the embryo fi-om its stalk become distinctly visible. 14. Hitherto the stomachal cul-de-sac has pro- gressively increased, it now begins to diminish, and the cell a, or the space between it and the external envelope becomes opened at e, forming a kind of mouth; the embryo is now capable of great exten- sion; the pedicle is constricted at the point of insertion and its internal ca^dty nearly obhterated. (^From Van Beneden.^ The different phases of the development above described will, however, be best under- stood by a reference to the series of figures which we have appended, carefully copied from Professor Van Beneden's elaborate illus- trations. The }oung Tubularia has now assumed the appearance of a Beroe^ and in this condition has doubtless been often mistaken for an in- dividual belonging to the chiss Acalepha^; and lively contractions of its body are frequently witnessed, although it still remains attached to its pedicle. At the extremity of each of the four longi- tudinal vessels a little tubercle now becomes developed, which, as it becomes elongated, is converted into a tentacle, or sometimes, as in Eicdeiidrium, by its bifurcation, two tentacula are formed fi'om each tubercle. At this period of its development the young Tubularia spontaneously detaches itself from the parent stem, presenting at the moment of its separation the appearance of a balloon, or rather of a melon. (Fig.50.\,2,3.) Its contrac- tions become more and more lively, and it is by the aid of these movements that its sepa- ration is effected. The two poles of its globular body may be seen to approach each other, and to separate alternately, with a movement of s} stole and diastole similar to what is observable in many Medusae. No traces of cilia are observable either externally or in the interior of its body. In this con- dition it presents an external covering, which is, so to speak, merely a derivation from the integument of the parent polype: this cover- ing presents somewhat more consistence than the internal parts, and is open in front. A second membrane lines the preceding throughout its whole extent; Hke the former, it is quite transparent, and at the anterior opening (e) is prolonged internall}' to a little distance, forming a sort of funnel. These walls enclose four vessels (c), which extend from the base of the embryo and open in front into the hollow zone (//), from which the tentacula take their origin. These longitudinal vessels therefore conmiunicate with each other by a transverse canal, and at their origin open into the central or digestive cavity, which