388 RODENTIA. fications to be noticed, both in the construc- tion of the caecum and of the commencement of the colon, which generally presents the same appearance as the caecum itself for a short distance from its commencement. The greater or less development of the caecum is in relation to the nature of the food appropriate to each individual. In one genus only, namely, the dormouse (Mi/oxics), it is altogether wanting; those Rodents that live upon grass and herbs have it most remark- ably developed; and in the hare it has been calculated that the capacity of the caecum is ten times as great as that of the stomach itself. In the granivorous genera its size is likewise very considerable ; so that, in the hamsters, lemmings, Guinea-pigs, and aUied genera it has been estimated to be four times larger than the stomach. Another remarkable peculiarity may be observed in the caecum of the Rodentia, namely, that it frequently has its cavity divided into regularly arranged cells disposed in several rows, or else forming a single series. In other cases the cavity of the cjEcum is divided into compartments by a broad spiral Fig. 272. CCEcum of the Squirrel. a, termination of the small intestine; b, d, the caecum ; e, dilated commencement of the colon. valve, as is the case in the hares ; or, as in the marmots, by circular folds of its lining membrane. In some species again, as in the jerboa, &c., the interior of the ca^cum is a simple cavity, without any division or internal complication. All these diversities of struc- ture seem to be in relation with the different kinds of food devoured by these animals. The proportionate length of the small in- testine as compared with that of the large, is frequently the reverse of what holds good in carnivorous quadrupeds ; but the diameter of the latter, except in the immediate vicinity of the caecum, is scarcely greater than that of the small intestine (Jig. 273. m, n). The intestinal villi have the shape of leaf- lets of fringed laminae, or sometimes of very fine filaments ; the entire inner surface of the small intestine is villous, whilst that of the large intestine is quite smooth. Fig. 273. Stomach and intestinal canal of tlie Rat {Miis Rattus). f, oesophagus ; a, b, d, compartments of the stomach; e, pylorus; g, h, i, small intestine ; k, /, caecum; p, commencement of the colon; m, n, colon; o, anus. It is worthy of observation that in those species that have the caecum most largely de- veloped, that organ is furnished with very remarkable glandular appendages; this struc- ture is met with in the genera Lepus and Lagomt/s. In order to illustrate the above general deseription of the digestive organs "of the order of quadrupeds under consideration, we shall select a few examples illustrative of the principal varieties which it presents in dif- ferent genera. In the squirrel (Sciiirus) the small intestine (fg- 272. a) is nearly of the same diameter throughout; the ceecum (b, c, d) is of mo- derate dimensions, of a conical shape, and destitute of any cells or partitions internally.