334 RESPIRATION. angles formed by their articulation with the sternum ; and this difference in the extent of movement in the two portions of the sternum must be still greater before the manubrium and the body of the bone are united by ossific matter. * Though this description of the movements of the sternum in respiration, which is that given by Hallerf, has been called in question by some modern anatomists, there can be no doubt of its correctness, for it can be proved, by an appeal to the mechanism of the thorax, that, in the upward and for- ward movement of this bone, its upper and lower ends will pass through paths which differ considerably in their curvature and direction. % Though Haller was wrong in maintaining that the first rib is almost im- movable in these actions of the thoracic walls, yet there can be as little doubt that Magendie is in error in asserting that this is the most movable of all the ribs ; for however favour- able the nature of its vertebral articulation may be for motion, this is counteracted by the mode in which its cartilage of prolongation is united to the sternum. § The position and form of the diaphragm is well adapted for enlarging, by its contraction, the vertical diameter of the thorax ; and being placed in the most capacious part of the thorax, even a slight elongation of the vertical diameter there will add considerably to the area of its inner surface. The convex or upper surface of the diaphragm, in its relaxed state, projects upwards on each side of its central or cordiform tendon into the thorax, and is higher anteriorly than posteriorly, and on the right side than on the left. This cordiform tendon is made a fixed point for the arched fibres that run from it to the ribs during their contraction, since it is pulled upon from below and behind by the two crura of the diaphragm, and in front by the short muscular fibres which pass to it from the point of the sternum and the lower edges of * During the elevation of the ribs the elastic cartilages of prolongation of the sternal riljs \mdergo a certain amount of torsion, and the angles they form Avith the sternum become less acute. The en- largement of the chest produced by the elevation of the ribs is greater in the autero-posterior than in the transverse diameter, and the enlargement in the transverse direction is much greater at the anterior than at the posterior portion of the chest, from the mode in which the ribs are articulated with the vertebral column. f Haller (Memoire sur plusieurs Phenomenes Importantes de la Respiration. Lausanne, 1758) found that the upper edge of the sternum was car- ried forwards 2^, and the lower end from 3 to 8 lines, in a moderate inspiration. X Ward's Human Osteology, p. 212. 1838. § The elasticity of the cartilaginous and osseous portions of the walls of the thorax -will afford con- siderable resistance to the muscles in dilating it during inspiration. From the results obtained in two experiments upon the chest after death, Dr. Hutchinson calculates (Medico-Chirur. Transact, of London, vol. xxix. p. 205. 1846) that the force which the muscles of inspiration have to overcome in ordinaiy breathing from this source is probably, at least, equal to about 100 lbs., and in deep inspi- ration to about 300 lbs. In these calciilations the additional resistance from the elasticity of the lungs was not taken into accoimt. the cartilages of the ribs. If the lower ribs' have been previously rendered steady by the action of the quadrati lumborum and serrati postici inferiores muscles, the arched muscular fibres of the diaphragm have another fixed point during their contraction. As the heart rests on the upper surface of the cordi- form tendon, and the base of the lungs on the upper portion of the arched part of the diaphragm, the descent of the arched muscular fibres and their change to the horizontal posi- tion, causes a considerable enlargement of that part of the chest occupied by the lungs, while the position of the heart is compara- tively httle affected when the respiratory movements are moderate; but during forcible inspiration the heart recedes deeper into the chest, and during expiration it again comes forward. * The vertical diameter of the chest may be increased in inspiration by the pulling up of its superior portion, by the strong muscles of the neck attached to it, at a time when the lower portion is prevented from ascending, but an increase in the vertical dia- meter by an elongation of its upper part must have a much less effect in enlarging its capacity than an elongation of its lower part seeing that the thorax is at least four times as large at its lower as at its upper end. In ordinary respiration, and when the body is at rest, the ribs move little in the male, and the muscular movements of inspiration are chiefly carried on by the diaphragm.f The ribs are elevated, in ordinary respira- tion, by the levatores costarum, external and internal intercostal muscles J, and also, more * In the article Heart, Vol. H. p. 578, in stating this circumstance, the word inspiration was inad- vertently used for expiration, and vice versa. f Dr. Hutchinson (Medico-Chirurg. Transact, of London, vol. xxix. p. 187. 1846) by a delicate in- strument measured the costal movement dm-ing ordinarA' respiration in healthy individuals of the male sex, and foimd it not to exceed from two to four tenths of a Une. The costal movements in the female sex, especially at the upper part of the chest, are considerably more extensive. Dr. Hutchinson states that the difference between the cncumference of an ordinary- man's chest measured over the nipples in the two states of a deep inspiration and a deep expiration, amoimts to 3 inches (Opus cit. p. 222) ; and Valentin, under the same circiunstances, found the average difference in the circumference of the chest, measiu-ed over the scrohicidus cordis, in seven indi^dduals of the male sex between 17^ and 38 years of age, to be 1:8-29 of the whole circmnfer- ence. (Lehrbuch, &c. erster band, S. 541. 1844.) In old age, when the costal cartilages of prolonga- tion become ossified, the mobility of the chest must be diminished. X The mode of action of the intercostal muscles has been a subject of discussion since the time of Haller, — many entertaining the opinion of Haller, that both the internal and external sets act simul- taneously as muscles of inspiration; some, that they are muscles of expiration; while others, again, as- sert that one set act during inspiration, and the other set during expiration. Those who maintain the last opinion ai'e not agreed among themselves as to what set act as muscles of inspiration, and what as muscles of expiration. The mode of action of these muscles has lately been carefully examined by MM. Beau and Maissiat and Mr. Sibson (Opus cit.); and the two former (Archives Ge'ne'rales de Medecine, 4 serie, tom. i. ix 268. 1843), conclude