POLYGASTRIA. 12 observer. These beautiful little creatures might be compared to wine-glasses of microscopic dimension, the bells of which are fixed to liighly irritable stems, that are attached by their opposite extremity to some foreign body. These stems are endowed with the capability of extending themselves in the shape of straight filaments of exquisite tenuity, and on the shghtest alarm or irritation, of shrinking into close spiral folds, so as to draw the little bell as far as possible from danger. The mouth of tiie bell is fringed with a circlet of cilia, which vibrate rapidly at the pleasure of the animal, causing a magnificent whirlpool in the sur- rounding water, which brings nutritious sub- stances that may be in the neighbourhood towards the oral oiifice, the situation of which is nearly the same as in Stentor, above described, and thus the little being is abun- dantly supplied with food. Tlie true Vorti- cellae, although generally found grouped toge- ther in elegant bunches, always have single undivided stems; but in the genus CaT'chesimn, the animals of which are similarly organised, the pedicles sprout from one another so as to have a branched or ramose appearance, while in the genus Epistj/lis, animals similar to Vor- ticella and Carchesium are met with, the stems of which are quite stiff and inflexible, so much so indeed that the animalcules belonging to this group have obtained the name of " pil- lar bells " (SanlengluePichen). The family Op/uydinida presents us again with very remarkable forms of Polygastric ani- malcules, allied in structure to the Vorticella, but having their bodies inclosed in cases of different kinds, of which it will be necessary to give one or two examples. The genus Ophrt/dium, (jelly-bell-animal- cules,) of which the Ophrydium versatile Q/ig. 10) is an example, was regarded by the older Fig. 10. Section of a portion of the periphery of Ophrydium versatile, showing the manner in which the individual animalcules are implanted in the mass. naturalists as being a mass of vegetable matter, and had the names of ulva, fucus, conferva, &c. conferred upon it by different authors, until MUller, in 1786, first announced its real nature and relationship to the vorticelline animalcules. It is found under the shape of a gelatinous mass of a lively or dull green colour, which in consistence may be compared to frog's spawn, some specimens attaining the size of four or five inches in diameter; the whole forming an irregularly shaped but smooth mass, which is composed of many millions of distinct animal- cules, each about j'gth of a line in thickness, and about the Vot^ of a line in length. The space of a square line would therefore contain 9216 of these diminutive beings; a cubic line six times as many, or 55,296; and a cubic inch nearly eight millions, namely, 7,962,624. In the water all these congregated animalcules are disposed in close rows, something in the same manner as in Volvox. On shaking the mass many others show themselves within be- tween the former, so as to form from three to five different ranks. At first all the gelatinous cells appear to be connected with the centre of the mass by filamentary prolongations, but these disappear as they proceed internally, so that the middle seems to be hollow and full of water; the whole, indeed, might be compared to the gelatinous polyp masses (Alci/onida) found upon the sea-shore, only the structure of the animalcules is polygastric and not that of polyps. In the other genera belonging to the family Ophrydinidae, namely, Tintinnus, Vaginicola (9, Jig. 11,) and Cothurniu, although living in gelatinous transparent sheaths, and resembling Vorticellai in their structure, are not associated in masses, but remain permanently detached and solitary. The family Encheliadae contains various forms of animalcules, having the oral and anal orifices distinct and situated at the opposite extremities of the body. The different genera of which it is composed may be distinguished as follows:— Enc/telis, (revolving animalcule,) has its body flask-shaped, {'iyjig- 11,) without any cilia externally, but witli a circlet around the mouth, which is suddenly truncated and desti- tute of any dental armature. Disonia, (double-bodied aniin(dculcy) crea- tures nearly resembling Enchelis in form and structure, but with a double body {6,7, Jig. 11). Actinophrj/a, (sun aniwalcule,) having the exterior of the body unprovided with loco- motive cilia, but stuck over with setaceous ten- tacula which radiate in all directions. Triclwdiacua, (radiated disc animalcule,) re- sembling Actinophrys, only the body is here Fig. 11. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Enchelis farcimen, swallowing food. 6,7. Disown vacillans. 8. Lachrymaria proteus, 9. Vaginicola decumbens.