PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 14^ in, or close to the mouth) without coexistent hairs. Nails and true cutaneous texture are frequently present also. As transition-stages to the purely adventitious formation of teeth appear: the growth of supernumerary teeth in the jaws ; of such teeth not in the jaws, but still in the cavity of the mouth ; of such teeth in the neighbourhood of the mouth, as in the orbit.* Appearing in the mediasti- num-)-, close to the diaphragm J, in the sto- mach in the testicle, &c., they are purely adventitious. The ovarian cyst is their chosen seat, however, and their number may be very considerable. In an ovarian cyst now before us (Univ. Coll. Mus.), there are three sepa- rate sets of teeth ; in the one are 2 molars, 2 bicuspidati, and 2 canines ; in the second, 2 molars, and 1 incisor ; in the third, 6 molars, 2 bicuspidati, 2 canine, and 1 incisor,— 20 in all. A case has been recorded by Ploucquet and Autenrieth of a young sterile woman, in whom an ovarian cyst contained 300 teeth,— a fact showing that the relationship (con- tended for by Meckel and others) between the combined number and character of__adven- titious and natural teeth is imaginary. The full consideration of the mode of de- velopment and production of adventitious teeth and hair would carry us into the regions of Teratology ; and it must be confessed that the most diligent investigators have failed to find explanations for all cases. If it be true that in some instances these products are the residual parts of a regularly-formed foetus, in others evidences of an attempt to produce a fcetus (in either of which cases they may be the proceeds either of extra-uterine pregnancy or of the formation of a monster by inclusion), it is also certain, that in other instances all explanations hitherto tendered have failed of their mark. Cutaneous. — Except in such cysts as those just referred to, skin is never formed adven- titiously. Losses of this texture are repaired by a substance partaking of the characters of induration-matter and of fibrous tissue. Mucous. — Portions of mucous membrane destroyed by ulceration are replaced by indu- ration-matter, covered on the free surface with a coating of epithelium, smooth and glistening ; the border is, or is not, puckered and finely nodulated. The attempts made by Sebastian, Dr. Parkes ||, and others, to show that the reparative power goes the length of forming new intestinal mucous texture, the precise anatomical counterpart of the old, appear to us to have failed ; nor is there any evidence that the cicatrix (either of the flat or puckered variety) can even rudely discharge the ofiice of the texture it replaces. The pyogenic membrane of chronic ab- scesses, tuberculous cavities and fistulae, has many of the more obvious characteristics of * Barnes, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 316. t Gordon, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii. p. 12. 1825. X Berlin, Sammlung, t. iii. p. 2G4. § Ruysch, Hist. Anat. Med. dec. iii. No. i. p. 2. II On the Dysentery and Hepatitis of India. mucous membrane. Of velvety look and feel ; varying (like its prototype) in colour from red to grey, slaty, or even black ; thick as the inner coat of the stomach, or thin as the lining of the frontal sinuses ; more or less closely adherent to a stratum of induration- matter (representing the submucous cellular membrane of health), and covered with epi- thelium ; capable of producing fungous vege- tation from its surface ; and utterly ina[)t to contract adhesions with itself; — this struc- ture has evidently many claims to the title of pseudo-mucous. Its deficiency in villi and follicles simply proves that it imitates the least highly elaborated of nature's types. The microscopical characters of this formation, however, require full examination. Glandular. — Destroyed glandular texture is not reproduced ; much less does a de novo development of such texture He within the range of morbid action.; Muscle. — There is no evidence that striped muscular fibre is produced for purposes of reparation, much less as a wholly adventitious formation, Unstriped fibres occurring in the ureter, walls of the gall bladder, and other excretory organs, are rather hypertrophous, than adven- titious, products, inasmuch as they naturally exist in minute quantity in those organs. Of the truly adventitious production of this fibre nothing is satisfactorily known. SUB-CLASS II. GERM-FORMATIONS OR PARASITES. Products, whose continued existence does not depend upon direct access of nutrient fluid from the organism they inhabit; which spring from a germ*, and simply live in, without forming part of, the individual they infest, are true Parasites. They do not in themselves constitute disease, but always indicate its presence, and sometimes entail its develop- ment ; in the latter case they may be made to propagate similar disease from organism to organism. In some rare instances the organic kingdom to which they belong is doubtful ; the great majority easily take their places among animals or vegetables. ORDER I. ANIMAL PARASITES. See Entozoa (vol. ii ). ORDER II. VEGETABLE PARASITES. Vegetable parasites form on tlie skin, on mucous membrane, on new surfiices, upon or withiri the body, and in certain of tlie fluids. They indicate the existence (on the surface, or in the fluid, affording them a habitation) of the presence of chemical decomposition, and also of the presence of some new material (albumi- nous, saccharine, &c.), the result of diseased action. Their precise influence and patho- logical power in the human subject are yet * "We set aside the notion of equivocal generation, inasmuch as observation, so far as it goes, deposes to the necessity (at least the existing necessity) of pro- pagation from germs.