SEMEN. 503 K K 4 further, the spores of the algae possess motion by the aid of a ciliated investment*, or of a single or manifold long whip-like fibre, until they eventually become fixed, and develop themselves into a new plant.f Such spores as these may be found described and illustrated in the well-known magnificent work o( Ehren- berg, classified as Infusoria under the groups of Monadina, Volvocina, &c. Under such circumstances we may consider ourselves perfectly justified in declaring every attempt to prove the parasitic nature of the spermatozoa, by the characteristic of their peculiar motions, as futile and inadmissible. Developement, structure, and composition are the decisive characteristics in this respect, and these prove the fructifying elements of the semen to be mere elementary constituents of the body in which they are formed. The motions of the spermatozoa are therefore in their essence identical with the above men- tioned automatic motions of cilia, &c. But the knowledge of the movement of the sperma- tozoa will always be interesting and impor- tant ; because, of all these phenomena, it is undeniably most closely connected with the locomotive motions of animals. We must not, however, lose sight of the fact, that these motions are not possessed in equal perfection by all spermatozoa, but that in many cases they are scarcely visi- ble, and hardly equal the motions of the cilia. Indeed there are many spermatozoa which are perfectly motionless, particularly all those forms which owe their immediate origin to a metamorphosis of the nucleus, or of the wall of the primary cells. Only those spermatozoa which have been produced by an endogenous and new developement arecapable of independent motions, and even not every one of these. No such movements have as yet been perceived in the spermatozoa of the Malacostraca (Isopoda and Amphipoda). They appear motionless and rigid. The same holds good with regard to the body of the spermatozoa when it has a short, round, or pyriform shape. It never then participates in the motions, which are in such cases altogether effected by the thinner, whip- like, caudal extremity. It is different, how- ever, with those spermatozoa which pos- sess a cylindrical body. The body here par- ticipates in the motion; at least very fre- quently, as, for instance, among the scaly amphibia, among the birds (excepting among the singing birds), &c. But the motions of the body are less rapid, energetic, and various than those of the tail. They are principally limited to a bow-shaped curvature, similar to the motion of the Vibriones, which, like the Monadina, belong to the vegetable kingdom, and may undergo a further developement into fibrous fungii * Vid. Unger, Die Planze im Moment der Thier- wendung; also Von Siebold, Dissert, de Finibus inter Regnum Animale et Vegetabile constituendis. t Fresenius, Zur Controverse iiber die Yerwand- lung von Infusorien in Algen. In order to observe the movements of the spermatozoa properly, they ought to be in- vestigated under different circumstances. On putting a drop of thick semen from the vas deferens under the microscope, a slow mo- tion only can usually be observed in the accumulated masses of spermatozoa. They present an appearance as if they had some diffi-culty in disentangling themselves from the tough fluid by which they are sur* rounded. On adding blood serum to it to dilute the mass, the movement becomes more lively,either instantaneously or gradually. Se- parate sjjermatozoa writhe once or twice, turn round on their axis, lash with their tail, and creep about in all directions over the field. The motion gradually imparts itself to greater numbers. Here and there, simultaneously all the individuals of a group begin to move; or particular parts of the mass commence the movement. The remainder perhaps exhibit no motion, and sometimes this quiescent state is permanent. If the movement of the spermatozoa be rapid, it assumes, for the most part, an accu- rate rhythm like a pendulum. The firli- form tail vibrates like a whip, and the small corpuscle or head follows the impulse. Frequently a peculiar trembling, dancing, or jumping is exhibited by the latter when the rest of the spermatozoon remains fixed and un- moved. A serpentine creeping in all directions is produced during a slow motion, and is caused by an undulating contraction of the caudal appendix. These undulating motions are perhaps the most frequent which the spermatozoa (and even the thread-like forms which possess no visible body) present to our view. They often move in one straight direc- tion, without turning aside, and altogether in such a way and with such a regularity as to resemble the locomotive motions of many of the lower animals. The same regularity is met with in the motions of the long and rigid spermatozoa with a spiral body among the singing birds, which very frequently turn rapidly round their axis, and thereby advance with a screw-like or boring movement. Pendulum-like lateral motions are but rare. Very peculiar and different are the motions of the spermatozoa in the Salamanders, which usually he wrapped up like a watch spring, flat on a level. For a time they remain quiet until suddenly, by fits and starts, a trembling motion takes place, by which they turn them- selves round in a circle, pretty nearly on the same spot. Some few (as the Bombinator) stretch themselves out, and travel with a slow undulating motion over the field of the microscope. The most remarkable pheno- menon, however, consists in a peculiar wave- like motion on the surface, and which is solely caused by the rapid succession of un- dulating motions. We have also perceived a perfectly similar undulating motion in the very long, coiled-up spermatozoon of Geo- philus, which is occasionally so powerful as