SKELETON. 649 order must indicate the true character of those osseous parts, whose various names serve to blind us to the actuality of their homologous caste. Examine closely the anatomical fact, and see whether I am stretching the imagina- tive faculty while I assert that the pubic (5,7) and ischiadic bones (6, 8) of the bird {Jig. 473. ostrich) are actually springing from the lumbar vertebrae like true ribs, (1. of the thorax). If, therefore, it be the rule to affirm as incontest- ible truth that these pubic and ischiadic bones of the bird are counterparts of the bones so named in the mammal, wherefore should we stop here, and hesitate to name both orders of bones (those of the mammal as well as of the bird) as ribs originally ? Even up to the present hour we find the osteologist strolling the Museum, and still marvelling at the interrogative marsupial bone (Joy jig. 474.). What is it ? Whence is Fig. 474. (4), hold series with the marsupial bone (6), just as this latter holds series with the ribs (7, 8.) Does not this serial order prove the identity of all these bodies in common ? Do they not all alike abut against their sym- metrical fellows at the common median line ? Does not the pubic bone exactly correspond with the sternal median line ? In ^g. 475., representing the continuous series of costiform bodies from the clavicles Fig. 475. Tlie thoracic and ventral median line of the Orni- thorhynchus, Showing the serial homology between the coracoid bones (2), clavicles (1), ribs (3), and the marsu- pial (6) and pubic bones (5). it ? What is its interpretation ? What else, I answer, can it be, but a ventral rib, proper to some one of the lumbar vertebrae behind. If in these pages I have furnished the querist with the idea that a lumbar vertebra has lost costo-sternal quantity, then he cannot be un- productive of the idea, that this marsupial bone, which now occupies the place of this costal quantity of the lumbar vertebra, is none other than this quantity itself. Besides this, it is also evident, from the serial order which the marsupial bone (6,/a. 474.) holds with the line ol costae (3, 8, 7), that it is itself costiform. Now, in Jig. 474., it will be also seen that the pubic bone (5), and the ischiadic bone The thoracic and ventral median line of the Crocodile {dorsal aspect^, Showing the same serial order of the parts named infg. 474. (1) to the ischiadic bones (4), it is scarcely possible to recognise a difference between all forms of this serial order. The clavicles (1) are succeeded by the ribs (2, 3, 8), these by the ventral ribs from (8 to 6), and these by the piibic bone (5), and the ischiadic bone (4). The homology between the bodies, (1) the clavicle, and (2) the rib, is as clearly ap- parent as between (5) the pubic bone, and (4) the ischiadic bone. Moreover, the homo- logy between (1 and 2), (5 and 4), is as clearly apparent as between any two ribs of the series. If {b) the pubic bone still held its original place at (7), and had not discon- nected itself from the ischiadic bone (4), it