oval, flattened, parietal, comparatively opaque body, generally speaking of large size in pro- portion to its cell, and often exhibiting a furrow on its surface or indentation at its edge, (see Jig. 6, a. of the author's work on Cancer), a condition preparatory to its split- ting into two. Each nucleus is supplied with one, two, or, it may be, so many as four minute bright corpuscles — its nucleoli, which in turn probably contain sub-nucleoli. When a nu- cleus splits in the manner referred to, the resultant bodies may be fairly regarded as sub- cells,— they are manifestly hollow, granular, and themselves nucleated * The diameter of the nucleus varies between the-g-^o and g-oVo of an inch, averaging gJo^ ofan inch. Fibns exist under different forms in cancer. First, delicate, non-adherent broken fibrils occur in most specimens. Secondly, true fibrous tissue occurs in the loculus-walls of colloid, and forms th-e stroma of scirrhus. Thirdly, exces- sively delicate, almost transparent fibres exist in a special variety of soft cancer, the fasciculate. The unevolved blastema of a cancerous growth varies in quantity, and is perfectly fluid, or somewhat viscid. Particles of amorphous substance, gelatinising under acetic acid, may sometimes be found associated with it. The vessels of cancer are either those of the natural structure affected, or are actual new forma- tions ; they are exceedingly abundant or very few in number. The veins are frequently plugged with cancerous matter, so as to pre- vent them from being injected. (b) We are disposed to regard fat as an almost essential element of cancer, (or rather as a substance tending to be produced where- ever cancer exists,) so constant is its appear- ance, either in the oil-globule or the granule forms (adipose-cells, if present, come from the implicated natural tissue). When fat abounds in these growths, it appears to have the effect of altering the form of the cancer-cell, and certainly modifies the naked-eye characters of the tumour. (c) The contingent materials met with in carcinoma are saline particles, crystalline (Op. cit. Jig. 11) or amorphous and calca- reous,—the latter in very rare instances accu- mulating sufficiently to become perceptible to the naked eye (calcification ;) crystals of cholesterin and patches of cholesteatoma; per- haps in very rare instances tuberculous depo- sifj" ; melanic matter ; blood fluid, clotted, in the state of fibrinous haematoma, or of " apoplectic cyst;" exudation-matter with its spherical and fusiform cell; pus ; and (on ulcerated surfaces) certain epizoa and epi- phyta. The pseudo-tissues which may be actually formed within the area of cancer (any natural texture may be invested by cancer) * "Where a gvj'stem of cell-encasement, such as that observed in cancer prevails, it is plain, difficulty must be felt in assigning with precision the titles of sub-cell, nucleus, and nucleolus. f We have never seen this, and we know that the naked-eye aspect of tubercle may be simulated in an encephaloid growth by excessive accumulation of fat. are epithelium, the cellular, serous, fibrous, and elastic tissues and blood vessel. Spicu- lated osteophytes, preceded (sometimes at least) by sprouting cartilage, not unfrequently plunge into the substance of cancerous growths from some connected part of the skeleton : an isolated generation of true bony structure, in a nidus of blood-blastema, within a cancerous tumour, seems a possible occur- rence (it is at the least, a singularly rare one) ; but the possibility of such generation in actual cancer-substance seems only admissible on the principle that the freaks of nature are bound- less in their variety. Built up of materials, such as these, are all cancers. Encephaloid, soft, brain-like, rapid in its evolution, attaining great bulk, highly vas- cular, prone to bleed and fungate, is microsco- pically distinguished by its deficiency in fibrous stroma and the abundance of its fluid blastema and its cells. Scirrhus, hard, tough, slow in growth, and reaching moderate dimensions only, poor in vessels, rich in fibre, differs mi- croscopically from its co-species in its abun- dance of fibrous stroma and the comparative fewness of its cells, which mainly grow on the exogenous plan. Colloid, crisp in its mass, soft in the jelly-like ingredient that fills its loculi (models of the spherical loculus), but slightly vascular and semi-transparent, stands apart microscopically from encepha- loid in the well-marked fibrousness of its loculus-walls, from scirrhus in the abundance of its endogenously-growing cells, from both in the abundance of its viscid jelly-like element. The chemistry of cancer is yet in its in- fancy. Its organic basis is essentially protein, — its saline constituents those of the blood. That there is a difference in chemical nature between colloid and the other species, seems plain from the fact that the former retains, the latter lose, their transparency in alcohol: Miil- ler conjectures that colloid contains a com- pound analogous to ptyalin. Microchemically the cells of cancer are insoluble in cold and boiling water, and are not seriously affected (in respect of solution) by acetic acid : the cell-wall has been said to disappear under the influence of the diluted acid ; but it is simply rendered pale, and may be restored by the ioduretted solution of iodide of potassium, which at the same time greatly deepens the colour of the nucleus. We have already said (p. 124) that a con- stant and unfailing microscopical characteristic of cancer has hitherto been vainly sought for ; the following propositions will serve as a com- mentary on, and, in some sort, a justification of, the statement. (1.) Parent cells, con- taining within them sub-cells having darker nuclei, and these, in turn, bright nucleoli, are strongly characteristic of cancer : but such cells are rare in, and may be altogether absent from, scirrhus; encephaloid in some phases of its growth may also be without them. (2.) The shapelessly-caudate cell (see Jig, 98) seems significant of cancer; but it may be absent from encephaloid, and it is ex« cessively rare in scirrhus or colloid. (3.) A