502 SEMEN. in many glandular cells of the insects gra- dually assumes a remarkable ramified shape * ; and that it even converts itself in other cases into peculiar fibrous formations — into the so-called nuclear fibres (Kernfasern).f Still more remarkable is the metamorphosis of the nucleus in the developement of the so- called prickle or nettle organs — those in- teresting microscopical formations, which are so frequently imbedded in the skin of the lower animals (e. g. Polyps and Medusae), and which present so great a similarity to certain forms of the seminal fibres, that they were even taken for such by one of us on their first discovery. Kolliker'sX observa- tions, as well as our own more recent ones, instituted ui)on Hydra, convince us beyond doubt that it is the nuclei of cells which gradually metamorphose themselves into the capsules of the prickles, and which ultimately become free through the dissolu- tion of tlie cell membrane surrounding them. The same genetic process therefore takes place here in every essential point of view, as that by which the formation of the sperma- tozoa in the Chilopoda is effected. But the developement of the prickles is never limited to this metamorphosis of the nucleus. There is formed at the same time in its interior ti peculiar linear or fibrous part, which how- ever constantly enters into combination with -the persistent external vesicle of the nuclei or with the capsule. Thus we may see that the formation of the prickles is closely con- nected with that scheme which we have laid down as a formula for the developement of the spermatozoa. It occupies the medium be- tween the second and third mode of de- velopement of the spermatozoa established by us. On examining the external coverings of Hydra, we shall readily be enabled to con- vince ourselves of the formation of these organs. The most different stages of de- velopement may here be seen, viz. developed prickles, either free or still enclosed by a cell membrane, from which the organ it- self, and especially the fibre enclosed in its interior, recedes more and more, until it finally appears as a mere simple nucleus. In several Planariae the organs are con- tained, in an imperfect state, in considerable numbers in one common cell. The nuclei in the interior of the cells have therefore multiplied here, as in the seminal cells of the vertebrata. Organization of the spermatozoa. — At the period when the spermatozoa were still con- sidered as individual animated creatures, it was natural that those qualities should be sought for, which distinguish animals gene- * According to tlie discovery of Frey and Lenc- kart (Wagner's Zootomie, ii. p. 61.), which sub- sequently, has also been made by H. Meckel (Mul- ler's Archiv. 1846, S. 26.). f Yid. Henle (Allgemein. Anat. S. 193.) and ZAvicky (Metamorphose der Thrombus). \ R. Wagner in Weigmann's Ai'chiv. i835. rally; and it was frequently asserted that the distinct traces of an internal organization had been found in them. Even Leuwenhoek^^ the oldest observer of these structures, de- scribes in the body of the spermatozoa of the ram and of the rabbit, indications which were subsequently interpreted by Ehrenberg \ and Valentin \ to be intestines, stomachic vesicles, and even generative organs. Other histologers, for instance, Schwann and Henle, thought themselves justified in calling a dark spot, which shows itself occasionally in the body of the spermatozoon in men, but which is decidedly a mere accidental formation, as a suctorial cavity. But all these statements are now no longer believed in, as our present knowledge of the developement of these form- ations has entirely removed the idea of their parasitic nature. Indeed the subject requires no further refutation, as an unprejudiced ob- servation will prove that the spermatozoa are every where void of a special organization, and consist of an uniform homogeneous sub- stance, which exhibits, when examined by the microscope, a yellow amber-like glitter. The above mentioned investigators have by this time undoubtedly seen their error. Motions of the spermatozoa. — The opinion of an internal organization of the developed seminal elements was not a little supported by the various remarkable phenomena of motion, which were frequently perceived in them. In former times, when people had no idea of the existence and extent of the so- called automatic phenomena of motion, which take place without the intervention or in- fluence of the nervous system ; when nothing was known of the motion, very similar to a vo- luntary one, which exists even in plants; this movement was certainly calculated to place the independent animal nature of the spermatozoa almost beyond a doubt. But it is different now. We now know that motion is not an exclusive attribute of animals, and that an in- ference respecting the animal nature of the formations in question, however similar the motion observed in them may be to that of animal organizations, is a very unsafe and venturesome one. We know that certain elementary constituents, animal as well as vegetable, possess a power of movement, and that they even retain it for some time after having been separated from the organisms to which they belonged. We only here need remind our readers of the so-called ciliated epithelia, the severed cells of which swim about in the fluid surrounding them, and which, when in this state, have not unfre- quently, and that even quite recently, been considered as independent animals how, * Opera, vol. iv. pp. 168. 284. f Infusoriensthierclien, S. 465. j Xov. Act. Acad. Leopold, vol. xix. p. 239. § For instance, Xordmann , has described the severed ciliated cells from the sails of the larvae of Xudibranchiata as parasitic Infusoria (Cos- mella hydrarhaoides). (Versuch einer Mono- graphic der Tergipes Edwardsii. Petersburgh. S. 97.)