SESAMOID BONES. 541 not effect the metamorphosis. While the complete isolation of these bodies from the vessels which are the immediate channels of nutrition, leaves only one supposition, viz., that the synovial fluid is the pabulum from which they derive the materials essential to their permanence, growth, or alteration. The composition of this fluid as compared with their own, perhaps sufficiently warrants this conclusion. Other conjectures as to the mode of their development are offered by Bidder, such as the possible precipitation of synovia around an epithelial cell, the gigantic development of a cell, or, what much approximates to this, their hydatid nature. In certain abnormal conditions of the ar- ticular cartilages, peculiar appearances of the synovial membranes are seen, although it is somewhat doubtful how far they can be re- garded as essentially morbid. Thus, for example, in the ulceration of diar- throdial cartilages, it appears probable, that the removal of their substance is chiefly accomplished by the synovial membranes. Cruveilhier * narrates a case in which puru- lent fungosities of this tissue replaced the destroyed cartilages of the ankle-joint; and the general connection of hypertrophy of the membrane with ulceration of the cartilage has long been known. More recently, Mr. Good- sir's f investigations have thrown much ad- ditional light on this subject. He has shown that the preternaturally active growth of the cartilage, and the similarly rapid change of its properties and appearances, are to be regarded as inherent in this tissue itself; that where the destruction of its substance occurs at its margin, or in the immediate neighbourhood of the vessels, a fungous enlargement or ex- tension of these accurately fits into the eroded part; but that in the ulceration of the centre of the cartilaginous lamella, such a phy^sical adaptation is absent. From these circum- stances it seems probable that the absorption which is accomplished in the former case by the local enlargement, is in the latter shared by the vessels of the synovial membrane generally. A somewhat similar, but much less pro- minent affection of vascularity has been de- scribed by Dr. Todd J in the porcelain-like condition of these cartilages, which often obtains in the chronic gout of the aged. The highly injected vessels of the synovial membrane were covered by a whitish powder, which was doubtless a frictional detritus of the diseased cartilage. How far this con- gestive state is connected with the absorption of this powder, is unknown. ( William Brinfon.') SESAMOID BONES. By this name are designated the small bones met with in the neighbourhood of certain joints, generally in the tendons of the adjacent muscles. They * Archives Generales de Medecine, vol. iv. p. IGl. f Anatomical and Pathological Observatious. X Medical Gazette, 1847. owe their name {(rrjtrafxri ei^og) to the figure which they usually possess, resembling that of an Indian grain called sesame. But the present application of the term regards the character of their situation in the course of a tendon, rather than their form ; for in- stance, the patella is often said to be a sesa- moid bone, not because it resembles sesame, but because it is placed in the tendon of the extensor cruris muscles. This character of their situation in the course of tendons con- stitutes their chief point of interest; it is in this that they are peculiar, and different from other bones. In the human subject these bones are usually met with only on the palmar aspect of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb and the homologically corresponding part of the great toe, in both of which situations there are usually two. These are not constantly present, and, according to Cloquet, are not met with in children, owing, j)robably, to their becoming ossified late, though in young Ru- minants and Solipeds, as well as in other animals, I have found their ossification as far advanced as it was in the other bones. They are more frequently absent in the hand than in the foot, and in females than in males. The long flexor tendon of the thumb or great toe passes between them, and the two are bound together above and below it by dense fibrous tissue, so that they assist in forming its sheath. The sesamoid bones of the thumb are very small—usually not bigger than the half of a large pea. They have a somewhat oval out- hne, are convex on their palmar, and slightly concave on their dorsal aspect, which is arti- cular, and covered with cartilage. They arti- culate with the head of the metacarpal bone. Those of the great toe are each as large as a horse bean, of a long oval outline, convex on the plantar aspect, and presenting a concave cartilage-covered surface to the head of the metatarsal bone, to which they are adapted. The little pieces of bone, situated and shaped as above, are enclosed in the tendons of the short flexor muscle of the thumb or great toe, the fibres of which have the follow- ing relation to them: — Some of the ten- dinous fibres pass over them, and some on each side, whilst their articular cartilage, as I have verified by microscopic examination, be- comes mixed with tendinous fibres, passing on their arthrodial aspect, as it approaches the bone. The greater part of the tendon, how- ever, is inserted into their proximal, and arises again, so to speak, from their distal end. The arthrodial surface of their articular cartilage forms part of the synovial surface of the sub- jacent metacarpo phalangeal joint, and they are held in their place by the strong fibrous tissue of the common synovial capsule. Structure. — The sesamoid bones consist of finely cancellated osseous tissue, enclosed in a shell of denser bone. The main direction of the osseous columns that surround the can- celli is longitudinal, but they intercommunicate in all directions. These columns are much