063 SKELETON. u u 4 483.) are alike as to those segments which constitute them one and all. Those segments are the scapula («, a), the humerus {b, b), the fore-arm bones (c, d), the carpal ossicles (e,/), and the metacarpo-phalangeal series (1, 2, 3, 4, 5). Every species of the fore member produces these segments in- variably ; I say invariably, for I am not now referring to their pathological state. When I compare all fore-limbs by the scapula (a) or proximal segment, I find that this bone is invariably present, though very much modified in several animals. As all scapulary organs of mammals, birds, reptiles (and I would add the osseous fishes, but for certain facts which require previous expla- nation,) produce the bone named scapula, they may be hence termed uniform as to this particular. The invariable occurrence of the humerus {b) renders them likewise uniform as to this segment. But though the fore-arm carpus and metacarpo-phalangeal segments are, as segraentSj invariably present likewise, still all fore-limbs are not equal or uniform as to the quantity contained in each of these segments. Considering the fore-limbs under general notice, I see that they are uniform by the proximal ends (a, b) of the organs, and variously by the distal or terminal appen- dages. But it is most true, nevertheless, that this variety is only quantitative, or simply a plus and minus variation, for a produces five digits, B four, c three, d two, and e only one. Of the two bones (c, d) constituting the fore-arm, that one which is most constantly developed in entire proportions is the ra- dius (c). The ulna {d) is very often reduced to almost unrecognisable dimensions {d of e) ; and that part of the ulna which is most gene- rally metamorphosed or annihilated is its distal or carpal extremity. The olecranon process and a part of the shaft of the ulna is always present. The carpal ossicles (e,f), which in all fore- limbs manifest a greater relationship to the radius (c) than to the ulna {d), are as constant as the radius itself. The n)etamorphosis of the ulna {d of e) does not appear to affect the carpal ossicles (<?,/). The metacarpal bones (^fg- 483.) are nu- merically various in these scapulary organs. Though it be true that we find them in all fore-limbs, still we do not find them produced in equal numbers. The metacarpal bones are not constant to the number of five ; but though we find them varying in a plurality of animals from the number of 5 in a to that of 1 in E, still we should not overlook the fact, that in certain fore-limbs, as d and e, where, to all appearance at first sight, a single meta- carpal bone is developed, a closer inspection will prove that others may be present, though in rudimental form (5 of e). The phalangeal ossicles (2, 4, 6, of b. Jig. 484.) which constitute a finger are usu- ally three in number ; but there are ex- ceptions to this rule. The fingers themselves are generally found to correspond in number with the metacarpal bones. When there are five metacarpal bones, the fingers are five in number also. When animals have only four, or three, or two, or one metacarpal bone {fig. 483.), the fingers number accordingly. There may be more metacarpal bones tlian there are fingers, but as many of the fingers as are present, whatever be their number, have each invariably a corresponding metacarpal bone. The rudimental metacarpal bones have, generally speaking, rudimental pha- langes. The thumb varies as to the number of its phalanges, and becomes a finger or a thumb according to this occurrence. The meta- carpal bone of the thumb is very often pre- sent when the phalangeal thumb ossicles are ab- sent ; and sometimes I find that some species of animals have only one phalanx for a thumb ; sometimes two, sometimes three. The digit which is a thumb in one animal (fig. 484. b), by reason of the fact that it stands apart from the other digits, is now and then laid side by Fig. 484. side (a) with the other digits, and becomes a finger accordingly. I have reason to believe that the bone (1,2, next to 7 of b) which we term metacarpal bone of the thunib in one animal is the true homologue of the first phalanx of the finger appended to 8 of a, and for this reason, viz. that the metacarpal bone of the human thumb (1,2 appended to 7 of b), is constituted of two ossicles, which have become consolidated. If we class the hindmost ossicle (1 of the bone, J, 2 ap- pended to 7 of b) with the other meta- carpal bones, then the foremost ossicle (2) will represent the first phalanx (2) of the other fingers, and this will give (as in a) three phalanges to the thumb, as to the other fingers. It is worthy of notice, that the so- called metacarpal bone of the thumb (1,2 of b) corresponds as to nucleary deposit with the first phalanx (1, 2) of the finger. The foregoing mentioned facts respecting the scapulary organs will prove that they are " unity in variety," the unity being a plus quantity (as a, fig. 483. with five digits); whereas the variety is simply a minus quan- tity, so rendered by the degradation or meta- morphosis of the quantity of five digits, which