POLYPIFERA. 30 developed around the pre-existent polypes, and thus augment indefinitely the number of individuals united upon one stock. There is, however, a very important difference observ- able between these two genera of zoophytes, in other respects so similar. In the Alcyons the abdominal cavity of the young polypes is not directly continuous with the abdominal cavity of their parent, and it is only by the intermedium of the vascular system described above that they are placed in communication with each other; a modification which de- pends upon another difference in the mode of formation of the reproductive gemmae. When an Alcyon stock is about to put forth a new branch, the spongy part of the polypary (that portion which is formed by the external tunic of the polypes and permeated by the vascular network) begins to increase in size at some determinate point of its periphery, and soon produces a tubercle of greater or smaller size, into which the vessels spoken of above are continued, and form numerous anastomoses with each other. At this early period of de- velopment the new branch presents no trace of polypes, but its vascular tissue is neverthe- less already studded with calcareous crystals, and exactly resembles that situated in other parts of the common mass between the abdo- minal cavities of the adult polypes. It must, therefore, necessarily be traversed by the cur- rents which circulate in the general vascular system. On dissecting one of these newly formed branches the vestiges of young polypes may be distinguished; and if the sprouts ex- amined are still further advanced, it is easy to distinguish the young animals within, already possessing the form they will afterwards ex- hibit, but which have not yet established a communication with the exterior. At length, however, this communication is established, and the newly formed polype only differs from the pre-existing ones in its small size, and as it grows its increase causes the enlargement of the polypary of which it forms a part. In this case it is very evident that the part which gives birth to the reproductive gemmae is no portion of the individual polypes of the Alcyon, but is common to them all. The generative tissue surrounds these little beings with a sort of living sheath, and produces in the interior of its own substance new polypes, quite independently of those previously in existence. These polyparies might therefore be compared to a sort of common ovary, the products of which are never completely indi- viduahsed, but remain permanently lodged in its substance, and minister to the support of its existence and the aggrandizement of its tissue. This singular mode of reproduction, M. Milne Edwards observes, seems at first sight to be very different from that observed in the Alct/onidium ; but, on reflection, a considerable analogy may be traced between them. In Alcyonidium the internal tunic of the abdo- minal cavity fulfils the functions of an ovary, and produces at determinate points both gemmae and ova; whilst in Alcyon, on the contrary, while the internal membranous layer gives birth to ova, the gemmae are developed elsewhere, from the canals which permeate the common mass. But the membrane which forms these canals, and which is the seat of this kind of vegetative reproduction, is merely a continuation of the internal tunic; and hence it is easy to understand how it may fulfil analogous functions. CoRALLiD-*:.—T\\Q cortical polypes, as they have been named by authors, mainly differ from the Alcyonidae from the circumstance that the fleshy cortex which constitutes the common polypary, instead of being merely indurated by the deposition of earthy spicula in its interior, secretes for itself a solid central axis, upon the ramifications of which it is spread out, and thus enabled to form itself into arborescent expansions, of dimensions such as would be quite unattainable without this arrangement. The composition of this central axis varies in different genera; some- times it is dense and stony {Lithophytd) ; sometimes flexible, and composed of a horny substance {Keratophyta); this difference is, however, of no physiological importance, for very frequently the two substances are se- creted in the same individual in different por- tions of its substance. The soHd element in the Lithophyta is carbonate of lime ; in the Keratophyta it is concrete albumen. ** A species of Gorgonia, of a black colour and high polish, like black sealing-wax (Anli- Fig. 33. Branch of Gorgonia Umbraculum slightly magnijied. patkes?), examined by Mr. Hatchett*, was found, by immersion in dilute nitric acid du- ring 28 days, gradually to become transparent and of a bright brownish yellow. In this softened state it was steeped two days in water, and was then opened longitudinally ; by this the whole structure became apparent, and consisted of thin coats or tubes of a beautiful transparent membrane, which be- ginning from a central point gradually be- came larger, according to the order in which they receded from the centre. These mem- branes were so delicate that the fibrous tex- ture could scarcely be discerned. The acid in which these had been steeped was tinged of a very pale yellow. Ammonia being added changed it to a deep yellow or orange colour; but the transparency of the liquor was not disturbed by this or any other precipitants which had been employed in the former experiments. * Phil. Trans. 1800.