SKELETON. ^34 to the lesser, I may idealise it by a mode of equation to uniformity with the greater. For while I find reasons to believe that the spinal segment {fig. 454.), which is now in cervical form as consisting of the parts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, has lost its sternal piece (6) and most part of its lateral costae or ribs (7), then I have only to supply in idea the sternal piece and costse to the cervical vertebra, in order to equate this segment to the thoracic plus character of fig. 450. The same mode of comparison carried out through all the serial segments of the spinal axis, will likewise render them in idea all equal to thoracic costo-vertebral arche- types, as seen in fig. 455.; and this is the mode of comparison by which alone the ana- tomist can understand the law of skeletal formation. Prop. XXII. Without knoiving the full di- mensions ofivhole or uniform quantities, ive can never rightly understand the real character of lesser and special forms, and therefore can never otherwise understand the law of formation. —The object of the present mode of com. parison is, to ascertain the exact forms of whole quantities or archetypes, and the means adopted to this end is the synthetic mode. This object, and the comparative method by which I here endeavour to prove the existence of it, differs from all other methods hitherto adopted by comparative anatomists in search of the true interpreta- tion of skeletal fabrics and the law of unity in variety. 1 mean to show that anatomical science can never know the figure of skeletal unity or uniformity until it shall know the archetype or prime model of complete dimen- sions from which all skeletal fabrics are fashioned ; and, furthermore, that it can never comprehend the source of variety or specific difference until it shall interpret this as attaching to variable figures of osseous quantity degraded from the archetypes, and hence that it can never understand the law of skeletal formation in any other light ration- ally, unless in the sense of a law of degrada- tion from whole or archetype skeletal fabrics. Now it appears to me, that by means of the mode of comparison which I here make use of for ascertaining the whole original or archetype quantity from which such a fabric as the mammal spinal axis {fig. 455.) is fashioned, we may also define as clearly the originals or archetypes of a large number of s[)inal axes throughout the classes of mammals, birds, reptiles, &:c.; for, no doubt, what is true of one form must be likewise true of plural numbers of forms, such as skeletons which manifestl}' bear a remarkable analogy the one to the other. The same law of de- gradation by which a cervical, a lumbar, a sacral, and a caudal ossicle happens in the mammal spinal axis, appears to me to give a complete solution of the more extended problem, viz. how it happens that animal spines of all classes present differences in the cervix, the thorax, the loins, the sacrum, and the caudex. For while I find, by compara- tive reasoning held upon the serial segments of the one mammal spine, that a cervical or lumbar, &c. segment has actually lost costo- sternal quantity, and that by this loss it now differs from a thoracic costo-vertebral arche- type, it must follow that the original or whole archetype quantity of a cervical or lumbar spinal segment is the equal of a thoracic costo-vertebral segment ; and the very same reasoning lends a true interpretation to all cervical, or lumbar, or sacral, or caudal seg- ments wherever they appear, whether in the class mammalia, birds, reptiles, <Src. Uniformity must, therefore, alone charac- terise the original archetype series, not only of all spinal segments such as they appear in the one spinal axis {fig. 455.), but the Uke original archetypal uniformity must be that whole quantity from which all segments of all spinal axes have been degraded. And diver- sity or specific difference will at the same time get its proper interpretation; for if a mammal cervical vertebra be diverse to a costo-vertebral thoracic archetype by reason of being proportionally different, and rendered so by the simple subtraction of its sternal piece and ribs, then, as the like difference or variety characterises all cervical or lumbar segments of animal skeletons of the classes mammals, birds, reptiles, &c. from all thoracic costo-vertebral archetypes of the same ani- mals, it will hence appear that such diversity or specific variety has originated by the law of proportioning from whole archetype quantities. 1 draw the conclusion, therefore, that as an archetype series of sternal costo-vertebral segments, ranging from 1 to 24 of fig. 455., is the original of the mammal spinal axis, so may it be inferred that such an archetype series is the original of all spinal axes, what- ever be their existing variety ; and the law by which such variety occurs is the simple pro- cess of degradation or subtraction from the archetype series of sterno-costo-vertebral seg- ments. There can, I believe, be no other true interpretation of the law of unity in variety than this. Prop. XXIII. The mammalian cervix is not limited to the fixed number of seven cervical vertebrcB. — A general i ule may have excep- tions, and anatomists may still indulge the as- sertion, that " the exception proves the rule ;" but, as I take it, the exception only proves that the rule has a flaw in it, and that such ex- ception can prove nothing more than this, namely, that error rests somewhere in our in- pretations of the law of formation. When I say that there are many grave excep- tions to the general rule that the mammal cervix is developed of seven cervical vertebrae, I am but recording facts — anatomical facts— which are excej^tions to the rule. And while I here endeavour to develop the true evi- dence of the universal law" of formation, I do not pur[)Ose doing so irrespective of those exceptional facts, for I believe that they must be interpreted before the law can be estab- lished truly. The neck of one species of sloth {'B,fig. 456.) possesses nine cervical ver- tebrae, while the neck of another species (a)