197 QUADRUMANA. o 3 obliquely in its upper part, and a protruded superciliary ridge, give a peculiarly cunning, mistrustful, and somewhat ferocious physiog- nomy to these Inui, especially to the old ones. Their limbs are strong and compact; by them, and by the shortness or the want of a tail, they are more a terrestrial than an arborial genus. They devour frogs, lizards, and large insects, as readily as vegetable sub- stances. They possess naked callosities, cheek-poaches, and laryngeal expansions. Their canines are very strong, and the pos- terior molars of the lower jaw have an ad- ditional tubercle. By the great development of the superior canine, the first molars of the lower jaw are inclined backwards on each side, and thus make room for the reception of those teeth. This character appears first in Colobus and Cercopithecu4, but it is not so distinct in these as in Inuns. Among the Cercopitheci it is the most apparent in C. cyno- molgxu, by which, and by the existence of the additional tubercle on the posterior mo- lars of the lower jaw, this forms, with its two congeners C. radiatus and C. sxnicujs or pde- atus, a transition to Inuus. This inclined direction of the first molar of the lower jaw becomes more distinct by age. It is rendered necessary, by the length of the superior canine tooth, and by the uninterrupted series of the canine and first molar in the lower jaw. By the action of the superior canine, there is pro- duced a surface for trituration, in the external surface of the anterior root of the first molar. The Inui inhabit generally eastern India. They are very gentle, industrious, and intel- ligent in their youth, but become ferocious and untameable in their old age. Spec. — InutLS rhesus^ I. speciosiLS^ I. nC' mestrinus, I. maurus^ I. st/Icanus or ecaudatus. Amongst these the /. syltanus is not only reraarkable by the want of a tail, but also by being the only one of this genus which comes within the geographic range of Europe ; great numbers, origiuaily fi*om Barbary, still inhabit- ing the inaccessible precipices of the rock of Gibraltar. g. Seventh Genus. Cynocephalus Cut. Ba- boon, Engl. Papion, Fr. Bariaan, Dutch. The same teeth as Inuus, but the canini of the upper jaw are enormously developed, and consequently the first molars of the lower jaw- are still more inclined. The cheek-pouches, the callosities, and the laryn£eal expansions, as in the precedent genera. Tne tail is either short, thick, and ending in a tuft of hair, or altogether deficient. A large, dog-shaped head, with a prominent, truncated, or, as it were, abruptly cut-off muzzle, with the nos- trils op>ening at the end, gives a hideous aspect to the CyyiocephaUy corresponding to their ferocious, disgusting, and formidable manners. To the prolongation of the face, and prepon- derance of the anterior over the posterior part of the head, is to be attributed, at least in a great measure, the fact that the CynocephaR less fi-equently assume the erect posture than any of the other Quadruraana, and even when they do, are less capable of maintaining it for any length of time. They are essentially con- structed for terrestrial progression. Their whole habits, as well as their organic struc- ture, approximate these animals to the ordinarj'^ quadrupeds. The great development of their organs of smell ; the position of the nostrils ; the robust make of their extremities, and their equality in point of length ; the size and power of their canine teeth, and the nature of their food ; all indicate their inferiority to the Apes and Monkeys. Their natural food consists of wild berries and bulbous roots, bird's eggs, insects, 6cc. In search of food, they go in large companies upon marauding parties, re- ciprocally to support each other, and to carry off their plunder in greater security. They inhabit principally Africa and the Philippine islands. Spec. — CynocephaliLS sUenus^ C. Spkynx, C. porcarius, C. hamadryas^ C. gelada^ C. ni- ger, C. leucophiBiLSy C. mormon. * I refer the C. silenus or Ouanderou to the Cynocephali^ by the prevailing authority of Dr. ScHLEGEL. The general physiognomy of this monkey, and the brush at the extremity of the taU, are sufficient characters to justify this determinarion. The C. sUenus forms with the C. niger the link of a chain uniting our genus Inuus with Cynocephalus. In both, the nostrils are not terminal, nor is the muzzle truncated, but disposed as in the Inui, while by the other characters they are Cynocephali, The Gelada. which was first brought to pubUc notice by the celebrated Dr. Kuppell, is certainly a Cynocephalus nearly alUed to C, hamadryas. In a skull of this monkey in the museum at Leyden, I was struck with the great conformity it has with the skull of the larger CynocephaR, for example, with the skuil of C. porcarius. It has the same pro- minent suf>erciliary ridges, the same deep orbits, the same prominent maxillary bones, and, above all, the same deep fossa on the facial surface of the supra- and infra-maxiliary bones. The Drill {C, lencoph^us) and Man- drill ( C. mormon) ought to be separated from the rest by a t}-pi(^ pre-eminence. Their cheeks are promment, deeply ridged, and m the Mandrill beautifully coloured. Osteology. — If we consider the bonv framework of all the monkeys of the Old World, we find in it no less numerous dif- ferences than in their external form and habits. We may trace in it some successive stages, by which they deviate from the structure of man. and approximate to the skeleton of the larger Camicora. As I have stated elsewhere, they form an iminterrupted series, in the descending scale, beginning with the Chim- panzee, and ending with the Cynocephali. The skull of the Chimpanzee {Jig. 116) is of a narrow, elongated tbrin, slighUy contracted * Recently L Geofeoy St. HiUire has separated the C. pelada under the name of TVeqpAfterms, and the C. Htffer under the name of OfnapiAeaa niper. But I am afraid that the introduction of all tbese new genera does not conmtoxe an haprcfTODeat tat science.