SEMEN. 480 more so as the characteristic spiral twistings have not yet assumed that distinctness and Fig. 334. Cells of Developement with Spermatozoa of the House Sparrow. regularity, which they subsequently attain. The presence of the spermatozoa can only be proved with certainty, when they have become tree, after the dissolution of their formative cells, the mother cyst still continuing to en- circle them. Thus we may also explain the former conjecture of one of us, R. Wagner, who thought that the spermatozoa of the singing birds had their origin immediately in the interior of the large cysts. The spermatozoa of the singing birds do not however lie together irregularly in the inte- rior of these c} sts, as in the cock, the pigeon, &c.,but are associated in very definite fascicles, as already described. We are ignorant as to the cause of this arrangement. The number and grouping of the cells of developement in the interior of the cysts do not present any remarkable differences from those in the cock, &c., although the spermatozoa of the latter are constantly devoid of such a regular arrangement. The spermatozoa of the sing- ing birds likewise remain enclosed for some time by the membrane of the mother cysts. At the commencement they lie with re- verted tails close to the interior wall of the cysts, which then assumes an oval form {fig. 335.). Subsequently the tail ends of Mother Cell with a Bundle of Spermatozoa from Fr 'mgilla domestica. the spermatozoa remove themselves further and further from the anterior bodies. The cyst bursts where the points of the tails are situated, and the bundles, which are still covered at the anterior end by the remains of the cyst, as if by a cap, then assume the shape of a retort, or of a knee-shaped bent cylinder. Even in cases in which the spermatozoa have perfectly separated them- selves (fig. 336.), this remainder of the for- mer cyst can generally be traced. We may also see very distinctly a tough albuminous substance between the individual sper- matozoa, from which the tail ends project freely. These proportions experience a small mo- dification in those singing birds, in which the Fig. 336. A Bundle of Spermatozoa from FringUIa ccelebs. tails of the spermatozoa are shorter than among the Lanidae. The cysts here retain almost entirely their original form, or do not enlarge to any extent (fig. 337.). The Fig. 337. Bundle of Spermatozoa in the interior of a Cyst of Lanius. spermatozoa in this case lie quite straight in the cyst from the commencement, and sub- sequently pierce the posterior end of it with their tails. Reptilia. — The spermatozoa of the rep- tilia possess the same shape as those of birds; that is to say, an oblong cylindrical body, and a very fine hair-like tail. No great differences present themselves in the form of these elements among the rep-