3o9 RESPIRATION. and Tiedemann *, Stromeyer f, Miiller and others J. failed in obtaining any carbonic acid gas from the blood by the air-pump and other means, and it was not until the publication of the important experiments of Magnus, con- firmed as they have been to a certain extent by other observers, and strengthened by evi- dence collected both before and since on the results of the respiration of animals in hy- drogen and nitrogen gases, that the existence of any free gas in the blood has been gene- rally admitted. Bertuch and Magnus pro- cured carbonic acid gas from human venous blood by agitating it with hydrogen.^ Mag- nus has not only obtained carbonic acid gas from both kinds of blood in some of the domesticated animals, but also oxygen and azote by means of the air-pump. The two latter gases were also procured from both kinds of blood by agitation with carbonic acid gas. The quantity of gases obtained from the blood by the air-pump in these expe- riments by Magnus amounted to yVt-h, and sometimes to ith of the volume of the blood employed ; but from the difficulty of libe- rating the gases from the blood, he believes that this quantity forms but a small part of that actually held in solution in this fluid. In some experiments with hydrogen, the quan- tity of carbonic acid obtained amounted to ^th of the volume of the blood employed. The relative quantity of oxygen gas to the car- bonic acid gas is greater in arterial than in venous blood. In venous blood the oxygen was as Ath, and often ^th, while in arterial blood it was at least as -id and sometimes ^ to the carbonic acid.|| Magnus, in a second memoir on this subject, states that he obtained the following quantities of oxygen and nitrogen from the arterial blood of two old horses, by agitating it in carbonic acid gas : — Oxygen. Azote. 10*5 2*0 "1 per cent, of the volume 10 3-3J of blood employed.il By adding together the total quantity of gases collected from each kind of blood in his dif- ferent experiments by means of the air-pump, and then comparing the relative proportions * Loc. cit. t Dissertatio Libenxmne Acidum Sanguine con- tinetur. Gottingen, 1831. X Two at least of these experimenters, viz. Dr. Davy and Gmelin, have since satisfied themselves that carbonic acid gas is evolved from blood under the air-pump. Dr. Davy (Philos. Transact, for 1838, p. 291) obtained it in small quantities both from venous and arterial blood, and Gmelin (Pi-eface to BischofTs Commentatio de Novis quibusdam Experimentis, &c.) also in small quantity from venous blood. § PoggendorfF's Annalen der Physik und Chemie, Band xl. S. 583. 1837. 11 Idem opus. i Poggendoi-fF's Annalen, Band Ixvi. S. 202.1845. Enschut had, previous to Magnus's experiments, obtained azote from both kinds of blood, and in greater quantity fi'om venous than from arterial blood. Opus cit. p. 159. of their constituent parts, the following results are obtained : — Arterial blood. Venous blood. Cubic Cubic centimJjtres. centimetres. Carbonic acid gas 39-5 or 62-3 per 47-5 or 71-6 per cent. cent. Oxygen - 14-7 _ 23-2 — 10-1 —15-3 — Nitrogen* 9-2 — 14-5 — 8-7 — 13-1 — / The quantity of oxygen gas procured from the blood of calves, oxen, and horses, pre- viously agitated with atmospheric air, was not less than 10 per cent, and not more than VI per cent. The blood can, however, absorb a greater quantity of oxygen and nitrogen than was collected in the experiments last-men- tioned, for by repeatedly shaking blood with renewed quantities of carbonic acid gas to remove the whole of the oxygen and nitrogen gases it contained, and then agitating it in measured quantities of atmospheric air, he ascertained, by again measuring the atmo- spheric air, that the minimum quantity of oxy- gen absorbed amounted to 10 per cent., and the maximum to 16 per cent. The quantity of nitrogen procured in numerous experiments on the blood of calves, oxen, and horses, pre- viously agitated with atmospheric air, was, when reduced toithe temperature of 32 Fahr. and the mean barometric pressure, from 1*7 to 3'3 per cent, of the volume of the blood employed. The quantity of oxygen gas which blood is capable of absorbing from the atmo- spheric air, is, according to Magnus, from 10 to 13 times more than water can do under the same circumstances.f The experiments * Poggendoi-ffs Aimalen, Band Ixvi. S. 189. Gay Lussac (Annales de Chimie et de Physique, 3me serie, torn. x. p. 1. 1844), has brought forward va- rious objections against the inferences drawni by Magnus from his experiments. He asserts that they lead to the conclusion that more carbonic acid gas exists in arterial than in venous blood. I\Iag- nus has replied, and oii the whole successfully, to these objections of Gay Lussac (Opus cit. Baud Ixvi). He contends that as the quantity of gases procured was only a part of what the blood actually contained, and as the experiments were of tlifferent duration, it must lead to error to compare, as Gay Lussac has done, the relative quantities of carbonic acid gas obtained from corresponding quantities of the two kinds of blood; and that the legitimate mode of procedure under the circumstances of the case, is to compare, as has been done in the above table, the relative quantities of the whole of the gases procured fi-om each of the two kinds of blood. t Poggendoi-lf's Annalen, Band Ixvi. S. 202. In some experiments the quantity of nitrogen absorbed by the blood, when previously agitated Avith carbonic acid, was G*5 per cent. Though these various results obtained by Magnus in his experiments have not been fully confinned by others, indeed several expe- rimenters, such as Enschut, Bischofl^, and Dr. J. Davy, who succeeded in procuring carbonic acid gas both from venous and arterial blood, failed in ob- taining decided e-\adence of the presence of oxygen gas, yet they appear to have been so carefully and repeatedly performed, that a behef in their general A A 4