216 QUADRUMANA. monstrated that it is not a Vespei^tilio but a Lemur, and that it forms in this way a tran- sition from the LeimirincB to the Cheiroptera. The author of the article Cheiroptera in this Cyclopcedia has adopted the same views, and I agree with them, including the Galeo- pithecus in my present paper. The Galeopi- thecus, then, is a Lemur, with the extremities connected by a bat-like membrane, or, in other words, surrounded by a thin skin, which they support as the framework of the umbrella sustains its covering. By this singular struc- ture, the animal while jumping is suspended in the air, yet without the power, as the Bats, of a continued flight. The fingers of the hands are not longer than those of the feet, and pro- vided in both with long and sharp incurvated claws. They dwell upon trees in the Indian Archipelago, and feed upon insects, and, per- haps, little birds. They sleep, as the Bats, suspended by their hind legs, with their head downwards. According to the observations of Waterhouse, their dentition is as follows : 2—2 . 0—0 incisors. false molars, 2—2 2—2 these teeth true molars, 4—4< :34. The form of 4—4 is very strange. The anterior incisor of each side in the upper jaw is of a small size and compressed form, suddenly dilated above its insertion in the jaw, serrated at the edge, and presenting three or four nearly equal denticulations. The second in- cisor on either side resembles the first false molar in form, and, like that, has two fangs. The first false molar is compressed, of a tri- angular form, and has the anterior and pos- terior edges serrated. The second false molar is less compressed than the first, and divided into two nearly equal, acutely pointed, trian- gular cusps ; the apex of the posterior cusp is directed inwards. The triangular grinding surface of each of the true molars consists of three pointed cusps. The molars of the lower jaw resemble those of the upper, ex- cepting that the position of the three prin- cipal cusps is reverted. The false molars are compressed and resemble, in general, their opponents of the upper jaw\ The tooth, which represents the canine, is comparatively small, compressed, and considerably expanded at the apex, where it is serrated, having five or six denticulations. The incisors are almost horizontal in their position, compressed, nar- row at the base, and suddenly expanded im- mediately above the base; each incisor is deeply festooned or subdivided by incisions into slender lam'mce. The incisors and false molars of the lower jaw are detached. Spec.—Galcopithecus variegatus. Osteology. — The considerations upon the skeleton of the LemurhicB ought to be con- Fig. 137. Skull of Gakopithecus variegatus. {After Waterhouse.')