PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 93 escapes into the urethra in certain cases of paralysis and in habitual spermatorrhoea ; and when the bladder is evacuated shortly after coitus (more especially in persons having stric- ture of the urethra) its contents carry with them a certain quantity of seminal fluid. We doubt that the prostatic secretion alone (the fact has certainly not been proved) leads to distinct albuminuria. Leucorrhoeal and cata- menial discharges produce it. FourtJily: Albuminuria from a doubtful cause. Cotunnius*, Cruickshank-t-, NystenJ, Andral, Rayer, Martin-Solon, Becquerel, and we our- selves, have found that the urine may contain a variable quantity of albumen during the pro- gress of acute diseases — a fact which is now matter of familiar clinical observation. M. Martin-Solon shows that the impregnation occurs in about y^-th of all cases ; this ob- server at one time held that the occurrence was of " critical'" signification, an opinion he has since correctly relinquished.— In certain chronic diseases, unattended with any organic alteration of the kidneys, the occasional oc- currence of albuminuria has been positively established : in disease of the heart by Dar. wall§. Forget 1|, and Martin-Solon ; in bron- chitis and disease of the intestines by the lattLT observer ; in aneurism of the ventral aorta by Dr. Morrison 1 ; in phthisis by Toulmouche**,and by ourselves, temporarily. Of the habitual occurrence of albumen m gouty urine, the evidence is insufficient. Becquerel found it in seven of eighteen cases of acute rheumatism, depending rather upon the acute tyj)e, than upon the nature, of the disease. — In the exanthemata, albuminuria depends on simple renal congestion (resulting from the inaction of the skin) ; or (especially in scarla- tina) on the supervention of a form of " Bright's disease," characterized by abundant accumulation of epithelium in the tubules. The saliva is another secretion which, con- taining albumen in extremely small quantity in the natural state (not more than 1.5 in 1000 parts), becomes apparently impregnated with that substance somewhat abundantly in certain morbid conditions. Simon f f found 7.77 per 1000 in the fluid discharged in ptyalism. However, the elaborate analyses of Dr. Wright J:}: show that this excess of albumen IS not a constant phenomenon ; in a case of ptyalism he found the albumen reach only 0.6 per 1000, and in three other forms of morbid saliva analyzed by hira (fatty, sweet, and bilious), the quantity of albumen equalized the average in the fatty variety only. The sweat has been found to contain albu- * Op. cit. p. 31. t Rollo on Diabetes, p. 444. X Re'cherches de Chim. et de Phvs. Pathologiques, p. 253. 1811. § Cyclop. Pract. Med. art. Dropsy. II Gazette Me'dicale de Paris, vol. v. p. 609. (two ca^es.) t Dub. Med. Journal, No. xxxvi. 1838. ** Gazette Med. de Paris. Fevrier, 1839. tt Op. cit. vol. ii. p. 10. XX Medical Times, or Der Speichel in Physiol. Diagnost. and Therap. Beziehung, 1844. men by Anselmino in a case of rheumatic fever. Stark asserts that albumen may be detected in this excretion in " gastric, putrid, and hectic diseases, and also on the approach of death, in consequence of the abnormal solution of the solid constituents." Simon ^ failed in de- tecting any certain indications of albumen in the sweat of a person in the colliquative stage of phthisis. (6.) Albumen retained.—That granular par- ticles of protein-basis, retained within the tissues, are some of them albuminous, seems a very admissible proposition. The non-plastic protein-substance infiltrating the kidney in certain forms of Bright's disease, for example, is albuminous rather than fibrinous in all pro- bability. But the difficulty of positively assign- ing their species to protein-compounds, espe- cially under such circumstances, is sufficiently well known. The mechanism of albumen-pre- cipitation within the body must be of different character from that by which it is effected without the frame, — at least it is not easy to conceive how the agencies, chemical and phy- sical, which are known to produce precipi- tation of albumen removed from vital influence, can come into play among the tissues. Albumen appears in the retained and non- plastic state as an important element in the fluid of dropsies ; to avoid repetition, we defer its consideration under these circumstances to Part II., where dropsical products are ex- amined. (B.) Fibrin, (a.) In the secretions.—That fibrin should occur in the urine, in association with the other elements of blood, is no more than must be expected in cases of haematuria. But it has of late years been found that fibrin sometimes occurs in solution in that excretion independently of any other constituent of the blood. Thus Nassef " knew a Catholic priest who passed, particularly during the night, a large quantity of whitish urine, that coagulated spontaneously in from ten to fifteen minutes after leaving the bladder, and often indeed coagulated in the bladder itself. The patient experienced no debility. On analysis the urine was found to contain a large quantity of fibrin, but no blood-globules." There were also prismatic crystals of triple phosphate present. Zimmerman:j: has particularly fol- lowed up this subject, and affirms he has dis- covered fibrin in the urine in endocarditis, pleuritis, pneumonia, bronchitis, rheumatic ophthalmia, periosteitis of the occiput, and erysipelas of the face. Urate of ammonia or uric acid was sometimes present. The fibrin, he presumes, appeared simply as an excretion, sufncient oxygen not having been taken up to decompose it into its organic forms. Zim- merman holds, that in cases of coagulable urine the coagulation will be found to be due to the presence of fibrin quite as often as of albumen, — a proposition which appears to us utterly inadmissible. * Op. cit. vol. ii. p. 109. t Brit, and For. Med. Keview, vol. xx. p. 75. X Zur Analysis imd Synthesis der pseudo-plas- tischen Prozesse; or, Brit, and For. Rev. loc. cit.