189 PULSE. Reports, No. VIF. It will be sufficient to state, that in the inverted position of the body the pulse becomes less frequent, especially in persons accustomed to this unusual posture. In two such instances the difference between the erect and recumbent postures equalled that between the recumbent and the inverted postures, being in both cases 15 beats. The following is a short summary of the leadina: facts relating to the effect of posture on the pulse. 1. In the healthy adult male the mean numbers of the pulse are as follows:— Stand- ing, 79; sitting, 70; lying, 67; including all exceptions to the rule. Standing, 81; sitting, 71; lying, 66; excluding all exceptions to the rule. 2. In the healthy adult female the numbers are:—Standing, 89; sitting, 82; lying, 80; including all exceptions to the rule. Standing, 91 ; sitting, 84 ; lying, 80; excluding all ex- ceptions to the rule. 3. In both sexes the extremes are very remote from the mean results, and the ex- ceptions to general rules very numerous. 4. In both sexes, also, the effect of change of posture increases as the frequency of the pulse increases; but the exceptions to general rules are more numerous as the pulse is less frequent. 5. The effect of change of posture on any given frequency of the pulse is much greater in the male than in the female. 6. The effect of change of posture on the pulse is less in early youth than in the adult, and the modifying influence of age is greater in the female than in the male. 7. The exceptions to general rules are more numerous in early youth than at the adult a_'e. 8. The exceptions to general rules are more numerous as the effect of change of posture is less. 9. The effect of change of posture on the pulse is greater in the forenoon than in the afterpart of the day. 10. The inverted posture of the body les- sens the frequency of the pulse. 11. The varying frequency of the pulse in different postures of the body is due to mus- cular contraction. Exercise. — Muscular exertion increases the frequency of the pulse more than any other cause, as will sufficiently appear by the following quotation from Bryan Robinson.* " The pulse, in a minute, of a man lying, sitting, standing, or walking at the rate of two miles in an hour, at the rate of four miles in an hour, or running as fast as he could, were 64, 68, 78, 100, 140, and 150 or more." Change of posture, as has just been proved, forms merely a particular case of muscular effort. The act of changing from one posture to another, and the maintenance of different positions by the action of the muscles, both occasion an increased frequency of the pulse ; so also does the stretching out of the arm or the holding of it in the same posture, the * Op. cit. p. 177. pulse rising rapidly with the continuance of the effort, and falling, as the writer hai proved experimentally, on returning to a state of rest, below the frequency which it had before the effort was made; and the same obser- vation applies to fatigue induced by long con- tinued exertion, as in walking. The cause of the increased frequency of the pulse which attends muscular effort is partly mechanical, that is to say, depending on the rapid pro- pulsion of the blood through the large veins, and partly due to the effort of the will which sets the muscles in action. It is probable, however, that the first-named cause is by far the most influential. Passive exercvie, as in riding and the various forms of carriage conveyance, has also a marked effect on the pulse ; an effect partly due to the varying action of the muscles in supporting the different postures into which the body is beins constantly throw n, and partly to a cause correctly pointed out by Dr. Ar- nott in the following passage. ** In a long vein below the heart, when the body falls, the blood, by its inertia and the supporting action of the vessels, does not fall so faat, and therefore really rises in the vein ; and as there are valves in the veins preventing return, the circulation is thus quickened w ith- out any muscular exhaustion on the part of the individual. This helps to explain the effect of the movement of carriages, of vessels at sea, of swings, &c., and the effect on the circulation of passive exercise generally, and leaves it less a mystery why these means are often so useful in certain states of weak health."* TniE OF Day — Diurnal Variations of THE Pulse. — This subject demands a more minute examination than it has yet received; for it is extremely interesting in a physiolo- gical point of view. All the older and several comparatively modern authorities agree in representing the pulse as more frequent in the evening than in the morning. Hallert, Rye and Schwenke;;:, Gregorj O, Zimmerman [j, Hufeland , Quetelet **, ' Fodere tf, Falco- ner ji. Double, and Cullen, and, among mo. dern physiologists, Dr. Bostock ^0, describe an increase of frequency towards evening; and more than one of these authors speak of a similar change occurring at noon and in the afternoon. Cullen especially insisted on this latter circumstance. It will facilitate our inquiry if we confine our attention for the present to the frequency of the pulse in the morning and in the even- ing, or in the earher and later periods of the day, reserving the alleged increase of frequency * Elements of Physics, voL L p. .52. t Opera Physiologica, Sectio 2, § xviL X Quoted by Haller, as above. I Conspectus Mediciiiie Theoretici?, cap. xv. ccccliii. j! On Experience in Physic, vol. L p. 250. ^ Makrobiotik, p. 53. ** Essai sur I'Homme Moyen, torn. ii. p 88. t+ Essai de Physiologie Positive, torn. L d. 190. Op. cit. p. 24. §§ Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, art. Pxilse.