472 SEMEN. secretory operations ; for, as Bichat observed, respecting the inflammation and suppuration of the testicle after its complete isolation from the larger masses of the nervous system, the establishment and maintenance of a morbid secretion was just as conclusive evidence of the independent character of the process, as if the normal product of the testis had been continued.* Upon all these grounds we feel justified in asserting, that no adequate ground has yet been furnished by pathological observation and experiment, for the estabhshment of any other doctrine as to the relation between the nervous system and the organic functions, than the last of those just stated. It is perfectly conformable to the facts supplied by com- parative physiology, and by the history of developement ; and may be said to rest upon them as upon a broad foundation. It har- monises sufficiently well with the results of experiment and pathological observation on man and the higher animals, to be considered as giving the most satisfactory interpretation of them which, in the present state of our knowledge, seems likely to be attained ; and if it be not the whole truth, is evidently not far from it. On the other hand, the doctrine that nervous influence is essential to the per- formance of the nutritive and secretory oper- ations, is opposed to the mass of phenomena presented in the vegetable world, in the lower tribes of the anin)al creation, and in the his- tory of the developement of the higher ; to the exact knowledge we now possess of the structure of glands themselves; and even to the results of those experiments and patho- logical observations which have been relied upon to prove it, when these are carefully sifted. ( W. B. Cai-jjenter.) SEMEN. — Sperma ; Sj)erm, Engl.; Gr. (rirepixa ; Germ. Samen ; Fr. Sjoerme. — Male animals, when perfectly developed and capable of procreation, secrete a thickish white fluid in their testicles, which possesses the faculty of inciting the generative parts of correspond- ing female individuals to a series of processes, the nltiuiate result of which is the developement of the embryo. This fluid, so indispensably necessary as the medium of sexual generation, is the seed or semen. Histological elements of the sonen. — Mi- croscojiic analysis proves that the most essen- tial morphological constituent of the semen consists in the spermatozoa (animalcula sper- matica), a number of corporeal elements, dis- tinguished by their specific shape, and by their pecul ar phenomena of vitality. The attention of physiologists and others has been actively dii-ected towards them, ever since their dis- covery by Ham and Leuwenhock; and the most varied and frequently the wildest assumptions and conjectures have been occasioned in con- sequf-nce. In spite of the intimate relation which they evidently occupy with regard to the procreative capacity of the semen, they ' Anatomie Gcneralc, torn. iv. p. C04. have been considered, even up to the most recent period, as independent animal orga- nizations, or parasitical animals. The reason adduced for such a conjecture is the peculiar motion which may be observed in almost all of these formations, and which in many cases bears a striking resemblance to voluntary mo- tion. This assumption, however, is perfectly irreconcileable with our present knowledge of the quality and developement of these bodies, based as it is principally upon the discoveries of R. Wagner, Von Sicbold, and KolUker. With our present means of a scientific diag- nosis, it can be proved that the formations in question are mere elementary constituents of the animal organization, like the ova, consti- tuents equally as necessary for the spermatic fluid as the blood-globules are for the blood. The remarkable phenomena of the life of sper- matozoa are quite analogous to those pheno- mena of motion observable not only in animal formations, but also in vegetable structures; as, for instance, in the spores of the algae and of the lower species of fungi, in the so termed vibriones, which grow out into the fibres of the conferva called " hygrogrocis." The denomination of " animalcula sperma- tica, spermatozoa," is based upon the assump- tion that these moveable elements of the semen are animated organizations endowed with all the attributes of animals ; and they were, ac- cordingly, classified among the Infusoria or Helminthea. KoUiker*, the first who most distinctly expressed the assertion that the so called spermatozoa are mere elementary parts of the organization, mere histological ele- ments, applied to them the name of Jila sper- matica; a designation which would certainly be appropriate, if all the formations in ques- tion possessed a linear form. V. Siebold^, rejecting the old name on the same grounds, has proposed that of spermatozoides, which, however, we consider as still less hap()ily chosen. We confess that we cannot exactly see the necessity of creating a new designation for these spermatic elements at all, the less so as many names in our scientific nomen- clature specif\' something quite difl^erent from that which they immediately indicate. We shall therefore principall\' use for the future the old name of spermatozoa, admitting at the same time that it is not quite a suitable one, and that it might probably be better expressed by the designation of corpuscula seminis, or spermatococci, by which they have occasion- ally been distinguished. The spermatozoa, or corpuscula seminis, are not merely normal, but in fact the essen- tial constituents of the procreative semen. Indeed, it appears, in many cases, espe- cially among the lower animals, that they are its only constituents. The presence of a fluid, liquor seminis, to hold them in sus- * Beitrage ziu- Kenutniss der Geschlechtsver- haltnisseu und der Sameufliissigkeit -n-irbellosen Thieve. Berlin, 1841. t Uber die Speniiatozooiden der Locustinen. From the Acta Acad. Leop. Carol. Xat. Cur. vol. xxi. Bart I. S. 1.