434 SCAPULAR REGION. divides the scapular region into two distinct parts, termed by anatomists the supra- and infra-spinal fossae ; and in this article we shall describe, seriatim, the anatomical relations of the structures which occupy these two fossae respectively. The subcutaneous layer of areolar tissue, throughout the whole of the scapular region, is dense, and much more closely connected to the integument than to the aponeurosis be- neath. Very free motion of the skin on the deeper seated structures is thus allowed. In this layer, superiorly, we find some of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus of nerves passing towards the region of the shoulder, where they become lost in the integument. Beneath the skin, sub- cutaneous areolar tissue, and superficial layer of fascia, the trapezius muscle covers all that portion of the scapular region which corre- sponds to the supra-spinal fossa. The fibres of this muscle take a direction downwards, outwards, and forwards, across this region, to the upper edge of the spinous process, and angle of junction between the acromion pro- cess and clavicle, into which they are inserted ; the more posterior fibres are oblique ; the an- terior, coming from the superior crest on the occipital bone, descend more perpendicularly. This muscle acts powerfully as an elevator of the shoulder joint, its anterior fibres drawing the entire scapula upwards and backwards, and with it the upper extremity, whilst its posterior fibres effect the same purpose by producing a motion of rotation in the scapula, in virtue of which the posterior angle of that bone is depressed, and the anterior, or acro- mial extremity, proportionately elevated. In cutting through the trapezius muscle, the anatomist will probably meet with some of the terminal branches of the spinal accessory nerve distributed to this muscle ; as also descending branches of the supra-scapular artery, which, becoming superficial, maintain around the acromion process an anastomosis with the ascending (inferior acromial) branches of the acromial axis, and the circumflex branches of the axillary trunk. Beneath the trapezius muscle, and sepa- rating it from the fascia which covers the supra-spinatus muscle, a layer of fatty areolar tissue is always placed, which varies, however, in its amount, in different persons. In chronic disease of the shoulder joint, such as ulcera- tion of the articular cartilage, and, in fact, in all cases where inflammatory action has ex- isted in the articulation for any considerable length of time, this intermuscular fatty stra- tum becomes absorbed; and to this circum- stance, as also probably in some degree, to atrophy of the muscular fibres, is due the pe- culiar flattening, or even the depression, so constantly observed above the spine of the scapula in such cases; appearances analogous to the flattening of the gluteal region, which is one of the most remarkable external fea- tures of" morbus coxae." Deeper still is placed an aponeurosis of great strength, which forms, with the smooth concave surface of the supra-spinal fossa, an osteo-fibrous canal, containing the fleshy por- tion of the supra-spinatus muscle. This fascia is stretched between the superior costa and the spine of the scapula ; by its under surface, posteriorly, it affords attachment to the fibres of the supra-spinatus; whilst ante- riorly it accompanies the tendon of that muscle, under the acromial end of the cla- vicle and the triangular ligament, losing itself on the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint. By the removal of this fascia, we bring into view the supra-spinatus muscle, filling accu- rately the fossa from which it derives its name, and from nearly the entire of which it derives its origin ; anteriorly, however, the muscular fibres have no ossific attachment. They here glide over the smooth, pulley-hke surface presented by the bone, and then, bending downwards and outwards, they form the tendon of the muscle, which is inserted further on into the upper facette of the great tuberosity of the humerus, becoming also in- corporated with the capsular ligament. In this part of their course the supra-spinatus muscle and tendon are concealed by the acro- mio-clavicular articulation, and more exter- nally by the coraco-acromial, or triangular li- gament, which is stretched in the form of an arch above them ; a bursa of large size inter- venes between the under-surface of the liga- ment and the superficial, or upper aspect of the tendon. By the removal of the trapezius muscle we are also enabled to see the attach- ments of several muscles to the edges of the supra-spinal fossa ; thus the insertion of the levator anguli scapulae into the posterior su- perior angle of the scapula becomes apparent; also the attachment of the upper fibres of the serratus magnus anticus to its superior costa; and that of the omo-hyoid muscle to " the hgament of the notch," and the base of the coracoid process. In this situation also the supra-scapular nerve and artery enter the supra-spinal fossa, usually separated from one another by " the ligament of the notch." The nerve, in the majority of instances, being beneath, and the artery above, the ligament, the nerve is transmitted through a foramen, formed by the notch in the upper edge of the scapula and the ligament of the notch, whilst the artery enters the fossa through a small triangular interval, the respective sides of which are constituted by the ligament of the notch, coracoid process, and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The supra-scapular nerve is a branch from the upper division of the brachial plexus: in the neck it follows the course of the omo- hyoid muscle to the scapula, passes beneath the origin of that muscle and through the foramen above described ; after which it enters the supra-spinal fossa, and is distri- buted, firstly, to the supra-spinatus muscle ; secondly, to the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles, by a branch which passes beneath the acromion process ; and, thirdly^ by a few twigs to the exterior of the capsule of the shoulder joint.