195 QUADRUMANA. to zoological and zootomical observations, they ought to be divided into two great fami- lies, the Simics and the Lemurince. I. SiMi^. Monkei/s. Singes^ French. Af- fen. Germ. ApeUy Dutch. This name includes the Quadrumana with four vertical incisor teeth in each jaw, and in general flat and similar nails at the tops of the lingers and toes, two characters by which they approach to man ; the molar teeth have smooth tubercles, and consequently they feed in general upon fruit; but the canine teeth are stronger than in man, and have their summits not in the same level as the other teeth, but more prominent. There is consequently, in the same manner as in the Carnivora, an interval in the upper jaw, between the exterior incisor and the canine tooth, in which the canine of the opposed jaw is received. They consist of two distinct groups, of which the first is con- fined to the old world, and is familiarly known under the name of Apes, Monkeys, and Ba- boons, These, the anatomical structure of which will be described in the first instance, have the same number of teeth as man, and approach to him in many respects, but differ so much from each other, that it is necessary to divide them into various genera. 1. SiMi^ VERiE, Monkeys of the Old Con- tinent, Simice catarrliince Geoffr. In general the same number of teeth as in man, viz. 4< , 1 1 5 5 incisors -; canines ; molars . Nos- 4 1—1 5—5 trils situated under the nose. a. First Genus. Simia, Ape. In general the same number of teeth as in man, but stronger, especially the canine ; an interval between the exterior incisor and the canine in the upper jaw. No callosities on the buttocks ; no tail ; the fore-feet or arms much longer than the hinder. The hair of the head is directed forwards, so as to shade the temples, and that of the fore-arm reverted upwards, in the direction of the elbow, where, encountering the hair of the humerus, which grows in the opposite direction, it stands out in the form of a prominent ruff. They want the cheek-pouches, but possess very large membranaceous expansions communicating with the larynx. In the form of the hyoid bone, in the structure of the brain, and many other parts of their organisation, they ap- proach the nearest to man. They inhabit tropical Asia and equinoctial Africa. Spec. — Simia troglodytes^ Chimpanzee ; Shnia Satyrus, Orang-oetan. b. Second Genus. Hylobates Illiger. Gibbon, French. Armaffe^ Germ. Langarmige Aap, Dutch. The same excessive length of the arms, i which are so long as to touch the ground, i when the animal is in a semi-erect attitude. Callosities on the buttocks, as in the Cerco- \ pitheci, from which the Gibbons differ by the want of a tail, and of cheek-pouches. The form and number of teeth arc the same as in Simia and in man, but the crowns of the true molars have a more rounded contour than in the inferior quadrumana, and in their relative size they resemble more the molars of the Carnivora than do those of the genus Simia. The Gibbons are restricted to the forests of tropical India, and their activity in climbing is surprising. They want the laryngeal pouch. Spec. — Hylobates lar, H. varicgatus, H. leuciscuSy the Siamaiig {H. syndacty- lus) ought to be separated from the other Gibbons. It has the second and third toe* united by a narrow membrane, extended over the whole length of the first phalanx, and possesses a laryngeal pouch. Its skeleton approaches most to that of man. Its hair is directed as in the Orangs. c. Third Genus. Seinnopithecus F. Cuv. Slank-aap, Dutch. Long, but slender and straight tail.f They have no cheek-pouches, but they possess a membranaceous, and small laryngeal, expan- sion. Callosities on the buttocks. Ex- tremities, principally the hinder, very long, as also the fingers and toes, with the exception of the thumb of the hinder hand or foot, which is short, and removed from the outer toes. The slenderness of their body, and largely-developed extremities, enable the Sem^ nopithcci to display a great deal of activity. Their stomach is very large, and divided into three or four pouches. The teeth differ from those of the Gibbons by the existence of a posterior tubercle on the last molar teeth of the lower jaw. They inhabit the Indian Con- tinent and the Indian islands, principally Bor- neo, and are there the constant companions of tlie Gibbons, with which they have a great analogy. Spec. — Semnopitheciis entellus, S. lenco' prymnus (including Simia latibarbata, Ct?- plialoptera, and S. Nestor, Benn.), ^S*. leucomystax, S. mitratus, S. melalophos, S. ru^ bicunduSy S. chrysomelas^ S. maurus, S. fron^ tatuSy S. nemceus, S. nasicus. To these could be added, 1. S. cucullatns, but it seems but a local variety of S. leucoprymniis ; 2. S. Sia- Diensis, which is a local variety of S. mitratus ; 3. S. Jlavimamis, which is a local variety of S. melalophos ; 4. S. Sumatranns^ local variety of .S". chrysomelas; 5. S. cristaftis, variety of S. maurus. S. Muller and H. Schlegel presume that S. albogularis Sykes is a va- riety of S. entellus; but according to the observations of Ogilby, this monkey is a Cercopithecus. In the enumeration of the * According to the observations of Ogilby and F. CuviER, this character is not exckisive in the Siamang, but obvious also in many other species of Gibbons. f S. Muller and H. Schlegel have proved in their monograph on the genus Semnopithecus, that it is by a mistake that most of the authors on natural history describe and figure the tail of Semno-pitheci as incurvated in the same manner as in squirrels. It hangs straight below when they climb, and is merely horizontal and touching the ground when they walk.