PROTEIN. 169 very similar to that already mentioned when speaking of albumen: in the milk, which is the sole food on which the young of most ani- mals subsist, no other protein compound has been detected ; but no sooner has it become the food of the young animal which it is in- tended to nourish, than it is for the most part converted into fibrin and albumen, thus fur- nishing blood and muscle, together with most of the other tissues of the body, which, though less directly, are scarcely less certainly products of the decomposition of this substance. The composition of casein is represented by the for- mula ^3 10 Oj^o S, or ten equi- valents of protein united to one equivalent of sulphur, thus differing from fibrin and albu- men in not containing any phosphorus. There is another modification of protein, very similar to casein in its properties and composition, which has been called both glo- bul'm and crystalline, from the circumstance that it is found surrounding the blood globules and also in the crystalline lens of the eye. It appears to contain no phosphorus and less sul- phur than casein, and is composed, according to Mulder, of fifteen equivalents of protein united to one of sulphur. The form in which protein exists in hair, horn, nails, and the epidermis, and called by Simon kemtine, has been but imperfectly ex- amined. That these substances are composed chiefly of protein is proved by the circumstance that if a solution of them be made in caustic potash and neutralized with acetic acid, a co- pious precipitate of protein is thrown down. It is probable that other modifications of protein will hereafter be found to exist in the animal body, but those which I have now described are all which have hitherto been detected. The animal body, however, is not the only source from which protein and its compounds are to be obtained. The researches of modern chemists have led to the interesting fact that they exist in the vegetable kingdom also, and that they are there so extensively disseminated that not a leaf, a seed, or a twig, in any of the various tribes of plants, is free from them; and it is highly probable that the wdiole of the protein compounds constituting the bodies of animals are derived from plants. In the pre- sent state of analysis it is perhaps too much to say that the forms in which we find protein in vegetables are absolutely the same, with regard to the minute quantities of sulphiu' and phos- phorus, as those found in animals ; but as far as we are able to judge from similarity of pro- perties, we may safely divide them in the same way as the analogous animal principles; viz. into vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumen, and vegetable casein. They all yield, when heated with strong hydrochloric acid, blue or purple solutions; and when they are digested with a solution of potash, and neutralized with acetic acid, protein is invariably produced. Vegetable fibrin is found most abundantly in the seeds of the cerealia, as wheat, oats, &c.: it is also found dissolved in the juice of most plants, especially that of grapes, carrots, tur- nips, and beetroot, from which it shortly sepa- rates in the form of a flocculent precipitate when taken from the [)lant and allowed to stand. The readiest way of preparing it is to knead wheaten flour into a paste with water, and then w-ash it on a linen cloth with a stream of cold water until the whole of the starch is removed, which is known by the water passing through quite clear: the viscous mass which remains on the cloth is subsequently purified by washing with alcohol and ether, in both of which the fibrin is insoluble. When dry it is a hard horny-looking substance, semitranspa- rent, without taste or smell, and sufficiently heavy to sink in water, in which it is insoluble. Phosphoric and acetic acids readily dissolve it; and it is reprecipitated in the form of white flocks from its acid solution by carbonate of ammonia and ferrocyanide of potassiiuii, and yellowish by tincture of galls; it is also preci- pitated by bichloride of mercury and some other metallic salts. It is perfectly soluble in solution of potash even when very dilute, and if the quantity of fibrin dissolved be large, the liquid loses its alkaline flavour. Vegetable albumen is found to exist very abundantly in the juices of most plants, and still more so in nuts, almonds, and other oily seeds, where it is usually associated with ca- sein. It may be easily recognized by boiling the expressed juice of any of the common cu- linary vegetables after the fibrin has separated, when it coagulates in a manner similar to ani- mal albumen. It may be obtained in a tole- rably pure state by boiling the filtered juice of any of the Icguminoscs, and washing the preci- pitate with alcohol and ether. It closely re- sembles animal albumen in properties, and is distinguished from vegetable fibrin by its so- lubility in water, and from vegetable casein by coagulating when heated. Vegetable casein has also been called legu- mine, from the circumstance of its being found most abundantly in the Icguminosce, though it is by no means confined to that tribe of plants: it is also present in considerable quantity in company with albumen in most of the oily seeds, and in the juices of most nutritious vegetables. It may be obtained by the follow- ing process. Peas or beans should be soaked in moderately warm water for some hours until they are sufficiently soft to allow of their being mashed in a mortar: the pasty mass is then mixed with a large quantity of water, which dissolves the casein, and thrown upon a cloth to filter. The starch passes through the filter together with the solution of casein, and if allowed to stand, gradually subsides to the bottom : w^hen the liquid is clear, it is decanted by means of a syphon, and slightly supersa- turated with acetic acid, which detei mines the precipitation of the casein in an impure state, but readily purified by washing w'ith alcohol and ether. Vegetable casein resembles that obtained from milk in most of its properties ; gives the same insoluble skin when heated in contact with the air; and is precipitated from its aqueous solution of alcohol and several of the metallic oxides : it is also thrown down by both vegetable and mineral acids, redissolving