450 SECRETION. and biliary organs are so intimately connected in this genus, that it is not easy to point out Biliary apparatus of Eolis. A, branchial papilla of E. papillosa, exhibiting the gland h and the duct c; also an ovate vesicle, a, apparently an organ of defence, and at d the wall of the inner sheath; b, branchial papilla of E. Farrani, showing the same parts. {After Alder and Hancock.^ the limits of each; they appear to differ in different species. In E. papillosa, the central canal is evidently a continuation of the sto- mach, and the plicated internal membrane is not only continuous throughout it, but also passes into the lateral branches, which thus appear to form part of the same organ. On the other hand, we find in some species coloured granules, similar to those of the papillae, partially lining the ramifications, as in E. gracilis and others ; while in E. despecta, the central canal, all the ramifications, and the glands of the papillae, are coloured and gra- nulated alike, implying a greater diffusion of the biliary function. The food, after being partially digested in the stomachal pouch, is driven in detached portions through the alimentary system, by the alternate contrac- tions of the pouch and great trunks leading from it ; these contractions are only of a nature to produce an oscillatory motion, which serves to promote that intimate mixture of the alimentary matters with the hepatic and other secretions, necessary to the process of digestion."'* The intimate structure of the liver of Ver- * Alder and Hancock's Nudibranchiate Mollusca, Part tehrated aninials is much more difficult of elucidation, and can scarcely be said to be yet satisfactorily determined. The organ presents more and more, as we ascend the seiies, a solid parenchymatous texture, which strikingly contrasts with its loosely lobulated racemose aspect, even in the highest Invertebrata. There is not the least difficulty in demon- strating that this parenchyma is composed of cells, which correspond in the nature of their contents, and, therefore, in their functional character, with those contained within the hepatic follicles of the Invertebrata; but the point of obscurity is the relation of these cells to the biliary ducts, the arrangement of whose ultimate ramifications has been rather a matter of surmise and inference, than of actual obser- vation. It is very interesting to find, however, that in the lowest known Vertebrate the liver exists under the same rudimental and diffused type, as that which it exhibits in the lower Arti- culata. In the Amphioxus, or lancelet, the only vestige of a distinct hepatic organ is a large caecum prolonged from the stomach, which is lined with greenish-yellow cells. But it is pointed out by Miiller, that the intestinal canal itself has a layer of similar cells in its walls, so that the organ would seem to have the same diffused condition as that which it presents in the earth-worm. In all other fishes, however, the liver is a well-defined conglomerate gland, even the Myxinoids presenting a liver nearly as fully developed as that of the higher fishes, so that there is not here any such complete gradation as we usu- ally meet elsewhere. Dr. T. Williams states that he has succeeded in tracing the ducts to their ultimate terminations in the fiver of the Sole (Solea vulgaris), and the Flounder (Pla- tcssa fiexus) ; and he describes them as rami- fying like those of the Mollusca, and as ending in tubular caeca, without vesicular expansions. Within these caeca are found the hepatic cells, which usually, as in the Invertebrata, contain a large quantity of fat.* There is a remarkable diminution in the proportion of the adipose contents of the hepatic cells, and an increase in the granular constituents, in the class of Reptiles; and in Birds there is an almost total absence of adipose particles. The ultimate distribution of the bile-ducts, and their relation to the parenchyma, seem to be the same as in the Mammalia. In the Mammalia, the liver is more or less distinctly divisible into minute lobules, each of them composed of a parenchyma of hepatic cells, through which the blood-vessels are dis- tributed in a close and solid plexus. The hepatic cells appear to occupy the entire space left in the meshes of this plexus, the bile- ducts having been usually regarded as not traceable, under any form, into the interior of the lobule. Mr. Kiernan, however, has always regarded the bile-ducts as forming a plexus in the substance of the lobule, interlacing with the plexus of capillaries; his belief being chiefly founded on the anastomotic distribu- * Guy's Hospital Reports, 18i6, p. 323.