PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 77 single substance, are termed simple ; of several, co7}ipound. When the different materials are applied in successive laminae, the calculus is said to be alternating, {fig. Id) ; when they are irregularly mingled it is called mixed. The relative frequency of the three kinds may be deduced as follows from tables printed h\j Dr. Prout. Of 1520 calculi there were Simple, 709 ; Alternating, 787 ; Mixed 24. The mode of succession of various substances in the formation of alternating calculi (they may consist of two, three, four, or several suc- cessive strata), is pathologically important, and has been specially investigated by Dr. Prout. The nature of this work prevents us from en- tering into the subject, but we may mention (as evidence of the generality of Dr. Prout's law, that the existence of mixed phosphates in a calculus excludes the subsequent deposition of other matter), that of 566 alternating calculi composed of two layers, two only were examples^ of a nucleus of phosphates with a cortex of another kind of salt; that of 172 calculi formed of three layers, not one had a phosphatic nu- cleus, and in only three was the middle stratum composed of phosphates ; and that, lastly, of 25 calculi containing four distinct layers, not one had a nucleus of phosphates ; in one only was the second layer, and in three only was the third layer, thus composed. It is, however, right to observe that if small quantities of phosphates, not forming actual layers, were taken into consideration, the exceptions to the law would be much more numerous. The degree of rapidity with which calculi form and acquire bulk depends upon the con- stitutional condition of the individual in whom they form, much more than upon the nature of their own ingredients ; for, if it be true that oxalate of lime and uric acid calculi commonly enlarge slowly, and the phosphatic species with great quickness, instances of the direct contrary are far from uncommon. The cases in which calculous matter accumulates round a foreign body are obviously those, and those alone, in which perfect accuracy as to dates can be obtained ; now cases are on record showing that some weeks suffice in one case for as abundant accumulation of phosphates as several months in another. The slower the enlargement, the greater, caHcris paribus, the density of the mass. In this latter quality calculi vary exceedingly, some being as re- markable for their porousness and openness of texture, as others for their compactness and closeness. Their specific gravity, accord- ing to Fourcroy, varies from 1213 to 1976, water being 1000 ; Schai ling found it in one instance to amount to 2014. Calculi are commonly solitary ; from some calculations, which have been made on a limited scale, it would appear, however, that in one of every five or six cases of calculous disease two or more calculi are met with. The number and size of these bodies discovered in the bladder are sometimes almost marvellous ; thus Rodrigue de Fonseca refers to a case in which thatviscus contained fifty as large as nuts ; fifty- nine were found in Buffon's bladder ; and Moraud counted six hundred and seventy-eight in the bladder of an old man, and nearly ten thousand in his kidneys. Probably miliary calculi only accumulate in such extraordinarily great numbers. We shall now briefly consider the physical and chemical characters of each calculus in par- ticular, — appending in each instance an out- line of the qualities of its component material, when occurring in the fijrm of urinary sediment. 1. The uric acid calculus is generally of oval shape and somewhat flattened, ranges in weight from a grain to six or seven ounces and up- wards, and varies in size within corresponding limits; the calculus, from a section of which the subjoined cut is reduced, measures 2f in- ches in breadth and 3f inches in length. JV.77. /^^^'S Section of an uric acid calculus. {Univ. Coll. Museum.') external surface, commonly smooth, may be finely granular, and its colour brown of diffe- rent tints and depths, unless it have received a thin coating of phosphates. On section it is generally found to be laminated, and when comparatively pure its fracture has a crystalline look ; when the contrary, the appearance is that of aggregated amorphous particles ; the general colour is that of the external surface (much impurity may, however, render it gray or otherwise alter it), but the different strata may vary very considerably in depth of hue from yellowish-brown to mahogany colour, ac- cording to the amount of colouring matter pre- sent in each ; its density is high in the direct ratio of its purity. Absolute purity never exists ; all uric acid calculi contain colouring, and, with rare exceptions, fatty matters, some mucus or albumen, and besides, minute quan- tities of urate of ammonia, of soda, and of potash, with occasionally carbonate and phos- phate of lime. In 251 of the 763 alternating calculi, the composition of which is given by Dr. Prout, the nucleus consisted of uric acid. Uric acid occurs as an ingredient of urinary sediments, and althouiih not, as Berzelius sup- posed, their chief material in persons in health, (the amorphous urates vastly exceed it in abun- dance,) it may in cases of gout form the entire of the deposit. Under the microscope uric acid appears in the form of semi-transparent, thin rhomboidal scales, of slightly yellow tinge, generally, from impurity (the pure acid being brilliantly white),