REPTILIA. 300 arrangement of w hich varies in different races. It must be remembered that throughout the entire class there is no diapiiragm or other septum dividing the viscera of circuhition and respiration from those of digestion, all being inclosed in a common cavity, lined by the pleuro-peritoneum, which gives off processes to inclose and to fix them as far as is neces- sary in their respective situations. In the tor- toises, that portion of the mesentery which attaches the small intestines, does not come immediately from the vertebral column, and only forms the mesentery after having fixed the transverse colon by a meso-colon. This remarkable disposition depends upon the ge- neral arrangement of the pleuro-peritoneum, and the extent of the cavities that it forms for the lodgment of the lungs. The meso-rectum also is derived rather from the lateral regions of the pelvis than from its middle. There are, besides hepato-gastric laminee, which pass from the liver to the stomach, hepato-duodenal laminee, between the liver and the duodenum; transverse gastro-colic laminae, which pass from the stomach to the transverse portion of the large intestine ; and duodeno-colic layers connecting the duodenal loop with the as- cending colon. On the right of the mesorec- tum, there is an expansion which descends from the dorsal portion of the abdominal walls to join the proper mesentery. Lastly, the large intestine commences by a loop which is bound down by peritoneal laminae. In the Saurian reptiles, the mesentery is well developed, that portion which is con- nected with the large intestine, as well as that which sustains the small intestine, coming off from the vertebral column. There is no trans- verse mesocolon. The pleuro-peritoneum of Ophidian reptiles presents some varieties in its disposition. In the Anguidae, a mesentery is given off from the whole length of the front of the vertebral column anteriorly : this serves to suspend the oesophagus and stomach, furnishing hkewise a mesenteric fold to each lung, and to the liver. After enveloping the liver it forms a suspen- sory hgament attached to the mesial line of the ventral aspect of the abdominal walls, so that the whole may be regarded as forming two bass connected together, both above and below, along the middle line of the body, and thus dividing the abdominal cavity into two compartments by a vertical septum, extending along its whole length. In the Ct'ciliae a similar disposition exists. In the true serpents the pleuro-peritoneum forms a ceH around the intestine, which con- tains likewise small omental folds loaded with fat: the intestine itself, moreover, is folded into numerous festoons connected to each other by fibro-cellular bands. The large intestine in serpents has no connexion with the stomach, or with the commencement of the intestinal canal, as is almost invariably the case in other vertebrata. Lymphatic Si/stem,—The lymphatic vessels in reptiles appear to be completely destitute of valves, except at the points where they ter- minate in the veins; a circumstance which explains the facility with which they can be injected from trunk to branch. In the Chchnian reptiles the lymphatics of the alimentary canal, especially those of the stomach and small intestine, form two prin- cipal layers, of w hich the inner one constitutes a very delicate net-work *, so thin as only to be well seen with a magnifying-glass, lying close to the inner surface of the intestine, interlaced amongst the blood-vessels, but easily distin- guishable from their continuity. The external layer is made up of larger branches, which are so numerous that they touch each other, and after a successful injec- tion completely cover the intestine they all affect a longitudinal direction, and have an undulated or wa^•y appearance. The lymphatics of these two layers serve to form another net-work placed external to the last, made up of large confluent branches, which convey the lymph into the principal lacteal trunks of the mesentery, which latter form a fourth net-work, the meshes of which are very close and fine. In the urinary bladder and the oviduct, the arrangement of the lymphatics is similar to the above. In the lungs they form a superficial layer, made up of large trunks ; and a deep-seated layer, composed of very fine branches. The external net-work of the gall-bladder is made up of very small meshes ; whilst that of the spleen, on the contrary, consists of large confluent trunks, resembling sinuses : the latter organ, however, has likewise a smaller deep- seated set of lymphatic vessels w hich accom- pany the ramification of the veins into its in- terior. The lymphatics of the testicle have a ramified or arborescent arrangement, increasing in size as they pass from the outer to the inner margin of the organ, the branches forming numerous anastomoses amongst themselves. The adipose tissue, situated between the peritoneum and the carapax, is full of lym- phatic vessels. Those of the peritoneum are very small and numerous : their direction is generally from before backwards. The liver seems to possess very few h-m- phatics, and these Panizza was unable to in- ject, as also those of the oesophagus. Among the Saurian rei)tiles the lymphatics have been examined in the Caiman, and in several species of lizards. In the former, the cloaca, the rectum, and the intestinal canal inclose several net-works of lymphatic trunks, the form and disposition of which varies. There is one upon the inner surface, and ano- ther upon the outer surface, the meshes of which are very close, and the vessels much convoluted. In the rectum, the lymphatics form two layers, one superficial, the other deep-seated ; in the former the vessels are large and their * Panizza Sopra 11 Sistema Linfatico dei Rettili, &c. Ta^ia, l&oo. in foL with six plates.