281 REPTILIA. The flexor brevis digitorum gives off a slip to each of the three middle toes. Myology of Ophidian Reptiles. jMuscles of the Spine. — In serpents, as might be expected, the muscles of the spine are very completely developed, and easy to identify. The spinalis dorsi arises from the lateral surface of the spinous processes of the verte- brae, and likewise receives tendons of rein- forcement from the longissimus dorsi, which spread out and are lost upon its inferior sur- face ; this muscle divides itself internally into as many fasciculi as there are vertebrae, each fasciculus terminating in a very long tendon, which runs in an aponeurotic sheath to be inserted into the spinous process of the ver- tebra to which it is destined. The longissimus dorsi arises by fleshy fibres from the extremities of the articular apo- physes, which here perforin the office of transverse processes. These slips, after having become united with each other, give off two sets of tendons, one of which runs obHquely to assist in giving origin to the spinalis dorsi; the others descend in like manner, and constitute the only tendons of origin of the sacro-lumbalis, so that this mus- cle cannot be said to have any direct insertion upon the vertebral column. The sacro-lumbalis arises from the tendons of the longissimus dorsi just described, and divides itself externally into slips, each of which is inserted by a slender tendon into the posterior edge of the upper third of one of the ribs. Under the spinalis dorsi is found the semi- spinalis (transverso-spinalis), and beneath this the interspinalis. On the inferior aspect of the vertebral column there is found a muscle in all respects analogous to the longus colli, except as re- gards its extent, and which might be called the transverso-spinahs inferior : this extends from the inferior spinous process of one vertebra to the transverse processes of the second and third succeeding vertebrae. All the above six muscles ex'st from the end of the tail as far as the head : their last fasciculi, viz. those inserted into the skull, although their arrangement is slightly altered, cannot be considered on that account as being distinct muscles. The sacro-lumbalis, more- over, on ariiving at the caudal region, is in- serted into the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae, instead of into the ribs, so that as the tail becomes attenuated the-e muscles are blended together: neverthe- less, there are always vestiges of them per- ceptible. Muscles of the Ribs. — These are the trans- verso-costal muscles, arising from the trans- verse processes of each vertebra, and running to be inserted into the following rib, for about the superior fourth of its length. The great lateral costal muscles which cover the side of the trunk of the body, arise behind the insertions of the pre- ceding, each passing obliquely over four ribs, to which it gives off a few fibres, is inserted into the fifth behind that from which it takes its origin. Fig. 202. Lateral View of the Muscles which move the Bibs of the Boa Constrictor. AA, the straight muscles of the back; b, the first set of muscles, which arises from the trans- verse processes of each vertebra, and. is inserted into the rib behind it, close to its head; c, the second set; D D, the third set; E, the fourth set; F, the fifth set; G G, short muscles which pass from carti- lage to cartilage; H H, a set of oblique muscles, which pass from the anterior side of the bony ex- tremity of each rib to the posterior edge of each scutum ; 11, muscles which pass from the ribs, near their heads, obliquely backwards, to be inserted into the skin at the edge of each scutum; k, muscles of the scuta. (^After Home.) The great inferior costals take their origin below the preceding, and are inserted in the same manner, only their direction is more longitudinal, so that they occupy a smaller proportion of the length of the ribs. The smaller costal muscles are placed be- tween the two preceding sets, and pass from one rib to the next behind it. The intercostal muscles occupy their ordi- nary position, and, as usual, are arranged in two planes which decussate each other. In addition to the above, there exists in the interior of the thorax an inferior transverso- costal muscle; this arises from the angle of the tubercle to which the rib is attached, and running obliquely forwards, passing three ribs, is inserted into the fourth a little below the