556 SHELL. centres, of which they form such large and important roots: while, allowing them to be aflfected in their functions, we are at least not justified in calling them " sensitive branches of the fifth." By this elision of one sensitive anastomosis after another, sensibility still remaining, we have been led, in a retrograde course, to the ganglion at the hiatus Fallopii: at and above this point the evidence afforded by experi- ment fails us. Magendie* states himself to have succeeded, in one instance, in exposing the facial nerve within the skull, or where it enters the auditory meatus; and adds that it was in- sensible to irritation. But the experiment stands alone, and it appears doubtful whether the portio intermedia was included in the irritation. But the anatomical discoveries of jNlorganti may somewhat supply the deficiency of direct evidence. He has pointed out the complete analogy of the facial to a spinal nerve; and hence deduces the probability, that the portio intermedia, which exclusively forms the geni- culate ganglion, is, hke the posterior or gan- gliform root of the spinal nerve, the source of sensitive fibres to the compound nerve. The observed insensibility of the facial after section of the fifth militates strongly against this view. But it will be recollected that although affirmed by some, it has been denied by others. And even granting it to be as complete as Longet states it, yet possibly it would constitute a less conclusive objection than might at first appear. For when we consider the violent nervous shock which division of the important trifacial must pro- duce on the parts in the immediate neigh- bourhood of its origin, and the close prox- imity of the two nerves at their roots, w^e are perhaps justified in considering the result an insufficient testimony to their more imme- diate connection. A comparison of the lesion and symptoms in many cases of cerebral hemorrhage would almost parallel the occur- rences of such an anaesthesia; while, in such an instance, a direct continuity would scarcely be admitted. But even granting that the facial nerve, as thus constituted, possesses an inherent sensibility, it is still probable, from its nu- merous anastomoses, both with the fifth and with the cervical nerves, that it subsequently receives many additional sensory filaments. These junctions differ from a plexus like the cervical, or brachial, in the fact that, in place of forming communications between the mixed nerves of different segments of the body, they connect nerves of different endowments. The exchange appears to be at the expense of the sensitive nerve ; that is, more filaments seem to pass from the fifth to the facial than from the latter to the former. The amount of these filaments given to the different branches of the seventh is said to differ: thus, Longet affirms the insensibility of the " mentonnier," or supra-maxillary portion. * Loc. cit. Little can here be said of the more minute ramifications of Morganti's theory.* But nothing that is known at present, either of the facial generally, or of the chorda tympani, or superficial petrosal branches, is absolutely incompatible with his views. All of these branches, except the lesser petrosal, he shows to be mixed nerves : the experiments and observations above quoted tend to indi- cate all as more or less directly subservient to motion ; and in none are we able to deny the possibility of sensation. But the petrosal nerves would probably be likened to the branches which connect the roots of the spinal nerves to the sympathetic ganglia on the side of the spine ; and the obscure and un- certain results obtained by experiment on these filaments of the facial are closely analogous to the effects of similar experiments on the spinal nerves in connection with the sympathetic of the trunk. But the anomaly of the tensor tympani being apparently supplied solely from the sensitive portion of the facial nerve, is very much weakened by the physiological facts of the involuntary character of its movements, and the interposition of a second ganglion. The more important effects of disease of the facial nerve have already been spoken of in treating of its functions. For its morbid anatomy, in which it offers no especial pecu- liarity, reference is made to the article Nerve. Bibliography. See Xervous System. (^William BrintonJ) SHELL.—This term is commonly emj^tloyed to designate the hard envelopes in which the bodies and members of many animals be- longing to the Radiated, Molluscous, and Articulated sub-kingdoms are enclosed. Ge- nerally speaking, it is applied to those only into whose composition mineral matter enters : thus, we speak of the shell of a Crustacean, whilst we do not give that appellation to the dermo-skeleton of an Insect or Myriapod. Still this rule is not strictly observed ; for there are many Crustacea and Mollusca which are commonly spoken of as possessing shells although these bodies are entirely destitute of calcareous matter, being as horny in their texture as the envelope of a beetle or a centi- pede. Among radiated animals, the class of EcHiNODERMATA is the only one in which shells are met with ; and these are by no means universally present throughout the group. In the molluscous series, we meet with shells in every class save the Tumcata ; all the animals of the class Conchifera, Xhevlamelli-branchiate or pallin-brajicl/iate, being furnished with them ; a considerable propor- tion of Gasteropoda (all of them, it would seem, in the embryonic state) possessing them ; * The comparative anatomy of the geniculate ganglion seems to show that its position is much more closely related to the orifice of the bone than to the motor nerve. Is this any analogy to the similar close relation (to a more external apertiu-e) of the ganglion on the posterior root of a spinal nerve ?