ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 586 The capsular ligament is occasionally in- creased in thickness, and its fibres are hyper- trophied ; and it is generally more capacious than natural, showing that effusion of synovia to a considerable amount had existed, although the external signs of this phenomenon are not usually evident. When the interior of the synovial sac is examined, it will be found to present evidences of having been the seat of chronic inflammation. Bunches of long or- ganised fringes hang into the interior of the synovial sac; and many of these vascular fimbriae, which in the recent state are of an extremely red colour, surround the corona of the head of the humerus. We also notice rounded cartilaginous productions, appended by means of membranous threads attached to the interior of the various structures which compose the joint. Some of these foreign bodies are small, others large. Some are round ; but their shapes are various. Besides these rounded cartilaginous bodies, we occa- sionally find osseous proiluctions of a mul- tangular form added to the edges of the gle- noid cavity, deepening it, and increasing the articular surface for the reception of the head of the humerus, which usually is in such cases much enlarged. The intra-articular part of the long tendon of the biceps is very seldom to be seen in the interior of the joint ; but immediately out- side of the capsular ligament the latter tendon will generally be found to have contracted a firm adhesion to the superior extremity of the bicipital groove {fig. 428. a.). Bones.—The head of the humerus assumes a very characteristic appearance as a con- sequence of this peculiar disease, and acquires a lorm which cannot be easily mistaken for the effects of any other disease or accident. The usual angle at which the head and neck of the humerus join the shaft of the bone is often altogether effaced ; so that instead of the axis of the head and neck of the humerus being directed, as it normally is, upwards, inwards, and backwards, it seems to run ver- tically, or, as it were, in a continuous line with that of the shaft of the bone. The articular surface is usually much enlarged, and in the ordinary form of this disease occu- l)ies the whole summit of the humerus, ex- tending itself even over the greater and lesser tuberosities and the highest part of the bi- cipital groove ; effacing in this direction part of the circular line which marks the anato- mical neck of the humerus and insertion of the capsular ligaments. Some of the articular cartilage is removed from the head of the bone, which, in some places, presents a porous appearance {fig. 428.). In other parts, in place of the cartilage, there is a polished ivory-like surface. The portion of the bone which thus presents this polished surface is the very summit of the humerus ; and this is the part of the bone which will be found evidently to have been for years in habitual contact with the under surface of the acromion and coracoid pro- cess, where these bones assist in forming por- tions of the new and abnormal cavity for the reception of the head of the humerus. The Fig. 428. a Chronic rheumatic arihntis : a, tendon of the biceps basis of the head, in the line where it joins the shaft of the humerus, is studded round by granular osseous productions, which give to it a characteristic a})pearance {fig. 428.). By these vegetations of bone, we are remintled of the analogous appearance which the corona of the head of the femur presents when affectetl by the same species of morbid action *; but of course much variety may be expected to be found in the form the head of the humerus will assume under the influence of this disease : we have found the articular surface in some cases formed completely on the summit of the hu- merus, sometimes on the side of the head. Very generally the head of this bone is much enlarged, but exceptions to this rule occur. One of the most remarkable alterations of form we have noticed as the result (as we imagine) of this disease we found in the anatomical museum at Leyden. In the spe- cimen to which we allude, the head of the humerus appears bifurcated at its upper part, or divided longitudinally into two surfaces for articulation with the scapula.-|- Lastly, we have to advert to the anatomi- cal characters of the new and abnormal socket formed for the reception of the altered head of the humerus. This new cavity is com- posed of two portions, which however will be found to have become almost continuous with each other. The original glenoid cavity (ge- nerally much enlarged) forms one of these portions ; the coraco-acromial vault the other. * Vol. U.fig. 317. page 802. t Saiulifort in liis fourth volume lias given a delineation of tlie liead of the humerus in this case as well as of the scapula tlie glenoid cavitj^ of which was enlarged xexy niucli in the direction downwards, and was sui rounded with a margin of osseous granules.