REPTILIA. 269 different genera, and even in different species. It generally consists of a body or centrum, which is sometimes itself divided into several pieces, and of two and sometimes three pairs of cornua ; also under the anterior part of its body there is suspended a bone or a cartilage (sometimes double) which is the special bone of the tongue, the analogue of the lingual bone of birds, only in them it is articu- lated in front of the body of the hyoid bone, whilst in the Chelonians it is suspended under- neath. The greater cornua (the anterior pair, when only two pairs are present, the middle pair when there are three, that which represents the styloid bones) embrace the oesophagus, and [mount up behind those muscles which represent the digastric or depressors of the lower jaw, but without being attached other- wise than by their own muscles. In Trionyx, the body of the os hyoides, is composed anteriorly of a cartilaginous point, beneath which is suspended a large lingual cartilage of an oval form. At the base of each pointed cartilage there is attached an osseous piece of a rhomboidal shape, which represents the anterior cornua; behind this are four other pieces, forming a disc, which is concave superiorly, broadest in front, and deeply notched both posteriorly and on each side. To the anterior angles of this disc are appended the middle cornua and to the pos- terior the posterior cornua. All four of these cornua are considerably ossified. The middle cornua consist of one long piece, which is compressed, of an arched form., and termi- nated by a little cartilage. The other cornua are broader and flatter ; they are eked out by a cartilage, in the thickness of which are enclosed five or six osseous nuclei, all placed in a line with each other, each of a round or oval form, and quite hard and distinct, so that the os hyoides of this reptile seems to consist of twenty different osseous pieces, which apparently remain distinct through life. The hyoid apparatus of Chelys is equally remarkable. Its body is composed of a single long narrow piece, of a prismatic shape, hol- lowed above into a canal in which the trachea is lodged. Anteriorly, this central portion ex- pands in order to sustain two additional pieces on each side, four in all, without reckoning the centrum itself. The two middle ones unite in front, leaving a space between them- selves and the principal body, which is closed by a membrane upon which the larynx reposes. The two lateral pieces perhaps represent the anterior cornua ; it is at the dilatation that they form with the expanded portion of the centrum that the middle cornua are ar- ticulated : these are very strong and prismatic for the internal half of their course; afterwards slender ; and they give attachment externally to an additional piece, which is distinct from the rest of the cornua. The posterior cornua are articulated to the posterior extremity of the prismatic portion of the centrum; they are long, slightly com- pressed, and curved. Under the anterior and dilated portion is suspended the lingual bone, which consists anteriorly of a semicircular cartilage, and behind of two crescent-shaped osseous pieces, the inner angle of which is prolonged into a kind of tail or pedicle that passes beneath the prismatic body of the hyoid bone. In the turtles, the body of the hyoid re- sembles an oblong shield, concave upon its upper surface for the sake of lodging the larynx and the commencement of the trachea; pointed in front, where it forms part of the tongue, laying above the lingual bone. The anterior cornua are very small; the great cornua are articulated to' the middle of its lateral margin, and have at their free termi- nations additional cartilaginous pieces. The posterior cornua are attached to the posterior angles. The pelvis of lizards {Jig. 184.) is composed Fig, 184. Pelvis of Crocodile, a, ileum; h, ischium; c, pubis. of three bones, which, as in quadrupeds, assist in the construction of the colyloid cavity. The OS ilii (a) occupies the upper half; its neck is broad and short, and its spinous portion, instead of running forwards, as in mammifers, or being rounded, as in the crocodile, is di- rected obliquely backwards, in the shape of a narrow band. Inferiorly, the pubis (b) and the ischium (c) are conjoined with their fellows of the opposite side along the mesial line ; but the pubis does not unite with the ischium, and consequently the two infra-pubic foramina are only separated from each other by a liga- ment. The pelvis of the different genera of lizards are principally distinguished from each other by the symphysis of the pubic bones, which in the monitors is formed by the junction of two broad truncated surfaces; but in most other genera by a much less extensive union. The junction between the ossa ischii is always effected by a wide surface. The chameleon differs from all other lizards in having the ossa iUi straight, and directed almost perpendicularly upwards, to be at- tached to the spine. They are Hkewise re-