504; SEMEN. to cause the whole fibre to be moved round in a circle. The normal movements of the spermatozoa just described must be distinguished from various other remarkable and irregular pheno- mena of motion which are perceived on treat- ing them with water, particularly in the long and hair-Uke spermatozoa of the Insects, Gas- teropoda, Hehnintba, and Cirripeda, and also sometimes, ahhough in a shghter degree, in those of the Reptilia and Mammalia. !Siebold* was the first who estimated these latter phe- nomena at their proper vakie, attributing to them their real cause, viz. the hygroscopic quality of the spermatozoa. Tliese phenomena take place only on the addition of fresh water, whilst sea water exercises but little influence on the sper- matozoa, which may he accounted for by the difference in the saline constituents of these fluids. This fact, however, is of the greatest importance, in a physiological point of view, because the fecundation of the ova in many marine animals does not take place by copulation, but is accomplished through the transfer of the spermatozoa by means of the sea water, and the influence of this me- ilium should not be such as to destroy the power of motion on the part of the sperma- tozoa. In cases where the fecundation takes place in the same manner in fresh water, for instance in the muscles, the spermatozoa are but slightly hygroscopic, so that their in- tegrity remains undisturbed. These abnormal phenomena of motion, caused by the influence of water, exhibit something similar to that which is seen in a rope turned by a wheel in a rope yard. The -spermatozoa roll themselves out in larger or smaller windings, and form simple or com- pound coils of the most variable kinds. Fre- quently they turn back again after some time, and re-assume their original shape; they fre- quently also remain in the position they have at first assumed. In short, changes take place every moment. When the fibres lie in a straight position, a number of coils are sud- denly produced; but they disappear equally as quickly, and it is only after some hours, when all the spermatozoa have rolled themselves into these coils, that the movements finally cease. It is interesting that the normal undulating motions of the spermatozoa, where they lie together in regular masses without being able to change their position, very frequently coincide in a remarkable manner, appearing to be carried out, as it were, by one common will. But although this may appear strange jat the first glance, it cannot surprise us when we consider that the same behaviour is ob- served in the ciliated cells. We here see the motions in the cilia of one epithelium regu- lated, as it were, by one common plan ; we observe how these coincide with the move- ments of the cilia of others, and thus unite into one regular motion of the whole. A * Huller's Archiv. 1836, S. 19. peculiarly beautiful sight is afl^orded by the aggregate motion of the spermatozoa in the semen of the earth w orm, w hich resembles the undulating motion of a corn field. Among the insects we have also various opportunities of observing this kind of aggregate motion. A similar aggregate motion is frequently (especially among the Invertebrata) found in the separate bundles of spermatozoa, even when they are still surrounded by their cyst- like enclosures. At first sight it creates an impression as if an undulating fluid were agitated in the interior of the cysts, whilst it is merely the windmg motions of the sperma- tozoa, which follow each other in quick and regular succession, impai'ting the impulse to the whole mass. iNIotion, however, is entirely wanting when (as is especially the case among the insects) the spermatozoa are united into simple and uniform cords. A slight curving or trembling is only observed now and then, which is evidently the consequence of hygroscopic conditions. We know^ as little of the cause of the movements of the spermatozoa as we do, in point of fact, of the remote cause of every mo- tion. But that it depends on certain relations of structure and composition, is evident from the circumstance, that it is wanting in the unde- veloped spermatozoa, only gradually taking place w ith progressive developement. A slight vibration or beating with the tail is first of all observed in them. The most lively, most vigorous, and most combined motion takes place, on the other hand, during the period of rutting, when the developement of the fructi- fying spermatic elements has reached it^ height. But the motion of the spermatozoa is not even then unlimited. The death of the ani- mal in whose spermatic organs they are con- tained, or their removal from it, only allows the motions of the spermatozoa to survive for a time, which, however, is of a different dura- tion in different animals. It seems to be shortest in the birds, where the mot'.on fre- quently is extinguished fifteen or twenty mi- nutes after death; at least it can but rarely be observed after some hours. In the mam- malia their motion survives some time longer, especially if they remain enclosed in their natural organs. Death, or removal, seems to have a diflferent influence on the spermatozoa of the cold- blooded animals; among the fishes, for in- stance, they continue moving for da\s after having been expelled from the body. The mode of death of the animals has no influence at all upon the duration of the motion in the spermatozoa. It remains all the same w he- ther the animals are decapitated, strangled, or poisoned. The motion of the spermatozoa survives longest of all in the interior of the female generative organs. The insects (in whom, as in Gasteropoda and some other animals, parti- cular pockets or capsular organs are deve- loped during the period of procreation) furnish