483 SEMEN. 1 I 2 tozoa do not stretch but remain wrapped up. The spermatozoa of Scymnus niceaensis(./^. It is a remarkable sight to see the cyst burst- 349. a) are similar but rather longer, whilst Fig. 349. A bundle of Spermatozoa of Pelohates. ing on being treated with water. The whole mass of spermatozoa suddenly bursts forth, and only remain attached to each other by the heads, as if imbedded in one common sub- stance. The separate fibres radiate in all direc- tions, each being wrapped up in a spiral form. Fishes.— In the class of fishes, the sper- matozoa occur in two forms. The first is found throughout the osseous fishes, and also in Amphioxus. The other form is found among the Plagiostomes. In the former case the spermatozoa consist (Jig- 346.) of a very small globular body (of 5^0'"—sAo^'^ or even smaller, down to toVo'^^ in Perca fluviatilis), and an extraordinarily thin, hair- Fig. 346. Fig. 347. Spermatozoa o f Perca fluviatilis. Spermatozoa of Cobitis fossilis. like tail, which, however, possesses compa- ratively a very considerable length. Sometimes the body at the point of insertion of the tail has a small knotty appendix, as in Cobitis (^g. 347.), which gives to it a pear-like shape. The body in some genera is so small that it can hardly be perceived with any distinctness. This also applies to the spermatozoa of Fi(T 348 Petromyzon, in which the form of 'the body is, however, different. In P. marinus* the body is egg-shaped; in P. fluviatilis (fig. 348.) staff- shaped. The length of the body in P. fluviatilis is yio'''. The spermatozoa among the Pla- giostome fishes are similarly formed Spermato- to those of the birds. They are long, zoon of filiform, and furnished with an an- zonAuvia- cylindrical body. In Scyllium tiUs.^"^' Canicuia the body is stiff* and quite straight, and tapers at both ends. The tail is thin, and of an equal length to the body (^V'O. * J. Muller, Untersuch. uber zu Eingewerde der Fische, Berl. 1845, S. 6. A. Spermatozoa of Scymnus nicecensis. . Spermatozoon of Toipedo Narce. the body, instead of being straight, describes two long spiral windings. Four more narrow spiral windings are found round the body of the spermatozoa in Spinera acanthias, which measures gV^^ whilst the length of the whole spermatozoon amounts to A similar num- ber of spiral twistings are likewise seen in the body of the spermatozoa of most of the rays, in Torpedo narce {fig. 3+9. b), Raja rubus, &c. In Raja oxyrhynchus it is only the anterior part of the body which is s[)irally wound in a length of about gV'^ whilst the posterior part is straight. The number of the windings is nevertheless, however, more considerable, viz. 7 or 8. The length of the whole s[)ermatozoon amounts to y-''''. Chimera monstrosa like- wise exhibits these windings, notwithstanding the comparatively short body (y^o'^O of its spermatozoa, which have a length of 2V The number of windinns is three. The developement of the spermatozoa in fishes has as yet only been observed in the Plagiostomes. It is exactly the same as in frogs and birds, as the statements of Hallmanu* lead us to infer. Almost all of the sperma- tozoa are united with one another in bundles. According to our researches in Torpedo Narce, the spermatozoa are produced sepa- Fig. 350. Ci/sts, with developing cells from the testicle of Torpedo Narce. rately in the cells of developement, which pos- sess about the size of ^ and which are * Mllller's Archiv., 1810, S. 467.