526 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. have never seen such an appearance except under these circumstances; and at the edge of the fringe, which is usually more or less shielded from pressure by the prominence of the neighbouring surface receiving the weight of the upper lamina of glass, this perfect glo- bularity is readily verified. The cell-wall is extremely delicate and thin; its contents are Fig. 404. Cells of the Choroid Plexus. From the adult Cat The upper figure represents their arrangement in sitii; in tlie lower, a, nuclei of ruptured cells; b, cells detached. (^3Iagrdfied 320 diameters.^ fluid, and usually nearly transparent, and of a refractility not much different from that of water. So great is the delicacy of the mem- brane, and so little aid to observation is given by its colour or refractility, that at first it requires careful scrutiny before its pre- sence is verified ; and its recognition is often retarded by the excess of light which the modern achromatic condenser affords. From this, which is the ordinary size, they pass by few gradations to a plentifid blastema, which fills Lip the interstices, and more or less com- pletes the covering of the vessels. On tear- ing up such a fringe, most of these cells dis- appear, and their collapsed membranous walls may be found here and there, flattened and folded upon themselves, or burst at one ex- tremit}', and giving vent at the rupture to a faintly granular mass and their nucleus. The nuclei found in multitudes in such a specimen are round and pale, and contain granular matter and a single small bright yellow nu- cleolus ; or, rarely, there are two such spots. Many of these free nuclei exhibit a flattened or truncated surface, which indicates the ex- tremity previously seated on the inner surface of the cell. Whatever may be the import of this pecu- liar structure, it is interesting to observe how closely, both in the arrangement of the vessels and the structure of the cell-covering, it re- sembles the synovial fringes previousl}^ de- scribed. The view of Mr. Rainey, that these spherical cells are nerve vesicles, seems to rest at present on the very insufficient basis of a slight external resemblance. But it appears ' difficult to infer such complicated functions as are sustained by the nervous matter from such simple physical properties as sphericity, faint granularity, and the like, unaided by other structural analogies. Develojyment of serous memhranes. — The steps of this process are little known, a circum- stance which seems partly to depend on the extreme readiness with which it occurs, partly on the comparative simplicity of its nature : the cell being retained as the permanent form of the tissue, the mere apposition of a number of these in connection with a surface of areolar tissue is all that is required to complete the visible phenomena of its deve- lopment. Li the anivial kingdom, serous membranes are almost invariably present. They mostly appear in immediate connection with some higher development of the several viscera around which they are grouped. In this manner, first the peritoneum, and next the pericardium and arachnoid, appear. The first indication of the pericardium is in the mol- lusca, and its appearance seems to be imme- diately preceded by a mechanical provision of a very different kind, although perhaps of similar imjjort: the heart is suspended in the centre of a muscular cord, which is attached by its two extremities, and thus fixes the viscus and steadies its movements. The peritoneum and pleurae are united in one in the reptiles ; afterwards, the latter membranes are shut off by the formation of a diaphragm. The tunica vaginalis is absent in those animals, in whom the testicles occupy a position within the belly. Generally, there is the same obvious relation of their presence to mechanical uses which is seen in the human subject. But the ciliated serous membranes of many reptiles, and the urinating pericardium of cephalopods, ofter, at present, such great and inexplicable dif- ferences from the human serous membranes, that one might almost doubt, especiall}' in the latter of these instances, how far textures contrasted by such manifest differences of structure, and probably of function, can justi- fiably be called by the same name. In the human foetus, their development is also little understood. This period of life, however, adds the amnion to the list of serous membranes, the structure of which it closely resembles. Its cavity is occupied by a saline and albuminous fluid in large quantity. It is subject to fluctuations in amount, and one or two analyses appear to show that the proportion of albumen which it contains is considerably diminished in ad- vanced pregnancy. Development by friction. — Besides these two forms, the development of some of these structures is witnessed in another condition, perhaps more peculiar than either; viz., in answer to the application of mechanical force. The subcutaneous bursae which are ordinarily found over some of the various prominences of bone indicate the nature of their relation to these localities by their reproduction after