306 REPTILIA. column, receiving at the point where it begins to take this direction from before backwards the left branch of the right aorta, which forms a loop in front of it. From the convexity of this loop arises the left carotid. The two other branches of the right aorta wind back- wards, and join together in a similar manner upon the right side of the neck, forming two loops placed one in front of the other. The right carotid arises from the convexity of the loop. The subclavians are given off from each aorta a little before their union, except in crocodiles and the iguana, where they are both derived from the right aorta. The common trunk formed by the union of the two aortce, which takes place just beyond the apex of the heart, gives off in succession numerous pairs of intercostal arteries. It sends, moreover, shortly after its commence- ment, an artery to the oesophagus, and subsequently a small branch to the liver; further backwards it gives off an artery which soon divides into two branches : of these the anterior supplies the stomach, the spleen, the pancreas, and the duodenum; the posterior, which represents the anterior mesenteric, is appropriated to the intestinal canal. The aortic trunk then gives off in succession the lumbar, the spermatic, the pos- terior-mesenteric, which supplies the rectum, and the renal, which are given off thus late because the kidneys are situated very far back in the abdominal cavity : lastly, it gives origin to the iliacs and the middle sacral arteries. The last-mentioned vessel may fairly be re- garded as a continuation of the aortic trunk, from which the iliacs seem to be mere branches; a circumstance which is owing to the excessive proportions of the tail when compared with the extremities. In the Ophidian reptiles, the absence of limbs, the existence commonly of a single lung, and the extremely slender and elongated form of the body, concur to render the distri- bution of the arterial trunks very simple throughout this order. These trunks, as in the Chelonians and Saurians, are three in number. Their first divisions, instead of being double and symmetrical, are reduced to single trunks. This is the case, for example, with the pulmonary artery in those serpents that possess but one lung, and also with the com- mon carotid, and the vertebral in the entire order. It is from the convexity of the right aorta, and verv near its origin, that the above branches, destined to supply blood to the head and neck, are derived. The right aorta then winds backwards, passes above the oesophagus, and then running obliquely inwards and backwards, it joins the left aorta at a little distance beyond the apex of the heart. The right aorta gives off, a little after its ori- gin, a small artery that supplies a small round glandular-looking mass situated in front of the base of the heart, and subsequently to another similar body of elongated form, situ- ated beneath the jugular vein. It then gives off the common carotid, which is single in all the Ophidia. A third artery is given off a little further on, which is the conmion trunk of the vertebral and anterior intercostals. >'o other important artery is given off by the right aorta, and when it joins the left'aorta its diameter is very small, so that the greater portion of the blood that this vessel receives trom the heart is supplied to the organs which are situated in front of that viscus : it might therefore be properly named the carotid artery. The carotid artcri/ runs obliquely towards the left side, and advances forward, closely connected to the left jugular vein, between the trachea and the oesophagus, and at length is situated beneath the latter. It gives off a great number of small branches to these parts, and near the head divides into several small arteries, which represent both the external and internal carotids. "SVheu the right aorta approaches the verte- bral column, it gives off, as stated above, a considerable branch, which supplies the place both of the vertebral arteries and the anterior common intercostals. This artery advances beneath the vertebral column, giving off branches on both sides, opposite each inter- costal space, both to the muscles and to the vertebrte of the region which it traverses, and only enters the vertebral column close to the head. This vertebral and intercostal artery likewise gives off recurrent branches, which furnish intercostal vessels behind its point of origin. The left aorta runs upwards, backwards, and to the left side: passes beneath the oeso- phagus, and afterwards beneath the lung until it reaches beyond the apex of the heart, where it receives the right aorta, and con- tinues its course backwards. It continually gives off branches corresponding to the inter- costals and the visceral arteries : those which furnish the stomach, the hver, and the pul- monary sac or sacs, are given off successively from the aorta in its course backwards, so that there is nothing like celiac axis. Nearly opposite the pylorus it gives off^ the anterior mesenteric, which runs parallel to the intestine for half its length, to which it constantly furnishes branches. Further backwards the intestinal canal receives in succession three other small branches from the aorta, which gives oft" as it runs backwards arterial branches to the kidneys, ovaries, and other viscera. Arrived at the termination of the abdomen, it passes on beneath the vertebrce of the tail, in which it becomes gradually expended. Organs of Respiration. — In several species of Lizards the cavity of the fauces is much enlarged by an expansion of the skin in front of the larynx {fg. 216, d.). These laryngeal sacs, as the}- are called, appear to be recep- tacles for air rather than food ; for, although not connected with the larynx, they are ex- traordinarily distended in rage, <Jv:c. Before the termination of the trachea, both in the Coluber natrix and thiringiciis, there is a small blind depression, which, as was first re-