226 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. opposite vessel, the anterior inosculates with the termination of the anterior interosseous and with small branches sent upwards from the superficial and deep palmar arches: while the arch formed by the posterior joins the posterior interosseous, and the dorsal branch of the anterior interosseous: and gives off a small branch which occupies each of the two ulnar metacarpal spaces on the back of the hand. The communicant ulnce is a branch of large size, which passes away from the posterior surface of the ulnar vessel at about the lower border of the annular ligament, and disappears by sinking between the abductor and opponens minimi dii:iti, to join, deeply in the palm, with the ulnar extremity of the palmaris profunda or palmar arch of the radial, to which it usually approximates in size. It gives small branches to the muscles while passing between them. In the palm of the hand, the digital arteries are the only branches of the vessel which attain any size : there are four of these, the first supphing the ulnar side of the little finger, and the remaining three correspondint; each to the opposed sides of two fingers : the most external being between the middle one and the index. They occupy a situation super- ficial to the nerves and tendons, and continue forwards, each as a single branch, until they reach to the clefts of the fingers; Mng in in- tervals between the commencing sheaths of the tendons, and limited in front by the trans- verse ligament of the fingers, and behind by the strong ligament on the heads of the metacar- pal bones. In this space lies also the similar digital branch of the median nerve, but beneath the artery, and at its inferior tennination, each bifurcates into branches for the neigh- bouring side of the fingers which bound the cleft. Here the vessels are crossed by the nerves, and in the remainder of their length, are situated along the border of the finger, to its termination, the nerve being anterior. At the extremity of the finger, the branch of each side gives off a twig to the under surface of the nail, and the remainder immediately unitinfr in an arch with the similar branch of the op- posite side, breaks up into a network, whose meshes thus form a highly vascular subtra- tum to the sensitive papillary surface which especially occupies this part. In its course along the finger, beside many smaller branches, each digital artery gives off a transverse branch ]ust above the several phalangeal articulations ; which, by joining with its fellow, forms an arch whence proceed the smaller vessels to the joint. Varieties of the radial and ulnar arteries. — The size of these vessels, together with the comparative exposure to mechanical injury which their situation involves, renders an exact knowledge of their distribution abso- lutely essential to the surgery of the upper extremity ; and the same causes also require that the more important varieties, which con- stitute so large a per centage of their acti^al numl)ers, should at least experience some consideration. In sketching out a few of these it is impossible to avoid acknowledging great obligations to Mr. Quain"s recent work, " The Anatomy of the Arteries," in which the number of subjects, which serve as the groundwork of the estimates, the evident care with which they have been examined, and the beauty of the illustrations, leave little to be wished for. Variefies of origin. — Rarely does either of the two vessels arise from the brachial at a point lower than the ordinary situation op- posite the coronoid process of the ulna: a higher division of this artery, or as it is called, a " high origin" of one of these its branches, is, on the contrary, by no means an uncommon occurrence. It is worthy of notice, that in the majority of these cases, there is no lateral correspondence of the variety, — in the 0[>- posite limb the distribution is the usual one. The most frequent of the two is Me liigh origin of the radial, which may come off from the axillary, or from the brachial artery in any part of its course. In this case, the remaining trunk, although directly continuous with the ulnar artery, and lacking the usual means of distinction from it, beitrs yet the name of brachial, since it generally possesses the ordi- nary relations and distribution of the latter vessel. L nder these circumstances, the radial passes down the arm from the place where it is given off. generally lying rather close to the brachial, and on its outer side, until it reaches the forearm : subsequently it preserves its usual arrangement and termination. But though, for the most part, its course is thus only altered by the possession of an additional por- tion in tlie upper arm, this irregularity is some- times associated with another which concerns its course, viz., a position of the artery super- ficial to the fascia; and here it would often have a close juxtaposition to the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, which careless- ness in venisection might render dangerous or even fatal. A similar deviation may obtain in the remainder of its course, placing it super- ficially to the supinator radii longus, instead of beneath its overlapping inner border; or causing it to cross over the extensor tendons at the wrist instead of under them. The latter variety is frequently associated with another alteration in the course of the vessel, which, after giving off the superficialis volae at a point much higher than usual, immedi- ately turns round the outer border of the forearm, so as to leave this small branch alone occupying its ordinary position at the wrist. Other deviations are comparatively rare: — thus occasionally the vessel enters the palm in the second instead of the first inter- osseous space. Variations in its distribution appear chiefly dependent on its relative size. If smaller than usual, a kind of enlarged communicans ulnae reinforces its deep palmar arch, or gives off its radialis indicis and magna pollicis branches: or the compensative stream may arrive by another channel, viz., a dihited anterior inter- osseous to join the artery as it turns round the wrist; or by a large posterior branch of