570 SHELL. tremely fine lines, passing in a direction parallel to the suriace of the shell and to each other. The number of these is usually from six to fifteen ; but they sometimes amount to as many as thirt}', or even sixt}^ their number not beins in relation either to the thickness of the pigmentary layer, nor to the size of the species observed ; but appearing to augment with age. The cellular layer is that in vrhich the colouring matter of the shell is solely con- tained ; but it does not always contain pig- ment, its structure being precisely the same on the white under-surface of the crab as on the reddest portion of its carapace. When examined with a low magnifying power, it pre- sents an areolar aspect; but when a suffi- ciently thin section is viewed by transmitted liuht with a high magnifying power, the cha- racter of the net-work, and of the dark spaces it encloses, becomes at once apparent. It is Fin. -1-25. Cells of piqmenian/ layer of shell of Crab; a, papil- lary elevation ot subjacent layer. Magnified 400 diameters. then obvious that the nearly colourless poly- gonal reticulations are the thickened imlh of cells, each of them being divided by a distinct line, which marks the junction of the conti- guous boundaries ; whilst the dark spaces or areolae are the cavities of the cells, filled with colouring matter, or with some other semi- opaque substance. This cellular la\ er is not luiiformly disposed over the entire surface of the crab-shell; for the calcareous layer beneath rises u[) through it in little papillary eleva- tions (fig. 425. flf), to the summit of which the epidermis adheres. It is from the deficiency of the pigmentary layer at these points, that the shell derives its minutely speckled appear- ance. The internal layer is that which constitutes by far the thickest part of the shell of the crab, and which must be regarded as its fun- damental or essential element, since (according to M. Lavalle) it is never wanting in the Decapod Crustacea, whilst other layers are sometimes deficient. It is in this internal layer, that the calcareous matter is chiefly de- posited ; but even after this has been re- moved, a very distinct animal basis is left. possessing considerable firmness, and closely resembling that w^hich is left after the decal- cification of dentine. When a thin section of it is made parallel to its surface, and sub- jected to a high magnifying power, it is seen to be composed of an apparently homogeneous substance, studded with minute points, each surrounded by a clear space, which correspond with those seen in a section of dentine cut at right angles to the course of its tubuli, and which would seem to possess the same essen- tial character with them. A thin section of the shell taken in the opposite direction (/. e. from surface to surface) leaves no doubt, when examined with a sufficient magnifying power, of the nature of these markings ; for they are then clearly seen to be the orifices of tubuli, which pass with great regularity from one surface of the shell to the other, lying nearly parallel to each other, and having their usually straight course interrupted at tolerably regular intervals by minute sinuosi- Fig. 426. Portion of transverse section Jrom claw oj Crab. 3Iagnified 400 diameters. ties resembling the " secondary curvatures " described by Prof. Owen in the dentinal tubuli. These sinuosities correspond with bands which are seen to traverse the section, running parallel to the surfaces of the shell ; and they ap{)ear, like those of dentine, to indicate the successive stages of calcification of the animal basis. This structure is par- ticularly well seen in the black extremities of the claws of the conmion crab, in which the intertubular substance is quite transparent in a thin section, and of which the hardness and density are as great as in many varieties of dentine ; and as the tubuli are seen, in a transverse section of the claw, to radiate from the central cavity towards the surface, the resemblance to a section of a tooth is alto- gether so close, as quite to deceive an ob- server unacquainted with the substance he is examining. The same structure exists, how- ever, in the remainder of the shell; but from some difference in its molecular constitution, the intertubular substance has a less dense and tenacious character, and has an opaque chalky aspect, which renders even a very thin