REPTILIA. 266 Fig. 177. Skeleton o f Tortoise. A, siapenor maxilla ; b, inferior maxilla ; c, ossiculum auditus; D, os hvoides; E, cervical vertebrae; F, dorsal vertebrje; G, sacrum; h, caudal vertebrse; i, dorsal ribs; K, marginal scales; x, scapula; o, coracoid bone ; p, os humeri ; Q, radius; r, ulna ; s, bones of the carpus ; t, metacarpal bones ; r, digital phalanges; v, pelvis; w, femur; x, tibia; t, fibula; z, tarsus; je, metatarsus; A.v., phalanges of the foot. case filled up with a cartilaginous membrane. In the carapax of fresh-water tortoises (Emys), and in the Chelides, the interspaces between the ribs in time become completely filled up, and the ribs are connected by suture, through- out their whole extent, to each other and to the marginal pieces (k). The marginal pieces (Jig. 177, p) form a sort of osseous frame composed of a series of bones, eleven in number on each side, which are united together hy suture, and likewise con- nected with the extremities of the ribs. In the Tortoises this connection with the ribs is effected by suture, but in the Turtles and other genera having the extremities of the ribs narrow, their apices are implanted in fossae excavated in the marginal plates, where they are fixed by a species of s} nchondrosis. These marginal plates cannot be otherwise regarded than as the representatives of the sternal ribs of the Crocodiles and other Saurians; the two first and the two last, like the abdominal ribs of the Crocodile, being de- veloped without the presence of any dorsal ribs in correspondence with them. In the Soft-Tortoises (Trionyx) the marginal pieces are never ossified, but are represented by a cartilaginous rim, in which sometimes osseous particles are sparingly deposited. The ventral cuirass of the Chelonian rej)- tiles, called the plastrum, is exclusively formed by the sternum, which in this race of animals seems to attain its maximum of development. It consists invariably of nine pieces, eight of which are pairs; while the ninth, situated between the four anterior ones, is central and azygos. These elements of the sternum have been well-named by Geoftroy St. Hilaire in ac- cordance with the situations that they occupy. The anterior pair ai-e the ephtemcil pieces, and the pair situated behind these the //j/o-sierna/s. In the centre bounded by the above four bones is the azygos piece named the e?iio- sternal. The pair situated immediately pos- terior to the hyosternal are called the hi^po- sternal pieces, and the two which terminate the plastrum xqj/io-sfenials. The sacral and caudal vertebra return to the usual arrange- ment, being all free and inoveable, having their bodies concave in front and convex be- hind, and their apophyses as in ordinary ver- tebrffi. Their number varies in different species from eight to twenty-seven. The scapular apparatus is contained in the interior of the thoracic cavity. It consists of a remarkably shaped three-branched bone (Jig. 178.), which is suspended on each side by a ligamentous attachment beneath the second vertebra of the carapax. The branch which is thus suspended ( a), notwithstanding its strange position inside the thorax, is the scapula ; the branch b Cuvier, after the ma- turest deliberation, decided to be its acromion process ; while the flattened bone c directed backwards, he considers as being incontest- ably the coracoid bone. This three-branched shoulder, with its almost cylindrical scapula.