POLYPIFERA. 45 /ill, presently, be more particularly de- cribed. From this disposition it results that he contents of the stomach can pass as far s the extremities of these four vessels, and ly means of the transverse canal can be trans- Fig. 50. A. series illustrating the development of Tuhularia hy free gemmcE, after the detachment of the embryo from its peduncle, in continuation of that in the preceding cut. The same letters indicate similar parts in all the figures in this and the preceding series. Fig. 1. An embryo detached and mo^-ing in the ■water like a Medusa, seen in profile; in addition to the four vessels, whose development is demonstrated in the foregoing series, eight other canals (/) are now perceptible; these belong to the external enve- lope. 2. The same viewed obliquely, showing the situa- tion of the mouth e; h, the transverse canal which brings the ioxur vessels into communication. 3. The same seen from below. 4. The four bands or vessels contracted a little, giving to the embrj'o a subquadrate outline; viewed from below. The embr\'0 is now no longer spheri- cal, but flattened, as well as subquadrate. 5. The embryo viewed obliquely from above; the sujjerior and inferior parietes drawn together; the stomach projecting through the mouth. It now presents the fonn of a Greek cross, owing to the great contraction of the longitudinal bands or ves- sels. 6. The embryo placed inverted with respect to Fig. 1; the stomachal cid-de-sac, which becomes the body of the poh-pe, completely protruded. 7. An ideal transitory figure. 8. The embryo become fixed. The internal row of tentacles beginning to protrude. 9. The same more advanced. The tijorows of tentacles further developed. ^^^^yjY^ i^o^o^g*^ ferred from one to the other. Professor Van Beneden observed a fluid containing globules moving in this direction in their interior. The communication between the longitudinal ves- sels and the stomachal cavity, and their inter- communication by means of transverse canals, is another arrangement exactly similar to what exists in the adult Medusae. The outer membrane presents eight longi- tudinal canals, N\hich are found to be filled with cellules, but in which no movement has been observed. It is to the presence of these longitudinal bands that the embryo in this stage of its development owes its resemblance to certain fruits, more particularly to a melon. From the anterior part proceed four ap- pendages (f/), which were still undeveloped at the period of the detachment of the young polype, but which insensibly unfold them- selves. These are the tentacula. In the centre there projects a rounded opaque body generally of a red or yellowish tinge, which is the stomach. This viscus communicates, as has been stated above, with the four lon- gitudinal vessels, and is the only opaque part of the embryo. It opens in front b3'an orifice which constitutes the mouth ; the whole organ is eminently contractile, turning it.-elf in all directions like the body of a Hydra, sometimes elongating itself like a worm, and at others shrinking so as to be almost imper- ceptible. If the embryos examined in this condition be vigorous, their movements are very varied, and the forms that they assume extremely singular. The regular contractions above noticed are the most simple actions ; the two poles separate and approach each other alter- nately, whence results the progression of the little creature. But this contraction may be carried to a still higher degree: the rounded stomach in the middle of the embryo not only contracts itself in every direction, but it seems to turn itself in the middle of its transparent envelope like a worm in search of a passage by which to get out; and at length it pushes its free extremity through the opening in front of it, and elongates its body still more until