PULSE. 185 or about one-eighth of the mean frequency in the male. 2. The minimum frequency of the pulse of the female, at more than one period of hfe, falls below that of the male ; but its maximum frequency is, at all periods, above that of the male. 3. The range of the pulse in both sexes is considerable ; in the male it extends from 28 to 56, in the female from 32 to 68 beats, and it is probable that more numerous observa- tions would extend this range still farther. The average range in the male is 43; in the female, 48. 4. For the purpose of assisting the memory, the average pulse of the adult male may be stated at 70, that of the adult female at 80. The highest number is somewhat less than 100 in the adult male, and somewhat more than 110 in the adult female. The least number in each is about 50. The lowest number recorded in the table, as occurring in healthy males, is 46, and in healthy females 52. These, however, are not the least numbers on record ; for Heberden counted 42, 30, and even 26 pulses in healthy males, the latter number in a man of 80 ; and Fordyce one case of 26, in an old man in the Charter-house, and another of 20. The writer, some years since, met with a pulse of 38 in a gentleman then and now in the en- joyment of good, though not robust, health. The lowest number observed by Floyer was 55. Falconer counted a pulse of 36, and another of 24, in healthy females, and Dr. Graves records one of 38. Pulses as low as 16, or even 14 beats, have been counted ; but it is doubtful whether the persons in whom they occurred were healthy. Low frequencies of pulse observed in disease are beyond the scope of this essay. On the other hand, it is probable that extended observations would reveal the occasional occurrence in healthy persons of both sexes of higher frequencies of the pulse than any recorded in the tables. Temperament. — Nothing is at present known of the frequency of the pulse as in- fluenced by temperament. The • speculations of Floyer upon this subject are too fanciful, and have too little foundation in fact, to de- serve a place among the sober results of ob- servation.* The writer's experience would lead him to attach little importance to tem- perament as a cause of variation in the pulse, as he has found high and low frequencies in men of the same temperament ; and some of the lowest pulses he has observed have been in males of opposite temperaments. It is not uncommon, too, to find pulses of very low frequency in persons of the sanguine tem- perament, and in men remarkable for energy of character and nervous excitability. The strumous diathesis is often characterised by a feeble pulse of low frequency, while those who are subject to gout have, as a general * The choleric tempers may be betv/ixt these numbers 75 and 80, the salt betwixt 80 and 85, the phlegmatic betwixt 70 and 65, the cold melancholy betwixt 65 and 60." — Pulse Watch, p. 57. rule, a stronger pulse of higher frequency. It is probable that, cceteris paribus, the large chest and muscular frame are accompanied by an infrequent, and the small chest and spare form by a frequent pulse. But the varying frequencies of the pulse observed in different subjects have yet to be submitted to that ex- tended and searching observation by which alone the several concurrent causes can be successively eliminated, and the most influ- ential circumstances displayed. Stature. — Bryan Robinson * has some speculations and calculations upon this cause, which deserve to be classed with the fanriful conceits of Floyer. They profess to be strictly founded upon observation ; but their fallacy will be apparent, when it is stated that the important element of age is altogether over- looked. Falconer-j- follows the example of Bryan Robinson; and more recently M.Ra- meaux J, in a letter addressed to M. Quetelet, pursues the same unprofitable inquiry. The observations, 64 in number, were made by M. Pingrenon, an army surgeon. The subjects examined were all healthy soldiers, placed in similar circumstances, which circumstances, however, are not specified, nor are the ages mentioned. The ordinary range of age in soldiers of the same regiment is quite suffi- cient to account for the very slight differences of frequency which M. Rameaux attributes to stature. How slight that difference is will be seen from the following comparison :—Stature, 5 feet 6| inches ; pulse, from observation, 64'43 : stature, 5 feet 9 inches ; pulse, also from observation, 62"62. The calculated num- bers are 64*06 and 63. § The effect of stature on the pulse has yet to be determined, and it will require a large assortment of observations made on persons of the same sex and age, at the same time of the day, in the same posture of the body, and placed in all respects under the same circumstances. Posture. — No part of the subject of the pulse, not even excepting its diurnal vari- ations, has been more carefully examined than the influence of the posture of the body. Though the broad fact, that the pulse in disease is affected by change of posture, seems to have been familiar to the ancients, the first re- corded experiment on the healthy subject was made by Bryan Robinson ||, who obtained the following numbers : — Standing, 78 ; sit- ting, 68 ; lying, 64. Dr. Macdonnell is the next person who devoted his attention to this subject, and who appears, from his own state- ment, to have been engaged upon it so early as the year 1784.1 Falconer, in his work * Animal Economy, p. 132—134. t P. 10—13. X Bulletins of the Royal Academy of Brussels, vol. vi. § The little importance to be attached to these results -svill appear, when it is stated that by disre- garding the influence of sex, and looking only to the stature of the body, the pulse of the female is made to exceed that of the male by only two or three beats, instead of the true number 9 or 10 beats. II Op. cit. p. 177. ^ Transactions of the British Association for the