104 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. structure, and so it commonly is. But in some instances, in addition to granular matter lying in a structureless substance, renuiants of cells may be detected, and, more rarely still, nucleated cells of unbroken outline, some larger, others smaller than the red blood- corpuscle. Epithelium cells are often acci- dentally present, as also oil globules. That the main clement of this material is of protein-basis may be inferred from its general properties. Buzzorini* gives its composition from direct analysis as follows,—fibrin, phos- phate of lime, lactate and hydrochlorate of soda, and traces of other salts of the blood. Under the microscope acetic acid renders the basis more or less transparent: its effect on the cells seems to vary. We have seen matter of similar character in the mesenteric glands; and we cannot afhrm that the intestine and these glands are its sole seats, not having looked for it in other parts of the body of typhoid patients. § 2. TUBERCULOUS DEPOSIT, OR TUBERCLE. Tubercle, when in that condition that its properties are most clearly marked, and when at that period of its development that no dissentient opinions are held as to its nature, possesses the following characters. It is an opaque substance of yellowish colour; suffi- ciently firm yet friable, of little tenacity, and resembhng cheese very nearly in point of consistence ; inelastic ; without particular smell ; accumulated in small masses varying in size from a pin's head to a hen's egg, of homogeneous aspect all over their divided surface ; exhibiting no vessels ; insoluble in water, and if mixed therewith quickly subsid- ing to the bottom. And these are the pro- perties of a material which, in respect of its physiology, is characterized by its tendency to become soft after it has existed for a variable period in the condition of firmness, and to induce various changes in the natural textures with which it is connected, changes eventually effecting its own complete disin- tegration and elimination. Nothing can be more true than that tubercle is homogeneous: but this may or may not be true of a tubercle. A tubercle of the brain is perfectly so ; each particle is the counterpart of all others composing it, and for the simple reason that the natural structure, wherein the new matter has found a nidus, has been pushed aside in proportion as that matter has accu- mulated. A tubercle of the lung, again, may also upon rough inspection appear homoge- neous ; but if closel}' scrutinized with the naked eye, or, better, with a lens, it will be found that the section of the little body is marked by lines of a different tint and aspect from its general substance. This arises from the enclosure of some of the tissue of the organ by the accumulating tuberculous sub- stance. Tubercle may be deposited in isolated masses, or, it is said, be infiltrated through the stroma of the various tissues. (1.) When * Der TA-phu5, 1836, S. 87. occurring in masses it is usually of tuberiform shape, and the mass has sprung either from a single centre of formation, or from the con- crescence of several smaller tubercles formed in the close vicinity of each other. It has long been a subject of dispute whether tube- riform tubercle occurs in the encysted form. Laennec held the af&rmative ; and M. Louis follows on the same side. Dr. Carswell " feels perfectly satisfied that the term en- cysted, whether applied to pulmonary tubercle or to tubercle in any other organ, is almost always incorrect. In the lungs encysted tu- bercle is a deception, the distended walls of the air-cells having in all probability, in almost every case, been taken tor cysts. In like manner the dilated bulbous extremities of the biliary system have been described as cysts of the liver containing tuberculous matter."* The e^•idence furnished by Laennec and M. Louis is defective; the latter observer never saw the presumed appearance in the lung but once, and no description is recorded from which the accu- racy of the explanation offered may be ascer- tained.t On the other hand. Dr. Carsweli's objection turns altogether upon his special notions concerning the ahnost limitation of tubercle to the mucous surfaces. We have ourselves never seen encysted tubercle in any structure of the body, if by the term be under- stood tubercle contained within a cyst, which has acted as its formative organ. But we have seen in very rare instances in the lung, and, comparatively speaking, somewhat more fre- quently in bore, tuberculous matter surrounded by a more or less complete membrane, strongly assimilable in properties to the pyogenic mem- brane of abscesses, and, hke it, obviously formed consecutively to some at least of the matter it invested. Such we beheve to be the key to the comprehension of " encysted tu- bercle," especially taken in conjunction with the fact that true abscesses in the lung have not unfrequently been mistaken for tuberculous accumulations. To the class of secondary cysts is also to be referred that species of membranous investment occasionally formed round tuberculous matter w hile undergoing a process of inspissation. The tubenfonn shape is so common in tu- berculous masses that its cause has been made matter of inquiry. By some persons pre- sumed to depend on a moulding faculty in- trinsic in the tuberculous substance (an obvi- ously absurd notion), it has been referred by Schroeder van der Kolk and Dr. Carswell to the influence of the surrounding parts. The latter observer well shows that, in point of fact, this shape is less common than has been maintained, and scarcely occurs except in the brain and cellular membrane, and under cer- tain circumstances in the lung. Stratiform deposition is that occurring on serous sur- faces in layers ; ramijbrm, that observed in the bronchi and biHary system. * Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Dis- ease, Fascic. Tubercle. t Louis on Phthisis, Walshe's Transl. Reprint, p. 426.