577 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. tachment of these muscles at right angles to the lever, and at a considerable distance from the fulcrum, enables them to act at a great mechanical advantage, and their sudden con- traction makes the upper end of the humerus to become the moveable extremity of the lever, and presses it against the capsule, which giving way between the triceps and the sub- scapuiaris muscles, allows the bone to escape into the subscapular fossa. The long diameter of the glenoid cavity being vertically placed is favourable to the motion of abduction, and in some degree lessens the liability to dislo- cation, to which the joint is so prone in tliis position, whilst on the other hand the com- parative fixity of the scapula when the arm is being abJucted, explains in some degree the frequency of dislocation of the humerus down- wards. 5. Circ2cmdaction is compounded of the preceding motions, the flatness of the humeral tuberosities and the shallowness of the glenoid cavity rendering it very extensive in subser- vience to the variety of uses of the uj)per ex- tremity. Circumduction is much more limited in the hip-joint, as there, the anatomical conditions which favour this motion in the shoulder are wanting, freedom of motion being sacrificed to security. 6. Rotation is imperfectly developed in the fchoulder joint, but it exists in great perfection in the hip, as a necessary consequence of the great development of the neck of the femur. {Ben. Geo. M'Dowel.) SHOULDER JOINT, Abnormal Con- ditions OF.—The alterations from the normal condition of the shoulder joint, which we have observed, may be classed under the three fol- lowing heads : — First, those which are pro- duced by disease ; secondly, those causetl by accidental injury; and, thirdly, those which are the result of congenital malformation. Section I. — Uiscase^ — The abnormal appearances observed in the joints in gene- ral, and in that of the shoulder in particular, resulting from disease, owe their origin to some local injury done to the joint, or to some specific irritation, such as gout, rheu- matism, syphilis, struma, &c. Whether the disease first commences in the bone, the cartilage, or synovial membrane*, it soon in- volves all the structures of the articulation in the same morbid action, and with the local affection is usually associated some form of inflammation, either acute or chronic. Acute arthritis of the shoulder.—The symptoms of acute inflammation of the shoulder joint will be found to be similar to those we have elsewhere in this work described as being present, when some of the other large articulations have been affected by it.f The patient will feel considerable pain in the shoulder joint, to the front of which he will point as the seat of his most acute suffering. This pain is aggravated by the slightest touch, * Sec Hii' Joint, Vol. 11. p. 790. t See Vol. III. pp. 49—55 ; IIip Joint ; ;;lso Vol. II. pp. 788—792. VOL. IV. or when any movement is communicated to the joint. The patient himself carefully pre- serves his arm immovably in one posture as he lies in bed, with his elbow abducted from his side, and his hand supported in the state of supination. Effusion of altered synovia, or purulent matter, rapidly takes place into the synovial sac of the articulation. There is much heat of the surface and tension of the skin. The pain which, as already mentioned, is felt on the front of the shoulder joint, soon ex- tends down the arm to the inside of the elbow-joint, and the patient complains of spasmodic startings of the limb, and cedema of the whole extremity may supervene. The distention of the synovial sac of the articu- lation increases, and the surgeon can discover a fluctuation along the anterior or posterior border of the deltoid region, and he may find it expedient, with the view of relieving pain and tension, to make an incision into the joint, and thus give exit to a large quantity of purulent matter. Irritative, or it may be in some constitutions inflammatory, fever accom- panies these symptoms, and the patient may be carried oflf" even before the period when the purulent matter shall have made its way to the surface ; or the acute inflammation may subside into chronic arthritis, and articular caries of the shoulder joint be established, to run its subsequent course as a chronic disease. The acute form of the disease only differs from the chronic in the former being more intense in its attack, and in being accompanied with swelling of the joint — in being more rapid in its course, and more speedily pro- ducing complete disorganisation of the arti- cular textures. Anatomical characters of arthritis of the shoid- der.—Very few opportunities are offered to the anatomist of witnessing the appearances which the several tissues of the shoulder joint pre- sent when they have been the seat of acute inflammation ; we may, however, safely infer, that the articular structure of this joint will be altered in a similar manner in consequence of an attack of acute arthritis, as the corre- sponding tissues in other joints have been already described.* Chronic arthritis of the shoulder.— We meet, in practice, with two forms of chronic arthritis of the shoulder. The first of these oc- curs as an example of slow inflannnation passing into either articular caries or anchylosis of the joint, and is analogous to the well-known scrofulous disease of the hip. The second furnishes us with a specimen of a chronic disease, which the writer has elscichcre in this work denominated chronic rhcnmutic arthritis f ; a disease, the effects of which are to be traced in all the articulations, but its peculiarities are in no joint better exemplified than when the shoulder becomes the seat of it. We shall first treat of the abnornal ap- pearances produced by the disease we call * Vide Vol. in. p. 54. t See Hand ; Hip Joint ; Elbow, &c. &c. P P