49S SEMEN. it. A tail part we have, however, never been able to discover in the spermatozoa of Epeira. The form was uniformly cyhndrical, and of a tolerable thickness, similar to the body in the spermatozoa of Clubiona. Quite the same mode of developement of the spermatozoa we have also found in one species of Theridimna. It can be traced that it does not deviate at all in the forma- tion of its spermatozoa from other animals. But even the process of developement in Clu- biona, which we have described, does not exhibit any very material differences, which is proved by the observation, instituted by us in a small Dysdera, as also in Tegenaria domestica. The mode of formation of the spermatozoa, in fact, in these instances, occu- pies almost the medium between the former two. In Dysdera the spermatic cells containing the nucleus {Jig. 375. a) measure only sho'''- Fig. 375. Spermatic cells of Dysdera, They are round at first until the nucleus elongates itself, enlarges, and finally assumes a kidney form, the external cell taking on the same shape (b, c,d). One end of the nucleus not unfrequently projects outwards (e), but never in so striking a manner as in Clubiona. The same changes of shape are exhibited in the nucleus in the seminal cells of Tegenaria, which measure -^ho'^'i ^hey, however, never lose their original round shape in the course of the change. We have not been able to discover filiform spermatozoa in the two last-mentioned spiders ; but we nevertheless believe that they likewise occur here, as in Clubiona. Respecting the spermatozoa of the Acarhice, we have as yet had but few observations; it appears, however, from the statements Ox V. Siebold, that similar stages of develope- ment take place as among the genuine Araneae. V. Siebold observed in the testicles of Ixodes ricinus a large number of rather long and large rod<?, which had an arched curvature, and were enlarged at one end in a clubbed shape. These rods were probably the developed spermatozoa, and of a similar na- ture to those we have found in Epeira. We do not venture to determine whether the same inference may be drawn with regard to the club- shaped corpuscles, which V. Siebold discovered in the Hydrachneae and Gamaseae. From the description given, however, viz. of these cor- puscles enclosing an oblong spot in the en- larged end, and of their having been pro- duced by the metamorphosis of round nu- cleated cells, we would rather suppose that they were mere stages of developement of the seminal cells, similar, perhaps, to the pe- dunculated seminal corpuscles in Clubiona. In addition to this we may mention that Dr. Frey has communicated to us an observation, from which it appears that Hydrachna like- wise possesses spermatozoa of a filiform shape. The contents of the testicles in other Acarina^ (Trombidium, Zetea, Oribatea, Hop- lophora, &;c.), consist of small globules, which in Bdeila assume a cylindrical shape. We are inclined to consider such as tlie free nuclei of seminal cells. We, at least, believe we have seen in Phalangium that they were surrounded by a cellular vesicle. Mi/riapoda. — The remarkable spermatozoa of the Chilopoda, which appear either as cylin- drical corj)uscles when in a developed state (in Glomeris), or (as in lulus) as short conical formations with a rounded point, are, accord- ing to our observations, of the same nature as the foregoing. In lulus terrestris, in which we have traced the developement of these parts through all phases, the primitive contents of the testicles consist of a great number of small round cells of ■x\-o'^\ containing a very clear nucleus (of about which lies close to the cell wall, and is highly refracting {Jig. 376. a). In the course of the developement, the nucleus en- Fig. 376. Spermatic cells of lulus terrestris. larges, and, in so doing, gradually converts itself into a short cone (b, c, d), which, with its point, extends beyond the surface of the cell. For a time the cell contirmes to be at- tached to the surface, until it dissolves, rendering the seminal corpuscles free {Jig. 377.). The basal part of the developed Fig. 377. Spermatozoa of lulus terrestris. spermatozoa has a diameter of 5^0'''''— ^^W* and is rather protuberant and enlarged at the edges. The height of the spermatozoa is always less than the width, generally by one half. On comparing the phenomenon in the form- ation of these bodies with the first changes of the nucleus in Clubiona, the analogy between the two will clearly be seen. The relative value only of the two is changed. The corresponding conditions in Clubiona form mere stages of transition necessary for fur- ther developement, whilst the developement in lulus does not proceed further than the stage described.