431 SALIVARY GLANDS. and in which there is every thing to show that the parotid was entirely extirpated, the disease returned at the end of a year, and terminated fatally. In Mr. Solly's case*, in which the ascending ramus of the jaw was removed, in order to extirpate the gland as completely as possible, the disease, instead of being confined to the parotid gland, was found, a few months afterwards, by the death of the patient, to have proceeded from the brain. Other cases, again, have been described as carcinomatous affections of the parotid, but in which their details by no means indicate that such was their nature. The case related by Larrey, for example, and which he considered to be one of carcinoma, will appear, we think, on a careful perusal, to have been nothing more than a strumous affection of the lymphatic in the substance of the gland, or possibly of the gland itself, " which had degenerated into a dense yellow lardaceous substance." A remarkable case of hypertrophy of the parotid is related by Tenon. % It had the form of a tumour, of the size of the fist, ex- tending from the ear to the angle of the lips ; it was soft, white, indolent and movable, some large vessels here and there ramifying on the surface. The arteries, on the death of the child, were found considerably en- larged, which circumstance, in all probability, accounted for the condition of the gland. Berard also met with a similar case in a child three years old. The tumour was of almost the same volume, but simulated an erectile tumour. The veins were found very much enlarged and the arteries normal, the cellular tissue reddish and granular, and the true tissue of the gland remarkably hyper- trophied. Scdivari/ fistuIcE occur in the course of the excretory duct of the parotid, in it or its smaller ramifications, and arise from accidental injury, the result of inflammation, or from ulceration of a salivary tumour, which has gradually enlarged in consequence either of inflammatory obstruction at some part of the duct, or the presence of calculi. Marti relates the case of a congenital de- formity of the parotid duct (simulating fistula) in an otherwise healthy female infant.§ The orifice opened on the exterior of the right cheek, down which the saliva flowed. The exact nature of ranula has not been clearly determined. It consists of a sublingual tumour, varying considerably in size and density. Some consider it as a mere dilatation of the duct from obstruction at its orifice ; others as a submucous tumour, external to the duct, causing its compression ; and others, again, as an encysted tumour developed in its interior. Although the analysis of the con- tained fluid (see Saliva) would appear to * London Medical Gazette, Dec. 19, 1845, and July 14, 1848. t Memoire de I'Extirpation des Glandes Sali- vaires. X Histoire de I'Academie des Sciences pour I'anne'e 17GO, quoted by INIurat. § Marti, De Loco pra;ternaturali Orificii Ductus Salivalis Stenoniani sanato. 1746. indicate that the last opinion were correct, it is by no means certain whether mere ob- struction at the orifice of the duct may not give rise to a similar change in the quality of the saliva. The morbid condition of the labial glands has been made the subject of distinct inquiry by Sebastian*, who arranges their affections under the heads of—1. Obstruction of the excretory duct. 2. Atrophy. 3. Tumefac- tion with hyperaemia. 4. Ulceration. The first affection occurs under two forms : The one as a transparent painless tumour of a bluish tint, resembling a vesicle or hydatid in the substance of the lip, of the size of a pea, and containing a transparent viscid fluid. He has only met with it in the lower lip, on the right side, near the angle of the mouth, and always solitary, and of quick formation. The other form is comparatively frequent, and appears as small round elastic, more or less transparent indolent tumours, frequently as many as fifteen in the lower lip. They exude on puncture a thick, viscid, greasy matter. The second affection is distinctly re- marked in the incipient stage of cancer of the lip, which, according to his opinion, com- mences in the cellular tissue. The third occurs in folHcular duodenitis ; and typhoid fever, as observed by him in children. He has frequently met with the fourth affection in phthisical individuals, &c. Comparative Axatomy. — The first ap- pearance of a salivary apparatus has been ob- served by Owen, in a genus of Entozoa found in the stomach of the tiger, and named by him Gnathostoma. It consists of four elongated straight blind tubes, each about two lines in length, placed at equal distances around the commencement of the alimentary canal, having their small extremities directed forward, and opening into the mouth.f Among the Echinodermata the salivary organs in Holothuria regalis are represented by elongated cascal processes, surrounding the oesophagus, and continued into the branched tentacles around the mouth. They exude a viscid secretion, which assists in entangling the objects which constitute the food of the animal, lubricating them, and adapting thera for deglutition. In Myriapodn the salivary glands consist of small transparent vesicles, constituting in Julus terrestris, for example, a clavate mass, the small extremity of which terminates in a tv/isted excretory canal opening into the pharynx. They are large and very vascular in the Scolopendridae. In the Insecta the salivary glands evacuate themselves either into the mouth, or the com- mencement of the intestine in front of the stomach. They are arranged by Burmeister as fol- lows I; — * Loc. cit. f Proceedings of the Zoological Societv, 1836. p. 125. X Burmeister's Manual of Entomology, trans- lated from the German by W. E. Schuckard, p. 144.