607 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. bone upon some of the nerves of the brachial plexus. Anatomical characters of the dislocation into the axilla. — Sir Astley Cooper informs us that he dissected two recent cases of this dis- location :—"First case : A sailor fell from the yard-arm on the ship's deck, injured his skull, and dislocated the arm into the axilla. He was brought into St. Thomas's Hospital in a dying state, and expired iiiunediately after. On the next day the shoulder joint was mi- nutely examined, and the following were the appearances found :—On removing the integu- ments, a quantity of extravasated blood pre- sented itself in the cellular membrane, lying immediately under the skin, and in that which covers the axillary plexus of nerves, as well as in the interstices of the muscles, extending as far as the cervix of the humerus, below the insertion of the subscapularis muscle. The axillary artery and plexus of nerves were thrown out of their course by the dislocated head of the bone, which was pushed back- wards upon the subscapularis muscle. The deltoid muscle was sunken, with the head of the bone. The supra-and infra-spinati were stretched over the.' glenoid cavity and inferior costa of the scapula. The teres major and minor had undergone but little change of po- sition ; but the latter, near its insertion, was surrounded by extravasated blood. The coraco-brachialis was uninjured. In a space between the axillary plexus and coraco-bra- chialis, the dislocated head of the bone, co- vered by its smooth articular cartilage and by a thin layer of cellular membrane, appeared. The capsular ligament was torn on the whole length of the inner side of the glenoid cavity, and would have admitted a much larger body than the head of the os humeri through the opening. The tendon of the subscapularis muscle which covers the ligament, was also extensively torn. The opening of the liga- ment, through which the tendon of the long head of the biceps passed, was rendered larger by laceration, but the tendon itself was not torn. The head of the os humeri was thrown on the inferior costa of the scapula, between it and the ribs, and the axis of its new situ- ation was about an inch and a half beloiv the centre of the glenoid cavity from which it had been thrown. T'he second case" adds Sir Astley Cooper, " which I had an opportunity of examining, was one in which the disloca- tion had existed five weeks, and in which very violent attempts had been made to reduce the dislocated bone, but without success. The sub- ject of the accident was a woman, fifty years of age. All the appearances were distinctly marked ; the deltoid muscle being flattened, and the acromion pointed; the head of the bone could also be distinctly felt in the axilla. The skin had been abraded during the at- tempts at reduction, and the woman apparently died from the violence used in the extension. Upon exposing the muscles, the pectoralis major was found to have been slightly lacer- ated, and blood was effused amongst its fibres; the latissimus dorsi and teres major were not injured ; the supra-spinatus was lacerated in several places; the infra-spinatus and teres minor were torn, but not to the same extent as the former muscle ; some of the fibres of the deltoid muscle, and a few of those of the coraco-brachialis, had been torn, but none of the muscles had suffered so much injury as the suj)ra-sj)inatus. The biceps was not in- jured. Having ascertained the injury which the muscles had sustained in the extension, and, in some degree, the resistance which they opposed to it, I proceeded to examine the joint. The capsular ligament had given way in the axilla, between the teres minor and sub- scapularis muscles; the tendon of the sub- scapularis was torn through at its insertion into the lesser tubercle of the os humeri, and the head of the bone rested upon the axillary plexus of nerves and the artery. Having de- termined these points by dissection, I next," says Sir Astley Cooper, " endeavoured to re- duce the bone, but finding the resistance too great to be overcome by my own efforts, I became very anxious to ascertain its origin. I therefore divided one muscle after another, cutting through the coraco-brachialis, teres major and minor, and infra-spinatus muscles. Yet still the opposition to my efforts re- mained, and with but little apparent change. I then conceived that the deltoid must be the chief cause of my failure, and, by elevating the arm, I relaxed this muscle ; but still could not reduce the dislocation. I next divided the deltoid muscle, and then found the supra- spinatiis muscle my great opponent, uritil 1 drew the arm directly upwards, when the head of the bone glided into the glenoid cavity. The deltoid and supra-sjnnatus muscles are those which most powerfully resist reduc- tion in this accident." This dissection ex- plains the reason why the arm is sometimes easily reduced, soon after the dislocation, by raising it suddenly above the horizontal line, and placing the fingers under the head of the bone, so as to lift it towards the glenoid cavity, which will sometimes prove effectual, because, in this position, the muscles are relaxed, so as no longer to offer any resistance to reduction. Sir Philip Crampton has adduced an example of dislocation of the shoulder joint, which illustrates in a satisfoctory manner the anatomy of a recent case of dislocation into the axilla. Case.—" In the year 1808, a labouring man was brought into the County of Dublin In- firmary in a dying state: the persons who carried him stated that he had been engaged in digging under the foundation of a house that had been burned ; that a part of a par- tition wall fell upon him, and that they had found him buried under the rubbish : the man did not survive more than two hours. On examining the body eighteen hours after death, it was observed, that in addition to the injury of the head, which had proved fatal, the right humerus was dislocated into the axilla. To this part I directed the whole of my attention. I made a careful dissection of the joint, pre- viously to reducing the dislocation, and was so fortunate as to obtain a drawing of the