427 SALIVARY GLANDS. which only one gland was present, running at right angles to the middle line. It was convex in front and concave behind, having a trans- verse diameter of one-third of an inch, an antero-posterior one-eighth of an inch. It gave off three delicate ducts. The minute structure of the glands in general has been already fully inquired into *, and to the type on which they are formed the salivary glands offer no exception. A simple caecal membranous prolongation is the model to which they can all be referred, however complex each individual series of glands may appear. This grand generalisation, by which the ex- treme simplicity of the operations of nature is remarkably illustrated, has mainly been the result of a minute inquiry into developmental and comparative anatomy. We are particu- larly indebted, however, to Miiller and E. H. Weber for the exposition of the evolution and minute structure of the salivary glands. Miiller thus describes the first appearance of a salivary gland in Mammalia, and his ob- servations were taken from the embryo of a sheep, two inches long : — Its form is that of a simple canal with bud-like processes, lying in a gelatinous nidus or blastema, and com- municating with the cavity of the mouth. As the development of the gland advances, the canal becomes more and more ramified, in- creasing at the expense of the germinal mass or *'blastema," in which it is still enclosed. The blastema soon acquires a lobulated form, corresponding to that of the future gland, and is at last wholly absorbed. Yalentint remarks that a portion of this blastema, which contains nuclei and cell-formations, and which is not converted into glandular structure, is changed into blood-vessels, nerves, and connecting cellular tissue; and he has, further, accu- rately determined that the secondary tubes are formed independent of the primary, at the expense of portions of the blastema, in the vicinity of the main duct, with which, by a centripetal development, they ultimately com- municate. Thus, in the first stage of their development, the salivary ducts can be seen to constitute an independent closed system of tubes. The investigations of E. Weber i carry us a step further in the inquiry. He found, by a successful injection of the parotid in a human foetus, that the excretory duct, after having undergone its ultimate state of subdivision, by an extensive ramification of its secondary tubes, terminated in microscopic twigs, each twig having appended to it one or more minute cells or vesicles, forming small group-like lobules or bunches. These cells have not a uniform size, their long diameter, which is more or less in a line with the axis of each of the terminal divisions of the duct with which the cells are structurally conti- nuous, is, on the average, almost of a * Yide Article Gla>t). t Wagner's Haudworterbuch der Physiologie, Article Geavebe. X Meckel's Archiv. fur Anatomie et Physiologie, 1827. Paris line. Gerber * states these vesicles or cells are variously shaped, from to -j-i-g- of a Paris line in diameter, and upon the periphery of the gland appear mutually to compress each other and to become poly- hedral in their outline. They are united to- gether into small lobules, from four to seven times greater than each individual vesicle, the latter consequently being almost three times, the former about twelve times the diameter of the capillary blood-vessels which ramify on the surface. They form, in fact, the caecal terminations of the branches of the excretory tubes, without having of necessity an indi- vidual narrow connecting pedicle, as figured by Berresf in the minute anatomy o( the parotid. Such, then, is the essential structure of the salivary glands; and in the full state of or- ganisation of each we recognise the elements of a mucous membrane, constituting the in- ternal lining of the excretory duct and conti- nuing throughout the series of its ultimate ramifications as far as the terminal vesicles ; a middle elastic coat, and an external covering of areolar tissue. The mucous membrane consists of an epithelial layer, and a basement membrane. The epithelium is of the co- lumnar variety, and maintains this character along the track of the excretory duct as far as its delicate divisions, where it gradually changes its character, so that that lining the interior of the vesicles is of the pavement tvpe. This transition of columnar into pavement epithehum would appear gradual; so that it is difficult to determine the point at which the one form terminates and the other commences. The basement membrane is continued alons the entire track of the tubular ramifications^ as far as the vesicles, the form of which it would appear to determine. There can be little doubt that this is the membrane which Berres alludes to as the proper wall of the vesicles, and describes as a small transparent membrane, covered over with molecules, and which also has been represented by Henle as homogeneous, but which he at the same time considers as composed of filaments of cellular tissue solidly united together.^ Considerable difference of opinion has ex- isted as to the nature of the middle coat of the glandular tubes, according as the largest or smallest have been examined. Yalentin re- marks that in the first case it has been considered fibrous, in the second simply horaoseneous. In by far the greater number of the terminal extre- mities of the glandular tubes the intermediate membrane appears clear and transparent, and gives neither in the fresh state, nor when re- agents are applied, any indication of a fibrous character. In all the large tubes the intermediate coat is formed of distinct fiat fibres, together with the characteristic fibres of cellular tissue, * Gerber, General and Minute Anatomv of Man and the Mammalia, translated by E. Gulliver, 1842. t Anatomia Microscopica Corporis Huraani, tab. ix. fig. 2. X Miiller's Archiv. 1838, p. 105.