REN. 236 on the left side is covered by its corresponding vein, and crosses the left psoas muscle. The renal arteries occasionally present some anomalies as to their origin, mode of division, or number. In some instances they arise below the usual situation, from the aorta, or even from the common ihac or hypogastric artery. The two last-mentioned origins are usually associated with an unusual po- sition of the kidney, either in the iliac fossa or in the cavity of the pelvis. Meckel* has observed the two renal arteries arising by a common trunk from the anterior part of the aorta. The artery sometimes divides into two or more branches immediately after its origin, in which case one branch usually leaves the others to enter one of the extremities of the kidney. This irregularity forms an approach to another, which consists in an increase in the number of renal arteries, each kidney re- ceiving two, three, or four branches having a separate origin from the aorta. The emulgent or renal vein commences in the substance of the kidney by numerous mi- nute branches, which unite into four or five trunks, and these again unite to form a single trunk, either in the fissure of the kidney, or at a short distance from this point. The vein passes almost transversely inwards to the vena cava, the right vein being shorter than the left, on account of the position of the vena cava to the right of the spine; the junction of the right vein with the cava is also somewhat higher than that of the left. The vena cava presents a marked increase of size immediately after receiving the renal veins. Each renal vein is placed in fron^of the corresponding artery ; the vein on the left side crosses over the aorta. The renal veins receive some small branches from the supra-renal capsule, and from the reticular and adipose tissue sur- rounding the kidney, and the left renal vein is usually joined by the spermatic of the same side. The lymphatics of the kidney are but little known ; they are said to consist of a super- ficial and a deep set, the latter being the most abundant ; they pass from the fissure of the kidney to the lymphatic glands which surround the aorta and the vena cava. The nerves of the kidney are very numerous, consisting of several small branches from the lower and outer parts of the semilunar ganglion and solar plexus, joined by the descending branches of the small splanchnic nerve. The renal plexus thus constituted accompanies the artery into the fissure of the kidney. This plexus sends numerous filaments to the sper- matic plexus, and hence probably the sympa- thetic connexion which exists between the testicle and the kidney. Structure of the Kidney. — In ortler to exa- mine the general structure of the kidney, it is necessary to make a longitudinal section from the convex towards the concave border. On examining the surface of such a section, it * Cruvellhier, Anatomie Descriptive. will be seen that the substance of the kidney is composed of two portions, differing from each other in their general appearance and arrangement ; an external cortical, and an in- ternal mednllary portion. It will also be seen that the entire organ is invested by a fibrous capsule, which at the hilum becomes conti- nuous with the pelvis of the kidney and with the ureter. It appears desirable to examine the general appearance and structure of these several parts before proceeding to the consi- deration of the minute anatomy of the kidney. The cortical substance forms a layer about two lines in thickness, which occupies the surface of the kidney, and sends inwards pro- longations, from one to three lines in thick- ness, between the conical divisions of the tubular substance. The colour of the cortical substance is much influenced by the quantity of blood which it contains. It is usually of a lightish red colour, but in anaemic subjects it very frequently presents a yellowish-white appearance, this being the colour of the renal tissue when deprived of blood. The cortical substance is of a softish consistence, readily tearing beneath the pressure of the finger, and Fig. 143. Section fi-om the surface of the kidney to the apex of one of the medullary cones. The plate is intro- duced partly to show how accurate was Schumlan- sky's knowledge of the general structure of the or- gan, c, g, blood-vessels ; h, the artery terminating in a cluster of Malpighian bodies; q, s, t, straight tubes, Avith their dichotomous di\'isions; o, bundles of these passing towards the sm-face and then be- coming tortuous; p, section of blood-vessels. (^Afier Schumlanski/.)