136 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. like matter of true gelatin-yielding growths, and of colloid cancer ; from both which it also completely differs in structural characters. Miiller figures under the title of Collonema a soft gelatmiform tumour of the brain (seen also in the breast), composed of grey-coloured cells, a few fibres and vessels, and acicular cystals, soluble in boiling aether. The re- actions of the growth in the brain most •closely corresponded to those of ptyalin (?) ; that in the breast contained .a minute quantity of casein. SUB^ORDER II. INFILTRATING GROWTHS. CANCER OR CARCINOMA.* In this sub-order we place as a genus the .product Carcinoma, containing three species — encephaloid or soft, scirrhus or hard, and colloid or jelly-like. Carcinoma. " The union of these three morbid structures," as we have .elsewhere observed, " into a distinct genus, i.s, in truth, not a mere nosological artifice: it is manifest that the formations, to which I thus apply the generic term cancer, possess characters entitling them to be grouped to- gether, and separated from all others to the generation of which the organism is ex- posed. They agree anntomicalli/, for they are all composed of elements forming a combina- tion without its counterpart, either in other adventitious products or in the natural struc- tures : they agree chemically, for they are ail distinguished by the vast predominance of protein-compounds in their fabric ; they agree physiologically, for they all .possess in them- selves the power of grov/th and of extending by infiltrating surrounding tissues, and so producing an appearance of assimilating to their proper substance the most heterogene- ous materials,—an inherent tendency to de- struction, and the faculty of local reproduc- tion; they agree pathologically, for they all tend to affect simultaneously or consecutively • various organs in the body, and produce that depraved state of the constitution known as the cancerous cachexia." But, on the other hand, these three structures are not one and the same ab viilio, as is contended by some writers: each may be developed in the others ; but encephaloid stands apart from its co-spe- cies by containing true cancer-elements in greatest abundance, and in the purest and most unadulterated form, — scirrhus derives speciality from its lavish supply of fibre,— colloid from an unimitated condition of gela- tinousness. And, again, we maintain that the * As the pre.sent article has already readied a considerable length, and as we have very fully treated the subject of .Cancer in another work, we shall confine ourselves hei-e to a statement of some few facts bearing on the morbid anatomy of cancer- ous groAvths. We are the more disposed to venture upon this course, as nothing Avhich has, to oiu* knowledge, been made public since the appearance of the work in question, requires us to add to, or take from, any of the doctrines or expositions of fact jt contains. three products are not mere varieties, — they are actual species, because each of them, as just stated, has its own constant structural attribute.* The ultimate elements met with in cancer- ous Growths are of three kinds,— essential, almost essential, and merely contingent. (a) The essential elements are granules, cells, fibres, blastema, and vessels. Granules -exist to various amounts in all varieties of cancer ; average tohoo^ mch in diameter, and either float free, or are seated within cells, or upon or between fibres. They are composed of a protein-substance, or of fat. The cells of cancer are spherical or imperfectly caudate. The spherical variety (sometimes oval or discoid) measuring, on an average, about of an inch, may reach only the -gr-jVo of an inch, or, on the other hand, attain the diameter of -^^^ of an inch, in diameter. The cells of small dimensions are particularly to be seen in scirrhus, where endogenous cell- production is rare ; the bulky class in colloid cancer, where they stantl in the relation of parent-cells to a contained progeny of sub- cells. The thickness and transparency of the cell-wall vary ; it is sometimes collapsed, sometimes full and tense ; almost always colourless. The caudate variety of cell exhi- bits itself under two forms : first, that of an irregularly branched corpuscle, having in its interior a spherical cell, itself provided in turn with a nucleus or even containing nucleated sub'cells {fg. 98) ; secondly, that of the J^;g..98. Caudate cells {from encephaloid of the stomach), con- taining nucleated sub-cells. Length Trloot^ to ih^^ of an inch; vddth ^roo^^ to og'o^th inch. Magni- fied 400 diams. (From Author's work on Cancer.) fusiform cell seen in earconiirtous Growths (seefig. 93, p. 127), and in exudation-matter undergoing development into pseudo-fibrous tissue. The first form of caudate cell is scat- tered in an isolated manner through the growth ; the second may accumulate in fasci- culated bundles, so as to simulate fibre. (See fig. 93, p. 127.) The contents of cells are a cer- tain fluid, granules, nuclei, and sub-cells. Gra- nules are abundant in the cells, more especially, of scirrhus. The nucleus of the cancer-cell is an * The diA-ision into species is objected to as defi- cient in the perfection of zoological classifications. Who, except the artificer of the objection, could have imagined, that even an attempt was made t» reach such perfection ?