107 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. In cold alcohol and in water. A peculiar substance {Phi/matin)'\ Chloride of sodium . . '18 46 Lactate of soda . . • j * Sulphate of soda . . . J In water but not in alcohol. Casein "| Chloride of sodium . . * I 7 9D Sulphate of soda . . . J * Phosphate of soda . . . J Neither in alcohol nor in water. Casein (altered by heat) . Oxide of iron .... Phosphate of lime . . * - 65 11 Carbonate of lime . . . j * Magnesia Sulphur 99.91 Phymatin {(pvtia, a tubercle; like pyin, the discovery of Gueterbock,) is described as a pe- culiar extractive matter, not precipitated from its solution by extract of galls, very little by neutral acetate of lead and nitrate of silver, but, on the contrary, very copiously by basic acetate of lead ; sulphate of copper gives no precipitate, according to Gueterbock ; a white flocculent one, according to Preuss. The main protein-constituent of tubercle appears, from the above analysis, to be casein. But nume- rous chemists question the correctness of this analysis, precisely in respect of the casein ; and it certainly appears proved that Preuss had not furnished sufficient evidence of the nature of the protein-compound contained in tubercle. Scherer* has endeavoured to establish the re- lations of this organic material to protein, and dwells upon the fact that according to the lo- cality of the diseased product this may be theoretically formed by adding to or taking from protein a varying number of atoms of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. The formula of protein, as givep by different chemists, it is to be remembered, varies,— its very existence is made matter of question ; we are, therefore, unable to discover in what manner the che- mistry of the formation of tubercle can be considered to be advanced, or to be likely at present to be advanced, by speculations of this class. The insignificance of such hypotheses becomes apparent, too, from the fact that some of the analyses of tubercle differ as much from others as these do from the analyses of cancer! M. Boudetf finds, with respect to its organic constituent, that tubercle yields albumen and a matter analogous to casehiy under the action of cold water, and is reducible to a substance having the characters offibrin ; he further dis- covers that casein, insoluble in crude tubercle, becomes soluble eventually through the deve- lopment of alkali: a series of propositions more striking than satisfactory. * Simon's Chemistry, vol. ii. p. 430. 1846. t Bulletin de I'Acad. Royale de Medecine, t. ix. p. 1160. Tubercle is insusceptible of growth, properly so called : it increases in size by accretion of new particles or by gradual coalescence of mi- nute masses, at first separated from each other by appreciable intervals. In the lung the latter mode of enlargement is invariably observed, where the tubercle is of any size ; hence the constancy of septa, as already referred to. Tubercle,having subsisted for a variable time in the firm (or, as it is called, crude) state, tends to undergo either of the following changes :—(1.) to become invested by a cyst; (2.) to decay by a process known as softening. (1.) In certain situations, more especially the bronchial and mesenteric glands and bones, tuberculous matter, undergoing gradual in- spissation, occasionally becomes invested with a cyst (of fibrinous origin), which cuts it off from the surrounding textures, and renders it, comparatively speaking, innocuous. (2.) When tuberculous matter has existed for a certain but variable period in the state of firmness or " crudity," it in the vast majority of cases softens. In this new state its physical characters are either very closely similar to those of thick deep-yellow pus, or (which is more common) it seems to consist of two materials, the one soft, friable, and caseiform, the other more or less watery and transparent, mixed together in variable proportions. Com- mencing by possibility at any part of the tubercle, this process commences more com- monly towards the centre, or at least within the area of the tubercle, than on its confines. The process of softening must either be of intrinsic or extrinsic origin. Laennec, looking on tubercle as vascularized, presumed the change to be intrinsic, and dependent on some morbid condition of vascular action ; an hypo- thesis which existing knowledge refuses utterl;- to justify. Other pathologists taught that all changes in the consistence of tubercle de- pended on actions going on in the surround- ing textures — suppurating, infiltrating, disin- tegrating. The latter doctrine is doubtless correct in part; a tubercle, softened at the periphery or even in its central parts, when these are permeated by natural textures, has in many instances simply undergone disinte- gration from saturation with fluids produced by those textures. But when a large mass of tubercle (as in the brain or in a lym- phatic gland) liquefies in the centre, where it is absolutely beyond the reach of influence from the circmDjacent tissues, some intrinsic change has evidently occurred. And this in- trinsic change seems assimilable to that effect- ing softening of fibrinous clots in the veins, and is in intimate nature probably chemical. Tubercle, once deposited, is not necessarily a fixture in the locality it occupies; on the contrary, its removal from the body is fre- quent, and occurs under diflferent conditions and in different manners. It is effected ; (a) probably by simple absorption ; (6) by absorp- tion combined with so-called " transforma- tion ;" (c) by elimination. («) Existing knowledge concerning the simple absorption of tubercle is far fi'ora satis-