299 REPTILIA. Viscera of the Female Tortoise. (Emt/s Europceus.') The Imngsand Lymphatic Vessels have been removed, to exhibit the Course of the principal Blood Vessels. A, arch of the right aorta; b, arch of the left aorta; c, the pancreas ; e, trachea; e', e', right and left bronchus; f', f', right and left subclavian arteries; h, the clitoris, lodged in the ca\'ily of the cloaca, showing the deep urethral groove running along its dorsum ; i, i', lobes of the liver; k, k', the stomach ; L, common trunk formed by the union of the right and left aorta; m", m', m', the right and left oviducts; N, the ovarium; q, termination of the urethral groove, at the extremity of the clitoris; u, u, super- numerary lateral bladders, opening by wide fissures into the cloaca on each side of the clitoris; u', urinary bladder; x, the spleen; d, vena-cava inferior, opening into the rrght auricle of the heart; e', g, h, i, trunks of the jugular and subclavian veins. It is frequently connected with the com- mencement of the intestinal canal. This is the case in the Chelonian reptiles {fig. 218. x.), it is fixed to the duodenum, not far from the pylorus, behind the opening of the ductus com- munis choledochus, and the head of the pan- creas (c). In the Trionyx it, togetiier with the head of the pancreas, is inclosed between the layers of the mesentery; and in the Turtle is contained in the first loop formed by the duo- denum, close to the pylorus. In the Crocodile of the Nile it is attached to the left side of that portion of the intestine which imme- diately succeeds the first loop : whilst in the Caiman it is placed between the layers of the mesentery adhering to the second intestinal loop, close to the pancreas. In Lizards its usual position is at the side of the stomach. The spleen in Ophidian reptiles belonging to the genera Anguis and Cecilia, is situated rather behind than in front of the pancreas, close to the commencement of the intestine ; but in all the true serpents it is situated in front of the pancreas, to which it is closely attached, or indeed sometimes imbedded in its substance, receiving from it numerous veins of large size, which sometimes appear to form a sinus between the two organs, which are moreover connected by fibrous bands, and bound down by the same folds of peritoneum. The abdominal viscera of reptiles are re- tained in sitii by numerous mesenteric folds, the