417 SALIVA. soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but more sparingly soluble in water. It pos- sesses the odour of saliva, and is precipitated by diacetate of lead, nitrate of silver, and slightly by acetate and nitrate of lead, and by tincture of galls ; neither bichloride of mercury nor the strong acids precipitate it. The latter de- crease its solubility, and heighten its odour, while alkalies render it more soluble, and give it the odour of mucus. Ptyalin, when pure, may be kept a length of time, at a mo- derate temperature, without undergoing de- composition." According to Dr. Wright, saliva possesses the property of absorbing oxygen gas, and he states that he has known as much as 2*25 times the bulk of the saliva to be taken up. This quality varies, however, in different spe- cimens ; in Dr. Wright's opinion, according to the quantity of carbonic acid gas con- tained in the secretion. He states he has succeeded in obtaining oxygen from saliva by applying heat, and considers its presence of great value in as- sisting the action of the secretion during the process of digestion, inasmuch as he found that, after exposing saliva to oxygen, so as to enable it to absorb the gas freely, he was en- abled to convert, by its use, a much greater quantity of starch into sugar and gum (an action of which I shall hereafter treat), than by using saliva which had not been exposed to oxygen. Dr. Wright's analysis of saliva is as follows : Water ----- 988-1 Ptyalin 1-8 Fatty acid - - "5 Chlorides of potassium and sodium 1*4 Albumen combined with soda - "9 Phosphate of lime - - _ -6 Albuminate of soda - - - -8 Lactates of potash and soda - -7 Sulphocyanide of potassium - "9 Soda ----- -5 Mucus, with some ptyalin - - 2*6 L'Heritier made analyses of saliva as ob- tained from healthy persons, and gives the following as a mean of ten observations on adults: Water - - - 986-5 Organic matter - - 12*6 Inorganic matter - - '9 Of the organic matters 2*5 parts consisted of salivary matter, or ptyalin (probably not the ptyalin of Dr. Wright, but that described by Berzelius and Simon). Saliva of Children. — Observations by L'He- ritier on the saliva of children showed the quantity of water to be greater in early life. He gives the following as the mean of four analyses : Watet- - - - 996-0 Organic matter - - 3*5 Inorganic matter - - -5 The ptyalin contained in the organic matter amounted to only 1*1. VOL. IV. Male and Female Saliva.—L'Heritier states that he could detect no difference between the saliva of men and women. Enderlin has made several analyses of the ashes obtained from different specimens of saliva, and has found them to be similarly con- stituted. In his opinion, the tribasic phosphate of soda it contains is valuable as a solvent of the protein compounds. He denies the existence of alkaline lactates, not only because the ashes of saliva yielded no carbonate in his experi- ments, but because he failed in detecting them by direct observation before incineration. Plis analyses of the ashes of saliva, as obtained from a large quantity of the secretion from dif- ferent persons, yielded the following result :— Tribasic phosphate of soda - - 28*122 Chlorides of potassium and sodium - 61" 930 Sulphate of soda - - - - 2"315 Phosphate of lime 1 Phosphate of magnesia f " - 5*509 Peroxide of iron J The existence of the sulphocyanide of potas- sium in the saliva is a matter of importance, and some difference of opinion is observed among chemists on the subject. The dis- covery was originally announced by Trevi- ranus, who noticed that saliva, when mixed with a neutral solution of the peroxide of iron, produced a dark red colour. This he regarded as produced by an acid, to which the name of "acid of the blood" had been given by Winterl, and which was afterwards known as the sulphuretted chyazic acid of Porrett. Tiedemann and Gmelin examined into this question, and found that the reaction de- scribed by Treviranus really occurred on adding persalts of iron to saliva, and made experiments to discover whether the colour- ation was produced by a sulphocyanide. After lengthened observation, these physio- logists arrived at the conclusion that such was the case, and procured other reactions besides such as were obtained by testing with iron, which satisfied them of the presence af sulphocyanogen. Dr. Wright mentions sulphocyanide of po- tassium in his analysis of saliv^a, and states that its quantity is always increased by locally stimulating the salivary glands, as by smoking or chewing sialogogues. The internal use of prussic acid or salts containing cyanogen in- creases its quantit}'. It is also greatly in- creased by the use of sulphur. Dr. W, says the presence of this salt is best detected in the alcoholic extract obtained from dried saliva. The sulphocyanide of potassium con- stitutes, according to his observations, from 0 051 to 0*098 of the secretion. Kuehn tried to detect the presence of a sulphocyanide in saliva, but failed. He could not prove the presence of sulphur either by the processes of Gmelin or Ure. Miiller, also, w^as not satis- fied by his observations that the red colour produced in iron resulted from the presence of sulphocyanogen. K E