SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 525 plexiform arrangement, which occupies, for the most part, a plane parallel to the surface of the membrane. Li/mj^hatics in considerable numbers exist in the same situation. Nerves.— Little is known of the manner in which these tissues generally are supplied with nerves. In the case of most of them, anatomy sufficiently shows that the amount of nervous tissue which they receive for distribution is but small; and at present, even the aid of the microscope does not seem materially to affect this statement. The observations of Pur- kinje*. and more recently of Volkmannf and Raineyl, however, agree in verifying the exist- ence of a large number of nerves in connec- tion with the cerebral and spinal arachnoid. They appear not to communicate with the roots of the spinal nerves, but to pertain ex- clusively to the sympathetic system ; and they branch and form plexuses in the areolar tissue beneath the arachnoid. But how far they are related to this membrane, or the serous mem- branes generally, or whether they belong more to the pia mater and other subjacent textures, seems at present incompletely determined, and is a question which will require an ex- tended comparison with the other serous tissues. The very painful nature of the diseases of these membranes is singidarly contrasted with the slight amount of sensation of which they are capable in a state of health. It is pro- bable that, as in the bowels, bones, and some other tissues, this contrast mainly depends on the minutiae of the anatomical arrangements of the nerves relatively to the tissue. In the serous membrane, this may perhaps receive some explanation when we call to mind that almost every morbid change to which they are liable has the immediate effect of converting a smooth, moist, and plane surface into one the nature and disposition of which impHes a vast amount of friction, and the abnormal character of which draws this important dis- tinction between it and other normal surfaces which rub with far more force : viz. that no provision has been made to guard against it. And if the arrangement of the nerves, what- ever be its other features, allots to them, as great a proximity to the surface as is granted to the vessels, it seems tolerably obvious, that any such friction would, in reality, amount to a serious injury of these delicate nervous filaments, and would be quite suffi- cient to account for the intense pain expe- rienced. In addition to the preceding tissues in- cluded in the ordinary enumeration of the se- rous membranes, there are other parts of the body which present structures so closely re- - sembling these, as to render it {)erhaps doubt- ful whether this title can justifiably be with- held from them. The ventricles of the brain are lined by a membrane which exhibits the * Miiller's Archiv. 1845, f Wagner's Handworterbuch der Physiologic, artikcl " Nervenphysiologie." X Medico-Chirurgical Transactions for tlie year 1845. characteristic smooth and shining appearance of the serous tissues ; the posterior surface of the cornea is occupied by a similar layer ; and, according to Henle, there are consider- able grounds for conjecturing the existence of some such structure on the inner surface of the membranous labyrinth and semicircular canals. But without here entering into the question of a possible transition of mucous into serous membranes being represented by these tissues, it will be sufficient to point out that while the ventricular and corneal mem- branes present a stratum of epithelial cells analogous to those described above, they are almost or entirely deficient in the important element of areolar tissue, — and that this constitutes a difference according to which the line of distinction is drawn, excluding them from the serous membranes. The epi- thelium which lines the general surface of the cerebral ventricles consists of flattenetl poly- gonal cells which are covered with cilias ; but where it passes over the choroid plexus, it varies so considerably from this description as to merit a special notice. The choroid plexus occupies the descending cornua of the lateral ventricles, and forms the margins of the velum interpositum, the inti- mate structure of which it resembles in many respects. It consists chiefly of an interlace- ment of ca|)illaries and capillar}^ arteries. The former are of large size and great tortuosity ; and, in this last respect, they are similar to those of the synovial membrane already de- scribed. A little areolar tissue surrounds and supports the vessels, and a stratum of cells covers the surface of the plexus. Besides these structures, a large number of nerves have been described by Mr. Rainey as rami- fying beneath the cells, but Purkinje and other observers deny the existence of nerves in this situation. Concerning the shapes of the cells which cover the plexus, similar dif- ferences of opinion and description obtain ; Henle*,Valentin-}-, and other high authorities speak of them as being in general polygonal, but somewhat flattened and curved where they cover the fringes of the plexus ; while, on the other hand, Mr. Rainey attributes to them a spherical sha[)e and faintly granular con- tents. The following are their appearances as noted by the writer of this article. At the margins of the fringes are seen many long and tortuous capillaries, the gene- ral course of which is parallel to the border of the plexus, and interrupted by few anasto- moses. No basement membrane can be de- tected interposed between these vessels and the cells. The cells themselves are of a sphe- rical shape, and of the very large size repre- sented in the sketch {fig. 40-t.), many of them being one five-hundredth of an inch in diameter, a magnitude rarely paralleled by any cells but those of the adipose tissue : they contain a tolerably large nucleus in contact with their inner surface. Where exposed to the slightest pressure, they take a polygonal shape, but I * Allgcmeine Anatomie, S. 228. t Wagner's Handworterbuch, artikel " Gewebe."