RODENTIA. 385 osteum, which covered the portion of bone absorbed from the bottom of the alveolus. The jumping hare {Helamys copen.sis), when full grown, offers a good example of this cu- rious structure. The molars are not numerous in any Ro- dents ; the hare and rabbit (Lepus) have ; i. e. six molars on each side of the upper 5—5 jaw, and five on each side of the lower jaw: 5 5 the pika (Lagomi/s)^ has —- ; the squirrels 5 5 have J—J ; the families of the dormice, the ^ T" porcupines, the spring rats (Echingidce), the octodonts, chinchillas, and cavies, have 4 4 ^—|- molars; in the great family of rats (Muridce), the normal number of molars is 3 3 X—^ ; but the Australian water rat {Hydro- o—o 2 9 mi/s) has but -—^ molars, making with the incisors twelve teeth, which is the smallest number in the Rodent order ; the greatest number of teeth in the present order is twenty- eight, which is exemplified in the hare and rabbit ; but thirty-six teeth are developed in these species, six molars and two incisors being deciduous. In all the Rodents, in which the number of molars exceeds three in a series, the addi- tional ones are anterior to these, and are pre- molars, i. e. they have each displaced a deci- duous predecessor in the vertical direction, and are what Cuvier calls dents de remplace- ment. This it is which constitutes the essential distinction between the dentition of the marsupial and the placental Rodent; the latter, like the placental Carnivora, Ru- minantia, and ordinary Pachydermata having never more than three true molars. Thus the Rodents, which have the molar formula of 4 4 ^, shed the first tooth in each series ; and this is succeeded by a permanent pre-molar, which comes into place later than the true molars; later, at least, than the first and second, even when the deciduous molar is shed before birth, as was observed by Cu- vier in the Guinea-pig. In the hare and rabbit the three anterior teeth in the upper jaw, and the two anterior ones in the lower jaw, succeed and displace, in like manner, de- ciduous predecessors, and come into place after the first and second true molars are in use, and contemporaneously with the last molar. It does not appear that the scalpriform incisors are preceded by milk teeth, or, like the pre-molars of the Guinea-pig, by uterine teeth ; but the second incisor was observed by Cuvier to be so preceded in the genus Lepus, and he has figured the jaw of a young rabbit, before that deciduous tooth was shed, when six incisors are present in the upper jaw. This condition is interesting, both as a transi- tory manifestation of the normal number of VOL. IV. incisive teeth in the Mammalia series, and as it elucidates the disputed nature of the great anterior scalpriform teeth. GeofFroy St. Hilaire contended that the scalpriform teeth of the Rodents were canines, because those of the upper jaw extended their fang backwards into the maxillary bone, which lodged part of their hollow base and matrix. But the scalpriform teeth are confined exclusively to the inter- maxillary bones at the beginning of their formation; and the smaller incisors, which are developed behind them in our anomalous native Rodents, the hare and rabbit, retain their usual relations with the intermaxillaries, and, a fortiori, prove the tooth which projects anterior to them to be also an incisor. The law of the unlimited growth of the scal- priform incisors is unconditional, and constant exercise and abrasion are required to maintain the normal and serviceable form and propor- tions of these teeth. When, by accident, an op- posing incisor is lost, or when by the distorted union of a broken jaw the low er incisors no longer meet the upper ones, as sometimes hap- pens to a wounded hare, the incisors continue to grow until they project like the tusks of the elephant, and the extremities, in the poor animal's abortive attempts to acquire food,also become pointed like tusks: following the curve prescribed to their growth by the form of their socket, their points often return against some part of the head,are pressed through the skin, then cause absorption of the jaw-bone, and again enter the mouth ; rendering masti- cation impracticable, and causing death by starvation. In the Museum of the College of Fig. 269. Incisor teeth of the npper jaw of a JRabbif, shoiving the effects of unchecked growth on the sealpriform incisor (i), and the accessory incisor (i, 2). Surgeons there is a lower jaw of a beaver in which the scalpriform incisor has,by unchecked growth, described a complete circle; the point has pierced the masseter nuiscle and entered the back of the mouth, passing between the condyloid and coronoid processes of the lower jaw, descending to the back part of the molar teeth, in advance of the part of its ow n alveolus, which contains its hollow root. The upper jaw of a rabbit with an analogous abnormal growth of the scalpriform and acces- sory incisors is represented in Jig. 269. Organs of digestion. —The order of Rodent quadrupeds comprehends animals which are nourished by various kinds of food, both aninml and vegetable substances forming the nutriment of some genera, whilst others live exclusively upon the fruit, bark, or leaves of c c