PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 91 delicate membrane; these productions form within the laminee of the capsules of the joints of the hands and feet, sometimes in the sur- rounding cellular membrane, and least com- monly in the tendons. Their substance has a chalky look on section. Their chemical constitution was first made out by Fcurcroy and Wollaston; most cor- rectly by the latter. Urate of soda forms their main saline constituent; with this is as- sociated urate of potash and hme in small quantity, chloride of sodium in good propor- tion, and animal matter. A gouty calculus from the metacarpus of a man aged only twenty-two, examined by Lehmann, presented innumerable four-sided prisms, arranged in stellar groups, consisting of urate of soda. The composition was as fol- lows : — Urate of soda 52.12 Urate of lime 1.25 Chloride of sodium 9.84 Phosphate of Hme 4.32 Cellular tissue 28.49 Water and loss 3.88 The abundance of nr-ate of soda in these calculi is a very remarkable feature in their con- stitution ; and points to the probability of that salt existing in the blood of gouty patients. (m.) Cutaneous. — The natural secretion of the sebaceous glands may be retained within those sacs in consequence of accidental closure of their orifices. And if the saline materials predominate much over the organic, either as a fault of original secretion or from inspissa- tion, a concretion is the result. Epithelium and fatty matters of various kinds are always associated with the saline materials. These saline materials, which vary much in their per-centage quantity, are mainly phosphate and carbonate of lime. SUB-CLASS II. ANIMALIZED PRECIPITATES. The distinctive character of products of this sub-class is, that they are exuded ready formed from the vessels ; when (ceasing to mix with, or precipitated from, the blood) they appear as "products " outside the vessels, they possess as much of the attributes of organization as they are ever destined to acquire. The ele- ments composing them are organic ; but these elements are either by nature incapable of forming structure, (as sugar, oils,) or circum- stances deprive them of the power they natu- rally possess of developing a structure (as cer- tain protein-compounds) : they are distinctly non-plastic. The animal substances enumerated, when exuded from the vessels, always form (what may be called) potentialli/ the material of pre- cipitates ; but circumstances occasionally pre- vent the actual formation of these. The morbid process essentially consists in exuda- tion (secretive or other) from the bloodves- sels — this is the theoretical precipitation. It would be a needless refinement to make a subdivision of actual precipitates and non- precipitated potential precipitates. § I. Protein-Compounds. — When oc- curring as actual precipitates, the protein- compounds appear as minute microscopical particles, amorj)hous or granular ; they absorb readily the ioduretted solution of iodide of potassium, and become of yellowish brown colour; they are insoluble in aether, altered but not dissolved by acetic acid, insoluble in mineral acids, and dissolved by maceration in caustic alkalies. (A.) Albumen.—Of the so-called protein- compounds albumen is by far the most fre- quently observed as an adventitious product belonging to the present division. It is either (fl) thrown off with certain secretions (of which it forms no part in the natural state ;) or (b) it is retained in a stfuetareless o^4ion-organi- zable condition. /<>~^l^^^——^ - - ,\ (rt.) Albunienun ^he secretions. — Or these the most important-is the urine. Thiii fluid, as discharged fron^iltelitadder, is found, in a considerable variety ofT^Tal-dtseases' or general derangements of the system, to be impreg- nated either temporarily or more or less per- manently, either slightly or abundantly, with albumen.* The various conditions under which this impregnation occurs were classed several years ago by us in the following man- ner ; the advance of knowledge has in the intervening period rendered scarcely any change necessary. M. Martin-Solon's term Albuminuria may be conveniently used to signify the discharge of albuminous urine ge- nerally; but cannot be logically used as a synonym of (nor even as a convertible term for) the affection known as " Bright's Disease." Albuminuria may be caused b}^ — First: An imnalural state of the blood. Se- condli/: j\ forbid states of the genito-urinary organs, either functional or organic, and when organic, either causing albuminous impreg- nation during, or subsequently to, the act of secretion. Thirdli/: Accidental admixture of genital p7'oducts. Fourthly: Some cause hi- therto unestablished. A few remarks on these various conditions are absolutely called for. First: Albuminuria from an unnatural state of the blood. Dr. Blackall, in his work on dropsies, has related cases of scorbutus and petechiee in which the urine was coagulable ; but as the condition of the kidneys was not inquired into, the narratives are unsatisfac- tory. M. Rayerf, however, states that he has found the albumen and red corpuscles of the blood jDass occasionally into the urine in cases of scurvy, purpura, and haemorrhagic fevers; while the fibrin diminishes in the vessels, and the watery portion becomes infiltrated into the cellular tissue, or exhaled on membranous sur- faces. Traces of albumen were discovered by Heller J in the urine of a girl aged nineteen, * Some chemists believe that urine natvirally contains albumen, though in proportion so small as not to be reached by existing means of analysis; among these chemists rank Henry, Chevalier, and Dmnas, (Le^on sur la Chiniie Statique des etres organise's, p. 39.) t Maladies des Eeins, t. i. X Ai-chiv. fur Chemie, Bd. i. S. 12.