PTEROPODA. 178 They consist, first, of an Ovary with its oviduct; secondly of the " bladder;" and, thirdly, of the testis, upon which the bladder rests. The ovary {fig. 113. 21, p) is closely con- nected with the liver,in conjunction with which it occupies the dorsal region of the abdominal cavity, its anterior part being filled with the voluminous testicle. The ovary itself is nearly of a hemispherical shape, and is of a pale red colour, its surface having a granular appear- ance. When crushed under the microscope, all the granules of which it consists exhibit in their interior a little vesicle, together with a dark spot ; the former being, doubtless, the vesicle of Purkinje, the latter the germinal spot of Wagner. The oviduct {q) is tolerably thick, and arises from the middle of the flat surface of the ovary; it immediately becomes consider- ably convoluted, so that it usually forms two loops, and, gradually becoming attenuated, reaches the " bladder " (a), which is situated in immediate contact with the testicle; but, before joining the latter, it generally swells into a dilatation (/•) ; but this dilatation is not constant ; for sometimes Eschricht found two such enlargements ; whilst in other instances the oviduct retained the same diameter throughout its entire length : when present, the swelling was found to be solid, and pro- bably was produced by an accumulation of ova, coagulated by the action of the spirit in which the specimens had been preserved. The " bladder" {s) is situated very close to the surface of the testis, and appears to be supported upon a furcate stem, through the intervention of which it is partly in communi- cation with the oviduct, and partly with the testicle. This "bladder" is somewhat larger than the accidental swellings of the oviduct alluded to above, but, like them, was found to be solid ; and sometimes the mass was divisible into two flattened halves, a circumstance that would seem to indicate the non-existence of any cavity in the interior. The testis itself, in a recent specimen, is so large as to occupy a very considerable part of the abdominal cavity: it is nearly transparent; and when portions of it are examined under the microscope, its substance seems to be en- tirely made up of minute tubes, connected to- gether by delicate membranous processes. Its external convex surface {fig. 113. 28) is convo- luted, so as to give it the appearance of being a hollow vesicle three times folded upon itself; whilst its inferior concave surface exhibits under the microscope a reticulate appearance, something like that of the stomach of a ru- minant quadruped. The common outlet of the ovary, of the bladder, and of the testicle is short, but toler- ably thick. It mounts upwards, and ter- minates close behind the right fin, in the im- mediate vicinity of the anal orifice. On opening the cavity of the head, by re- moving its anterior wall (including the collar and the subjacent muscular layer), its contents are displayed as exhibited in fig. 111. 16. Im- mediately behind the contracted conical append- ages, and close to their hollow bases, is seen a long milk-white organ {b), which, in old specimens, is so extremely brittle, that it is generally broken in the dissection. Behind this, and close to the collar, lies a red sac- culus not easily to be displayed ; and, in the neck itself, immediately upon the collar, is situated a single loop, formed of the same white substance as b. On carefully unfolding these parts, they are found to present the structure displayed in fig. 113. 26, the transverse body (i) and the loop (c) constituting portions of the same viscus. The transverse portion is a canal terminating by a blind extremity (a), while the loop itself may be displayed as an ex- tremely attenuated canal {d) of a reddish colour, which, after several convolutions, opens into the red sacculus (g), and ultimately ter- minates in another short, but wider, tube (/) ; the common orifice of the sacculus and of the convoluted canal is a wide, longitudinal opening, situated in the cavity between the right fin, the head, and the collar. On cutting into this canal, it is found that the milky colour it presents is but slightly owing to the nature of its contents, depending principally upon the texture of its walls, which, w hen ex- amined under the microscope, are found to contain numerous granular bodies, which are apparently of a glandular character, united to- gether by a very thin and transparent mem- brane, the deficacy of which readily accounts for the fragility of the tube. The structure of the red sacculus {g) is not yet fully understood. Its walls are in some parts very thin, and on opening it, the tube (/) is seen to be continued through it. Eschricht was, at first, in considerable doubt as to the nature of this remarkable apparatus : he observed, however, that in several speci- mens, a portion of the sacculus was inverted and protruded externally in the shape of a long bow-shaped organ {fig. 114. 3,/i), along the cavity of which a delicate canal could be distinctly traced, the bow-shaped organ being manifestly the penis, everted in the same way as in many Gasteropod Mollusks, and the de- licate canal constituting the vas deferens. Hyalea. — The two fins are supported upon a fleshy neck, enclosed between the two lobes of the mantle {fig. 114. 3, c), which latter {fig. 114. 3, g, h, i, k) correspond accurately with the valves of the shell, beyond the edges of which they protrude all around, and which they cover with a thin epidermis. The position of the branchiae Cuvier ob- served not to correspond with what he had, erroneously, believed it to be in Clio,—namely, the surface of the lateral fins ; for in Hyalea he could not discover any vascular net-work in those organs, even with a microscope ; and thus indirectly confirms the correctness of Eschricht's views upon this point. He, there- fore, sought for them elsewhere, and, " on breaking the shell, he found them to be situ- ated between the two lobes of the mantle at the bottom of the outer space between them