512 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. such an inference. Observation shows that in the human body a variety of structures exist, which are united by the characteristics not only of considerable analogy of office, but also of similarity of structure, almost complete identity of chemical composition, and intimacy of pathological relations. Adopting the possession of these common properties as a natural and safe basis of classification, we form a group in which are included all those tissues which serve to limit, define, or facilitate movement. The class of structures thus constituted was formerly termed " the Cellular System ; " but the cel- lularity which the name connotes, as it was never supposed to be predicable of all its members, so it is now known to be erro- neously used of that part of them to which it was originally applied ; and they have there- fore been preferably arranged under the head of Passive Organs of Locomotion." And if any should consider this term open to the lesser objection of specifying a general, but not essential fact, that of " Passive Organs of Movement" might be again substituted. On this view we may regard serous mem- branes as forming one of a group of tissues. A farther analysis of this group shows it to be composed of several members, separated from each other by differences, in which we may recognise a progressive, though some- what interrupted, series of gradations. These differences we shall now proceed rapidly to trace. Two important microscopical elements pervade all these structures, and will there- fore demand some attention. These are the white and yello w Jibrojis tissues. The white fibrous tissue (fig. 395. a) consists of bands or bundles of a very variable width, which, unless artificially stretched, take a sinuous or wavy course ; and, at distant in- tervals, include cell-nuclei in their substance. They are marked with striae, which take the direction of their length, and, by their mutual proximity, give a fibrous or fibrillated ap- Fig. 395. pearance to the whole mass. But these markings are not exactly parallel to the borders of the band; and since the tissue, though easily divided longitudinally to almost any degree of minuteness, cannot be split up into uniform and definite fibrils of a diameter corresponding with the transverse width which intervenes between one of these striee and another; and since it is also swelled up into one shai)eless and semitransparent mass by the action of acetic acid ; it seems highly probable that they are limited to the surface of the bundle, or its immediate neighbourhood. At any rate, they do not sufficiently divide the mass to give it a filamentous constitution, or to render it " fibrous " in the true sense of the word. The yellow fibrous tissue (fig. 395. b) is contrasted with the preceding tbrm, not only by its colour, but equally by its minute struc- ture and properties. It consists of separate fibres, the size of which varies considerably in different parts, and, in a lesser degree, in any one specimen. They are exceedingly disposed to curl up, often assuming almost a spiral form ; and are rendered very distinctly visible by the dark margin which their great refracting power gives them. Their branchings are generally dichotomous, and the processes thus given off" are of a size which nearly equals that of the original stem ; and they may often be traced to their union with neighbouring ones, so as to form a kind of trellis-work. The first form exists alone in tendons, ligaments, and the stronger fasciae latag ; its inextensibility and strength admirably adapting it to the use of mere passive resistance to an external force. The second is highly elastic, whence it is often termed " the elastic tissue :" it is chiefly found where, along with a certain amount of yielding, is also required a complete restoration of the previous state without any further expenditure of muscular force, the long duration of an action often rendering it advantageous to avoid the fatigue which the constant exercise ofvoHtion and muscle would imply. And as these conditions are much rarer than the simply mechanical wants which the preceding form is destined to supply, so also is the tissue which fulfils them, being found separately in but a few parts of the body; viz. in the ligamenta subflava, and in certain portions of the vocal and respiratory apparatus. Here it is in sparing quantity ; but in the vast ligamentum nuchag, whicii suspends the ponderous heads of the horned graminivora, the uses of the tissue are ex- eniplified in a very striking manner. Chemically, they are distinguished by the white fibrous tissue containing much gelatine, or rather yielding it by boiling ; while, from the yellow, none can be obtained. They are both little disposed to putrefaction, and retain their peculiar physical properties almost un- impaired by time.* * In an Egj^tian muramy, T lately found these tissues (after moistening) displacing as perfect a structure as a specimen of yesterday cculd have done.