SHELL. 564 their length. A great variety of appearances is presented by this structure, according to the direction in which it happens to be tra- versed b}' the section ; but they are all in- dicative of its peculiar character, which is readily recognisable even in the minutest fragment, although its nature yet remains doubtful. The cells, if cells they be, must be excessively flattened ; and no vestige of them can be traced in the decalcified shell ; whilst, on the other hand, the membranous residuum does not give any distinct indication of having been plicated with the regularity necessary to produce such a remarkable appearance. When any recent species of Terebratula is examined, save Ter. psittacea (which is now generally excluded from the genus on other grounds), an additional peculiarity is observed ; con- sisting of the presence of a large number of perforations in the shell, generally passing obliquely from one surface to the other, and terminating internally by an open orifice (fg. 418.), whilst on the exterior they are covered in by the periostracum. Their diameter, which is greatest towards the external surface, varies in different species from about l-1800th to 1-500th of an inch ; and there is a con- siderable difference, also, in their degree of proximity to each other. In some fossil spe- cies, as Ter, bul'ata, the interval between the passages is scarcely greater than the diameter of the passages themselves. When a portion of one of these shells, which has been pre- served with the animal in spirit, has been completely decalcified by the action of dilute acid, the membranous residuum presents a very remarkable structure, no vestige of which is seen in the ordinary bivalves. Attached to the membranous films are a series of tubular appendages, corresponding in diameter to the perforations of the shell, and arranged at the same distances {fg. 419.): the free extremi- Fig. 419. Dccalcifitd incinbniiic (>l s/i' /l of J cu LrdtiihL auAiraliy, showing the ceecul tuhtdi, icliirli oevupy tltc jKrfoni- tions of the shell: the tuUuli are Jilted icilli minute cells. Magnified 150 diameters. ties of these appendages have distinct coecal terminations ; and when a sufficient magnif\- ing power is employed, it is found that their contents are distinctly cellular, resembling the cells in the interior of glandular follicles. These ccecal tubuli he in the perforations of the shell, and open on its inner surface ; but there does not appear to be any system of tubes or canals for collecting the matter poured out from them, each coecum having its distinct and independent termination on the internal surface of the shell. The surface of the mantle in contact with the shell is found to be studded with minute cells, cor- responding in size and aspect with those con- tained in the ccecal tubuli. The physiological purpose of this curious structure is at present a mystery ; but there can be little doubt that it is a very important one in the economy of the animal, when we see the shell thus ren- dered subservient to the special protection of the coecal appendages. The perforations are wanting in a large proportion of the very numerous species of fossil TerehralulcB; and there would appear strong reason for regard- ing their presence or absence as a character of fundamental importance in the subdivision of this important genus.* In most of the non • perforated species, the shell is readily divisible into thin micaceous plates, which exhibit the characteristic texture of the shell in great perfection ; and as this texture undergoes remarkably little change in the act of fossil- isation,it is often possible to recognise a Tere- bratula from a very minute fragment, imbedded even in the palaeozoic strata. A very similar structure exists in several genera allied to Terebratula ; and in some of these, also, as Orth'is and Spinfer, the distinction has to be established between the perforated and non- perforated species ; w hilst in Atri/pa (to which the recent Ter. psittacea pro})erly belongs), all the species are destitute of perforations. There is not, by any means, the same amount of diver.rity in the structure of the shell in the class of Gasteropoda^ as that which exists among the several tribes of Conchifera ; a certain typical plan of con- struction being common to by far the greater number of them. The small proportion of animal matter contained in most of these shells is a very marked feature in their cha- racter ; and it serves to render other features indistinct, since the residuum left after the removal of the calcareous matter is usuall}- so imperfect, as to give no clue whatever to the explanation of the appearances shown by sec- tions. Nevertheless, the structure of these shells is by no means homogeneous, but al- ways exhibits indications, more or less clear, of an original organic arrangement. The porcellanous shells, as formerly stated (vol. ii. p. 381), are composed of three layers, all pre- senting the same kind of structure, but each differing from the others in the mode in which this is arranged. This structure was de- scribed by Mr. Gra} -j- as the result of rhom- boidal crystallisation ; each layer being com- * See a Paper on the Subdhision of the Genus Terehraftda, by ]Mr. J. 3Iorris, in the Journal of the Geoloijical Society, vol. ii. p. 382. t Phil. Trans. 1833, p. 790.