213 QUADRUMANA. p 3 species, on the contrary, which possess ischial callosities, the Gibbons among the rest, sleep and repose themselves in a sitting posture, with the arms folded across the knees, and the head reclined upon the breast, or sup- ported by the shoulder. The Cebince, in which the ischial callosities are wanting, lie down on the lateral surface of their body. The sternum is separated in the Cebince into as many segments as there are true ribs ; consequently it has quite lost the analogy with the human subject, which it has in the higher monkeys of the Old World. In the anterior extremities, the humerus of Cebns, Nochthora, Saimiri^ and Ouistiti, is similar to that of the Carnivora, by an aperture in the internal condyle, serving for the passage of the brachial artery and the median nerve, which are preserved in this manner from compression and injury, by the contraction of the muscles in the climbing motion of these Quadrumana, In the carpus of the Cebincs there are nine bones, and consequently they possess the intermediate bone, proper, as I have said, to all the monkeys, with the ex- ception of the Chimpanzee. The phalanges of the fingers and the toes are in general very long and incurvated, by which disposition they acquire a greater aptitude to grasp branches of trees, while climbing. In Ateles the fore-hand has quite lost its analogy with the hand of man, by the want of the thumb, which is only represented by an imperfect metacarpal bone. In Ateles hypoxanthus, which has a rudimental thumb. Prince Maximilian says that it consists of two phalanges, of which the first is but half as long as the second. In the Cebi, the fore-hand differs from the hand of man, by the deviation of the thumb, which is situated on the same level as the other fingers, and has the same length as the httle finger. The nails are elongated, and acquire really the form of little claws in the Ouistitis. The posterior extremities offer the general character of the posterior extremities in the monkeys ; the thumb of the hind hand is distant, and has a flat nail in the Ouistitis, while on the other fingers there are small claws. Neurology. — The brain of the Cebincs differs much in the various genera which are referred to this large division of Quadrumana. In the Cebi it is perfect, and approaches much to the brain of man, as may be seen in the drawing given by Tiedemann in his excel- lent work. But, according to the observa- tions of I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire and of myself *, there are no circonvolutions on the proportionally very large brain of the Ouistitis, and there are but few in the Saimiri, in which the anterior lobes are not so much developed as in the Cebi. To these statements Leu ret f * Comptes Rendus, t. xvi. n. 23, 1843, 12 Juin, p. 1236, and Description des Mammiferes Xouveaux, etc, in Archives du Museum, torn. ii. liv. 4., Paris, 1841, p. 515. t Comptes Rendus,tom.xvi.'n.24 p.l372. Leuck- ART agrees with these observations of I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, saying that he found scarcely any made some objections, which have been suffi- ciently refuted by I. Geoffroy St. Hillaire. Myology.—As respects the muscles, those of the tail only deserve a special notice. They are very strong, especially the Jlexores. By them the Ateles, if it is wounded to death, remains a long time, hanging on his tail. For the same cause its tail is always inflected when in the state of rest. The Cebi sustain their body on it, if they are forced to go on their hinder legs. The other muscles seem not to differ from those of the monkeys of the Old World. The general description of these may be applied to them. Splanchnology.— The soft parts afford no material for such interesting observations as those of the monkeys of the Old World. The larynx wants in general the pouches, which I have described before. There are but two exceptions yet known, one in the Ma- rikina {Hapale rosalia), in which Cuvier and Carus state that they have found a laryngeal pouch, which, accordmg to Cuvier, communi- cates with the larynx between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The second exception is the Ateles jjaniscus, in which there is a mem- branous expansion behind the cricoid carti- lage. The hyoid bone of Ateles has the form proper to the monkeys of the Old World. In Cebus it approaches more to the form of 7nan, by a more truncated pyramidal and a less convex or scutiform base. The disposition of the laryngeal apparatus in the genus Mycetes deserves a more accu- rate notice. It is distinguished, as may be seen in fig. 134, by a peculiar tympaniform dilatation of the base of the hyoid bone, by which a repercussion of the exhaled air seems to be produced. A great resonance, effected by the elasticity of the parietes of this bony cavity, must be the result of this repercus- sion, by which the terrible howhngs of these animals are produced. Upon the other soft parts of the Cebincs there is nothing very particular to say. I mention only the structure of the stomach in Ateles and Mycetes, in which, according to the ob- servations of Cuvier and of Prince Maximi- lian, there is some tendency to the saccu- lated form of the stomach in the Semnojntheci. This pecuHarity confirms all that I have said before about the analogy between Ateles and Semnopithecus. In the organs of generation the length of the clitoris is worth notice, particularly in Ateles and Cebus. According to the observations of Leuckart * it has an convolutions in the brain of Hapale rosalia and jac- chiis. Recently I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire has showed to the French Academy two brains of Ouistitis, and has in\-ited the members to verify the three state- ments which he published, viz., "I'existence de chaque cote d'un sillon profond transversal entre le lobe cerebral anterieur et le lobe moyen ; celle de quelques sillons Hneaires et superficiels correspondant au trajet des vaisseaux, et I'etat lisse de la presque totahte de la surface des hemispheres." — Comptes Rendus, n. 714, Aout, 1843, p. 280. * F. S. Leuckart, Zoologische Bruchstucke t Stuttgart, 1841, ii. p. 61.