283 REPTILIA. portion of the temporal fossa, until it meets the jaw into which it is inserted, either separately or conjointly with the anterior temporal. The posterior (emjjoral (/), which is al- ways distinct from the two others, descends from the very posterior part of the temi)oral fossa, along the zygomatic bone (tj/mpmiic) {fg. 205, 7), to the lower, into which it is inserted behind the two others. The mouth is opened by means of a muscle Fig. 20 i. Tlie Muscles of the Head of the Rattlesnake. a a, poison gland and its excretory duct ; e, anterior temporal muscle; /, posterior temporal muscle; g, digastricus ; h, external pterygoid muscle; /, middle temporal muscle; q, articulo- maxillarv ligament which joins the aponeurotic capsule of the poison gland; r, the cer\ical angular muscle; t, vertebro-mandibular muscle; u, costo- mandibular muscle, i^fter Duvernoi/.^ analogous to the digastric (g), which arises from the whole length of the posterior aspect of the zygomatic {ti/mjyanic) bone, and ter- minates on each side at the angle of the jaw beyond its articulation. There is likewise a cutaneous muscle which powerfully contributes to depress the lower jaw, something like the my- oides ; this has been named the costo-mandibu- lar'u (u). This, moreover, is assisted by a strong fasciculus (/), derived from the spinous processes of the vertebrae immediately be- hind the cranium, which has been distin- guished by the name of the vertebro-mandi- bularis. Two sets of muscles are appropriated to the movement of the zygomatic {li/mpanic) bone which supports the lower jaw : of these one arises on each side from the back of the occipital region, and is inserted into the lower portion of the bone above referred to. The other [Jig. 205, m) is cizi/gos, and has been named by M. Duges siib-occipito articu- laris, its fibres run across beneath the base of the skull, from the articulation of the lower jaw on the one side, to that on the other. The former pair of muscles will draw the branches of the lower jaw upwards and inwards, the azygos muscle will move them inwards and downwards. The anterior extremities of the lower jaw can be approximated by a little muscle {fig. 206, v), which passes transversely from one to the other. This muscle, which is tendinous Fig. 205. 3Iuscles of the Pterygo-Palatine Apparatus of the Rattlesnake (Crotalus durissus). (After Du- vernot/,) 1, mtermaxillarv and nasal bones; 2, 2, superior maxillary bones 3, external pterygoid bone; 4, internal pterygoid bone; 5, palatine arch; 6, mas- toid bone; /, the tympanic bone; a, capsule of the poison-gland; a', duct of ditto; h,h, external pterygoid muscle; k, internal pterj-goid muscle; /, I, spheno-pter\-goid muscle; m, the suboccipito- articular muscle'(of Duges) ; n, the spheno-palatine muscle; o, the spheno-vomerine muscle. along the mesian line, is analogous to the mi/lo-hyoideus; it likewise gives off a slip v\ which is attached to the skin. The muscles belonging to the maxillary and palatine bones are,— The external pterygoid {Jig. 204, h), which, arising from each jaw, runs directly forward as far as the maxillary extremity of the exter- nal pterygoid bone, which it draws powerfully backwards. In venon^ous serpents with an- terior poison fangs, which have the external pterygoids very long, and the maxillary bones very short, this muscle is very strong, arising by aponeurotic fibres, from the capsule which encloses the articulation of the lower jaw, whence it runs forwards towards the pouch in which the venomous teeth are lodged, upon which it is partially spread out; its principal attachment, however, is to the posterior apo- physis of the superior-maxillary bone, into which it is inserted by a distinct tendon. The use of this muscle is evidently to carry back- wards the venomous fangs when they are to be laid flat, and to incline them towards the pa- late, a position that they retain while in a state