SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. 553 the eye is still more important. There is complete inability to close the eyelids of the affected side. This permanently open state is due to the action of the levator palpebrae, unopposed by the paralysed orbicularis pal- pebrarum ; and the eye itself, no longer pre- served from the contact of foreign bodies, or swept over by the conjunctiva which lines the eyelids, is often irritated into inflammation. The hazy vision which accompanies this con- dition is partly attributable to this cause ; but more frequently depends on the im- perfect removal of the lachrymal secretion, which becomes irregularly diffused in a more or less solid or dried state over the globe. The general relaxation of the orbicularis perhaps aids this, and it has also the effect of altering the position of the punctalachrymalia, and thus preventing the natural exit of the secretion, which is sometimes poured down the face. But these effects are on the whole rarely so complete as is above stated ; the aperture between the eyelids is usually small, and movements of the globe of the eye are to some extent substituted for those of the lids ; so that the general results offer the most marked contrast to the rapid disorganization which follows the section of the fifth nerve which forms the sensitive supply of these parts. Besides the influence of the focial nerve on mastication, as shown by the result of its paralysis or artificial division ; the sense of taste appears to be considerably impaired on the corresponding side. This fact has been well illustrated by M. Claude Bernard *, who has collected nine or ten cases of this kind. The manner in which the sense is affected seems to vary. Thus, he describes it as an impairment, in which the most sapid sub- stances failed to excite their ordinary im- pressions, and are only perceived after a considerable interval of time. Professor Roux has left a recital of his sensations during a rheumatic facial hemiplegia; and in his description, which Longet quotes -}-, he mentions that everything on the affected side tasted strongly metallic; whence it would appear that this diminution of taste is some- times substituted by a jjerversion or deprava- tion of the function. And M. Bernard has conclusively shown that the chorda tympani is the immediate in- strument of the change. He has adduced instances of paralysis from experiments, in which the facial nerve being divided above the point where this nerve diverges, the taste was constantly impaired ; while in the facial paralysis due to disease of the nerve below its origin, the sense was unaffected. In connexion with these facts may be mentioned the motor function of the chorda tympani. It has been previously stated that, among other courses ascribed to this nerve after its union with the gustatory, Guarini has succeeded in tracing its filaments to the * Archives Generales de la Medicine, 1843, 1844. f Op. cit. torn. 11. p. 405. lingualis muscle. But in addition to this, he has adduced experimental evidence of a much more conclusive character. He found that galvanising the fifth, ninth, and fiicial nerves affected the muscles of the tongue in a very different manner. When the sensitive nerve was stimulated, the tongue remained without movement ; but in the case of the ninth and facial, an upward and downward movement v/as perceptible. When the hypo- glossal was galvanised, a backward and for- ward motion was added to this common movement; while on stimulating the facial nerve, the middle tract of the tongue, which had remained tranquil in the previous experi- ments, was agitated in a vermiform manner. This latter movement was instantly anni- hilated by section of the chorda tympani. The region which it occupied was that of the lingualis muscle, and to it he traced some branches of the nerve : while the upward and downward movement belonged to the stylo- glossus. The cause of the affection of the taste is very imperfectly understood ; since, in the case of the tongue, it seems difficult to con- nect such an impairment of the special sense with any mere loss of motion. Bernard has, however, offered such an explanation ; in which, as a preliminary, he supposes a vermi- form movement like that observed to be ne- cessary to taste, and that it acts by increasing the contact of the papillae of the tongue with the sapid particles. And although this is sufficiently unlikely, yet it is advisable to recollect that, unless guided by experience, we might have asserted the same improba- bility in the instance of smell; while this sense has been seen to experience an equal impairment, and in a method very similar to this which Bernard has supposed : — viz. by a diminution of effective contact between the object of the special sense and the distribution of its nerve, which contact is itself in part the result of the contractions of certain muscles, supplied by branches of the facial. The mixed nature of the chorda tympani, as laid down by Morganti, may perhaps ex- plain these effects in a different manner; by suggesting that the paralysis of this nerve involves the loss of some of the sentient as well as motor filaments distributed to the tongue. And the varieties in the nature of the affection which were indicated above, per- haps render this explanation a more probable one. A connection has also been traced between the paralysis of the portio dura and an ab- normal state of the soft jmlate: — the curtain of the palate itself being somewhat relaxed, while the uvula is drawn towards the unaf- fected side. In a great number of facial palsies, however, this deviation is absent. But although materials on this point are yet somewhat few, it n)ay be safely stated that its presence or absence varies according to the seat of the disease causing the para- lysis : _ if above the geniculate ganglion, the deviation appears pretty constantly present ; if below, it is absent. The light \vhich ex-