SECRETION. 470 time when the real nature of the secreting structure was altogether unknown, and when the choice seemed to He only between the in- fluence of the nerves and that of the vessels, it is totally fallacious now that a third agent has been discovered, to which all analogy would lead us to refer, at any rate, the chief instrumentality in the operation. The prin- cipal experiment adduced in support of this hypothesis, and of the identification attempted by Dr. Philip between nervous agency and galvanism, was the effect of section of the par vagun) in checking the secretion of gastric fluid, and the renewal of the process under the influence of galvanism. We have already shown the utter invalidity of this result as a ground for any such inference; and it only remains to show the inconsistency and insuffi- ciency of the hy pothesis itself, which is easily done. For, as Dr. Prichard has justly re- marked *, " if we begin by supposing the ex- istence of the cause assigned, we shall find that there is one agent, namely the galvanic fluid, operating on one material, which is the blood, and effecting its decomposition. How, then, we may ask, does it happen that so many different substances are, in different examples of the same process, the results of this single operation ? In other chemical de- compositions, as when water is decompounded by the galvanic fluid, the result is the same and uniform. But in the instance supposed, the operation of the same chemical agents upon each other is followed by the formation of products of the most different descriptions ; in one part of the vascular system the blood is converted into bile ; in another, by the operation of the same chemical agent, into milk ; in another, into tears." This variety of effects can only be explained by attribut- ing them to the special endowments of the several secreting organs through which the nervjus power is supposed to act ; and if it be thus necessary to admit that such special endowments do exist, by which the particular nature of the secretion is determined, the question naturally arises. Of what use is the nervous power at all ? 2. The second hypothesis, framed to meet this objection, supposes, to use the language of Prof. Miiller, that " the influence of the nerves on the glands merely enables the se- creting substance, in each gland, endowed with peculiar properties, to exert its chemical ac- tion." In order to sustain this hypothesis, it is necessary to show that the processes of secretion and nutrition are not only modified by the division of the nerves by which their organs are sui)plied, but that they are alto- gether suspended by that operation ; the secreting or growing structures having no functional power of their own, save when connected with certain nervous centres, which are supposed to transmit to them the requisite vital force : much as in a factory there may be seen a great variety of machines, each of * Review of tlxe Doctrine of a Vital Principle, p. 198. them constructed to perform a certain special action, but ail of them dependent for their power of carrying it into effect upon a general motive power transmitted to each. We shall, perhaps, more conveniently and satisfactorily examine into the merits of this hypothesis, by bringing it into comparison with the next. 3. The third doctrine, of which Dr. Alison has been one of the most philosophical and consistent advocates, is to the e^fec^ that the whole organic or vegetative life of animals,— i. e. every thing which goes on in them with- out the intervention of any sensation or other mental act, including the functions of nutrition and secretion, — may go on without the in- tervention of the nervous system, and stands in no relation of dej^endence to any changes in nervous matter ; but that these changes exert a powerful controlling and modifying influence on the organic functions, increasing or dimi- nishing their activity, or even altering their character; just as, to use the appropriate illus- tration of Dr. John Reid, the movements of a horse are influenced by the hand and heel of the rider, although they are in themselves in- dependent of him, being executed in virtue of the power inherent in the animal. Now, in support of this last view of the subject, it may be urged, in the first place, that in one great division of the organised world, namely, in the vegetable kingdom, the functions of nutrition and secretion are per- formed, not only independently of, but with- out any kind of influence from, a nervous system ; each act being the result of the pro- perties inherent in the several parts of the structure itself, called into play by the appro- priate stimuli. We should have a right to expect, therefore, that the corresponding func- tions in animals should be adequately per- formed by a similar mechanism ; and it is fair, therefore, to throw the burthen of proof upon those who maintain the contrary. If we fol- low out in this case the great general principle of Cuvier, which every day's experience only shows to be more strictly correct and more widely applicable, — that the different classes of animals may be considered as so many ex- periments ready prepared for us by nature, who adds to 'or takes from their several organs, just as we might wish to do in our laboratories, showing us at the same time the various results of these combinations,—we see that a comparison of different organisms affords us a much better ground for the de- termination of this question, than can be ob- tained from the results of such experiments as have been already cited ; it not being pos- sible to make such experiments, without such injury to the organism as is of itself a serious disturbing cause. We notice, on looking at the highest animal, that the organic functions are brought into very close relation with the animal powers, and are hable to be consider- ably modified by the exercise of the latter. But, as we descend the scale, we find the nervous system constituting a less and less predominant part of the organism, and the apparatus of organic life becoming more and