144 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. open to inquiry, but it is certain that the difficulty of killing them obstructs the cure of diseased states (porrigo favosa, for instance), in connection with which they form. They are referrible to fungi and alg£e, and commonly composed of cells arranged in a moniliform manner, and multiplying by gemmules. When forming on the external surface, they may be called epiphyta ; when within the frame, en- top hyta. The torula has been observed in the urine and in the gastric fluids (Busk) of persons labouring under saccharine diabetes ; also in the faeces, and in vomited fluids under various conditions. Three to five rounded or oval cells, upon which acetic acid produces no appreciable effect, provided sometimes with genmiules (single or more than one), —gem- mules differing from themselves simply by being smaller, — the torula of the human sub- ject is in all respects exactly like the torula cerevisiae, and sigrnfies the presence of fer- mentating matters. Mycodermatous vegetations occur as ele- ments of the crust of porrigo favosa ; they germinate underneath (and never upon) the epidermis in amorphous exudation of protein- basis thrown out by the cutis. Underneath the epidermis, covering the capsule, lies the amorphous exudation-matter in a thin layer ; beneath this, jointed cylindrical tubes, matted together with similar matter; deeper still, fragments of tubes; and yet further, free sporules in abundance: the elongated cells, forming the tubes, occasionally contain mole- cules,— these are visible when magnified 800 diameters.* Acetic acid, b}' lessening the opacity of the amorphous matter, renders the cells and tubes more distinct. Attempts to propagate favus by inoculation of the sporules, the matter of the crust, and the fluid of the pustules, have failed (Gruby, Bennett) ; whe- ther plants, healthy persons, or persons af- fected with porrigo, have been made the sub- jects of experiment: failures appearing to show that the parasite is incapable of germinating unless in a special soil (the amorphous exu- dation-matter), and that the production of this soil constitutes the essence of the dis- ease. Even when the special constitutional state exists, artificial introduction of the spo- rules will not call forth exudation-matter of the quality fit for their nourishment; for in- oculation of an affected scalp fails as com- pletely as that of the skin of a healthy person. So, too, the cell of cancer must have its soil of kindred blastema, or the inoculation of its germs will fail. (See p. 124.) In plica polonica Gunsburgf found spo- rules in the substance of the hair-roots; Dr. Miinter failed in discovering them, — they are therefore not essential. Gruby detected epi- phytes in sycosis between the root of the hair and its sheath. Speaking of entophytic development on * H. Bennett in Trans. Eoy. Soc. of Edin. vol, xv. part ii. 1842; see also Gruby, Comptes Rendus, 1841, 1842, and 1844. t MUller's Archiv. 1845. p. 34. diphtheritic exudation of the mucous mem- branes and skin in a former page (p. 118), the misplacement of a word gives us the appear- ance of saying that vegetable growth is less common in thrush than in the similar exuda- tion in phthisis, whereas we meant to affirm the contrary. Dr. Bennett contributes an example of entopytic growth found amid the sputa, and in the contents of cavities, in a case of phthi- sis : we have ourselves seen jointed vegetable filaments on the walls of cavities. In the fluid of pyrosis Mr. Goodsir* found a living structure closely allied to certain ge- nera of Bacillarias but most closely to the genus Gonium, among the Volvocinae; look- ing like a wool-pack (hence the name Sarcina ventriculi), bound with cord, crossing it four times at right angles, and at equal distances; varying in dian)eter frc to of inch, and consisting (Jig. 99) of sixteen four- FiQ. 99. Tlie Sarcina ventriculi. celled frustules embedded in a square tablet of a transparent texture. GROUP II. LIQUID ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS. Fluids formed in localities, naturally free from them, are obviously adventitious. Patho- logically considered, fluid products are of sig- nal importance; but the consideration of their morbid anatomy wil! not long detain us. These fluids accumulate in serous cavities (dropsical); in the cellular membrane (oedema or anasarca) ; or in the parenchyma of organs (oedema). They may likewise form in adven- titious seats, as in cysts, and in the bullae of erysipelas, rupia and pemphigus, sudamina, &c. When pure, the fluid of dropsy of serous membranes is aqueous, transparent, free from viscidity, and colourless, or faintly yellowish. But it may be thicker, ropy, and of deeper colour, — and is commonly so in ascitic or ovarian fluid, which has been for any length of time accumulating. Es[)ecially in cases of this class, organic corpuscles may be found ; other- wise the fluid is transparent and amorphous under the microscope. In the fluid of syphi- litic rupia we have found well-constituted exudation-cells. Generally speaking the fluid of dropsy is alkaline, — we have never known it otherwise; but it certainly is occasionally neutral or even acid. In chemical composition it corresponds * Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. 57. pi. 7 fig. 2.