SEMEN. 493 The differences in the form and develope- ment of the spermatozoa of lulus fabu- losus are very interesting. The formation of these parts does not confine itself, as in lulus terrestris, to the mere metamorphosis of the nucleus into spermatozoa. Previ- ous to the latter projecting over the ex- ternal surface, the cell membrane gets en- larged on the opposite side (^Jig. 378. a, B, c) into a corpuscle, which assumes the Fig. 378. Spermatic cells of lulus fabulosus. same shape as the nucleus. The sperma- tozoa in I. fabulosus do not, therefore, con- sist in one short cone, but rather in two SLich formations { fig. 378. d, e, f), which are turned towards each other with their broad surfaces partially touching. One of these is not unfrcquentl}' distinguished from the other by a more considerable size. In a developed state, when the original cell membrane, in which the cone was formerly imbedded, has disappeared, the two parts sometimes separate, each having a perfect resemblance to the spermatozoa of I. terrestris. r. SieboM, to whom we are indebted for the first accurate statement respecting the Chilo- pods *, was not acquainted with the developed forms of these parts in I. fabulosus. He de- scribes as such the stages of developement of the spermatic cells illustrated by us in fg. 378. AtoE, comparing them with the shape of snuff-boxes, in which the lower surface is much thickened, whilst the upper surface contains in the centre a roundish nucleus. The spermatozoa of the Chilognatha f are filiform and of a very considerable length and thickness ; e. g. in Geophikis, where they mea- sure li"^. Towards one end they gradually become finer, and usually rather undulating or spiral, particularly at the anterior thick part. In Geophiius these fibres are rolled up separately into one ring-like curl ; in Scolopendra, on the other hand, they are straight, and united in small numbers into string-like bundles. Nothing certain is as yet known respecting the developement of these fibres; but, with V. Siebold, we think it very probable that they originate from the larger cells (measuring in Geophiius ■io'", in Lithobius ^V" — tV^O» ^hich con- tain a single, double, or treble nucleus (of tW —?V") ^ith a nucleolus, and * Miiller's Archiv. 1841, S. 13. t See Stein. Muller's Archiv. 1842, S. 258. which are found in great quantity in the testicles. From analogy we may infer that it is in the nucleus within the vesicle that the fibres are produced. The association of the groups of spermatozoa in fascicles in Li- thobius has, however, no intimate connection w ith the manner of their production, because the enclosed nuclei never equal in number the united fibres enclosed in one bundle. It is probably the result of a subse(juent transition (like the formation of the seminal fibrous strings in the Hexapods). Crustacea.—Among the Crustacea, to which we now proceed, we likewise meet with, as in the Myriapoda and Arachnida, many vary- ing forms of the seminal elements. The most remarkable are the so-called radiating cells of the Decapods*, small, strangely formed corpuscles of a variable shape (and generally of a size of — shj" )^ which owe their origin to a metamorphosis of sper- matic cells containing nuclei. By the dif- ferent developement of the nucleus and cell membrane (fg.'dld. a, b, c, d), they are Fg. 379. Radiating cells of Grapsus marmoratus (a). Pa- gurus oculatus (b, c), atid Pisa tetraodon (d). (After Kolliker.) usually divided into two portions of different shape and size, and are furnished at the bound- ary betw een the two with dehcate and fibrous rays, which vary in number from one to four, but are generally three; but this is effected in such a manner that the rays constantly re- main connected with the division produced from the metamorphosis of the original cell membrane, and never with the nucleus part. These radiating cells are produced from the original simple seminal cells in the fol- lowing manner :— The nucleus (as in Clu- biona and the luHdes) gradually projects further and further towards the outside, thereby metamorphosing itself into a roundish (in Calappa, Hyas, Stenorhynchus, Scyllarus, Astacus fluviatilis, &c.) or spiral (ia* Cran- gon, Pisa, Galathea, Pagurus) appendix ot the cell wall, which frequently enlarges itself considerably, especially in Pagurus, where it reaches ^V'^'. In the mean time, the cell membrane has likewise undergone some changes. It either gets flattened more or less (Palaemon, Stenorhynchus, Pica, Calappa), or it lengthens itself into a cylindrical cor- puscle (Galathea, Astacus marinus). It is sometimes the case, however, that it retains its original round form (Ilia, Pilumnus, Pagurus, Astacus fluviatilis). At the anterior end of this last corpuscle, where the part containing the nucleus ad- heres to it, the rays now gradually dart forth, * Vide the numerous and accurate statements and illustrations of Kolliker.