99 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. H 2 having convex edges converging to a point at either end, as before referred to. In the peculiar softening of the vitreous humour called sparkling synchisis, the spark- ling appearance at the bottom of the eye is said (Bouisson) to depend on the presence of molecules of cholesterin.* The development of masses of chole- steatoma takes place, independently of blood- vessels in its substance, by successive genera- tions of layers of cells, each layer being removed from the seat of its formation by that following, precisely after the model of epithelium. The cells being, as far as ob- servatidh has gone, unprovided with nuclei, and containing no sub-cells in their interior, cannot be considered capable of producing new cells; the seat of true production there- fore, as long as the mass continues to enlarge, remains unchanged to the last. § III. Sugar. — In a peculiar state of the system, the essential nature of which is as yet enveloped in obscurity, starch-sugar (identical in all properties with glucose j) accumulates in sufficient quantity in the blood to be easily detected in that fluid by chemical analysis. The same substance impregnates the secre- tions and excretions, — the urine, the fseces, the perspiration J, the expectoration and (as is inferrible from certain experiments |j) the gastric juice. In this disease (known as saccharine dia- betes) the condition of the urine has aUvays clinically attracted the chief attention. Not only is the sugar most easily discoverable in the urine, but this fluid is otherwise strikingly altered in qualities : its specific gravity ranges from 1028 to 1055 while its amount varies from two or three to seventeen pounds in the course of twenty-four hours. The connection of albinninnria with diabetes is matter of dis- pute. Cotunnius** observed long since that albumen occasionally occurs in diabetic urine. Schonlein states, that the presence of sugar is preceded by that of albumen, the latter dis- appearing, while, with the advance of the disease, the former increases in quantity. Thenard and Dupuytren, observing coagu- lability of the urine occur in cases, where the fluid had been excessively abundant and sac- charine, regard albuminuria as of favourable augury. M. Rayerf-j- has frequently known the change (as might be expected) announce coming dropsy. Fat sometimes exists in suffi- cient quantity in diabetic urine to render it milky-looking. J J The once popular idea * Ranking's Retrospect, vol. vi. p. 286. t Thenard, Rayer, and Bouchardat formerly maintained that diabetic urine sometimes contains an Lasipid sugar, independently of, or in addition to, the sweet variety ; but later observations disprove the existence of'^anv such body as the insipid sugar. t Xasse, Rhein. Corr. Blatt. No. vi. 1842. I Francis, Lond. Med. Gaz. Feb. 12. 1847. li Those of !Mr. M'Gregor; vide note, next col. ^ The specific gravity- is in exceedingly rare cases not raised much above the healthy staiidard; Dr. Prout once found it even below this (1015). ** De Ischiade Xervosa, p. 31. 1770. tt Mai. des Reins, t. i. p. 151. XX Rayer, in L'Expe'rience, 1.1. p. 664. that sugar takes the place of nrea in the urine has been set aside by Mr. M'Gregor's investi- gations, which show that the daily discharge of urea may throughout not only equal, but exceed, the healthy average. Deficiency of urea (which sometimes occurs) can only be regarded as accidental. Various theories of the pathology of dia- betes have been started. Those of the or- ganic class (gastric, renal, &c.) have hitherto proved inadequate : the most accurate investi- gations have failed to establish any textural alteration antecedent in development to sugar-accumulation in the blood. Doctrines of the chemical class are in one point of view more entitled to consideration. Rollo originated these by ascribing the disease to mal-assimilation in the stomach — to decom- position of vegetable food into sugar through the influence of morbid gastric juice. Mr. M'Gregor's experiments proved the produc- tion of sugar in the stomach from amyla- ceous substances*, and thus gave the appear- ance of demonstration to RoUo's theory. Nor can more modern speculations be said to have done much el=e than to have shaped that theory to the principles of advancing chemistry. Of these speculations it appears well to notice two. In the first of these the argument runs as follows :—In the natural state of the digestive process sugar is not evolved from starchy mat- ters, the formation of that substance stopping at what may be called the dextrin stage : and further, the economy is doubly guarded against the passage of sugar, used as food, into the secretions : first, by a power on the part of the stomach of transforming sugar ; and secondly, by a similar power on the part of the blood. Now in diabetes, it is assumed, both these powers are lost : swallowed sugar is not con- verted ; and amylaceous matters are carried beyond the dextrin stage of transformation, and changed into sugar. But this doctrine of the chemistry of the disease appears to fall before the facts, that if much sugar be taken in a state of health, (as by persons indulging in punch to any amount,) the urine is distinctly found to contain sugar : nay, even under ordi- nary circumstances, sugar has been detected (Buchanan) in healthy blood soon after anieal. The second theory, to which we shall refer, may be deduced from the following document, kindly supplied to us at our request by our colleague Professor Graham. " The principal conclusions to which I have been led by a comparative examination of the * Feeding a diabetic patient ujwn beef, Mr. M'Gregor found sugar in the contents of the stomach vomited immediately after a meal, and concluded (a notion accepted by Berzelius as the basis of his own theory) that the protein-compounds had been converted into sugar. The true explanation of the fact seems to be, that in this disease the blood con- tains so much more sugar than natiu-al, that a cer- tain share is thrown out with the gastric juice, and is of course discoverable immediately among vomited food. It is matter of doubt with the best chemists, whether sugar can be evolved from the much more closely allied substance, fat.