PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 1 2 scope it is mainly composed of a finely granular mass, and often contains large, irregular, flabby particles, with globules of various sizes. But these globules bear but a very small proportion in number to those in pus ; and, on the addi- tion of acetic acid, they soon disappear, except a few which seem more compact, and require a longer time for solution : they are probably altered blood-corpuscles. 4. Softened fibrin more readily becomes putrid than pus. Fibrin removed from the body and subjected to a blood-heat, begins to change into matter, such as that now described, in forty hours. We have had numerous opportunities of satisfying ourselves of the general accuracy of these observations of Mr. Gulliver; but we cannot accede to the notion that the yellowish- green, soft, sometimes almost diffluent co- agula, frequently seen in veins (coagula which, according to the spirit, if not the absolute letter, of Mr. Gulliver's doctrine, should con- sist merely of softened fibrin and accidentally- imprisoned blood disks), never contain, and hence never consist, in part, of pus. We have more than once discovered fully-formed and well-conditioned pus-corpuscles in such co- agida, which, upon mere naked-eye evidence, we had regarded as wholly composed of softened fibrin. We refer here to cases where no signs of inflammatory (or other) alteration exist in the coats of the vein, and where those coats appear to have nothing to do with the appearances referred to ; for the corpuscles appear chiefly, or it may be alto- gether, in the centre of the coagula. Now such cases seem to prove one or other of the following three propositions : That corpuscles exist, having all the micro-chemical characters of those of pus, yet in reality of a different nature ; that stagnating liquor sanguinis is capable of undergoing, in its own proper sub- stance, inflammatory changes ; or that the pus-corpuscle is capable of forming, in stag- nating liquor sanguinis through some peculiar influence of non-inflammatory nature. Reason, collateral experience, and the general laws of pathology, point to the second of these pro- positions as the most probable of the three; but it is wisest for tb.e present, perhaps, to refrain from adopting any one of them. (c.) Ejjithelial Jlidd.—Broken or perfect epithelial scales sometimes accumulate in very considerable quantities in certain serous fluids ; and the resulting mixture cannot with the naked eye be positively distinguished, either by colour, consistence, or odour, from pus. In the Fallopian tube (somewhat di- lated) of an anasarcous woman, who died under our care at University College Hos- pital some time since, we found fluid of this kind, containing (as shown by the microscope, the only test in such cases,) not a single pus- corpuscle, but abundance of epithelium. We have seen the same kind of fluid in the pelvis of the kidnev. The microscopical distinctions of the un- altered red-corpuscle of the blood, and the pus-corpuscle, are so numerous and obvious that they need not be enumerated; it is im- possible to confound the two objects. The red blood-corpuscles, however, when acted upon by various re-agents (serum, urine, pus, artificially added sahne solutions, &c.) acquire a more or less accurate resemblance to those of pus ; they in truth increase somewhat in bulk, lose their regularity of outline, which becomes ragged, and alternately notched and studded with minute prominences, — appear- ances which have led to very remarkable » errors. Nevertheless, the resemblance is far, even, from seemingly perfect ; the altered red- corpuscle is smaller than the other, and is not minutely granular on the surface: if there be doubt, however, in the case, acetic acid, by dissolving the body (if it be a red-corpuscle), or producing the changes already describetl (if it be one of pus), will settle the question. The colourless corpuscle of the blood in its unaltered state is with difficulty distinguishable from the pus-corpuscle ; the two bodies have, by practised observers even, been confounded. It has the same minutely granulated aspect ; and acetic acid discloses, as in the pus-cor- puscle, a nucleus in its interior. The colour- less corpuscle is smaller than the other, how- ever (the mean ratio of their sizes being as 22 to 27, nearly). The nucleus is either single, bipartite, or tripartite. The process by which pus is formed — in other words, pyogenesis or suppuration — was long supposed to be one of disintegration and solution of the natural tissues. W'e need not devote space to the elaborate refutation of this rude conception : suffice it to say, that pus may be produced for years from mucous membranes, wdthout even abrasion of their surfaces having occurred, and that the ele- mentary textures (e. g. the cellular) may, at the outset of the suppurative process, be shown to have retained all their natural pro- perties. We might, on the score of its obvious fal- lacy, similarly pass by the notion that the corpuscles of pus are simple modifications of the red-corpuscles of the blood ; but as, even recently, symptoms of a return to this pre- viously-exploded idea have appeared on the Continent, a few words on the subject seem called for. M. Gendrin {Hist. Anat. de VIn- flammation, 4-c.) taught that in consequence of the stagnation of the red-corpuscles in- duced by inflammation, those bodies are first converted into pus-corpuscles in the interior of the capillary vessels, and, secondly, exude thence into the intercapiliary texture. The experiment upon which the first portion of this doctrine was based has been repeated by Dr. Wood*, Mr. Gulliver, and others ; and either no appearance at all of the alleged puriform matter discovered, or its characters proved to be those of softened fibrin. As respects the exudation of ready-formed [)us- corpuscles, the theory manifestly involves an impossibility, as the structure of the walls of the capillary vessels is too close to perndt the passage of bodies of such dimensions. * Op. Cit. p. 4.