18 POLYPIFERA. with the kind of fissiparous division which the animalcules undergo. At certain periods four of these sacculi are met with in several of these Infusoria, whilst at others only two are found in animalcules of the same species. When four are present, there are always two situated in each half of the body, and it is remarkable 1 &4. Paramecium aardla. 2, 3. Kolpoda cucuUus. s, s, contractile vesicles; t, testes; o, oral opening; a, anal opening, i^fter Ehrenberg.') that all the Infusoria thus furnished are suscep- tible both of transverse and longitudinal divi- sion, so that when so divided each quarter retains one of these organs. In Euodon ciicul- lulus three of these vesicles are present, two of which are placed one on each side of the dental cylinder, and the third in the hinder part of the body near a dilatation of the alimentary canal in the vicinity of the anal opening. This ani- malcule likewise divides both longitudinally and transversely. There is another organ regarded by Ehren- berg as playing an important part in the organi- zation of these Infusoria. This is of a roundish Fig. 19. 1 <^ ') Euplotes Clmron, exhibiting its different modes of Jissipai-ous generation. (^After Ehrenberg.^ form, but less transparent than the contractile sacculus in the neighbourhood of which it is situated, but its presence has only been de- tected in four or five species. With respect to the functions to be ascribed to the parts above described, it is by no means easy to come to any satisfactory conclusion. Ehrenberg considers that the contractile organs provided with the r radiating canals cannot be regarded as hearts because their movements are so slow ; neither can he regard them as respiratory organs, which would require the presence of a vasculai- appa- ratus more distinctly developed than it appears to be in the Polygastric animalcules ; he is, therefore, disposed to believe them to be con- nected with the generative system, and refers to them the office of fecundating the ova con- tained in the interior of the body by dispersing the seminal fluid. The opaque body above described, the same authority suggests to be the testis, believing it to secrete a seminal fluid. Both these suppo- sitions are based upon a fancied analogy be- tween the parts in question and certain organs which are met with in the Rotifera, and it is needless to say that they are at present purely hypothetical. (^T. Rymer Jones.) POLYPIFERA. —A class of Zoophytes most extensively distributed over the surface of the globe, inhabitants both of the ocean and of fresh water, and important both on account of their numbers and of the magni- tude of the structures raised by their agency. The most obvious character common to this vast race of animals is, that their mouths are surrounded by radiating tentacula, arranged somewhat like the rays of a flower; and hence the terms Zoophyta, Phytozoa, and An- THOZOA, have been more especially appUed by naturahsts to the members of this group of living beings. So plant-like, indeed, are the forms of many genera, that the ancients regarded all the stony polypes as stony vege- talDles, or as vegetating stones, and invented many theories to explain their growth. The earlier modern naturalists thought them plants, and even Tournefort has described twenty- eight species in his " Institutions of Botany but he was the last naturahst who committed this grave error. The animal nature of the Polypes was suspected by Imperato in 1669. was proved by Peyssonel in 1727, and shortly afterwards confirmed by Reaumur and Jussieu, the latter of whom, in 1741, added them to the animal kingdom.* In order to facilitate our investigations concerning the anatomy and physiology of so extensive a series of organized beings, it becomes imperative that we should first divide them into groups, com- posed of such genera as are most nearly allied by their structure and general habits, each of which will in turn require our separate notice. Class. POLYPIFERA. Sub-class 1. Hydrozoa. Body gelatinous, free, naked, presenting in- ternally a simple stomachal cavity, which is pronded at its entrance with highly contrac- * See the History of Zooph^-tology in Dr. John- ston's admirable " History of the British Zoophytes," Lond. 1847.