POLYPIFERA. 27 or less distinct from the animals themselves ; but in the Zoophyte we are speaking of a i superficial examination is sufficient to con- vince any one that these cells are in reality continuations of the bodies of the polypes themselves. The tubes which form the trunk (fig. 30, c), are in all respects similar to the free portion of the animal which is situated beneath its alimentary canal, and no line of organic separation can be traced di- viding one from the other. It is not, there- fore, into polypiferous cells that these little animals retire in the manner of Serpulae or Dentalia, but they recede into themselves by a kind of invagination of their own bodies, the polypary, which seems to contain them, being simply a mass formed by an assemblage of the basal portion of all the aggregated zoophytes. When the polypes extend themselves, their mouths may frequently be seen to open and admit the surrounding water. This fluid, together with the alimentary materials sus- pended in it, penetrate into the digestive sac- culus, and afterwards pass into the great ab- dominal cavity, whence they are conveyed even into the tentacula by the eight canals placed around the alimentary tube. It thus results that the thin and diversely folded membrane, of which the bodies of these animals are formed, is everywhere bathed, both M-ithin and without, with the materials for respiration, and that all its internal surface receives the contact of the alimentary sub- stances after their elaboration in the digestive sacculus. M. Milne Edwards likewise thought he perceived something like a circulation in canals contained in the parietes of the body j but of this he was uncertain. Nutrition of Alcyonide. — It is very gene- rally admitted that in the case of these ag- gregated zoophytes the nutritious materials taken by one of the animals is shared with the neighbouring polypes; and this fact M. Milne Edwards has established beyond the possibility of doubt, as well as the manner in which it is elfected. In an expanded Alcyo- nide he introduced, by means of a fine pointed glass tube, a coloured fluid into the abdominal cavity of one of the polypes, and immediately the injected material diffused itself, not only throughout the tubiform body of the indivi- dual so treated, but passed at the same time into the neighbouring polypes. The passages by which this communication is established are easy to discover, by making a longitudinal section of the body of the Alcyonide. It is then seen that some of these animals, whose tube-like bodies are prolonged deeply into the common mass, there terminate by cids de sacs, whilst others are not continued beyond the point where they join their congeners ; and in this case their bodies are found to be continuous with that of a larger polype, the basal portion of which descends lower down {fig. 32). The abdominal cavities of these animals are thus united, so as to constitute a kind of branched tube, possessed of as many heads and mouths as there are polypes de- rived from it. This condition of their nutritive system ises from the mode of their development by Fig. 32. Alcyonidium elegans. A, one of the branches laid open to show the communication between the abdominal cavity of the principal polype and the interior of the young ones that spring from it; the openings thus formed, (e, e, e,) are situated in the course of tJhe longitudinal folds, which perform the office of ovaries, a, ten- tacles of the principal pol}T)e; h, c, d, the young polypes in progressive stages of development. B, the lower portion of one of the longitudinal folds detached, shoAving the manner in which the ova are developed in it. (After Milne Edwards.) gemmiparous reproduction, which takes place as follows. A tubercle makes its appearance upon the surface of the body of an adult po- lype, which seems at first to be only a little coecal appendage developed from its parietes, its extremity being without any opening and the cavity in its interior communicating freely with the abdominal cavity of the individual from which it was developed. Shortly, how- ever, as its development proceeds, a mouth and its surrounding tentacula make their ap- pearance, an alimentary cavity becomes ap- parent, and the newly formed animal becomes, both in shape and size, exactly like the indi- vidual from which it sprouted. This mode of reproduction, Milne Ed- wards remarks, does not occur at any point of the tegumentary surface. The reproduc- tive gemmae are only formed along the course of the membranous lamellae already men- tioned, and the inferior opening of the body of the new polype is always so situated as to intercept one of the longitudinal folds in the abdominal cavity of the parent animal. But the mode of reproduction by gemmae is not the only one by which the Alc^onides are multiplied. They produce also ova, or genimules, by means of which their sedentary race may be disseminated; and it is remark- able that the same parts which give birth to the gemmae above described perform likewise