270 REPTILIA. markable, because they terminate in a tri- angular cartilage, analogous to that which ekes out the scapula. Vestiges of the pelvis may be traced in Ophisaurus and A)iguis, under the shape of a little OS ilii, with a vestige of the ischium, but without any symphysis. The cylindrical bones of the anterior and posterior extremities present nothing worthy of special remark. The carpus (Jig. 185.) consists of nine bones, the disposition of which is not unlike that of the carpal bones of a monkey. In the first row there is a radial bone (c), a cubital (d). Fis. 1 Fig. 187. Fig. 185 Fore-leg of Ci a, the ulna; b, the radius; c, radial car- pal bone; d, ulnar carpal bone ; e, os pisifonne ; J", a len- ticular bone inter- posed between the ulnar carpal bone and the metacarpal bones of the three inner fingers. Hind-leg of Crocodile, a, the tibia; b, the fibula; c, the astragalus ; d, the os calcis ; e, the OS cuboides ; /, the cuneiforme, there is a flattened triangular su- pernumerary bone attaclied to the outer side of the cuboid, which in the tigui'e has no letter of reference. Tarsus of Lizard. a, the tibia ; b, the fibula ; a', the astragalus; b', the os calcis; c, the OS cuboides; d, the cuneiforme. which is of large size, and an os pisiforme (e) attached to the inferior extremity of the ulna. In the second row there are five small bones arranged in a curvilinear form, and corresponding with the five metatarsal bones : the ninth (/) is interposed between the two large bones of the first row, and the first, second, third, and fourth of the second, form- ing a kind of central piece to the carpus. The tarsus of lizards, like that of the croco- dile, is composed of four bones only. The first row consists of two : one tibial (Jig. 187, a'), which is likewise slightly articulated with the fibula; the other fibular (b), of smaller dimensions, which, however, soon unites into a single piece with the former, situated on the same plane. The second row likewise consists of two