473 SEMEN. pension, is not perceptible in these cases; and it would be perfectly unnecessary, when pro- creation takes place, without sexual connexion, in the water. The presence of such a medium can certainly not be denied among the verte- brata; but it remains to be proved whether it is of specific importance to the semen, or whether it does not perform a subordinate part both in a histological and physiological point of view. It is not quite improbable that the presence of this liquor seminis is merely incidental, and that it stands in a certain connexion with the process of developement *, and perhaps also with the formation of the spermatozoa. In a phy- siological point of view, it may perhaps serve as the medium of a more easy and safe trans- mission of the spermatozoa to the ovaries. It may form for the spermatozoa a medium, which serves partly for the better develope- ment of their peculiar motions, and partly to afford them an immediate protection against the external influence of many in- jurious agencies. At any rate, the liquor seminis appears to be much more an accessory product of secre- tion in the glandular elements of the testicles than a necessary and essential constituent of the semen. A comparison with the liquor sanguinis would therefore not be applicable. We would rather draw attention to the fact that a peculiar fluid is also secreted in the female generative organs. For instance, among the mammalia the fluid contents in the Graafian follicles, which, taking it in all its bearings, we feel inclined to consider as ana- logous to the liquor seminis. The liquor seminis, wherever it occurs, exhibits itself as a homogeneous, transparent fluid, existing always only in a small quantity. It is frequently only observed after the ad- dition of a re-agent, as acetic acid and al- cohol, when it coagulates and forms a fine, delicate, granular matter betwixt the sper- matozoa. Formerly, one of the authors of this ar- ticle, li. IVogiier, distinguished, in addition to the spermatozoa, other particular globular formations I, which he called gramila seminis, and which he considered at that time as in- dependent elements. At the present moment, however, it may be looked upon as decided that these formations occupy a relation of de- velo{)ement (gcyietischen Beziehung) to the sper- matozoa J, being, in fact, the vesicular ele- * This modifies or changes the view respecting the function of the liquor seminis, Avhich was formerly entertained. See Rudolph Wagner's Elements of Physiology; translated by Robert Willis. Part I. p. 74. 3d German edition, S. 53. t Fragmente zur Physiologic der Zeugung, p. 29., in the Transactions of the Math. Physical Class of the Royal Bavarian Academ}^ of Science, Mu- nich, 1837. Lehrbuch der Physiol. 3d edition, S. 13. English edition by Willis, p. 5. + Stein likewise is at present of this opi- nion. (Vergleich. Anat. und Phys. der Insekt. S. 107.) after having previously represented these formations in the shape of a peculiar theory of procreation. ments which have since been generally acknow- ledged as the formative cells of the sperma- tozoa. The former opinion of R. IVagncr, at a time when the formative processes of the spermatozoa was so little known, was appa- rently justified by the circumstance that these bodies are found not merely in the testicles, but likewise in the vasa deferentia. This fact is even at the present moment of great in- terest. It proves that the developing cells of the testicles are not all of them used for the production of the spermatozoa, but that a number of them are removed in their primitive state, such removal being either accidental, or caused by their incapability of a further developement. We need not enter here into other irregular and fluctuating constituents of the semen. They are principally found only in the duct of the generative organs, and generally consist of fatty globules, of several epithelial cells, &c., which, from their characteristic appearance, are readily perceived to be incidental ad- mixtures. Periodical developement of the spermatozoa and testicles.—The developement of the sper- matozoa in the interior of the testicles does not take place constantly and uniformly during the whole of hfe; but a genuine semen, with its characteristic histological elements and phj'sical peculiarities, is only secreted at the period of sexual maturity, and then only during the period of rutting. It is likewise only at this period that the semen is capable of acting with fructifying influence upon the female organs of reception. In those cases where the periods of rutting repeatedly occur in one year, where, as in human beings, and among most of the domestic animals, they are hardly separated by any perceptible or dis- tinct intervals, the spermatozoa are certainly found at all times from the period of pubertv thoughout life. But even in these cases it may be assumed that the production of the spermatozoa is princij)ally confined to the re- spective periotls of rutting, although not per- haps entirely limited to it. The spermatozoa, like all other elementai^^X constituents of the animal body, are likewise^ j subjected to a process of re-fornjation v/ bildungs-pi^ocess), if they do not makk'ili^ir^ exit from the body. If the periods of rutting are separated from each other by lonu;ei in^ tervals, this process affects likewise the organs for the transmission and for the jn'eparation of the liquor seminis. The testicles and vasa deferentia in these cases decrease considerably in size and developement until the commence- ment of a new sexual period leads them to- wards a new state of turgescency, and anew capacitates them for the production of sper- matozoa. The period of rutting among most animals, at least in our climate, is associated with the commencement of the warmer season. The testicles then receive a larger influx of blood ; they increase in size ; the wails of the sper- matic canals become thicker, their lumina larger. These changes of the generative organs