RODENTIA. 393 the testes are contained. The testes are moreover, remarkable for tneir great size, Fig. 281. Male generative organs of the Hare. a, glans penis; 6, body of penis; c, prostate gland; d, vesiculae seminales; e, the urinary bladder; /, g, testicles; h, i, epididymis; k, I, the two scrotal pouches; p, q, vasa deferentia. which generally exceeds that of the kidneys ; a circumstance which is more remarkably evident during the season of copulation. From the testicles situated as above, the vasa deferentia ascend into the abdominal cavity, along with the spermatic vessels, through the external abdominal ring. In some tribes, a little above their insertion, the walls of the vasa deferentia become manifestly thicker, and the cavity of their duct considerably dilated ; in some cases they join together, and seem to form but one canal; but this appearance is merely external, the ducts continuing separate throughout their whole length. The vesiculcB seminales, or their analogues, exist in all the Rodentia. In the hares they are simple bags {fig. 2S\. d) ; but, generally speaking, their cavity is more or less convo- luted, or branched out into caeca, as, for ex- ample, in the agouti (fig. 282. ?, 0, and in the beaver {fig. 284. o,p). In most of the genera of this order of quadrupeds the vesiculae seminales are remarkable for their great de- velopment; in the Guinea-pig they form two long conical tubes, which taper much towards their extremities, but are slightly sacculated for a portion of their length ; the excretory ducts in this animal open into the urethra by an orifice common to them, and to the vasa deferentia. In the agouti each opens separately into the common cavity of the verumontanum, in which are also situated the separate orifices of the vasa deferentia, and of the excretory canals of the accessory vesicles ; so that all these canals are brought into communication by means of this chamber. In the Alpine marmot, the vesiculae semi- nales contain internally a very complicated cavity, the walls of which are glandular. In the rats, properly so called, the vesiculae seminales consist of large membranous blad- ders of a flattened conical form, with their inner margins sacculated and uneven, some- thing like a cock's comb. In these animals they are in great part situated out of the pel- vis on account of their very la ge size ; in the hamsters, the voles (ylm'co/^s), the dormice, and the jerboas they present a similar structure, and become remarkably developed during the season for copulation. Fig. 282. The generative organs of the male Agouti. a, a stylet introduced into the cul-de-sac, at the extremity of the penis; b,b, serrated bony plate, situated on each side of the glans penis; c, c, vasa deferentia; d, the body of the penis; e, e, the pro- states -jf canal of urethra laid open; g, h, a style in- troduced through the prostatic duct into the ure- thra ; i, i, the vesiculie seminales; I, m, a wire passed along their duct k, into the urethra; o, o, Cowper's glands, communicating -\ath the urethra by means of the duct, p, into which a style q has been passed; n, the anus; r, anal gland with the style, s, t, passed into its duct. In the hare and in the rabbit these organs are represented by the single sac already alluded to {fig. 281. d), the size of which is considerable; this sac is of a triangular shape, two of its three corners being sometimes con- siderably elongated ; its walls are membranous, except for about two thirds of its upper side, where they are formed by a thick glandular substance something resembling in texture the prostate gland. This sac opens into the urethra by a single orifice excavated in the centre of the verumontanum, which receives