15 POLYGASTRIA. with them the materials for nourishment (Jig. 14). In the interior of the body the nutri- tive sacculi appear like so many little empty bags hanging from the mouth. The food of the Monads seems to consist entirely of par- ticles of decaying matter. Fig. 14. Monas quttula, highly magnified, showing the direction of the nutritive currents. Dental system.—A very remarkable dental apparatus was discovered by Ehrenberg to exist in some of these diminutive beings, their presence being recognised in several different species, viz. Euodon cvcuUus (Synonyme, Kol- poda, Loxodes cucullus), Nassula ornata, Nas- sula elegans, Nass:da aurea, Prorodon niveus, Frorodon compressus, and others. Both in their form and connexions these teeth are very remark- able, presenting the appearance of a long slender cylinder or hollow cone, situated at the entrance of the mouth, around which they form a closely approximated series (fg. 15). These teeth Fig. 15. Dental apparatus of Chilodon ornatus. (After Ehrenberg.) are composed of a hard substance; for when the soft parts of the animalcule are crushed between two plates of glass, they still remain distinctly visible, proving that they are of a denser texture than the rest of the body. Their number varies in different genera from sixteen to thirty, the former being the minimum and the latter the maximum yet observed. In animalcules thus provided with a dental appa- ratus the pharynx seems to have little to do with the act of nutrition ; indeed it frequently happens that while the little creature vibrates its cilia to produce the currents that bring it food, its mouth is kept open and motionless, so that the materials that serve for its nourish- ment pass through it unobstructed : but when larger morsels are to be swallowed, they are first seized and bruised by the dental apparatus. In this case the buccal cylinder first of all expands in front to receive the morsel; it is then narrow posteriorly: but as the aliment passes onward it becomes contracted in front and dilates behind, so as to push the food towards the mouth. Sometimes, however, these movements can be witnessed without any large morsels of food being present in the dental cylinder. While the mouth is kept open, Monads and other animalcules may frequently be seen to enter it with facility as far as the intestine ; in which case the contraction of the dental circlet seems to serve to prevent its re- turn back again, should it try to escape in this direction. A very remarkable circumstance observable in these teeth is the rapid manner in which new sets are formed as often as the fissiparous habits of the animalcules render their repro- duction necessary. This regeneration of whole sets of teeth, a phenomenon so unusual among other races of animals, is among these Infu- soria a matter of every day occurrence, a new set being produced whenever spontaneous di- vision occurs: nay, should the animalcule be mutilated so that only the hinder half of its body remains, we are assured by Ehrenberg that the missing portions will soon be repro- duced, provided with a new mouth and circle of teeth exactly similar to their predecessors; and when they spontaneously divide by trans- verse fissure, a process which occupies but a short space of time, the hinder portion, when separated, is found to be provided with a mouth and set of teeth completely organised in every respect {\,jig' 16). Sometimes, in- deed, they may be observed during this sepa- ration of the adult animal into two young ones, and the progress of the developement of the wanting parts absolutely witnessed. Under such circumstances Ehrenberg states, that such is the rapidity of the process that the division of the body, and the formation of a set of twenty new teeth, may easily be accomplished in the space of a couple of hours. Fig. 16. 1. Nassula ornata, in progress of fissure. 1. Amphi- leptiis fj^ciola. 3. Trachelocerca viridis. 4. Tra- chelocerca biceps. (After Ehrenberg.) Mmcultir system.—In the generality of those