425 SALIVARY GLANDS. can be felt in the floor of the mouth, and forms a prominent ridge which elevates the mucous membrane. Its long axis is from before backwards, following, in fact, the di- rection of the horizontal ramus of the jaw, to which the gland is appHed. The inferior sur- face rests upon the mylo-hyoid muscle; the external is received into the sublingual fossa; the internal is in relation with the genio- hyo-glossus and hyo-glossus below, and the mucous membrane above, the upper edge being covered by the latter. It is shaped somewhat hke an almond, flattened from side to side, having its large extremity anteriorly. It is more compact in front than behind, in which latter situation its component lobes are occasionally separated the one from the other, and exist under the form of distinct irregularly rounded glands, with separate ex- cretory ducts about a quarter of an inch in length, coming from their upper surface. The sublingual gland is from one inch and a half to two inches in its long axis, three quarters of an inch in the longest part of its vertical diameter, and about a quarter of an inch from side to side. It has a more granular feel, and its lobules, which are mutually connected by a very delicate areolar tissue, are more dis- tinct, harder, and smaller than in either the submaxillary or parotid. The ducts of the sublingual are very nume- rous, and their orifices can be seen without much difficulty, opening into the floor of the mouth, behind the movable papilla of Whar- ton's duct, and along the crest of mucous membrane which is elevated by the upper border of the gland from which they take their origin. They are extremely thin and delicate, and pour out, when pressure is made on the body of the gland, a distinctly viscid saUva. They range from one-tenth to one- third of an inch in length, vary much in their direction and relative situation, and are in number from 7 to lo. The anterior are ver}' short, curve slightly on themselves from behind forwards, are about four or five in number, and some of them, according to many anatomists, form a conununication with Whar- ton's duct, the remainder piercing the mucous membrane of the mouth. The ducts from the middle and posterior part of the gland arise at unequal intervals from each other, run in a parallel, divergent, or convergent direction, and pierce the mucous membrane by straight orifices, the posterior two or three not being longer than the one-tenth or one- eighth of an inch. They are known under the name of the Ducts of Rivinus. Bartholi- nus* has described another duct in connection with the sublingual gland, and which some- times proceeds from the accessory gland of the submaxillary. It rims parallel to Whar- ton's duct, and pierces the mucous membrane by the side of it. It frequently opens, how- ever, into Wharton's duct, and both terminate by a common mouth. It is by no means * Caspar! Bartholin. Thorn, fil. decluctu Salivali hactenus non descripto Observatio Anatomic a. 1G84. usually met with. In a young male, whose salivary glands we recently dissected, the duct of Bar'tholinus was very distinct (a ci,fig. 139). Fig. 304. a a, the dncts of Bartholinus; hb, the ducts of Wharton; c c, the inner surface of the sublingual gland; d, inferior surface of the tongue. It arose from a large lobe at the upper third of the internal surface of the sublingual gland, midway between its anterior and posterior extremity. It was nearly equal in calibre to the duct of Wharton, and was more than half an inch in length, and opened on the left side close to the orifice of that duct in the centre of the loose papilla of mucous membrane. The two orifices were so closely approximated that it was difficult to determine their indi- vidual identity. The duct of Bartholinus of the right sublingual, on the other hand, al- though arising from the corresponding part of the body of the gland, and being of the same length and cahbre, opened at the anterior part of the crest of the mucous membrane, the one-eighth of an inch behind the orifice of Wharton's duct. The sublingual gland derives its arterial suppl}' from the sublingual branch of the lin- gual, and the submental. Its nerves are de- rived from the gustatory branch of the fifth. Its lymphatics communicate with the deep cervical glands. The salivary glands, according to the re- searches of Huschke, are more voluminous, in proportion to the bulk of the body, in the infant than the adult, the submaxillary and sublingual, however, being proportionately larger than the parotid. In the adult, on the other hand, the parotid is, in proportion to the bulk of the body, larger than the other two. The subsidiary salivurij glands. — The labial, buccal, molar, palatine, posterior, and interior lingual glands may without any impropriety be reckoned among the glands of the salivary apparatus, being identical in their structure, and provided with excretory ducts opening on to the free surface of the mucous mem- brane. Varying materially in size, and irre- gularly rounded or flattened, they exude a