REPTILIA. 268 short and broad ; the others are all long and slender. The little finger has only two pha- langes, and is not longer than the thumb, so that the whole hand has a pointed shape. The thumb and the index finger only have their last phalanx armed with a nail. In the land tortoises (Jig. ISl.), itisneces- Fig. 181. Anterior extremity of the Tortoise. sary to admit that there are only two phalanges to each finger, or else to suppose, either that the last row of carpal bones is wanting, or that the metacarpal bones are deficient. By compa- rison, however, with the hands of fresh-water tortoises, it is evident that the bones present belong to the carpus and metacarpus. This being allowed, the carpus is found to consist of a large radial or scaphoido-semi- lunar bone (a), of two ulnar bones (c, d.), which are nearly of a square shape, of five bones of the second row (J, 2, 3, 4, 5,) sup- porting the metacarpal bones, and of an inter- mediafe bone (<?), situated between the great radial {a'), the first cubital, and those which support the third and fourth metacarpal bones. This intermediate bone is very frequently con- solidated with the great scaphoido-semilunar bone, as represented in the figure. The bones of the metacarpus in these tortoises are even shorter than the phalanges. Hind Feet. — In the Chelonians, the os calcis does not project posteriorly, so that the tarsus is as flat as the carpus. In the turtles {fig. 182.), it is composed of six or seven bones, according as the last is reckoned as belonging to the tarsus or to the little toe. Two constitute the first row, of which the larger (a'), which is nearly of a rhomboidal shape, and connected both to the tibia and fibula, is the astragalus ; the smaller (6), con- nected to the fibula alone, is the only repre- sentative of the OS calcis. In the second row there are four pieces, three of which are cuneiform bones, support- ing the metacarpal bones of the great toe, and of the two following ones ; and the fourth, which is of larger size, appropriated to the tw o last metatarsals. The metatarsal bones of the great toe and of the little toe are singularly broad and flat ; indeed, that of the Httle toe (c) might be taken for one of the tarsal bones a little removed from its place, in which last case the little toe would consist of only two phalanges : according to the former supposition it would have three like the middle ones. The thumb or great toe has but two ; it is famished with Fig. 182. Hind- foot o f Tnonyx. a nail at its extremity, as well as the finger which is next it ; the two following have their terminal phalanges large but without nails; the last phalanx of the httle toe is very small. In the land-tortoises the analogue of the Fig. 183. Hind-leg o f Tortoise. astragalus is more bulky and thicker, whilst the fibular bone or analogue of the os calcis is proportionally smaller. The other four tarsal bones are present, and in this case that which supports the little finger seems to form one of the series, both from its position and its shape ; sometimes it supports a rudiment of a little toe consisting of one piece only, but in many species this is wanting. The metatarsal bone of the great toe is short but not flattened ; the others are a little longer: none of the four toes have more than two phalanges. In the Cheloniau reptiles, the os hyoides varies very remarkably as to its form in