SEMEN. 485 Cephalopoda.the Ce- phalopods we meet with the former form of spermatozoa with a distinct body and a thin and long hair-like tail, as among the scaly reptilia, &c. The body is cylindrical, or staff-shaped, in the spermato- zoa of Octopus vulgaris {fi^. 354.), which have a length ofy^ of which ri/^' belongs to the anterior body. The spermatozoa in Sepiola are shorter, and furnished with a body which measures aso • The developement of these spermatozoa occurs just as in birds, according to Kolliker. The separate spermatozoa may be perceived very dis- tinctly in the interior of their cells of developement. The fascicular grouping is want- ing, although the spermatozoa remain enclosed for some time by the mother cells. These fibres in the Cepha- lopods are, however, sur- rounded in their passage through the vas deferens by peculiar sack-like enclosures or Sperma- tophores, which are formed from the secre- tions of the gland contained within the walls of that channel. These enclosures gra- dually assume a very strange complicated structure, which we have only become ac- quainted with, within a recent period, through the excellent researches of Milne Edwards.^ They assume the shape of cylindrical bags of a not inconsiderable size, so that they may readily be perceived with the naked eye. They contain at the posterior extremity a peculiar apparatus (besides the Spermatozoa, which are accumulated at the anterior thicker end), which is distinguished by a particular me- chanism adapted for the expulsion of the seminal liquor. Gasteropoda.—The spermatozoa of the Gas- teropods exhibit, only in rare cases, as it seems. Fig. 355. M 3 ^ J Spermatozoon of Octopus vulgaris. Spermatozoa : A, of Patella; b, of Chiton. a similar form to those of the Cephalopods. This is the case, for instance, in Chiton and * Annales cles Sciences Nat. 1842, tome xvii. p. 335. Patella {fig. 355.). The spermatozoa of the former consist of thin delicate fibres of-J^'^^, the anterior body of which has an oblong shape, measuring about -^^q'''. The body in Chi- ton is broader, almost pear-shaped, and of a more considerable size {-^-^o'"). Similar cer- caria-like spermatozoa are possessed by Ha- lyotis and Bermetus, as also by Trocluis and Paludina impura. The strict distinction be- tween body and tail is, however, wanting in most of the other Gasteropods. The sper- matozoa then have a filiform shape, and in- crease gradually in thickness from the pos- terior, pointed, towards the anterior end. The head or cephalic end is flattened. It is thus, for instance, in Carinaria ; also among the Nudibranchiata, Hypobranchiata, Poinato- branchiata, and Ptcropods. At the same time the spermatozoon usually exhibits a num- ber of light spiral windings, which diminish uniformly from the anterior to the posterior end {Jig. 356. a). In Paludina vivipara (which, Fig. 356. Spermatozoa, A, of Doris; b, of Paludina vivipara. from the form of the spermatozoa, likewise belongs to this description, although the thin- ner tail part is distinguished by a greater length) the spii-al windings are closer, as among the singing birds, and confined to the anterior body only (fg. 356. b). The sperma- tozoa of most of the other species of this genus possess quite a different form. In Turbo, Buccinum, Purpura, they are simply filiform, and equally pointed towards both ends. In Turbo they measure -^q'^'—-^o''\ Thedys, Aplysia ^V'^^ '"^ Pleurobranchia Meckelii even The spermatozoa of pulmonary Gasteropods are usually still larger, extending to V'\ as in Helix. As in the Nudibranchiata, they likewise become gradually enlarged towards the anterior part, but not flattened at the cephalic end, being, on the contrary, fur- nished with a short point (in Helix of ^io'^O* with an appendix, which must be viewed as a peculiar form of body {fig. 357.). The same is thickest at the posterior part, thicker than the body, and gradually gets thinner to- wards the end. In most cases (Helix, Arion, I I 3