POLYPIFERA. 28 the office of ovaries. The ova are, in fact, developed in the substance of the longitudinal membranous folds from which the gemmas sprout. As they grow larger they project internally, and soon become pedunculated ; at last, when mature,they detach themselves from the ovigerous fold and fall into the abdominal cavity, whence an issue is afforded to them through the mouth of the polype. No ovule is ever developed from the parietes of the abdominal cavity intervening between the longitudinal folds ; and hence there can be but little doubt that these lamellae represent the ovaria of the animal. On seeing the same organ producing some- times buds, or gemmcB^ and sometimes ova, Milne Edwards was led to inquire into the cause of this difference in the mode of repro- duction, which he conceives to be of a me- chanical nature. In those parts of the polype which are not yet imprisoned in the growing mass of the polypary, reproduction is gene- rally effected by the development of external buds, while towards the base of the polypary, where the constituent zoophytes are inti- mately united together by their outer surface and are surrounded by a sort of sheath, no external buds are formed, but the ovules make their escape into the internal cavity of their parent. Hence the distinguished zoolo- gist, whose memoir we quote, is led to infer that, on the one hand, the mechanical ob- stacles to be encountered, and on the other the excitement occasioned by the contact of the surrounding element, determine this dif- ference of procedure, and that the membrane which performs the functions of an ovary produces indifferently either ova or gemniee, according as it finds less resistance or is more stimulated on the inside or the outside of the abdominal walls. From the above details it becomes easy to explain how a single polype, by its repro- ductive powers, can form the complicated mass of the compound polypary of the Alcyo- nide, as well as the means whereby an organic continuity is established between all the indi- viduals of the community ; also how the abdo- minal cavity of the primitive individual be- comes common to all the young ones that sprout from it; in short, how the httle beings, thtis united together, rather resemble a single multiple animal than an assemblage of distinct individuals. But with the advance of age this intimate union gradually diminishes. The communication between the abdominal cavi- ties of the different polypes whose basal por- tions reach as far as the foot of the polypary is first of all interrupted by the ova, with which the lower part of these cavities becomes filled (Jig. 33, /) ; and subsequently, by the pressure of the surrounding parts, the walls become confused, and all communication be- tween the polype whose abdominal tube is thus obliterated and the polype from which it sprung is intercepted. The polypary, instead of resembling a tree, all the flowers of which hold together and communicate by common parts, may now be compared to a bouquet made by cutting off the more or less branched twigs of a plant Fig, 33. 1 2 Alct/onidiuin elegans. 1, transverse section of tlie body of one of the pohqies, to show the manner in which the eight longitudinal folds are attached around the ali- mentary canal, forming as many longitudinal canals that extend from the abdominal caA^ty into the ex- tremities of the tentacles. 2, transverse section of the basilar portion of the polypar\% showing the continuation of the abdominal cavities of the polypes -with their longitudinal folds, and the germs filling them. and collecting them in a bundle. The dif- ferent groups of polypes united in the same polypary become thus independent of the neighbouring groups, and, as may readily be conceived, in time each polype can become individualized.* The filiform organs {fig. 41, A), situated be- low the digestive cavity, are evidently not ovaria, as they have been considered to he by many authors, seeing that the ova are formed elsewhere; neither does M. Milne Edwards consider that they ran be seminiferous organs, but is inclined to regard them as hepatic vessels. In the genus Alcyonium the zoophyte is composed of two principal portions. The common central mass is of a coriaceous tex- ture, porous, and somewhat like cork, being formed of a dense substance, which, when cut into pieces, feels gritty under the knife, owing to the quantity of earthy spicula diffused through its mass. Externally it consists of a reddish granular substance, in which the polype cells are excavated, but internally it is of a grey colour, and permeated by numerous tubes that descend towards the base of the zoophyte, and frequently run into each other. These canals are filled with a gelatinous fluid, and lined with a red material prolonged from the external layer. The polypes which stud the surface are as fine as hairs ; but still, with the aid of the microscope, it is not difficult to distinguish the mouth, the vesicular stomach, the muscu- lar envelope of the animal, the ovary, and the glandular organs which depend from the base of the stomach into the abdominal cavity of the polype. Its whole structure has been * Easpail, Polypes d'eaux douces.