31 POLYPIFERA. Fis. 36. Gorgonia nobilis. A. small When this Gorgonia was exposed to a red heat, it crackled and emitted a thick smoke, with the smell of burnt horn. The shape was soon destroyed, and a compact coal re- mained. By continuing the red heat, a very small portion of white matter was obtained, which, as far as the quantity would allow, proved to be muriate of soda with some carbonate of the same. The results of the experiments on certain Gorgoniae, such as Ceratophyla, Flabellum suberosa, pectinata, and setosa, were not a little remarkable; for when the two portions which compose these Gorgoniae, viz. the horny stem and the cortical substance with which it is coated, were examined separately, it was proved, — Lst, That the stems of these Gorgoniae con- sist of a substance analogous to horn, and that the horny matter contains a quantity of the phosphate of lime, but scarcely any of the carbonate. 2d, That the cortical part consists prin- cipally of the carbonate of lime, with very little or none of the phosphate; and the car- bonate is deposited in and upon a soft flexible membranaceous substance, which seems much to approach the nature of cuticle. The coral of commerce, CoraUium riibrum, is, perhaps, one of the most interesting 'etached portion magnified. examples of this division of Polypiferous zoophytes. In its living state this animal resembles a short stunted tree fixed to the surface of the rock by a broadly expanded base, from which it rises, at first with a single stem of varying magnitude, which soon di- vides into branches so as to resemble a leaf- less shrub rising to the height of about 18 inches. The central axis of the coral is of stony hardness, insomuch, indeed, that to this circumstance it owes its principal value in commerce, on account of the high polish of which it is susceptible. In the growing coral this stony centre is entirely invested with a fleshy cortex that constitutes the living por- tion of the zoophyte whereby the central stem is deposited, and the whole external surface is studded at intervals with polypes, in structure exactly resembling those of the Alcyonidae, both in the number of their arms and general structure. During the au- tumnal months gemmules are formed in the ovaria of these polypes, which are described as being at first white, but afterwards of a bright red colour ; these detach themselves separately from the little white groups with which they were originally connected by fila- ments or umbilical cords. They escape thus into the body of the polype, behind its sto- mach, where they are seen to be perfectly