SKELETON. 656 variable proportionals of the sterno-costo-verte- bral quantities. — The connection which exists between the cranial and the facial structures is quite as intimate as the connection which exists between dorsal vertebrae and thoracic ribs. In nature, we never find the cranial structures happening independent of the facial apparatus ; but we invariably witness the pre- sence of both, whenever the presence of one is manifested, just as is the case with dorsal vertebrae and the costal apparatus; and there- fore it is that when I shall presently draw comparison between cephaHc and thoracic regions of the spinal serial axis, I shall regard the one as a cranio-facial series of osseous quantities, homologous to the other as a costo-vertebral series. Before I {)roceed to compare the cranio- facial apparatus with the thoracic costo-verte- bral apparatus, let me here distinctly state one or two positions, which I shall not engage to define, simply because it would be impos- sible to prove that certain conditions were manifested, which are in fact and nature not manifest. Firstly, 1 do not mean to shew that an equality or quantitative uniformity characterises the cephalic and the thoracic regions of the one spinal series ; nor, secondli/, that all species of cephalic apparatus of the four classes are constituted of absolutely equal quantitative structure*, any more than thoracic apparatus are themselves ; nor, thirdly, that the number of cranio-facial seg- ments and the number of costo-vei tebral seg- ments correspond in the same spinal axis ; nor, fourthly, that the number of cranio-facial segments correspond in the cephalic apparatus of all animals of the four classes, any more than the thoracic apparatus of the same ani- mals correspond as to the number of spinal costo-vertebral segments. The so-called "Vertebral theory " appears to me to have jjlayed lightly with the serious patience of anatomical science, and to have brought itself into discredit, not because it has proved no one truth in generalisation at all, but because it has striven, while standing upon equivocal and un[)roven grounds, to de- monstrate that which had existence no where save in the imagination. An ill-defineJ sha- dowy resemblance was first seen to have ex- istence between cranial and spinal vertebral forms, and in puistiance of this idea has arisen all that vagrant and bizai're imagery * Ahnost all the anatomists of the French and German schools differ in opinion as to the number of modilied vertebrae which compose the head, for while some of them limit the number to three, viz. those which enclose the encephalon, others count as many as seven; and these latter have increased the num- ber by absurdly likening the focial structures to the vertebral forms also. Goethe counts six, three of which comprise the cranium, the other three the face. Oken enumerates four ; Spix, three ; Cuvier, three ; Geoffroy, seven ; Cams, tliree (Lehrbuch der Zootomie); Meckel, three (Beitriig-e zur vcrglei- chenden Anatomic, Band II. S. 74.) ; Bojanus ad- mits four, and Burdach only three. Professor Owen enumerates four in the hsh, the reptile, the bird, and the mammal. See " Homologies," &c. which has enveloped the first dawn of a great truth in the smoke and mist of that sacrifice and homage which it was thought was due to the inspired genius of him* who first promul- gated it. I shall not here trouble either the reader or myself with a barren discussion about the merits or demerits of the views of those authors who sought to expand this ver- tebral theory beyond its natural limits, or of those who strove to discountenance the theory altogether, rather than to pursue it to the verge of sheer nonsense, ^ly present limits confine me to the observation of nature, and will not suffer me to canvass written opinion concerning her to any greater extent than such opinion shall be confirmed as cor- responding witn natural truth. Out of all that loose and flighty imagery which anato- mists of the transcendental school have in- dulged in, I select the first and only truth which has ever been fairly established, viz. that one respecting the homology between cranial and vertebral structures. That this homology exists between the osseous enve- lo|)e of the cerebral mass and the osseous coverings of the spinal chord, is now a fixed and immoveable fact in anatomical science. But though the existence of this honiolojry is now undeniable, still I may remark that every observation which serves to prove something further in respect to spinal verte- brcE, which had not been known previously to the recognition of this cranio-spinal resem- blance, must also prove that the same thing was unknown respecting cranial vertebrae. Every new fact, established upon the com- parison of spinal vertebrae, must be new also in regard to cranial vertebrae ; and this is the * Oken is generally acknowledged' as the signal discoverer of the homology between cranial and spinal segments. He believed that the cranial struc- tures were repetitions of the osseous quantities pro- per to the cervical vertebrne. It is said by some anatomists with Meckel, that Frank first recognised this analogy- between the skull and the vertebne (Sammlimg Auserlesener Abhandlungen, Band XV. S. 267.). Burdin supposed the head to be a com- plicated A'ertebra (Cours d'Etudes Me'dicales, Paris, 1803, vol. i. p. 16. \ Keilmeyer believed the same. Xext Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Dumeril, and Goethe ex- tended the theory, making such observations as are at present considered to be purely hypothetical, and little better than tanciful vagaries which ahnost overshadow the tirst truth. The similitude drawn by Goethe between the fiicial bones and the ver- tebrte, is scarcely less absurd than the likeness Avhich Oken and Spix are supposed to have seen between the temporal styloid process and the sacrum, or between the hvoid apparatus and the pelvis. Hence, it is not to be Avondered at why Cuvier mocked the cranial vertebral theory, when we tind Spix seeking for a repetition of the regions of the trunk of the body in the head ; and, because he would bend na- ture to his wild unstable fancy, whether she were willing or otherwise, so Ave have him representing the pelvis in the temporal bone; and likening the hind limbs to the lower maxilla ; the auditory ossi- cles to the pubis ; the maxillary condyle to the femur; the coronoid process to the tibia, &c. &c. See Cephalogenesis, seu Capitis ossei Structura. For Oken's A-iews of this subject, see Isis, 1S20, Xo. 6. p. 55'2.; Esquisse d'un Systeme d'Anatomie de Physiol. Sec. Paris, 1821, p. 41.; also Ueber die Bedeutung der Schadelknochen, Jena, 1817.