229 RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. but it is to the latter only that our attention is at present directed. The sigmoid cavity of the ulna— is a depres- sion situated on the outer side of its upper ex- tremity, and, in respect of its position, it might be expressed as an articular facet seated on the external margin of the coronoid process. In shape it is somewhat quadrilateral; and is concave in both directions, but most so in the anterio-posterior, which corresponds to the convexity of the head of the radius, and is also much the longest surface of the two. "With trifling individual variations, it usually forms about the fourth of a circle. Superiorly, it is separated from the greater sigmoid cavity by a smooth elevation directed from before backwards: anteriorly, inferiorly, and pos- teriorly, the border of this articular surface overhangs the coronoid process of the ulna, the concave upper part of its anterior surface, and its posterior surface respectively. The junction of the two latter sides of its margin is marked by a strong ridge, which commences the external border of the bone: and, fre- quently the antero-inferior angle gives off a similar prominence ; which, after a short course downwards, converges to join the preceding. Articular cartilage covers these surfaces of the radius and ulna. The annular or orbicular ligament — is the next constituent, and is a strong and some- what cord-like band of white fibrous tissue, which completes the remaining three-fourths of the articular circle left unaccounted for by bone. Its width is about one third of an inch, its direction is horizontal like that of the sig- moid cavity. It arises behind from the poste- rior margin of this surface, and partly from its inferior border, uniting beyond these with the periosteum covering the surfaces of bone over- hung by them. In front, it is inserted into the anterior margin in a similar manner. Above, it receives and is continuous with the anterior ligament of the elbow joint; far- ther outward, it is also joined by the external lateral ligament of the same articulation. Its lower border is free around the neck of the radius. The synovial membrane is a process sent off from that which lines the articular surfaces of the elbow joint. A cul-de-sac passes down- wards into the lesser sigmoid cavity, extending to its inferior extremity, but around the neck of the radius, and between it and the orbicular ligament, the remainder of this circular pouch has a diminished vertical extent ; sufficient, however, to allow it to pass under the or- bicular ligament, and appear from beneath its lower border. The movement of the head of the radius at this articulation is one of simple rotation around its own axis ; since the articular sur- faces in contact with it together form a circle, in which its only movement can be a revo- lution. And, as above stated, about three- fourths of this circle is formed by ligament; the remainder by bone. But in addition to this chief provision for the limitation and di- rection of motion, the convex radial tuberosity of the humerus forms a kind of pivot, which is received into the cavity which occupies the upper surface of the radius, and, no doubt, steadies and assists the movement by tending still more to define the axis of this part of the bone. The articulation of the atlas with the odontoid process of the axis, offers many analogies to this of the railius and ulna both in the structure of the joint and in the re- sulting movements. (2.) The lower radio-ulnar articulation—is, in many respects, the reverse of the preceding ; since instead of presenting a cylindrical ex- tremity of the radius revolving within a con- cave facet of the ulna, the latter bone itself offers a rounded termination, on and around the outer side of which the radius plays by a concave articular surface. The constituents of the joint are, the surfaces of the radius and ulna just alluded to ; a fibro-cartilage which, with a kind of imperfect ligamentous capsule, forms the means of union of the bones ; and a syno- vial membrane interposed between their ar- ticular surfaces. The lower extremity of the radius — aj)- proaches somewhat to the form called by geometricians aparallelopiped. Its largest sur- faces are the anterior and the posterior : the upper is joined and surmounted by the shaft of the bone, and the lower enters into the formation of the wrist joint. The outer side is occupied by the tendons of the muscles which extend the thumb: and the inner, which looks slightly upwards, articulates with the ulna. This surface is quadrilateral, and of these the two antero-posterior sides are much the longest. The upper is nearly straight, the lower somewhat concave downwards to adapt it to the convex surface of the radio-carpal articulation ; and they slightly diverge behind so as to make the posterior vertical border almost twice as deep as the corresponding anterior side. The articular surface itself is concave from before backwards, taking a curve whose extent is about one fifth of a circle. The lower end or head of the ulna — is of even smaller size than the upper extremity of the radius which was previously described ; a condition which is in conformity with its slight share in the wrist joint. The base of this cylindrical head has a smooth surface and is almost circular in shape ; internally it offers a dej)ression bounded by the pro- minent styloid process extending vertically downwards; externally, a margin defines its separation from the articular facet which oc- cupies the outer part of the cylinder. This convex surface is usually a little longer in the horizontal direction than the corre- sponding radial concavity, forming about a fourth of a circle ; but in all other respects it is, as it were, moulded to it. Above, its margin projects beyond the constricted shaft. A layer of articular cartilage covers both these surfaces. Ligamentous fibres in sparing quantities, and with no very definite direction, unite the upper, anterior, and posterior borders (i 3