REN. 259 S 2 also some increase of vascularity. As the disease advances, the cortical portion gradually wastes, and the entire organ becomes con- tracted, firm, and granular, the medullary cones remaining comparatively unaffected even in the most advanced stages ; simultaneously with the diminution in the size of the kidney there is a decrease of vascularity. These changes occur very gradually; the disease having a duration in most cases of many months, and in some even of several years. On placing thin sections of the kidney under the microscope, some of the tubes are seen to be in precisely the same condition as in a case of acute desquamative nephritis : they are filled and rendered opaque by an accumulation within them of nucleated cells, differing in no essential respect from the normal epithelium of the kidney. This increase in the number, and this slight alteration in the character of the epithelial cells are the result of the elimination by the kidney of mal-assi- inilated products, which are being continually developed hi gouty and intemperate subjects, and which are not normal constituents of the renal secretion. There would evidently be a certain Umit to the number of cells which can be formed in any one of the uriniferous tubes ; for although some of the cells escape with the Hquid part of the secretion, and so may be seen in the urine, as in a case of acute desquamative nephritis, yet in many of the tubes the cells become so closely packed that the further formation of cells becomes impossible, and the process of cell-formation, and consequently of secretion within these tubes, is arrested. The cells, thus formed and fiUing up the tube, gradually decay and becomes more or less disintegrated. While these changes are occurring in the tubes, the Malpighian bodies frequently continue quite healthy, their capsules for the most part transparent, and the vessels in their interior perfect. From these vessels water, with some albumen and coagulable matter, is continually being poured into the tubes ; and, as a conse- quence of this, the disintegrated epithelial cells are washed out by the current of liquid flowing through the tubes, so that, on ex- Fig. 170. Casts of the urinary tubes, composed of fibrinous matter and disintegrated epithelium from the urine, in a case of chronic desquamative nephritis. Mag- nified 200 diameters. 3Ied. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx. amining the sedimentary portion of the urine, we find in it cylindrical moulds of the urinary tubes, composed of epithelium in different degrees of disintegration, and rendered co- herent by the fibrinous matter which coagu- lates amongst its particles, {fig. 170.) There is reason to believe that when the pro- cess of cell-development and of secretion have once been arrested by a tube becoming filled with its accumulated contents, the tube never recovers its lining of normal epithelial cells ; but when the disintegrated epithelium has been washed away from the interior of the tube, the basement membrane may be seen in some cases entirely denuded of epithelium ; in other tubes a few granular particles of the old and decayed epithehum remain {fig. 171.) ; Fig. 171. Section of a portion of Iddney, showing the tubes deprived of their epithelium by " chronic desquama- tive nephritis." The tubes as they lie packed in the meshes of the fibrous matrix have an appearance somewhat like that of globular and oval transparent vesicles or cysts. See Jiqs. 149 c and 150. Magnified 200 diameters. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx. and again, in other instances, the interior of a tube which has been deprived of its proper glandular epithelium is seen lined by small delicate transparent nucleated cells {fig. 172.), Fig. 172. a, Section of a portion of kidney sho-n-ing tlie tubes lined by delicate transparent nucleated cells ; these cells have taken the place of the normal epi- thelium Avhich has been destroyed and swept away; h, portion of the basement membrane of a tube de- prived of its epithelium, and contracted by its elas- ticity into an irregular globular form after being detached from the surrounding tissues; c, portion of a tube much dilated, and bulging in the inter\-als of the matrix ; the constricted portions correspond with the surromiding rings of fibrous tissue. Mag- nified 200 diameters. 3Ied. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx.