PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. Sj G 3 Acid fatty matter J If 1 composed of [peculiar acid J posed of a nucleus of indurated faeces, and a cortex of saline matter arranged in layers. Oleaginous matters sometimes accumulate in the intestine in the form and of the consistence almost of calculi. A mass of this kind, voided by a young tuberculous female, and examined by M. Lassaigne, was found to consist of f Stearin ! 74 liar acid Substance analogous to fibrin 21 Phosphate of lime. 4 Chloride of sodium , 1 100 These oleaginous formations will be presently further considered. The oriental bezoard, a resinous intestinal calculus, chiefly met with in certain species of goats and deer, appears (like ambergris in the whale) to be the result of morbid secretion from the bowels of the animal, and not to be composed (as was imagined by Vauquelin) of materials derived from its food. A very doubt- ful case of calculus occurring in the hiiman intestine, with close resemblance to ambergris in its characters, has been published by Dr. Kennedy.* We have lately examined some masses composed solely of fibrin, (Univ. Coll. Mus. presented by Dr. Rayner,) passed from the rectum after prolonged sufferings, simulating those of cancerous disease. (Jc.) Biliary. (Gall stones, Choleliths).— Biliary calculi are found in every part of the system where the bile circulates, and even make their way occasionally into localities in which that fluid is not naturally found. Most com- mon in the gall-bladder, they are frequent in the larger ducts ; far less rare than has been affirmed by some writers in the radicles of the hepatic duct, not uncommonly encountered in their transit through the different parts ofthe intestine (where \t is possible they may be sometimes actually formed), they are very rarely seen in the stomach. Biliary calculi vary in number from one to several hundreds and even thousands : 3,646 are said to have been shown by Fuschiusfrom the gall-bladder of a certain gladiarius f ; and Dr. Parry :j: gives a case in which 2,654 were found in the same part. It is not uncommon to find one only, or two, three, or four; but observ^ations are wanting as to the relative fre- quency of small and large collections. Their size varies as their numbers. When single or few in number, they are comparatively large, have been known to reach the bulk of a hen's egg but rarely, even when single, exceed a walnut in dimensions ; when very numerous, they are sometimes scarcely larger than pins' heads, and some, of these small dimensions, * London IMed. Chir. Journal, vol. iv, t Morgagni de Sed. &c. Ep. 37, § 19. X On Angina Pectoris, p. 240. § Save, Joum. des Savans, Sept. 1697. Baillie, Morbid. Anat. mav be associated with others of far greater bulk. Their form likewise varies to a certain extent with their number. When single, the spherical, oval, or elongated shape predominates ; when numerous, they press upon and mould each other into cubic, pentagonal, or polygonal figures, with obtuse and rounded angles. Their most common colour is greenish yel- low ; but various shades of brown, green, dark or canary yellow, and even black or white, are observed. Their colour frequently varies in different parts of the mass ; and the differences of hue may either correspond to the lamellae of the calculus, or to the matters acting as the nucleus and the cortex respectively (the most common case), or be irregularly observable over the surface so as to produce a mottled appearance. Biliary calculi have a smooth surface and slightly unctuous feel. When a biliary calculus is broken across, a distinction of nucleus and cortex is very com- monly seen. Complete homogeneousness, with- out any lamellar or other obvious arrange- ment, is extremely rare. The cortical portion generally consists of dull-looking lamellae ar- ranged concentrically, but also striated trans- versely. A tendency to the alternating charac- ter of urinary calculi is sometimes visible : thus in the central [)oint may appear a dark coloured and homogeneous matter in small quantity (bile pigment), and from this shining strata (cholosterin) radiate tow ards a cortex such as that above described {fig. 87.) The thickness of the cortex va- ries in different parts; though Fractured surface generally greatest at the of ahiliary cal- angles of polygonal calculi cuius. (fig' S'^)) this is not alway.s the case. In a few instances on record a foreign body (e.g. a piece of needle) has been found forming the nucleus of a biliary calculus; such cases are of singular rarity, however, and for obvious reasons. The constituents of biliary calculi are cho- lesterin (the chief one) with other kinds of fat in small proportion, choleate of soda, bilifel- linic acid or biliary resin mixed with bile pig- ment, epithelium, and mucus. In some cases the mass is almost wholly composed of colour- ing matter * ; in others of biliary resin and modified colouring matter, with mere traces of cholesterin.-|- Berzelius describes a gall-stone composed principally of carbon. Von Bibra J discovered 1.5 per cent, of alumina with iron, and 1,4 per cent, of carbonate of lime in a biliary calculus; the latter salt was also de- tected by Witting in considerable amount. A calculus analyzed by Bally and Henry :|: con- sisted of carbonate of lime with traces of car- bonate of magnesia 72.70, phosphate of lime 13.51, mucus with a little peroxide of iron and * Arcliiv. der Pharmacie, Bd. xli. S. 291. t Simon, loc, cit. p. 470. X Eod. loc.