654 SKELETON. An archetypal /skeletal axis, constructed of the Piscean cervix, the Mammalian thorax, and the Reptilian venter and caudex. Showing the original serial continuity of the ribs and eternal median line. osseous sternal median line produced for the most part of set dimensions ; but when I extend my comparison through all individuals of that class, I find the sternum to be created of variable length, and constituted of variable numbers of elemental pieces. When, further, I carry my observations through all indi- viduals of the four classes, fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals, I find that the osseous sternal median line has no limit short of the space which the maxillae mark before, and the pubic arches behind. Hence it is tiiat I call every sternal apparatus, which happens to be created of lesser dimensions than this space, as a specialty cut from the transcendent line of sternal median uniformity, such as J?g.480. represents, with the piscean neck ab, the mammal thorax c d, and the reptilian venter and loins e f. Isow, the hyoid appa- ratus (a,b,c,d) occurs at the median hue of the cervix (ab, ^^g. 480) ^^here we know costal quantity to be subtracted. The costo-sternal apparatus (a,b,c,d) happens at the median line of the thorax (c d), where we still view costal quantity persisting. Let these two facts be submitted to the focal light of com- parison, and I doubt not but that reason must draw the conclusion, that as the ventral sternum {k fc) relates the pubic symphysis (c* d) to the thoracic sternum (/, i), so does the hyoid sternum as a cervical ster- num (g, h) relate the maxillary symphi sis to the thoracic sternum {i, i). Hyoid ap- paratus is, therefore, but a name by which we designate the degree of metamorphosis to which the original costo-sternal series of a cervix has been subjected. It is this meta- morphosis which has rendered the costo- sternal quantities, proper to the cervical ver- tebrae, into the vocal organs of one class of animals, into the laryngeal organs of all ani- mals, and into the branchial organs of the fish (a b), in which latter class the character of the original costo-sternal apparatus is least modified ; for evidently the hyoid or branchial apparatus (a, b, c, d) of the fish (a b) is consti- tuted like the thoracic apparatus (a, b, c, d) of other animals (c d), of a series of ribs joining a sternal median line. The greater the degree of metamorphosis which the archetype has undergone, the greater is the obscurity of that structural analogy existing between organs of the same order in two or more animals. But though we are accustomed to limit the name sternum as applicable alone to the osseous part of the conuiion and general median line of the manmialian animal, and though we do not usually recognise as a sternum in this class that region of the median line which presents in cartilaginous structure, as, for ex- ample, at the neck and venter, still I maintain that, so long as it is acknowledged that com- parison is the only instrument by which we can ever hope to ascertain the law of form- ation in the creation of special differences, we must interpret the linea alba as being the continuation of the sternal line in the mammal abdomen, and the cricoid, the thyroid, and