55 POLYPIFERA. E 4 By the opposite extremity to that which is derived from the margin of the cell, the ten- tacular sheath unites with a tolerably capa- cious tube, the walls of which are exceedingly soft and delicate, and near the point of their union we may perceive a fasciculus of fibres running downwards to he inserted upon the lateral walls of the cell. These fibres ap[)ear to be striated transversely, and are evidently muscular; their use cannot be doubted. When the animal wishes to expand itself, the mem- branous sheath above referred to becomes rolled outward, everting itself like the finger of a glove as the tentacles advance. The muscular fasciculi are thus placed between the everted sheath and the alimentary canal, and by their contraction they must necessarily retract the whole within the cell. The first portion of the alimentary canal {Jig. 5S,b) is inflated, and much wider than the rest; it forms a kind of chamber, in which the water set in motion by the ciUa of the tentacles ap- pears to circulate freely. The walls of this chamber are exceedingly delicate; the soft membrane forming them is puckered, and ap- pears traversed by many longitudinal canals united by minute transverse vessels; this appearance, however, may be deceptive. Beneath the first enlargement, the digestive apparatus becomes narrower, but immediately expands again, and offers at this point a cer- tain number of filifoim appendages (c), which appear to be free and floating in the interior of the cell. To the second cavity succeeds a nar- row canal opening into a third dilatation, gene- rally of a spherical form (d). From the last- named viscus issues a kind of intestine, which soon bends upon itself and becomes attached to an organ of a soft and membranous tex- ture, having the appearance of a caecum, and which seems to be continuous superiorly with the digestive tube. The latter continues its progress towards the upper part of the cell, and ultimately terminates by a distinct anal aperture upon the upper aspect of the ten- tacular sheath. The operculum which closes the cell in Flustrae and Escharse is moved by two muscular fasciculi inserted into the in- ternal face of this valve by the intermedium of two filaments analogous to tendons; by their inferior extremity these muscles are attached to the walls of the cell, and when, by its own elasticity, the operculum is turned back, and the mouth of the cell thus opened, they by their contraction can close it like a door. Reproduction. — The first mode of repro- duction observed in the Ciliobrachiate pol\ pes is by a process of gemmation from the com- mon stock or creeping stem upon wdiich the animals grow. This is easily witnessed, as the gemmae are met with in every progressive stage of development upon the same specimen, as represented in Jig. 65. The smallest gemmae are described by Dr. Farre as homogeneous in their texture, form- ing little nodules on the parent stem. Those further advanced were seen to present some- thing like a boundary fine, indicating the thickness of the parietes of the future cell. Within this, in others, was a dark mass, which in larger ones presented a rough outline of the form of the complete animal. Those about half grown had all the parts distinctly traced out ; the retractor muscles completely formed; the tentacles short and clumsy ; the walls of the alimentary canal thick, and its boundaries clearly defined. This mode of propagation has been still more completely studied by Professor Van Beneden, whose opportunities of observation enabled him to prosecute the inquiry more closely. In PediccUina the phenomena attending the gemmiparous mode of reproduction are de- scribed by Professor Van Beneden as present- ing the following phases of development. First, there sprouts from the common stem of the Bryozoon, without any determinate situation, a tubercle which is but a prolongation from the stem itself {Jig. 65, a, 8); this tubercle extends outwards, becomes more prominent, and soon swells out into a vesicle {h, 8), which is' the first appearance of the new individual. Up to this period the interior of this vesicle, is like that of the stem itself, of which it is only an extension; but now a cellule becomes visible in its centre, which Ibrms the point of departure whence the development of the embryo proceeds. Around this primitive cell a series of other very small cellules soon group themselves, which seem to constitute the parietes of the primitive vesicle or the blastoderm, the original cell representing the vitelline cavity. The bud enlarges, and as its growth proceeds the internal tissue becomes thickened, so as to fill it ; subsequently an indentation is appa- rent on each side of the little cavity which separates it into two halves, the inferior of which will form the stomach, properly so called, while the upper division will become the anterior space between the tentacula. The mode of reproduction by gemmae has been carefully studied in the genus Lagiincida {Lagenella of Farre) by the same investigator. The reproductive buds sprout from the creep- ing stems {Jig. 61, y) which connect the indi- vidual animals, appearing at first as a slight prominence, that soon expands into a rounded tubercle, which is the commencement of a new cell. On close inspection, this bud is found to consist of a transparent envelope, which is, in fact, a continuation of the general invest- ment of the polype. This rudimentary cell is lined throughout with a soft membrane, having its inner surface studded with minute globules, b} the accumulation of which the polype is ultimately formed. The bud itself is hollow, and communicates with the parent stem. It therefore has nothing in its composition re- sembling that of an egg ; neither distinct vesi- cle nor vitellus ; this condition of the gemma is represented in fg. 6'2. 1. The new- formed cell soon grows taller, and its lining membrane becomes thicker, and indicates the commencement of the intestinal canal, which is at first a simple ca\ity, bounded by the