RODENTIA. 389 c c 3 The colon (e) is for a short distance almost of the same diameter as the caecum, but it soon diminishes in size, and throughout the rest of its extent is scarcely wider than the small intestine. Internally, it presents no septa or valvulae conniventes. The intestinal papillae form small lamellae, the borders of which are fringed w^ith delicate filaments ; these papillae extend throughout the whole length of the small intestine, but towards its termination becomes smaller and less per- ceptible. In the rats, the alimentary canal would be nearly of the same calibre throughout, were it not for the interposition of the caecum between the ileum and the colon. The caecum in this family of Rodents rather re- sembles a second stomach (Jig. 273. k, /) than a bowel ; it is capacious, short, and slightly curved upon itself, but without any constric- tions, tapering gradually towards its blind ex- tremity. The walls of the intestinal canal are throughout thin, delicate, and transparent; Fig. 274. C(Ecum of the Water Vole {Avicola amphibius). l, m, end of the small intestine; n, o,p, q, caecum ; r, dilated commencement of the colon; s, point at which the colon becomes contracted. but slight traces of a spiral valve are visible at the commencement of the colon. In the water-rat {Arvicola amjMb'ms) the small intestines are of equable diameter throughout their whole extent, but their calibre is small, as indeed is that of the large intestine. The caecum is, however, of enor- mous proportions {fg. 274:. n, o, p, q), and is divided at intervals into pouches by deep constrictions. The commencement of the colon (?) is extremely voluminous, but it soon diminishes in its diameter, and is twisted in a remarkable manner, so as to form several close spiral turns ; the walls of the small in- testine (/, ni) are very thin and transparent; at the commencement of the colon its lining membrane is thrown into regular folds, which, as they appear through the transparent coats of the intestine, resemble a series of spiral muscular fibres. In other species belonging to the genus arvicola, the same disposition is observable. In the Cape moles (Bathiergus) the struc- ture of the caecum varies. In the orycterus of the Downs {Bathiergiis marithmis) the* caecum is short, and has its walls sacculated and puckered up, as it were, by tendinous bands. The colon begins by a wide pouch, and preserves through nearly its whole length a considerable diameter and sacculated ap- pearance, but on approaching the anus it be- comes contracted and of equable diameter. In the white-spotted orycterus (Bat/iiergus capensis) the caecum is much longer in pro- portion and of more equal calibre, although still very wide, in proportion to the size of the small intestine, and much sacculated; the com- mencement of the colon is at first of the same diameter as the caecum, but it soon be- comes narrower and spirally convoluted, much in the same way as in the water-rat. In the hare and in the rabbit the small intestine is nearly of the same diameter throughout its whole length ; the caecum is of a very remarkable size, and forms an enormous elongated conical sac, divided, at intervals, by deep constrictions into numerous compart- ments, as far as about the distance of two or Coccum of the Hare. c, termination of the ileum ; a, d, a spirally convoluted ciecum; 5, d, its temiinal glandular portion; f dilated pouch, close to the termination of the small intestine; e, capacious commencement of the coloa which, at g, becomes considerably diminished in size.