578 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. simple chronic arthritis of the shoulder; se- condly, we shall describe those which belong to chronic rheumatic arthritis of the same arti- culation. While the two chronic diseases of the hip, namely, the scrofulous affection and the chronic rheumatic arthritis of this joint, have of late years attracted much attention from the profession, it appears to the writer of this article that the corresponding diseases of the shoulder joint have been much overlooked. He hopes, therefore, he shall be excused if he deems it necessary to enter into more than ordinary details relative to the two chronic affections of the shouKler joint, which he will now endeavour faithfully to dehneate. Simple chronic arthritis of the shoulder may be the result of a sprain or contusion: the synovial and fibro-synovial structures are in this case principally affected. If, however, the inflammatory action be not arrested, the bones, as well as their cartilaginous incrusta- tions, become ultimately engaged, and true articular caries is established. The disease sometimes begins in the shoulder joint, with- out the patient being able to assign any cause for it; and in this case it may have a consti- tutional origin, and be the result of struma, or acute rheumatism, which last having sub- sided in the other joints, has concentrated itself on this one articulation, assuming the form of an articular caries. We have known it also appear in a young female during the convalescence from a long-continued gastric fever. Symptoms.—The first symptoms the patient suffers from, who is affected with simple chronic arthritis, or articular caries of the bones which enter into the formation of the shoulder joint, is a sensation of weight, weari- ness, and aching in the affected arm. These signs of the disease are at first not constantly present ; they appear and then disappear, to return again in some days. Some stiffness in moving the affected arm is next complained of, to which is soon added pain, which the patient says is deeply seated in the joint, and which is augmented by using the articulation, or when the articular surfaces are pressed against each other. These symptoms are seldom so severe as to prevent the patient from following his ordinary occupations. So far the disease may be said to be merely in its commencement; but very soon we ob- serve it to pass into the second stage, when it may be discovered, on minute inquiry, that there is some sympathetic disturbance of the system—some heat of skin and slight acce- leration of the pulse. On exan)ining the affected joint, we observe that the patient habitually carries it higher than the opposite shoulder, and the clavicle at the affected side is observed to pass, as it were, obliquely upwards and outwards, the adipose and cellular tissue, as well as all the muscles around the shoulder joint waste. The deltoid muscle, in a state of atrophy, appears stretched longitudinally, and the affected shoulder to have lost much of its normal roundness. The acromion process j)rojects (see Jig. 427.), and the arm of the affected side appears, and is usually found, on comparative measurement, to be really lengthened; the anterior fold of the axilla is deepened by the descent of the humerus from the glenoid cavity. The pain increases, and extends downwards from the shoulder to the inside of the elbow and wrist. In the third period the disease, the wasted condition of the muscles around the shoulder joint, as well as those of the whole upper extremity, becomes still more obvious, and now the arm, which was really longer than natural, becomes gradually shorter. It is quite possible that, after the limb has become shortened, any pain or uneasiness felt in the joint may subside, and a process of true anchylosis be established before suppuration takes place ; but it much more frequently occurs, that about the time of the shortening of the limb, or subsequently, a chronic symp- tomatic abscess will make its appearance, and perhaps open spontaneously, in the axilla, or on some point along the outline of the deltoid, or inferior margin of the pectoral muscle ; and then the disease may be said to be in the fourth stage. This very serious chronic disease of the shoulder may be sometimes arrested in its early stage, and the patient recover the use of the joint; but, on the other hand, the disease frequently ends unfavourably by hectic fever, with its fatal consequences supervening. The more usual course for the disease to run will be found in general to be, that suppuration will take place, abscess after abscess will form, their purulent contents escaping and con- tinuing to flow, greatly exhausting the strength and spirits of the patient ; but under the in- fluence of good air and judicious management, the discharge from the abscesses may cease, the constitution improve, and true bony an- chylosis of the shoulder joint be established. The history of the two following cases of simple chronic arthritis of the shoulder, at this moment (June, 1848) under treatment at the Richmond Hospital, will serve to illus- trate some of the preceding observations as to the symptoms which patients usually labour under when affected by this chronic disease. Case 1. Chronic arthritis of the right shoulder joint of four years^ duration. The disease in the second stage. — Margaret Moore, a^t, 27, servant, admitted March 8th, 1848, under the writer's care. She complained of stiff- ness and weakness of her right shoulder {Jig. 427,), and of pain, w^hich was much worse at night than during the day ; she had also a constant uneasiness at the inner side of the right elbow% and her nights were restless, her sleep interrupted by spas- modic starting of the whole limb, and pain extending down to the wrist and back of the hand ; she states that she has really more pain in the elbow and wrist than in her shoulder, and that these pains are increased when the arm is moved, or the articular sur- faces are pressed against each other. When-