RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. 230 of these articular facets so as to result in a species of capsule. The triangularJibro-cartUage is brought into view by removing the preceding ligament after laying open the wrist joint, and sepa- rating the two bones. Arising by a broad base from the sharp margin which separates the ulnar and carpal articulating surfaces of the radius, it passes inwards beneath the head of the ulna with continually diminishing width, until finally its apex is inserted into the base of the styloid process of this bone. At the commencement of this course it is nearly flat, though rather thicker at the margins than towards the middle ; indeed, it is by no means unusual to find a " perfora- tion " or deficiency in this part — but towards its apex its thickness is so much increased as to give it almost a cord-like form where it joins the ulna. It belongs to the class of fibro-cartilages, and Hke most of these, the proportions in which its component tissues are mixed vary greatly in different parts: thus the centre consists chiefly of cartilage, while towards its periphery it is almost purely ligamentous. Its lower surface is covered by the synovial membrane of the carpal articu- lation, and is in contact with the upper surface of the cuneiform bone. Above, it corresponds to the lower extremity of the ulna, and the structure itself is the medium by which that bone takes its limited share in the wrist joint. Its borders, looking forwards and backwards, are united with the anterior and posterior ligaments of this articulation. The si/novial membrane, sacciformis,^'' as it is usually called, is large and loose, and is not only interposed between the radial and ulnar surfaces, but is also continued inwards beneath the extremity of the ulna, so as to cover it and the contiguous upper surface of the trian- gular fibro-cartilage. In passing from one of these apposed surfaces to the other, it lines, for a very short distance, the capsule and the two ligaments of the wrist joint which unite them. The movement of the lower end of the radius may easily be deduced from the above description, where the shape of the articular surfaces and the attachments of the fibro- cartilage alike indicate a rotatory movement of this bone around the ulna; since there is an almost complete correspondence between the apex of the ligament and the centre of that circle of which these articular surfaces would form a part. But although the motion at either of these articulations is thus no very difficult deduction from their anatomy, the mutual consistency of the two, or the movement of the radius as a whole, seems to have been much less un- derstood. The somewhat obscure language in which this has been described would allow us to imagine that a kind of rotation of this bone on its axis was supposed to result as the balance of the miovements which obtain at the several joints. These anomalies and in- consistencies have been cleared up by Mr. ,Ward, in his very able work on Osteology; in which he points out that the axes of the head and neck of the radius above, and that of the head of the ulna below (the evident centres of rotation in each case) are con- tinuations of each other, and form different portions of one and the same line, which is thus the real axis of the whole bone in its motions. In other words, the axis of the head and neck of the radius, prolonged down- wards, woukl fall upon a point in the lower surface of the ulna, the centre of the circle whereof the sigmoid cavity is a part. And this, he urges, will alone explain how the partial rotation of the bone is altogether in- dependent of any antero-posterior movement of its head, and occurs " without disturbance to the parallelism of the superior joint." Thus we might imagine the articulations of the forearm to be the immediate consequence of two chief necessities of movement ; one of flexion and extension of this segment of the limb, another of alteration of aspect of the terminal segment or hand; the latter can scarcely be accomplished in any other way than by semirotation. The conditions of powerful flexion and extension are, on the contrary, best suited by a more or less gingly- raoid joint at each extremity; and the shape of the interlocking surfaces which forms the chief security of such an articulation, would render it insusceptible of this partial rotation. These requirements, incompatible of fulfilment by one bone, are met by the addition of another, to which the hand is attached. And now a new necessity arises; for the superadded lever must be associated with the pillar previously existing, so far as regards the first movement, but dissevered from it as regards the second. This is accomplished by giving the radius a very limited participation in the elbow joint, a very considerable one in the wrist; and by making the ulna supply the terminal fixatures of the rotating shaft. The peripheral and com- plete condition of the upper attachment, the internal or centric and incomplete state of the lower, which, like the shaft itself, is here re- duced to a part of a circle ; these are pro- visions which, like many met with in other parts of the body, at once economise means and preserve the symmetry of the limb. Pronation and siijiination. — The extremes of this rotation of the lower extremity of the radius constitute the states of pronation and supination. So far as these result from the movements of this bone, they are not quite opposite aspects of its surfaces, or of those of the hand, since-the angles which they mutually form in these conditions are scarcely equal to a quadrant and a half, or 135 degrees. And this fact, which the appearance of the articular surfaces alone would lead us to suspect, may be reduced to a certaintv by the very simple experiment of bending the forearm, and then from extreme supination pronating the wrist, and comparing the lines formed by its anterior surface in both these positions with each other, so as to take the angle through which the surface has passed. Or better still, since it removes all suspicion of interference with the