13 POLYGASTRIA. compressed, and only furnished with a single row of setaceous teutacula, situated around its margin. Fodophi/ra, (radiated foot animalcule^) is an Actinophrj'S with a spherical body, from which projects a long straight pedicle, which, however, is not attached to any foreign body. Trichoda, (hair animalcule,) an Enchelis having its mouth obliquely truncated and fur- nished with a lip; its body is unprovided with a neck-like prolongation. Lacluymaria, (lachrymatory animalcule,) (8, fig. 11,) an Enchelis having its body destitute of cilia externally, but terminated by a long thin neck, which is clavate at the extre- mity, and ends with a mouth provided with a lip and ciliated margin. Leucophrys, (ciliated animalcule,) an En- chelis, with its body entirely covered with vibratile cilia—its mouth is obliquely terminal ai)d provided with a kind of lip, but without dental organs. (1, fig. 12.) Holophrya, (woolly animalcule,) an En- chelis having the exterior of its body entirely ciliated. Prorodon (toothed rolling animalcule). In this genus, like the last, the body is covered all over with vibratile cilia, and the mouth Fig. 12. 1. Leucophrys pattela. 2. Prorodon terei. 6, mouth ; c, outlet of alimentary tube. truncated, but the latter is remarkable for being armed with a circlet of teeth of a very peculiar structure situated within its margin. (2,/g. 12.) Ihe family Colepinidae consists of but one genus, Co/eps (1, 2, fg. 13), the animalcules belonging to which have all the characters of Enchelis, except that they are loricated. These animalcules are found among confervse, more especially in summer time. As lone as they are swimming it is difficult to perceive the transparent case in which they are enclosed ; but if tliey are allowed to get dry or are crushed between two plates of glass, its presence be- comes manifest as well as its brittleness. In shape this external covering resembles a little barrel made up of rows of plates or rin^s, be- tween which the cilia seem to be exserted (teatula multipartita). Anteriorly it is trun- cated, its margin being either smooth or toothed, and posteriorly terminates in three or five little sharp points. The next family, Trachelinida, contains all those non-loricated animalcules whose alimen- tary canal has two distinct orifices, but of which one only, the anal, is terminal. The genera that belong to it are very interesting objects, and many of them of great beauty. The reader Tier. 13. 1, 2, Coleps hirUis. 3, 4, Trachelitis anas. 5. Tra- chelitis ovum. Oy mouth; o, outlet of alimentary canal. will be able readily to recognise them by the following characters:— Trachelitis (neck animalcules, 5, Jig. 13). These may be readily knowTi by their exces- sively elongated upper lip, which has the appearance of a long proboscis, or rather, per- haps, resembles the neck of a goose or swan, from which circumstance some species ( Tra- chelius anas) have received their best knovvn appellations. Attentive examination, however, shews that the mouth is situated at the bottom of this neck-like prolongation (3, ^, fg- 13), and not at its extremity, as was the case m Lachrymaria. The body is ciliated over its entire surface; nevertheless the movement of some species is very sluggish, locomotion seem- ing rather to be effected by creeping and bending the body than by the exertion of the cilia. Some species are exceedingly voracious, as for example Trachelim vorax, figured by Ehrenberg, which is represented in the act of swallow- ing a Loxodes Bursaria, of which six may be seen already lodged in the interior of its body. Loxodes (lip animalcules). These have not the neck-like appendage of the last genus, but have the upper lip dilated and hatchet-shaped. Bursaria (purse animalcules). In these the mouth is very wide and placed laterally, %vith very capacious prominent lips, but without any dental structure. They are very voracious, and although generally met with in water, some species, viz. B. Entozoon, B. intestinal is, and B. cordiformis, live parasitically in the intes- tines of the froe, toad, and water-newt. The genera Spirosto}num (snail animalcules), Phialina (spigot animalcules), Glaucoma (pearl animalcules), are too nearly allied to the preceding to render any special account of them necessary.