REPTILIA. 288 coats of the oesophagus : their extremities, which are thus introduced into the aUmentar}^ canal, are coated with a layer of hard dentine, and form substitutes for the teeth, which, if not always entirely absent, are merely ru- dimental in the ordinary situations in the mouth. In the tortoises and turtles the jaws are covered, as is well known, by a sheath of horn, which in some species is of con>iderable thickness, and very dense ; its working sur- face is trenchant in the carnivorous species, but variously sculptured and adapted for both cutting and bruising in the vegetable feeders. The development of the continuous horny maxillary sheath commences, as in the parrot tribe, from a series of distinct papillae, which sink into alveolar cavities, regularly arranged (in Trionyx) along the margin of the upper and lower jaw-bones. These alveoli are indi- cated by the persistence of vascular canals long after the originally separate tooth-like cones have become confluent and the horny sheath completed. The teeth of the dentigerous Saurian and Ophidian reptiles are, for the most part, simple, and adapted for seizing and holding, but not for dividing or masticating their food. In no reptile are the teeth reduced to so small a number as in certain mammals and fishes, nor are they ever so numerous as in many of the latter class. Some species of Monitor (rara/na) with sixteen teeth in the upper and fourteen in the lower jaw, afford examples of the smallest number in the present class. It is rarely that the number of teeth is fixed and determinate in any reptile so as to be characteristic of the species. The teeth may be present on the jaws only, as in the Crocodiles and many Lizards; or upon the jaws, and roof of the mouth, and here either upon the pterygoid bones, as in the Iguana, or upon both palatine and ptery- goid bones, as in most serpents. As a general rule, the teeth of reptiles are anchy- losed to the bone which supports them. When they continue distinct, they may be lodged either in a continuous groove, as in the extinct Ichthyosaur, or in separate sockets, as in the Crocodilians. The base of the tooth is anchylosed to the walls of a mode- rately deep socket, in the extinct Megalosaur and Thecodon. In most Ophidians, and in the Geckos, Aganuan-s, and Varanians, the base of the tooth is imbedded in a shallow socket, and confluent therewith. In the Scincoidians, Safe-guards (Tejus), in most Iguanians, in the Chameleons, and most other Lacertian reptiles, the tooth is anchylosed by an oblique surface extending from the base more or less upon the outer side of the crown to an external alveolar plate of bone, the inner alveolar plate not being developed. The lizards which have their teeth thus attached to the side of the jaw are termed Pleurodonts. In a few Iguanians, as the Istiures, the teeth appear to be soldered to the margins of the jaws: these have been termed Acrodonts. In some extinct La- certians, as the Mososaur and Leiodon, the tooth is fixed upon a raised conical process of bone. The completion of a tooth is soon followed by preparation for its remo%-al and succession. The facility of developing new tooth germs seems to be unhmited in the present class, and the phenomena of dental decadence and replacement are manifested at every period of life. The number of teeth is generally the same in each successive series, and the difference of size presented by the teeth of different and distinct series is consi- derable. The new germ is always developed, in the first instance, at the side of the base of the old tooth, never in the cavity of the base : the crocodiles form no exception to this rule. The poison fangs of serpents succeed each other from behind forwards; in almost every other instance, the germ of the successional tooth is developed at the inner side of the base of its predecessor. As the tooth acquires hardness and size, it presses against the base of the contiguous attached tooth, causes a progressive absorp- tion of that part, and finally undermines, dis- places, and occupies the position of its predecessor. In the crocodile the tooth-germ is deve- loped from the vascular membrane covering the base of the internal wall of the socket. It is soon invested by a capsule, and by its pressure causes the formation of a shallow recess, or secondary alveolus, in the contiguous bone. In this alveolus, however, it never becomes inclosed like the successional teeth in most mammalia ; for, exerting equal pres- sure against the fang of the contiguous tooth, which, from being incompletely formed, has a wide pulp cavity with very thin walls, the nascent tooth soon penetrates that cavity, and quits the recess in the alveolar plate, in which it was originally situated. Thus the stage of development corresponding with the eruption of the tooth in the mammalia is im- mediately followed by the inclusion of the new tooth in the pulp cavity of its prede- cessor. The rapid succession of tooth germs, which stamps the impress of decay upon their predecessors often before the growth of these is completed, though common to many rep- tiles, is most strikingly manifested in the crocodiles, in which three and sometimes four generations of teeth, sheathed one within the other, are contained in the same socket. The order Ophidia, as it is characterised in the system of Cuvier, requires to be divided into two sections, according to the nature of the food, and the consequent modification of the jaws and teeth. Certain species, which subsist on worms, insects, and other small invertebrate animals, have the tympanic pedi- cle of the lower jaw immediately and im- moveably articulated to the walls of the cranium. The lateral branches of the lower