79 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. species of calculus is remarkable for the'rough tuberculated character of its surface, which gives it the aspect of a mulberry. Its section exhibits commonly a granular, but sometimes a laminated, arrangement; the internal colour is the same as the external; the density and hardness (especially of the laminated variety) vary considerably. The dark colour of these calculi is generally ascribed to admixture of the colouring matter of blood, thrown out from the irritation their rough surface produces on the tissues it comes in contact with. The oxalate of lime calculus may occur of pure white colour, with sharp angular crystals on the surface ; of this rare variety the University College Col- lection contains a remarkable specimen. The rarity of oxalate of lime crystals in uri- nary deposits was matter of received opinion until the inquiries of Dr. G, Bird led him to the inference that in the cases of disease oc- curring in London . . . the oxalate of lime is of far more frequent occurrence in urine than the deposits of earthy phosphates.* The oxa- late deposit, when in abundance, appears to the naked eye, after the apphcation of gentle heat, as a white glistening powder, which under a low magnifying power resolves itself into "crys- tals of the oxalate in beautifully formed trans- parent octohedra,with sharply defined edges and angles {Jig. 80, a). It sometimes happens that Fig, 80. concerning oxalate of lime crystals. They (oc- tohedral form) are of somewhat more frequent occurrence in females (14 of 42) than in males (11 of 42). They are most frequently present in acute affections and in anaemia ; and at that period of acute affections when anaemia is most likely to be fully developed, at the onset of convalescence. They occur in spermator- rhea temporarily. Their frequency in rheuma- tism has been exaggerated, our proportion being only 3 of 15 cases. They are not present in all cases of any given disease, and probably originate in some special condition of the blood. Observation continues to exhibit to us the frequency of a deposit of oxalate of lime crystals, at the period of convalescence of acute diseases ; so much so that we regard their sudden ajipearance in an acute disease as a sign of that fortunate change. This deposit is of temporary (say a few days) duration, and not to be confounded with the more or less permanent condition appertaining to a peculiar diathesis. 4. Of the cystin or cj/stic oxide calculus there are two varieties, physically considered; and the physical peculiarities are probably re- ferable to chemical differences. The piire cystin calculus is of oval shape, acquires mo- derate size ; its surface, tolerably smooth, has a crystaUised aspect. Internally it appears formed of a multitude of irregularly aggregated crystals, with their edges rounded oW, and has the colour and shining look of bees'-wax Jig. 81). Small portions broken off are semi- transparent ; an amm.oniacal solution gives thin lamellar hexagonal crystals by evaporation. the oxalate is present in the form of exceedingly minute crystals; it then resembles a series of minute cubes, often adhering together like blood-discs : these, however, are readily and distinctly resolved into octohedra under a higher magnifying power. If the crystals be collected and ignited on platinum foil, oxalic acid is de- composed and carbonate of lime left : the sub- sequent addition of dilute nitric acid dissolves the residue with effervescence." The crystals are insoluble in boiling acetic acid or liquor potassae. Dr. Bird describes certain dumb-bell shaped crystals {Jig. 80,6) with finely striated surfaces, as a variety of form of oxalate of iime. We have frequently seen such bodies, but cannot regard their chemical nature as established. From a table, which we have drawn up from the daily record of 84 unselected cases (42 of each sex) in our wards at University College Hospital, the following inferences may be drawn * On Urinary Deposits, p. 123. 1844. Pure cystin calculus, (long diameter nearly 2^ incheSy short ditto 1ยง.) U7iiv. Coll. 3Ius. a, external surface; b, section. Foreign to the natural constitution of the urine, cystin is of very rare occurrence as a morbid precipitate. It appears as a pale nearly white pulverulent matter, insoluble in water,