PROSTATE GLAND. 152 to the vesiculae seminales of man ; but in the hare as an uterus for the reception of semen, as the female uterus receives the ovule. A more minute examination of this bag strengthens this conviction. Its orifice is transverse, and represents an os tincae in the arrangement of its labia ; 2dly, there is an evident distinction in the mucous lining of its neck and fundus, it being arranged in five or six longitudinal folds, so as to form a true arbor vitae, and seems covered with muscular fibres. The following are the deductions of Huschke :—1st, That the utricukis is a male uterus; 2dly, that it is originally a recep- tacle of seminal fluid ; 3dly, that its develop- ment is in the inverse ratio of the develop- ment of the vesiculae seminales and prostate gland in man ; 4thly, that it is a vestige of a structure existing in the foetus, and in man is really of no use whatever. Cuvier has described a long membranous canal with a spherical extremity, situated be- tween the two vasa deferentia in the solipeds. This long bag opens on to the urethra, in front of the common orifices of the vasa defe- rentia and vesiculae seminales, rather to the left side. A fluid of the consistency of honey can be squeezed out of it. This is evidently the utriculus. In an interesting case of hypospadias, a case peculiarly favourable for the investiga- tion, Professor Theile, of Berne, most care- fully examined the utriculus, arid described its anatomical relations. I take the following account of this examination from the first number of the " British and Foreign Medico- Chirurgical Review:"—" The scrotum con- tained two testicles; the vasa deferentia, vesiculae seminales, and prostate gland were present. The latter was fourteen lines long, eight and a-half thick, and sixteen broacL Theile found a canal originating in the usual opening on the utriculus, run backwards for an inch and a half, ending in a cul-de-sac four lines in diameter, and placed between the two vasa deferentia ; this canal (vesica prostatica), with the exception of its anterior part, did not lie within the prostate, but below or behind this gland. Besides this structure, a small, ovaL, glandular body, five lines long, four broad, and two thick, was found behind, lying between the vesica prostatica and the prostate itself; it did not appear that this substance was continuous with the substance of the prostate, although this continuity might have existed and escaped detection. Examined by the microscope, this body presented an aggrega- tion of cells and vesicles, which were much more easily seen in it than in the proper pros- tate. Theile regards this body, lying closely upon the vesica prostatica, as a middle lobe of the prostate. In order to ascertain the rela- tion of the ductus ejaculatorius with the vesicle, a wax injection was thrown into the lower part of the vas deferens. On a careful examination, it was found that the ejaculatory duct did not open into the utriculus, but was only closely applied to its lateral wall, and then penetrated into the urethra in the usual place." In this case the membranous portion of the urethra opened into a normal bulbous portion. Professor Theile also gives an account of another case of hypospadias, " dissected by Fig. 106. utriculus prostaticus, from Muller's Archiv. the elder Soemmerring, in which the urethra and scrotum were fissured, the testicles re- maining in the abdomen. Between the glands and the anus two openings v/ere found, separated by a partition of about one fine in breadth. That next the penis was the orifice of the urethra ; the latter led into a canal, into which a quill could be passed. It was an inch and a half long, and when inflated it was nearly as large as the little finger, and was situated between the bladder and rectum, but nearer to the former. Soemmerring laid open the canal towards the rectum, and it appeared like ' an alveus communis,' into which the vesiculae seminales opened. When quicksil- ver was injected into the vasa deferentia, it ran partly into the vesiculae seminales, but partly into this pouch." " The existence in the male of a central sac or canal, occupying precisely the same relation to the orificium urethrae, the bladder, and the rectum, as the vagina in the female, is particularly elucidative ; and, among other facts, for which we are indebted to em- bryological research, further corroborates the conclusion of the most scientific anatomists of the present day, that every variety of so-called hermaphroditical malformation is referrible to an abnormal condition, either of the male or of the female organs, existing singly, and but rarely conjoined in the same individual."