363 RESPIRATION. temperature the blood acquires in its change from the venous to the arterial condition *, and the result of observations made upon the blood out of the body, when subjected to alternate applications of oxygen and carbonic acid gas, are all opposed to the supposition that the formation of carbonic acid gas takes place to any great extent in the lungs. The existence of a quantity of free carbonic acid in the venous blood, more than sufficient to furnish the whole of this gas thrown off at the lungs, and the avowedly conjectural explana- tion of the manner in which the carbonic acid is combined and the agency by which its com- binations are decomposed in the lungs, given by those who advocate this view, justify the adoption of the opinion that the carbonic acid gas evolved at the lungs exists in a free state in the venous blood before it reaches the lungs. An interchange, therefore, takes place be- tween the air in the cells of the lungs and the blood in the pulmonic capillaries, the latter receiving oxygen and giving up part of the free carbonic acid held by it in solution. These gases, from their solubility, readily per- meate the thin moist membranes interposed between the blood and the atmospheric air contained in the cells of the lungs. We have already mentioned that Valentin and Brunner have concluded from their experinients that this interchange of oxygen and carbonic acid gas is regulated by the law of the diffusion of gases established by Graham ; but besides the objections that may be urged against this view, drawn from the considerable diversity in the relative proportions of these gases inter- changed during respiration as ascertained by different experimenters, the conditions under which the two gases are placed in respiration are very different from those in the experi- ments instituted by Graham.f In respiration the gases are separated by moist animal mem- branes, and one of these, viz. the carbonic * Dr. J. Davy ascertained (Lond. Pliilos. Trans, for 1838, p. 298) that oxygen gas shaken with ve- nous blood out of the body raised the temperature of the latter from 1° to 2° Fahr. Marchand (Journal fiir praktische Chemie, Band xxxv. S. 400) adduces reasons for believing that this increase in temper- ature arose from the mere absorption of the gas, and not from any chemical action between it and the blood. t Graham's first experiments, from which he de- duced his law that " the diffusive velocities of dif- ferent gases are invei*sely as the square root of their densities," were made by interposing a porous sep- tum of stucco between the gases experimented upon and the external air. The equivalent diffusion-vo- lumes of oxygen and carbonic acid calculated ac- cording to this theory, with which the experimental results closely agree, are—air being equal to 1, ox3-gen 0-9487, and carbonic acid 0-8091. (Trans- actions of Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. xii. p. 222. 1834.) In some later experiments Mr. Gi*a- ham ascertained that this law also held when gases pass through minute apertures in a thin plate into a vacuum, while, on the other hand, the discharge of the same gases through tubes into a vacuum has no uniform relation to the density of the gases. (Philosophical Transactions of London for 1846, p. 373.) acid, is held in solution in a fluid subjected to an increased pressure caused by the action of the heart.* We are not, in the present state of our knowledge, in a condition to form any thing like an accurate estimate of the various cir- cumstances which regulate this interchange between the oxygen of the air and the car- bonic acid gas of the blood, but it is obvious that it will be affected in a most important manner by the relative proportion of these gases in the air contained in the air-cells of the lungs and in the blood, and by the quan- tities of atmospheric air and blood trans- mitted through the respiratory apparatus. We have seen, from the experiments of Vierordt, that when the air is rapidly renewed in the lungs, though the percentage of car- bonic acid in the expired air is dnninished, yet the total amount of this gas thrown off from the lungs within a given time is pro- portionally increased ; while, on the other hand, when the respirations are diminished below the natural standard, though the per- centage of carbonic acid in the expired air is increased, yet the total quantity thrown off from the lungs in a given time is propor- tionally diminished. When the atmospheric air in the lungs is rapidly renewed by an in- creased frequency of the respiratory move- ment, the diffusion of the oxygen in the higher, and of the carbonic acid in the deeper, parts of the air tubes will proceed more ra{)idly, and the air in the deeper parts or in the air-cells will contain a less percentage of carbonic acid, and a greater percentage of oxygen, than when the respirations are carried on with the usual frequency and force. This diminution of the usual quantity of carbonic acid gas and increase of oxygen in the deeper parts of the lungs will accelerate the inter- change between the oxygen of the air and the carbonic acid of the blood, provided the blood holds its normal amount of free gases in solu- tion, and a larger quantity than usual of car- bonic acid will be separated from the blood at * The passage of gases through moist membranes is not simple diffusion, as it is influenced by the solubility of these gases in the fluids of the mem- branes. In the case of respiration it will also pro- bably be affected by the attractive force of the constituents of the blood for the gases. The relative rapidity of the passage of different gases through membranous septa, as observed in the experiments of Dr. Faust and of Mr. Mitchell (American Journal of the INIedical Sciences, Nov. 1830), and by other experimenters, is not in accordance ^ith the law of the diffusion of gases, as determined from experi- ments upon their diflusive velocities through porous septa into the atmospheric air, and through minute apertures in a thin plate into a vacuum. "When a bladder filled vnth oxygen gas is introduced into a vessel full of carbonic acid gas, the latter passes so much more rapidly through the coats of the bladder than the former, that the bladder becomes gradually distended, and at last may burst. In these last expe- riments, equally as in those of Graham, the condi- tions under Avhich the diffusion of the gases occurs, are not the same as those in respiration; and Ave find the carbonic acid gas passing in greater quantity through the organic membranes than the oxj-gen,— the reverse of what takes place in respiration.