PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 133 K 3 many surgical writers confoundefl, under the erroneous name of *' cartilaginous exostosis " (erroneous, if for no other reason, because the formation in question may spring from other tissues than bone), with products of essentially different character^ and by some other authors described as colloid cancer. When uncut, enchondroma exhibits itself as a tumour of moderate size and spheroidal non-lobulated shape,encased in cellular mem- brane, or (if it spring from bone) in perios- teum, ossifted or not. The section discovers a firmly gelatinous substance, rather pellucid, of very pale greyish or greenish yellow tint, set (without ftrm adhesion) in loculi inclined to spheroidal outline, varying in size, and having their walls formed of a dense dull white tissue {Jig. 9o)> One of the rough marks Fig. 95. Section of Enchondroma. (After Jliiller.) of distinction between this growth and colloid cancer consists in the mode of arrangement of the walls of the loculi : in the latter, when fully grown, the walls seem cut across sharply at right angles with their course ; in the for- mer it is extremely common to^ find the walls exhibiting flat and extensive surfaces to the eye, as though the locuh had been opened to a very small extent on'y. The general mass is firm ; when the invest- ment is periosteal or bony, proportionably increased. The intra-locular matter is in it- self soft, yet has a sharp fracture. Bony matter in its interior of course increases its consistence, and may be formed of: 1, the walls of the loc»!i converted into thin osseous plates, which give a crackling cri.spness to the mass; 2, particles of the spongy tissue of the original bone in which it has grown ; 3, sta- lactiform osteophytes springing into its sub- stance. No appnearance of vessels strikes the un- assisted eye in these masses ; but von Wal- ther and Weber (Grafe and Walther's Journ., b. xxiii. s. 351.) are said by Miiller to have injected the walls of the loculi. Microscopically examined, the fibrous por- tion of the gro\\ th is found to be composed of transparent interwoven fibres. The jelly- like part consists of cells several times larger than the red blood-corpuscle, generally speak- ing, containing only nuclei in their interior, but in some instances two or three sub-cells, each provided with its own nucleus. The nuclei, flattened, oval or circular, vary in diameter. The cells (except in excessively rare cases) are in close contact with each other, and no intcr-cell substance discern- ible between them : the cartilaginous ma- terial does not advance beyond the embryonic stage. Such is Muller's description ; Ixit it is certain that tumours having the characters of enchondroma perfectly developed to the naked eye, and \ielding gelatin, may be wholly deficient in cartilage corpuscles, and contain simple granulated cells in a fibrous stroma, Spiculated bone corpuscles are sometimes scattered through the tumour. From this account it would appear, that although the endogenous mode of growth of the cells occurs occasionally in tkis forma- tion, it is nehher uniform nor constant ; their development proceeds m.ore frequently from blastema lying outside such cells as are already evolved. Tne endogenous development was observed especially by Miiller in an enchon- droma of the parotid gland. Whether the inter-cell substance is generated by thickening of the walls of the cells, or by the hardening of a blastema unconnected, except in respect of proximity, with these, is matter of dispute. Enchondroma is essentially composed either of chondrin or of glutin ; of the former in by far the greater number of cases ; of the latter, in Miilltr's specimen connected with the parotid gland, and in another connected with the ileum, recently added to the Uni- versity College Collection. The bones are the favourite seat of this growth.. Miiller has collected thirty-six cases, m thirty-two of which those organs were af- fected ; the metacarpus and j}/iulanges 25 times; the tibia 3 ; the ileum 1 ; the cranium 1 ; the ribs 1. Of the R)ur remaining tumours, 1 ex- isted in the parotid ; 1 in the mairma of a dog; 2 in the testicle. In its favourite seat — the metacarpus and phalanges — this dis- ease produces singular distortion and irregular tuberousness of the hand (^g. 96). Fig. 96. Enchondroma^ from model in Univ. Coll. JIus. Enchondroma, springing from bone, is in- vested or not with a bony capsule. When it grows in the interior of a long bone, expan- sion, and not perforation of the shell, occurs; the cancellated structure first, and then the