639 SKELETON. lizard's neck (i k), or the lizard's loins (l m). Now as all the units of these several regions A B, c D, the neck and loins of the ostrich; e f, the human cervix, with cervical ribs; G h, the loins of a mammal; i k, the neck of a lizard; L M, the loins of a saurian (crocodile); N o, a part of the ophidian thoracic skeleton. of the same and of different species, evidently illustrate the simple law of the archetypal plus ens of the thoracic sterno-costo-vertebral quantity, undergoing a graduated metamor- phosis into less quantities of a neck or loins, so I have equated in dotted outline, all those parts which the minus quantities have ac- tually lost; and thus I have in idea given creation to their whole or plus originals ; and the reader will observe that by this very mode of equation between the plus and minus seg- ments of AB, CD, EF, GH, I K, L M, I haVC equated them likewise with the plus series N o, which represents part of the ophidian thoracic skeletal axis. The fact likewise may be noticed in this place, which will be more fully considered hereafter, that in Jig. g ii the parts b, c, d, which are represented in dotted outline as the quantity lost to the shortened ribs fl, a, are those very structures which in the saurian venter opposite its lumbar spine L M, appear as the ventral ribs (c, r), joining a ventral sternum {d, d) ; and there appears ventrad of the saurian cervix (i k) that series of osseous pieces marked c, d, amongst which I find the bones known as clavicles and coracoids. Are these clavicles and cora- coid bones which appear ventrad of the cer- vical spine, in reality only as persistent parts of the whole sterno-costo-vertebral arche- types ? Fig. 460. A, the seventh cervical vertebra of the human neck; B, the seventh of a bird's neck; c, the seventh of a serpent's spinal axis; d, the seventh cervical vertebra of the human neck, producing a, b, the cen-ical ribs ; e f, g h, vertebral segments of the ostrich, taken from the caudex e, neck F, loins G, and thorax h. When I compare all those spinal regions of several species of animals represented in