51 POLYPIFERA. E 2 seen radiating, and in their contracted state. These tilaments are about , ' _ inch diameter in this state. 6 .5(J0 c, An immature animal. The tentacula and aU- mentary canal rudely formed; the cavity in the latter very distinct. The tentacular and opercular retractors also shown; 1, the gizzard. d, one of the gemmaj in its earliest state. The cavity just defined, but no animal distinguishable. (^After Farre.~) scribed by Dr. Arthur Farre, is cylindrical, and closely embraces the body of the animal ; it is of a firm unyielding consistence in the lower two-thirds of its extent, but terminates above by a flexible portion, which serves to protect the upper part of the body when the whole is expanded, in which state it is of the same diameter as the rest of the cell ; but when the animal retracts, this portion is folded up and drawn in after it, so as to close its mouth. The flexible part consists of two portions, the lower half being a simple continuation of the rest of the cell, the upper consisting of a row of delicate bristle-shaped processes, or setae, which are arranged parallel with each other round the top of the cell, and are prevented from separating beyond a certain distance by a membrane of excessive tenuity which sur- rounds and connects the whole. This arrange- ment is common to all the species possessing a cylindrical cell; but the length of the setae is very variable; indeed they are sometimes so stunted in their development that their pre- sence is hardly recognisable. The cells of the FlustrcE and Escharce are disposed side by side upon the same plane, so as to form a broad leaf-like polypary, which is in the former genus of a coriaceous or horn^ texture, but in the latter so completely calci- fied as to resemble the skeletons of the Litho- phytous Polypes. The individual cells (Jig. 39), which are so extremely minute that they Fig. 57. Eschara cervicomis, natural size. (After Milne Edwards.^ require a microscope for their examination, vary in shape in different species, and gene- rally have their orifices defended by project- ing spines, or sometimes by a movable oper- culum or lid, which answers the same purpose as the setae of lioircrhmJda, by closing the entrance during the retracted' state of the animal. The growth of these pol}'[)aries, which are thus densely populated, is effected by the progressive addition of new cells aroimd the circumference, those occupying the margin being of course the most recently formed, and, indeed, the latter are not unfre- quently found inhabited by the living animals, whilst in the older or central ones the original occupants have perished. A polype of Eschara cervicomis highhj magnified. a, tentacula; h, first digestive cavity, which seems to be analogous to the respiratory cavity of the com- pound ascidians; c, filaments arising from the part of the alimentary canal immediately below this ca- vity ; d, stomach; e, intestine; f, anus; g, retractor muscles. (After Milne Edwards.) The facts observed by Dr. Milne Edwards * relative to the mode of formation of these cells possess a high degree of interest, and materially support the views already given concerning the organised nature of the skele- tons of zoophytes in general; proving that the calcareous matter to which their hardness is owing is not a mere exudation from the surface of the animal, but is deposited in the meshes of an organised tegumentary mem- brane, from which it can be removed with facility by means of extremely dilute muriatic acid. When so treated a brisk effervescence is produced, the cells become flexible, and are easily separated from each other; but they are not altered in form, and evidently consist of a dense and thick membrane, forming a sac, in which the digestive organs of the ani- mal are contained. In this state the opening of the cell has no longer a defined margin, as it seemed to have before ; but, as in the case of the Tubipora musicay described in a pre- ceding page, the membranous cell is found to be continuous with the tentacular sheath. We see, therefore, that in these creatures the shell is an integrant portion of the animal itself, not a mere calcareous crust moulded upon the surface of its body, being, in fact, a * Recherches anatomiques,' zoologiques, ct phy- siologiques sur les Eschares; An. des Sc. Nat. for 1836.