SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 532 exactly alike in this respect. The following table exhibits four analyses, contrasted with that of the serum of the blood : — Serum of Blood. Phthi. sis.* Asci- tes .f Ascites. Ascites. Water- 905 988 988 956 704 Albumen 78 3 0-9 29 290 Extractive - 4-2 9 2 Fat - 3-8 }• 10 7 Salts - 9 8 4 1000 1000 998-9 1009 1000 The difference in the amount of albumen which these analyses exhibit is very striking; and the large quantity present in the latter is especially remarkable as offering nearly four times the quantity which is present in the serum of the blood. The anomaly of an unorganized liquid, derived from the blood, possessing more of this important constituent than the parent fluid, has been attributed by Vogel to a reabsorption of the watery parts subsequently to the effusion. The varying methods of analysing these fluids leave less room to remark fjuantitative differences of their other constituents. The quantity of salts seems, however, pretty constant ; al- though the following analysis J exhibits a singular increase in one of the most common saline ingredients. It was taken from the dropsical belly of a woman aged 40, and the urine is stated to have contained about 6 parts in the 1000 of the same salt. Water 950 Extractive, with traces of albumen - 5-97 Fat -84 Almost pure chloride of sodium - 44 1000-81 The small number of analyses hitherto made, and the incompleteness of the patho- logical notice with which they are usually accompanied, render it at present too early to arrange the composition of these fluids in any real connexion with the various morbid states which have regulated their production. But the possible cause of an excessive pre- ponderance of albumen has been already alluded to, and on the whole it seems likely that the cases where this substance is of a less remarkable, but still a considerable amount, belong chiefly to the category of dropsy from mechanical obstruction; while the dropsies of anaemiae, post-mortem trans- udation, and the like, seem to be characterised by the possession of a very small quantity of albumen : thus the second analysis in the table exhibits only three parts in the thousand ; * Reduced from an analysis by Karl Frua. Heller's Archiv., 1845, S. 363. The fluid was found in the abdominal cavity. f An analysis by Vogel, from whose " Patholo- gie " the remaining analyses by von Bibi-a, Dublauc, and Lecanu, are quoted at second-hand. X Heller's Archiv fur Phys. und Path. Chemie, 1844, S. 47. and two or three others are given by the same author, which have a very similar com- position. In the serous fluids of the cerebral ventricles, the quantity of albumen appears still smaller, as is exemplified in the following analysis by Berzelius.* Water 988-3 Chloride of sodium and potassium - 7-09 Albumen - - - - - 1-66 Lactate of soda, with alcohol extract - 2-32 Soda -28 Extractive, with traces of phosphates -35 1000-00 In respect of their diminished quantity of albumen, it is difficult to avoid noticing their approximation to the characters of the cerebro- spinal fluid, the vitreous humor, and other healthy effusions. The question that next suggests itself is, *' What relations do these fluids bear to the serous membranes?" From a comparison of the analyses quoted above, it is sufficiently obvious that amid multiform phases of com- position all these fluids preserve a close re- semblance to the serum of the blood ; a feature which sufficiently testifies to their origin and import, and which refers their production to the conditions of the blood, and their consi- deration to the pathology of this fluid, rather than to the serous membranes in contact with which they are found. And the bearing of this evidence is corroborated by several other facts. In a vast majority of cases, as above mentioned, their occurrence may be directly traced to blood disorders ; either a qualitative affection of this fluid, or a me- chanical distention of its containing vessels,— a mutual dependence which tends still more to allot them to the blood rather than to the serous membranes. Again, instead of their presenting the cellular form, in which the ele- ments of secretion, morbid as well as healthy, are usually involved, and which they might be expected to assume were they essentially the product of the cell-growing membrane, they are devoid of all appearances of such organ- ization. While in place of being peculiar to these membranes, it is found that an iden- tical effusion obtains in the areolar tissue; a structure which is alike destitute of their membranous form and epithelial covering. Inflammatory or fibruious effusions. — A large number of the fluids which are found eflfused in the interior of the serous mem- branes offer characters which essentially dis- tinguish them from the dropsical effusions ivbove described. The first and most pro- minent differences are those presented by their appearance and chemical comjJosition. In addition to the albumen and salts which form the main constituents of the serous effusions, they also offer a greater or lesser quantity of fibrine ; and as this substance retains its or- dinary power of spontaneous coagulation, its presence is readily recognized by the eye. * Simon's Chemie, Band ii. § 581. The case is mentioned as " Hydi-ocephalus."