RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. 222 continue along the whole front of the forearm, each m tolerably close proximity to the bone whose name it bears.* The ulnar, by simply continuing this course, arrives at the hand, but the radial previously turns round the outer side of the wrist to reach the first meta- carpal interval, which it perforates. Each now takes a curved course in the palm ; a curve, whose convexity is forwards, whose situation — superficial or deep — follows that of the artery with which it is more imme- diately continuous, and which, completed by a branch or branches from its fellow, forms that from the ulnar the superficial, that from the radial the deep, palmar arch. Since either of these arches has a share from both vessels, it might at first sight be supposed that we are here presented with a rare peculiarity in the uninterrupted artery traceable from the radial through its palmar arch to the ulnar, or vice versa. But their apparent mutual continuity offers no difficulty to the exact nominal definition of each vessel and, obviously, the anastomosis differs from that common to all arteries only in degree: viz., in the greater freedom of communication which is the consequence of the larger size of the branches effecting it. The brachial artery, inclining somewhat forwards in the lower part of its course, so as to gain the angle of flexion of the limb, lies at its termination on the brachialis anticus, where this muscle becoming tendinous, covers the coronoid process of the ulna previously to its insertion into the apex of the rough non- articular surface of this prominence. Here it divides. The radial artery. Its relations. — The radial artery begins as the outer of the two divaricating branches, and ends as the deep palmar arch : in this course it offers three chief variations of regional anatomy, which will require a separate consideration. The first of these divisions may be regarded as terminating at the lower border of the radius, the second at the superior extremity of the first metacarpal space in the back of the hand, and the third at the point where, after break- ing up into the radialis indicis, magna poUicis, and palmaris profunda vessels, the latter of these, lying deeply in the inner side of the palm, unites with the communicating branch from the ulnar artery. {a.) In the forearm, the artery is directed at first downwards and externally, but afterwards more vertically, so as to exhibit a slight curve, whose convexity is upwards and outwards. It thus corresponds for a very short distance — say one third of an inch—to the coronoid process of the ulna, and lies on the brachialis anticus ; but in the whole of the remainder of its length it is related to the anterior sur- face of the radius, and is situated on the muscles which immediately cover it. Crossing the inner surface of the tendon of the biceps * It will be borne in mind, that here, as in all descriptions of this part, the forearm is supposed to be supine, and hanging vertically by the side of the trunk. as this sinks to its insertion, it by turns comes into contact with the cellular tissue on the supinator radii brevis, and lies upon the pronator radii teres, as this passes outwards to its insertion ; then for a short distance the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum sustains it, and next the flexor longus pollicis; by the passage of whose muscular fibres in- wards to their tendon, it is left opposed to the pronator quadratus, but scarcely touching it from the depth at which this muscle is placed. To its outer side is the tendon of the biceps, and, at first distantly, afterwards more closely, the supinator radii longus, which maintains the relation throughout the remain- der of this portion of tlie vessel : in this situation is also found the musculo-spiral nerve, which descends under cover of the inner border of the muscle, and passes away from the lower part of the artery towards the back of the wrist. To its inner side are suc- sessively, the pronator radii teres in about the upper half of the region, in the lower, the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ; and be- neath this for a very short distance, that of the flexor longus pollicis. The coverings of the artery are merely the integuments and fascia of the forearm, so that in the whole of its length it is comparatively superficial: and the ordinary cellular tissue surrounds the vessel, while two venae comites accompany its course. It may considerably facilitate finding the artery in the living subject, to bear in mind the superficial indices of its course: and from what has been already stated it may be gather- ed, that in the upper half of this region the vessel is situated in a triangular hollow, whose base is the brachialis anticus in the lower part of the arm, whose outer side is the su- j)inator longus, and whose inner side is the pronator teres. In the lower portion it oc- cu[)ies a linear and comparatively shallow de- pression, between two tendons whose margins the fingers readily recognise through the skin, viz. that of the supinator longus externally, the flexor carpi radialis internally. A line, therefore, from the inner border of the biceps tendon, to the inferior apex of the triangle, indicates with tolerable accuracy the first subdivision of its course ; while another from this point, parallel and equidistant to the two tendons above named, marks it in the remain- der of the forearm. (b.) In the wrist. — This part of the artery is considerably shorter than the preceding, being scarcely one fifth of its length : its di- rection is downwards and outwards from the front of the forearm to the back and lower part of the wrist. In this course, the vessel lies on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and at its termination on the pos- terior ligament of the same articulation ; and corresponds to the scaphoid and trapezium bones which are beneath these. It is covered by skin and fascia, and at first situated at some distance from the surface, becomes to- wards its termination considerably more su- perficial. In its course it is crossed obliquely