QUADRUMANA. 210 Old World is separated into two lobes, united by vessels. This may be a transition to the cotyledons of the placenta in most of the Mammalia. The Second Group of Simice comprehends those of the New World, or Cebincs (SimicB 'platyrrhincB G. S. Hil), possessing a distinct character in the existence of four additional molar teeth, by which the general number of teeth is thirty-six. Their head is distinguished by a more rounded form, by nostrils situated laterally on a large nose. A long, and in some species a prehensile tail ; the want of cheek-pouches and of callosities on the but- tocks ; a smaller and less robust body, and a less malicious but more melancholy character, give a very conspicuous and distinguished physiognomy to this group. 2. Cebinve. Monkeys of the New World. The number of teeth is : incisors, — ; canines, 4 ^—^- ; molars, ^—^ = 36. 1—1 ' 6—6 They ought to be divided into two great divisions, of which the first comprehends those in which the tail is prehensile, viz., capable of grasping branches, so as to perform the office of a fifth extremity. It is naked at its extremity in some species. a. CebincB, with a prehensile tail, naked at its extremity. 1. First Genus. Mycetes. Alouatte, Singe hurleur.Vw Howler,^ng\. Brul-aap,'Dutch. Pyramidal head, with an elevated inferior jaw, whose branches are very distant, to give room for a peculiar inflation of the basis of the hyoid bone, which communicates wnth the larynx, and seems to produce the loud and frightful bowlings. By this the anterior sur- face of the neck is swollen up, which, added to their long beard, gives these animals a hideous appearance. The teeth have the general disposition proper to the Cebince, but the canini are very strong, and therefore the space in the upper jaw between the external incisor and canine tooth is large for the reception of the canine tooth of the lower jaw. The Mycetes are drowsy and lazy in captivity. In their native woods they live in troops, and climb the trees with much agility. Spec.— M. senicidusy M.fuscus, M. niger. 2. Second Genus. Ateles. Sajoajou ordinaire. Rounded head, with a slightly prominent muzzle. The thumb imperfect, but visible in some, not visible in others. The clitoris so much developed, that it has quite the appear- ance of a penis, with a channel at its inferior surface. Those, who possess a visible thumb, have been considered by Spix as forming a distinct genus, under the name Bracliytele, but I think it not necessary to introduce this Quadrumanes, Mem. de I'Acad. de^ Sciences, s. xix. Paris, 1845. division. The species of the genus Ateles represent in America the Semnopithcci of Asia, and the Colobi of Africa. They have the same slowness of movement, and the same gravity and gentleness of manners. Their progressive motion upon a level surface is very uneasy and unsteady, while they are forced to sustain themselves upon the internal edges of their fore-hands and the external of their hinder-hands. But they climb with much agility, aiding themselves with the prehensile tail, which acts as a fi.fth extremity. Their teeth resemble those of the genus Mycetes, but the canine are not so strong, and the molar teeth rounder. They all inhabit Guiana and Brazil. Spec.—Ateles pentadactylus, A. hypoxanthus, A. paniscuSy A. arachnoides^ A. fiiliginosuSy A. marginatus. 3. Third Genus. Lagotlirix Geoffr. Caparo. Rounded head, as in the genus Ateles ; a thumb, as in Mycetes, and the tail naked at its extremity, as in both. This genus is only to be found in South America, and chiefly in Brazil. The hyoid bone is not very large. Spec. — Lagothrix Humboldtii, L. caiius. b. CebincB, with a prehensile tail covered with hair at its extremity. 4. Fourth Genus. Cebus. Sajoii. Singe pleiireWy French. Capucyn-Aap, Dutch. Rounded head and oval face, with a gentle expression. Tail thicker than in the genus Mycetes and Ateles, and less prehensile, curled at its extremity, longer than the body. Teeth not so strong as in these, especially the canine. The Cebi feed upon fruits. Their movements are graceful and gay. Their manners a mix- ture of sweetness, cleverness, agility, and lu- bricity. Their voice is a gentle whistle. The determination of the species has caused great confusion. Rengger is of opinion, that some of them are merely modifications by age of the same species. They inhabit principally Guiana. Spec.—Cebus apella, C. fatuellus^ C.robustus, C. xantho-sternos, C. capucinus, C. hypoleucus, C. albifrons. 5. Fifth Genus. Callithrix. Sagouine, Fr. Slender tail ; teeth not prominent, and short canine.* The head more elevated than in Cebus and Pithecia, but smaller, with less pro- minent zygomatic arches, and higher branches in the lower jaws. Consequently there is more room for the reception of a more com- plicated larynx. Their voice is heavier, and not so whistling as in the Cebi and Pithecice. Callithrix p)ersonatay C. amicta, C. cuprea, C. melanochir. One species C. sciurea, or sainiiri, ought to be separated fr oni the rest. W^agner makes * In his book des Dents des Mammiferes consideres comme Caracteres Zoologiques, F. Cu^ier gives the teeth of this genus as t}-pe for the Saki's by a mis- take, which he corrected in ait. Saki 7wir, Hist. Nat. d. Mammif. t. iv. edit, in folio.