139 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. co-existing with all varieties of textiiral change, and exercising important influences on local nutrition, induration-matter would require a volume for its full description. We must content ourselves with an enumeration of some of the principal sites in which it occurs. Induration-matter forms: (A.) On membranous surfaces, where it is known under the names of pseudo-membrane, matter of adhesions, &c. Of the serous class the pleura is by far its most common seat ; next follows the pericardium ; then the peritonaeum ; then appear the tunica vaginalis and synovial mem- branes; and longo intervallo the arachnoid.* Among mucous membranes it appears on the respiration-surface in croup, plastic bronch- itis, and pneumonia (in all which situations it is not distantly allied to diphtheritic de- posit), and on the intestinal surface as in dj'sentery. It appears on the endocardial and valvular surfaces in the warty and gra- nular forms; in the arteries and veins in the patch-hke shape. The so-called glands of Pacchioni illustrate its occurrence on fibrous surfaces. (B.) Free in cavities. So it has been occasionally found forming rounded masses in the peritonijeal and pleural sacs ; the so-called " loose cartilages" in joints are in the great majority of instances composed of induration-matter; so too are those small melon-seed-like bodies, producing double saccular distension at the wrist-joint.f (C.) In the cellular membrane. The sub-cutaneous, (less frequently than the sub-mucous, and still less than the sub-serous) cellular membrane, becomes infiltrated with this material ; in parenchymatous cellular tissue it is singularly common. In addition to the ordinary cases of its occurrence in the latter, as a result of simple inflammation, it constitutes in great j:)art the substance of the morbid element infiltrating the kidney in certain cases of renal disease attended with persistent albuminuria, urine of low specific gravity, anasarca, &c.; infiltrating the capsule of Glisson, it plays a notable (but not the whole) part in hepatic cirrhosis; and infiltrating the substance of the lung (especially in certain cases of empyema), it converts that organ more or less completely into a chondroid mass. Seated in the intra- serous fibro-cellular tissue of the cardiac valves and chordas tendineae (where it is associated sometimes with atheroma) its contractile force produces the puckerings and shortenings so fre(juently observed. (D.) As imperfect cica- trix. Wherever a solution of continuity oc=^ curs, the cicatrix may be formed of this sub- stance ; take the instance of false joints: in some situations cicatrix seems always to be thus constituted, of which more in the next section. (E.) On new surfaces. Induration" matter may form on wounded, burned, * We have never seen arachnoid adhesions, un- less in connection with tumour of the brain or meninges. Is idiopathic arachnitis always fatal ? t We have found these bodies hollow centrally; their capsule is composed of amorphous albuminous matter with a little fat, and occasionally calcareous particles. and ulcerated surfaces; and supply a sac more or less perfect round the cavity caused by abscess, tuberculous softening, and fistulae. SUB-ORDER II. SIMULATING THE NATURAL TISSUES. When endowed with higher plastic quality exudation does not remain as induration-mat- ter, but becomes the matrix from which a structure more or less closely imitative of some natural tissue is evolved. This imita- tion is never perfect, at once physically, chemically, and physiologically,—at least in respect of the higher orders of texture. A pseudo-tissue thus generated may be wholly adventitious ; or partially so, as when design- ed for the reparation of lost parts. EXTRA-VASCULAR TISSUES. Epithelium.— On cicatrising and on fistulous surfaces, on the inner wall, or amid the con- tents, of cysts, as a coating for haematomata, and as a lining for new vessels, tessellated epithelium occurs as a purely adventitious j)roduct. The retained and accumulating epidermis forming corns and callosities, or that thrown off in excess from the skin in pi- tiriasis, or from the genito-urinary mucous surface in various states of disease, or from the intestinal surface in cholera, &c., can only be viewed as products of supersecretion. Hy- pertrophy of the papillae of the skin, with excess of epidermal formation (Univ. Coll. Mus.), a state prone to give rise to obstinate ulceration, cannot fairly be considered under the present head. Perhaps the epithelium accumulated in cutaneous sacs produced by dilatation and occlusion of sebaceous follicles may be considered adventitious. So likewise are those productions, elongated or flat, known as" horns," and which are essentially com- posed of epidermis. Commonly springing from a dilated and diseased sebaceous follicle, and mixed abundantly with fat, slightly with saline matter, the basis of the future "horn" is at first soft, subsequently becomes inspissated and hard, when its increasing dimensions, carrying it beyond the limits of the follicle, place it under the influence of the atmosphere. Layer upon layer of epidermis continues to accumulate at the surface of the follicle, and eventually a conical mass, some inches in length, may be the result. Horny-looking productions sometimes form on ulcerated surfaces, simple or cancerous. Pseudo-tumours, composed essentially of epithelium, and susceptible of vascularization, form, it is affirmed, on some mucous surfaces, —the uterine for instance. We have not met with productions of this kind. mil. —(See Tooth, p. 143.) Cartilage.— Adventitious cartilage, at one time believed to take rank among the most common, is now known to be one of the rarest of new formations: the microscope has certainly dispelled a cloud of error on this subject, by simply showing that cartilagi- nous-looking products are not necessarily