SKELETON. 6-23 Grant, and others, still does it remain as an open arena of inquiry, courting the votary of truth to enter there and allure her from her se- cret covert. All that has been written has not fixed the Protean interpretation of this law which governs the developement of vertebrated skeletons. Since, therefore, this theme (upon which so many great inquirers have assa}'ed interpretations which conflict with each other, and in the struggle lose the clue of truth), even to this hour fails of the culminating idea, and is by so much imperfect, of what avail would it be to the reader or myself were I to discuss the merits of the various opinions such as they stand? Rather than dispute about opinions, I shall turn to the facts themselves, upon which those opinions have been grounded, and engage at once in the comparison of facts as facts independent of all opinion respecting them, and unmindful of the names * by which they are liable to be mistaken for what they are not. Under the abstract term skeleton, I shall take a general survey of the whole subject of comparative osteology; and if the reader chooses to call this survey " transcendental," I shall endeavour to show that it shall not be visionary. My argument shall set out from a first proposition, through a successional en- chainment of propositions ; and in the matter of all the propositions taken collectively, I shall body forth an interpretation hitherto un- known in anatomical science. The facts and their proper interpretation may be fairly termed the body and soul of truth, and such a truth is a compound of the actual and the in- tellectual. The facts themselves give evidence to all observers of the truth of " unity in variety," but it is by inductive reasoning that the intellect is to interpret the law, the poten- tial agency, by which the same facts are at the same time uniform and yet various. The object which I shall keep in view while constructing my comparisons, is to demonstrate the figure of unity, and give interpretation to the figures of variety which are sprung of it. To this end I shall prove,— 1st. That all the osseous skeletal forms are quantitatively unequal things. parative anatomists of the German and French schools. To this work, and the principle which the author endeavours to establish, I shall frequently refer; and believing (as all who shall study that work must believe) that the meritorious object of its distinguished author is to give creation to a great truth in science, at the same time that he is not unwilling to give ear to all counter-argument rationally advanced, I shall therefore not hesitate to question the principle set forward in the work, as freely as shall serve my own purpose, which holds the like object in view. In whatever points, there- fore, I may take objection to the author's reading, and in doing so may appear too rash to question so great and philosophical an authority, it is the cause which must be my excuse. * " This, if we rightly consider and confine not our thoughts and abstract ideas to names, as if there were or could be no other sorts of things than what known names had already determined and, as it were, set out, we should think of things vnth. greater freedom and less confusion than perhaps we do." Locke, Reality of Knowledge. 2d. That they are the unequal quantities of a greater or archetypal form *, a unity which has undergone such an infinitely graduated metamorphosis of its parts as to yield these unequal skeletal forms. 3d. That the law of formation is one of degradation of an archetypal uniform original. 4th. That these unequal skeletal forms con- stitute the species or varieties of the unity of the archetype. 5th. That the whole or archetypal form of which these unequal skeletal figures are the parts, is the only absolutely uniform skeletal series. 6th. That nomenclature and all modes of classification, according to specific distinct- nesses, have no real meaning apart from the consideration of this law of an archetypal uniform prime model undergoing a graduated metamorphosis of its parts. That in this higher law of graduated series is enveloped all lesser laws of classes, orders, genera, species, and individuals, which, whatever be the amount of their distinctive characters, do one and all point to a unity of type more or less. With this purpose before the reader's mind, I proceed to lay down my propositions as preliminaries by which to pioneer a passage through the blinding thicket of nomencla- ture and gain the light beyond it, the light of a general law f in nature. But before he * This term, archetype, having been first intro- duced by me in the study of comparative osteology, may require here a word in explanation. When I first applied myself to the study of the law of " unity in variety " which presides over the de- velopment of vertebrated skeletons, there appeared to be such a shadowy and ill-defined meaning in the term unity in variety, and the facts of form themselves presented in such a mysterious condition of enchained analogous characters, and at the same time gave such immistakeable e\idences of an en- chained specific diversity, the latter encountering the former condition at every step of inquiry, and neither the diff'erences nor the analogies (while contem- plated as such under the same regard) holding forth to me Siwy promise of an end to labour and research, that I at length resolved to know (in addition to the self-evident analogy which the facts manifested) whether or not the deferential properties were mainly owing to some law which degraded or pro- portioned the lesser and special forms from some greater or Avhole form—some integer or full skeletal figui-e which might be seen as containing in its omti quantitative character the sum of all knoAvn varie- ties or species. The comparative method which I adopted to define the existence of such a figure realised my expectation, as I shall presently show, and to this figure I gave the name archetype. In a paper " On Anatomical Nomenclature," ad- dressed to Professors Owen and Grant, published in a number of the Lancet, March, 14. 1846, I have spoken of the figure of an archetype skeleton. About the same time that I since published my work on " Comparative Osteology and the Arche- type Skeleton," bearing date 1847, I felt gratified to see that the learned Professor Owen sanctioned the name archetype, and gave it the weight and interest of his philosophical researches. See his work, en- titled " The ArchetjqDC and Homologies of the Ver- tebrate Skeleton," published 1848, being a second edition of his work bearing the same title, published 1847. t " Les lois, dans la signification la plus etendue, sont les rapports necessaires qui de'rivent de la