REPTILIA. 267 and an acromion process that almost equals it in size, is quite peculiar to the Chelonian rep- Fig. 178. Scapular Apparatus of Clielys. a, scapiila; b, acromion process; c, coracoid bone. tiles, nothing like it existing in any other ver- tebrate animals : nevertheless, the relations of these bones, and the muscles derived from them, prove clearly enough their identity, and allow of strict comparison with those of other races of vertebrata. The pelvis is always composed of three distinct bones on each side, which contribute, as in quadrupeds, to the formation of the coty- loid cavity, viz. theiUum (fig. 179, a.), which is Fig, 179. Pelvis of the Turtle. a, OS ilii ; b, os pubis ; c, os ischii. of an elongated form, and attached by liga- ments to the transverse processes of the sacral vertebrae, as well as to the neighbour- ing part of the eighth pair of dilated ribs : secondly, the pubis b, and the ischium c, both of which, expanding as they descend towards the p^astrum, terminate by joining their fellows of the opposite side. The cylindrical bones of the extremities resemble those of other four-footed reptiles, and present no peculiarity worthy of special notice, except in a geological point of view. In the turtles, all the bones of the carpus are flattened, and of a squarish form. In the first row there are two bones {fg. 160, r, d.) con- Fig. 180. Anterior extremity of a Turtle. (^After Cuvier.') nected with the ulna ; and in the second row there are five smaller ones (1,2, 3, 4, 5.), to which are appended the five metacarpal bones. In addition to the above, there is an interme- diate bone (e), situated beneath the ulnar car- pal bone (c), and above the second and third bones of the last row, (2, 3.) This piece, Cuvier thinks, corresponds with the disn)en-- bered portion of the trapezoid bone, met with in monkeys. Lastly, there is a great crescent- shaped bone (/), which is adherent to the ulnar margin of the piece which supports the metacarpal bone of the little finger ; this is the OS pisiforme, although its situation is so low down. Between the bone (1), which supports the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and the ra- dius (a), the connexion during a long period is effected entirely by ligaments, without any appearance of the great scaphoido-semilunar bone which exists in the other sub-genera, but with age a small ossicle makes its appear- ance in this situation. In very large indivi- duals, the two antepenultimate bones of the second row are consolidated into one. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is