408 ROTIFERA. ties. The vascular system is composed of tremulous gill-like organs, and a respiratory spur or tube in some species. Noteus has no eyes, but a large cerebral ganglion ; the other genera have eyes. Analysis of the genera. Noteus. With eyes. Anurcea. Brachioniis. foot. Pterodina. Eyeless, with furcate foot. One inl Without foot. neck. J Foot furcated. Twofrontaljg^ ^.f^^,^ eyes. J With the exception of Noteus, the genera of this family were known to the older ob- servers. Three species of Anuraea were de- scribed by Midler in 1776, and Joblot disco- vered the Brachionus pala (f g. 296.) in 1716. large quantities that they render the water turbid in which they exist. Doyere has constructed a family which he calls Tardigrades, and which are most properly included in the class of Kotifera. The ani- mals of this family have an elongated body, contractile like that of the Rotifer, with four pairs of short legs, each bearing two pairs of small claws. The ahmentary canal is narrow, prolonged into a siphon at its anterior ex- tremity, with an internal maxillary apparatus, moveable, and consisting of a muscular bulb traversed by a straight canal, furnished with horny articulated pieces. Until this family was investigated by Doyere, it was supposed to consist of but one species, the Water-bear (Wasser-bar)of Eichorn; but under the name Fig. 296. Brachionus pala. {After Ehrenberg.') a, eye; b, jaAvs; c, ovary; d, d, ova; e, contractile vesicle; /, ova attached; g, g, g, teeth of shell; h, h, intestinal glands; i, constriction of alimentary canal; k, respiratory tube; /, /, transverse vessels. The Pterodina patma was described by Eic/iorn of Macrohiotus, Arctiscon, and other names, in 1775. The genus Brachionus is, of all the which were supposed to be synonymous, it Rotifers, the most remarkable for the density appears that several animals were confounded, of its lorica. The thickness of this organ pre- for which Doyere proposes the generic terms vents their internal structure from being so Eniydia, Milnesia, and Macrobiottis. These plainly obseived as that of many other genera, animals are found in the same localities as the The species of Brachionus often occur in so common Rotifer, and like it possess the