123 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. Growths, as a class, varies in the difFerent parts of organs. Thus the pyloric end of the stomach suffers more frequently than the rest of the organ ; the epididymis than the hody of the testis. (c.) Certain organs, and certain parts of organs, have an excess of tendency to the formation of certain special Growths. Thus the uterus, the mamma, the stomach, the liver, are peculiarly prone to cancerous, as distinguished from other forms of growth ; the bones are the chosen seat of enchondroma. And, again, cancer does not form indifferently in all parts of the uterus, but tends especially to invade its neck ; while fibrous tumours affect a preference for the body of the organ. The large intestine is a tolerably common seat of cancer ; the small is very rarely implicated. (d.) Growths of different kinds exhibit dif- ferent degrees of compatibility as co-existences in the same body. Some Growths, as Cystoma and Carcinoma, are sufficiently prone to appear in the same individual; others, as Fibroma and Carcinoma, are rare co-exist- ences ; none are actually incompatible, either as unconnected co-existences, or as develop- ments in each other.* Sex influences the site of Growths. The renal organs of the male suffer more fre- quently than those of the female ; the con- verse is true of the genital organs. In like manner, age has its influence. But on the whole, the causes of these peculiarities of seat are unfathomed. A Growth having once been developed, may pursue an anatomical (or better, topo- graphical) course, of three different kinds. First, it may remain solitary and alone till the death of the individual in whom it exists, no other organ or tissue than that originally af- fected becoming involved by similar disease. This is frequently observed in the case of enchondroma and of cystoid tumours, occa- sionally of fibrous, and even of cancerous Growths. Or, secondly, a morbid mass originates in some particular site, whence it seems to spread as from a centre to a multitude of parts; the latter are said to be the subject of secondary Growths. The mechanism of this propagation differs according as parts adjacent to or dis- tant from the primary formation are the con- secutive sufferers. (1.) When circumjacent tissues become the seat of secondary develop- ment, this is either the result: — first, of pro- * It is true we have never ourselves seen cancer within the substance of a fibrous tumour; but there is no a priori motive for disbelieving the possibility of such localization, and competent persons affirra they have seen examples of it. Although tubercle is not, properly speaking, a growth, it may be well to observe here (as we first showed eight years ago), that this product and cancer rarely co-exist. Among 104 cases of death from cancer, there were but seven in which the anatomical character of phthisis was present. The age at which the two diseases are most prevalent will, to some extent, but not wholly, explain this result. (See Nat. and Treatment of Cancer, p. 185.) On the other hand, the diseases by no means absolutely exclude each other; cancer and tubercle may form in the same organ. gressive and direct infiltration of those tissues by the morbid matter; or next, of infiltration spreading to those tissues through the me- dium of the proceeds of common inflam- mation (induration-matter) previously depo- sited among them, in some instances effecting adhesions between parts not actually adherent to each other in the natural state ; or, lastly, possibly of infiltration arising in some unex- plained way, through the influence of a part simply placed in juxtaposition, and not con- tinuous (either naturally or accidentally) with the tissues primarily affected. These modes of secondary implication are exemplified by cancer alone. (2.) The formation of second- ary Growths in distant organs, where an effect of pre-existing disease elsewhere, seems only intelligible as a result of transmission by the lymphatic or vascular systems. Cancerous, and perhaps fibrous tumours, give rise through both these routes, to secondary development. As respects the lymphatic glands in commu- nication with a cancerous mass, they may themselves become cancerous, while the ves- sels leading to them are either filled with morbid matter of the same kind, or perfectly free from all anatomical change. Now when the tubes are themselves loaded with cancer- ous substance, and are, for example, traceable so loaded even to the thoracic duct (A. Cooper ; Hourmann), without any evidence existing of the matter being a product of their own tissue, the implication of the lymphatic system, is evidently the result of absorption. But when (as is more commonly the fact) the cancerous state of the glands is unasso- ciated with similar contamination of the con- necting tubes, it is not thus so plainly and sa- tisfactorily explicable. Still it is probable that in the majority of cases the principle is even here the same; but that the mode in which stagnation of absorbed particles takes place differs. In other instances it is possible that cancerous development in the glands may be effected as in an independent and original centre of production, and not through a pro- cess of absorption or other direct mode cf influence of pre-existing Growths. These no- tions are put hypothetically; but they appear to me more likely to be well founded than those usually tendered. Nevertheless if contamina- tion be admitted to arise as a result of absorp- tion in some instances, the inference appears necessary, that it shall occur in all cases ; inas- much as a process of nutrition, accomplished in the usual way, is constantly going forward in morbid Growths. Now, as matter of fact, such contamination does not always ensue, and, above all, does not commence from the earliest period of evolution of the previous growth. Here seems to lie a serious objection to the doctrine of lymphatic absorption. But the absorption is only thus shown to be of a kind which w^e may, for convenience sake, call un'productive; and which may be assimilated to that taking place from abscesses, in cases where no pus, with its sum of natural proper- ties, finds its way into the circulation. That the pus-corpuscles undergo, in such cases, dis-