466 SECRETION. and separated the men. While in this state of stroni excitement, the mother took up her child from the cradle, where it lay plaung and in the most perfect health, never having had a moment's illness ; she gave it the breast and in so doing sealed its fate. In a few minutes the infant left oft' sucking, became restless, panted, and sank dead upon its mother's bosom. The physician who was instantly called in, found the child lying in the cradle as if asleep, and with its features un- disturbed ; but all his resources were fruitless. It was irrecoverably gone."* Such a case might be regarded as a mere coincidence if it stood alone ; but several others of similar character are npon record. Mr. Wardrop mentions f that having removed a small tu- mour from behind the ear of a mother, all went well until she fell into a violent passion, and the child being suckled soon afterwards, died in convulsions. He was sent for hastily to see another ch'ld in convulsions, after taking the breast of a nurse who had just been severely reprimanded ; and he was mformed by Sir Richard Croft that he had seen many similar instances. Burdach cites two cases of a similar kind ; in one of which the infant put to the breast of its mother, just as she had received some very alarming intelligence, died in her arms before the eyes of the mes- senger; whilst in the other, the child having been nursed w hen the mind of the mother was in violent agitation, suddeulv became extremely pale, and after some hours was attacked with paralysis on the right side, and convulsions on the left. Another of a very similar character has been more recently put on record. " A woman while suckling her child became violently excited b\ the loss of some article which had been stolen from her. She gave her child the breast while in a state of violent passion. The child at first re- jected it, but subsequently took a quantity of milk. Soon afterwards violent vomiting supervened. la the course of some hours, the child took the other breast, when it was attacked with violent convulsions, and died in spite of medical aid." J It will not be requisite to enter into similar details in regard to other secretions, the in- fluence of emotional states on which is a familiar fact. Thus the flow of saliva is stimulated by the sight, the smell, the taste, or even by the idea, of food ; whilst it may be entirely arrested by strong emotion, as is showai by the well known test often resorted to in India for the discovery of a thief among the servants of a family. All the parties being compelled to hold a certain quantity of rice in the mouth during a few minutes, the oftbnder is generally distinguished by the com- parative dryness of his mouthful at the end of the experiment. The gastric secretion is greatly influenced by the emotional states * Dr. A. Combe's Treatise on the !^^anagement of Infancy, p. 222., quoted from Dr. Yon Ammon, " Die ersteu Mutterpflichten imd die erste Kiuderspflege." t Lancet, Xo. 516. ; Casper's Wochenschrift, 1845, S. 204. being usually increased by moderate exhilara- tion, and diminished by depression of the feel- ings. Any very strong emotion, however, usually suspends it for a time. The lachrymal secretion, w^iich is continually being formed to a small extent for the purpose of bathing the surface of the eye, is poured out in great abundance under the moderate excitement of the emo- tions, either of joy, tenderness, or grief. It is checked, however, by violent emotions: hence in intense grief the tears do not flow. It is a well know n proof of moderated sorrow when the flow returns : tears, however, do not bring relief, as commonly supposed, but they indicate that the violence of the emotion has passed ofi: The odoriferous secretion from the skin, which is much more powerful in some indi\-iduals than in others, is increased under the influence of certain mental emo- tions, such as fear or bashfulness, and com- monly also by sexual desire.* That the formation of this secretion is due to changes occurring in the blood itself, and that the function of the cutaneous glandulae is rather to eliminate than to produce it, would appear from the fact that the characteristic smell of different animals may be detected in their blood when it is treated with sulphuric acid. The influence of fear or of sexual desire on the odoriferous secretions of many of the lower animals is well known; the emission of a powerful and disgusting smell being not un- frequently a chief means of defence. The odoriferous matter is sometimes poured into the internal cavities, and discharged with the normal excretions, imparting to them its peculiar scent: thus the urine of a cat, voided under the influence of alarm, possesses a strong and disagreeable smell, which is with difficulty got rid of. The halitus from the lungs is in some persons so affected by mental emotions, that a piece of bad news shall almost instantaneously produce foetid breath. A copious secretion of foetid gas not un- frequently takes [;lace in the intestinal canal, under the influence of any disturbing emo- tion ; or the usual liquid secretions from its walls are similarly disordered. The tendency to defascation, which is commonly excited under such circumstances, is not simply due therefore to relaxation of the sphincter ani, as commonly supposed, but is partly dependent on the unusua ly stimulating character of the fsces themselves. It is a prevalent, and, perhaps, not an ill-founded, opinion, that me- lancholy and jealousy have a tendency to in- crease the quantity, and to vitiate the quality, of the biliary fluid; and amongst the causes of jaundice are usually set down the indul- gence of the depressing emotions, or an access * A series of glandulae in the axillary region, bearing a general resemblance to the sudoriferous glands, but of larger size, have been supposed by Prof. Homer (Amer. Joiuni. of Med. Sci. Jan. 1846), and by M. Kobm (Gaz. Med. Sept. 13. 1845), to be specially concerned in the elimination of the pecu- liar odoriferous secretion of this region. These glaudula? have been shown by Prof. Homer to be unusually large in the negro, whose axillary odour is peculiarly strong.