SHOULDER JOINT — occasion to point out the abundant provisions which exist to counteract this tenclency- As regards its motions, and the anatomical dispositions of its connecting media, the shoulder joint belongs to the class of " Enar- throdial Articulations ;" but, if its bony con- stituents alone be considered, it seems more nearly alhed to the *' Arthrodia." This is owing to the imperfect development of the glenoid cavity which is opposed to the head of the humerus. The shoulder joint is constructed after the same plan in all vertebrate animals whose anterior extremities are developed. In this article the several components of the scapulo-humeral articulation shall be de- scribed in the following order: — I. The Bones, 2. The Structures WHICH FACILITATE THEIR MOTIONS, a. Arti- cular Fibro-Cartilage. b. Articular Cartilage, c. Synovial Membrane. 3. The Connecting Media, a. Passive connecting Media — the Ligaments, b. Active connecting Media — the Muscles ; in connection with the detail of the Mechanical Functions of the joint. 1. Bones.—We shall speak of these briefly, as they have been already described in the article Extremity. The bones which enter into the formation of the shoulder joint are, the head of the hu- merus and the glenoid cavity of the scapula. These opposed surfaces are of very dispro- portionate size, the shallow cavity of the sca- pula not exceeding in dim.ensions one-third of the head of the humerus. The glenoid cavity is placed at the anterior superior angle of the scapula, below and be- tween the acromion and coracoid processes ; a slight constriction, the neck of the scajnda, separates it, together with the coracoid pro- cess, from the body of the scapula ; sitjyeriorly^ the neck of the scapula traverses the notch in the superior costa of the bone, behind the base of the coracoid process ; inj'eriorly^ it terminates close to the lower extremity of the articular surface. The aspect of the glenoid cavity in the quiescent state of the scapula, is upwards, forwards, and outwards ; it pre>ents an ovoid outline, the larger end below, and the smaller above. A vertical line falling upon the axillary margin of the scapula di- vides this articular cavity into two unequal portions, of which the inner is the larger. This arrangement in some degree dimini'^hes the tendency to displacement inwards of the head of the humerus, to which, for other reasons, the joint is strongly disposed. An "arrest of development" may cause a deficiency of either the outer or the inner lip of the glenoid cavity, resulting in a congenital dislocation of the head of the humerus, in- wards or outwards, according to the portion of the cavity which is deficient. These con- stitute the " sub-acromial" and " sub-cora- coid " dislocations described by Dr. R. Smith.* Boyer supposes that a deficient develop- * Dublin Journal of IMedical Science, vol. xv, 1839. (Normal Anatomy). o73 ment of the outer lip of the glenoid cavity must pre-exist, in order to permit the dislo- cation backwards on the dorsum of the sca- pula to occur.* A little external to its apex, a slight notch in the margin of the glenoid cavity marks the place of attachment of the long ttndon of the biceps; whilst on its upper and inner side a shallow groove points out the passage of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. The head of the humerus presents a convex hemispherical surface, the a^pect of which is upwards, backwards, and inwards. An irre- gular wavy line separates the head from the anatomical neck of the bone, the latter inter- vening between the head and the tuberosities. The line which marks the union of the upper epiphysis with the shaft of the humerus has been "long incorrectly described, as though it were identical with the anatomical neck. The upper epiphysis comprises not only the head of the bone, bid also the tuberosities; for though, doubtless, the line of junction between the upper epiphysis and the shalt corresponds internally to the anatomical neck immediately beneath the cartilage of incrustation, yet from this its direction is chiefly outwards, so that externally it passes below the greater and the lesser tuberosities, traversing the bicipital groove which is included between them. This anatomical fact, and the practical in- ferences derivable from it, have been clearly pointed out by Dr. R. Smith.f 2. Structures luhich facilitate motion in the Joint.—a. The border of the glenoid cavity has attached to it a fibro-cartilaginous rim (glenoid ligament) by which the depth of the cavity is somewhat mcreased. This structure is thickest at its attachment to the bone; its fi ee edge is very thin; a section of it made at right angles to the bone gives it a triangular outline. Both its surfaces are fined by sy- novial n)embrane, which consequently sepa- rates it externully from the capsular ligament ; superiorly, many fibres of the biceps tendon become continuous with the fibrous portion of the so-called "glenoid ligament," and after prolonged maceration the tendon w ill separate from the bone along with this structure, but to describe the glenoid ligament as formed by the splitting of the tendon of the biceps, would be erroneous. The glenoid ligament is subservient to the following purposes: it deepens the shallow glenoid cavity, and so lessens the liability to dislocation ; it prevents the bony surfaces of the neck of the humerus, and the edge of the glenoid cavity, from being unduly pressed against each other in the ex- tensive motions of the joint; and it gives a more extended, and therefore a more secure attachment to the tendon of the biceps. b. The articular surfaces are invested with cartilage of incrustation, which, in accordance with a very general rule, is much thicker at the centre ot the convex head of the humerus * Traite' des Malaclies Chirurcricales, torn. iv. p. 176. => ' 1 t Essay on Fractures, &c., p. 203. Dublin, 18i8.