PROTELX. 166 and membrane. It may be obtained in a state of purity from the blood, in which, as already mentioned, it exists in a soluble condition, but remarkably prone to assume the solid form as soon as removed from the body. The blood, as soon as drawn, should be rapidly beaten up ■with a bundle of wires or twigs, to which the fibrin attaches itself in the form of solid amor- phous filaments, coloured red by a quantity of the globules entangled in its pores during the coagulation ; these latter may be removed by placing the coagulum in a piece of linen cloth, and washing with a stream of cold water until all colour disappears. It still contains fatty matters, inorganic salts, and a considerable quantity of water, all which may be removed by drying on a chloride of calcium bath at a temperature of about 250^, pounding the hard mass in a mortar, washing with alcohol, ether, and dilute hydrochloric acid, and lastly, mace- rating in water until all soluble matter is dis- solved out, when it should be again thoroughly dried. Thus prepared, it is of a yellowish colour, hard, brittle, and, when perfectly free from fat, transparent. It is tasteless, and inso- luble in alcohol, ether, and water; but in the latter it softens, swells up, and reassuraes the appearance it had previous to desiccation. Though insoluble in both hot and cold water, it is converted by prolonged boiling, first into binoxide and eventually into tritoxide of protein, which latter is sohible in water. Most of the acids, when in a concentrated state, cause fibrin to swell up and assume a gela- tinous appearance. It was observed b\ Scherer that when moist fi'.-.rin is placed in an atmo- sphere of oxygen, it has the property of ab- sorbing and retaining a portion of the gas ; an elFect no doubt accompanied by the formation of one or more of the oxides of protein : it is probable that a portion of the fibrin of the blood undergoes a similar change, since these oxides are always present in arterial blood both in health and disease, especially in some forms of fever, when, by an accelerated respiration, a larger amount of oxygen is introduced into the system. Fibrin and sulphuric acid. — "SVith strong sul- phuric acid dry fibrin becomes yellowish and gelatinous, considerable heat being at the same time evolved, sufficient indeed, provided the quantity be large, to cause complete decompo- sition, when it blackens, and sulphurous acid is given off. When water is added, the gelatinous mass contracts suddenly in bulk, and the white curdy matter thus obtained consists chiefly of sulphoproteic acid, already described. Fibrin and nitric acid. — Fibrin behaves with nitric acid in a similar manner to protein, gi%'ing rise to the formation of xanthoproteic acid. Fibrin and acetic acid. —When treated with concentrated acetic acid, it almost immediately becomes gelatinous, and if water be added and the mixture warmed, it readily dissolves, espe- cially if the fibrm be obtained from a young animal : this solution when evaporated leaves the fibrin with precisely the same properties which it had previous to dissolution. If an- other acid, as the sulphuric, be added to the acetic solution, it combines with the protein, forming generally an insoluble compound, as in the case of the sulphobiproteic acid. If the acetic acid solution be neutralized with potash, the fibrin is precipitated, but is redissolved if the alkali be added in excess. Fibrin and hi/drocJtloric acid. — When treat- ed with strong hydrochloric acid fibrin be- comes gelatinous, and gradually dissolves, giving the solution a beautiful blue colour, which is characteristic of all the protein compounds : if this solution be diluted with water, a white precipitate appears, which is a compound of hydrochloric acid and protein. When the acid is very dilute it has the property of gradually dissolving fibrin ; and as a trace of free hydro- chloric acid is generally to be found in the stomach, it is probable that its solvent action tends to assist materially in the process of digestion. Bouchardat says that water con- taining only one two-thousandth of its weight of hydrochloric acid causes moist fibrin to become gelatinous, and eventually to dissolve, leaving only a small quantity of insoluble mat- ter, which he calls epidennose: the soluble portion he has called albuminose, but ^Mulder considers it binoxide of protein, which asser- tion, however, has recently been contradicted by Liebig. Fibrin and potash. — Fibrin dissolves rea- dily in a solution of potash, even when very dilute, if the solution be gently heated, the fibrin is gradually decomposed, the sulphur and phosphorus being removed, and protein remains combined with the potash, from which it may be separated by neutralizingwith acetic acid. Ammonia behaves in a similar manner, but its action is much less rapid. Fibrin readily dissolves in the gastric juice, which appears to owe its solvent action both to the organic principle pepsine, and also to a little free hydrochloric acid in the stomach, which is derived from common salt. The same effect may be produced artificially by an infu- sion of the fourth stomach of the calf" to which a little hydrochloric acid has been added. It is curious that the presence of certain salts, as nitrate of potash and sulphate of soda, prevents the coagulation of the fibrin of the blood ; and even when coagulated, provided it be still moist, it is again dissolved by some saline solutions, as, for instance, muriate of ammonia. Moreover, M. Denis has found that if moist fibrin be digested in a solution of nitrate of potash containing a little soda, at a temperature of about 100°, it becomes gradu- ally converted into a substance in almost every respect identical with albumen, being soluble in water, and coagulable by heat. This change is most readily produced when the fibrin em- ployed has been obtained from venous blood, by allow ing it to coagulate spontaneously ; while if it be separated by agitation, or if the blood be arterial, it scarcely experiences any alteration in the saline solution. Changes of this kind, of the several modifications of pro- tein into one another, are constantly occurring in the animal economy, and the great similarity