REPTILIA. 273 connected together by very perfectly con- structed ball and socket joints, each vertebra presenting a concavity in front, and a convex ball upon its posterior aspect; the plane of the circumference of the articulating surface being oblique from before to behind. The spinous apophyses are generally elon- gated and flattened, being prolonged poste- riorly to the articular a])ophyses, wiiich they partially overlap. The articulating processes are of two sorts ; some facing outwardly, represent ordinary ar- ticulating apophyses, \vith horizontal facets. The second face inwards, and are situated at the base of the spinous process. These apo- physes are so arranged, that, as in the lum- bar vertebrae of some Edentata amongst quad- rupeds, two vertebrae are articulated toge- ther by a double tenon received into a double mortice, the only difference being, that the facets of the upper tenon and mortice are continuous, and form with each other an acute angle. The articular facets, without including those of the bodies, are twelve in number for each vertebra; an arrangement which re- stricts the vertical movements of the spine very materially, whilst at the same time it permits very free motion in a horizontal di- rection. The transverse processes are very short and scarcely perceptible, except by a tubercle, which offers two facets for articulation with the ribs. In the caudal vertebrae, however, the transverse processes are much longer, and inclined downwards ; they are even double to- wards the anterior part of the caudal region. In almost all serpents, the body of the ver- tebrae presents inferiorly a prominent longitu- dinal crest, which very generally terminates behind in a prominent spine, that is directed more or less towards the tail. In some ge- nera, as in Crotalus, for example, this s[)ine is even longer than the superior spinous process, and moreover is very frequently double. The arrangement of the articular processes described above is not met with in the genera Anguis Cecilia, in which it resembles what is foiuid in lizards; and in Amphisfcsna, Ert/x, &c., traces, merely, of either superior or in- ferior spinous processes can be detected. The ribs of serpents are enormously nume- rous, their number varying, according to the proportions of the species, from 51 pairs (S/ieltoj)usic7c), up to three hundred and twenty pairs {Python). Each pair of ribs is move- ably articulated, by nieans of two slight con- cave surfaces, with corresponding articulating facets of the transverse processes of the cor- responding vertebra, forming a kind of double ball and socket joint, which allows of an un- usual extent of motion. There is no vestige of a sternal apparatus in any of the Oj)hi-. dian reptiles, but each rib terminates by a single tapering cartilage, which is attached by muscular connexions, to be described hereafter, to the abdominal scuta of the inte- gument. Myology of Chelonian Reptiles.— In the VOL. IV. Chelonian reptiles*, the cervical portion of the spine is composed of long and very moveable vertebrae, which form a curve, the concavity of which is upwards, whilst the dorsal region is converted into a broad immoveable shield by the consolidation of the ribs and vertebrae : there consequently cannot be any muscles of the back, whilst those of the neck, on the contrary, are very distinct; nevertheless, the attachments which they necessarily have be- neath the back and the ribs, instead of on the outer side, as is usually the case, renders it exceedingly difficult to compare them with those of other animals. Still some points of relationship may be traced between them and those of birds. Thus, in the horizontal por- tion of the neck, close to the bones, are the intertransversales, separable, as in birds, in- to two sets of fasciculi, one upon the dorsal, and the other upon the ventral aspect. These are the infcrtransvcrsarii colli and ti'ansversarii colli obliqiii of Bojanus. There is, moreover, in this horizontal part of the neck, the great transversalis, composed, as in birds, of two fascicles inserted into the transverse process of each vertebra, and de- rived from the transverse processes of the two preceding vertebrae. The anterior longus colli arises from the first dorsal vertebra ; it runs along all the ventral aspect of the curva- ture of the neck, receiving additional fibres from, and giving off' tendons to all. Another muscle, very similar in its dis- tribution to the longus colli posticus of birds, but slightly different in its insertion, arises from the carapax in front of the last vertebra of the neck, and gives off" fleshy fasciculi to four or five of the vertebrae that precede it, but it inserts them into the crests, which represent spinous apophyses ; moreover, there is no accessory nmscle as in birds. In one circumstance, however, there is a re- semblance, namely, its last fasciculus, which is very long; those likewise to the head, where it is inserted into the upper aspect of the head, above the sjilenius: neverthe- less it is not digastric, as that of birds. The larger portion of this muscle is named by Bojanus the spinalis colli, and the slip which it gives off" to the head the splenius capitis : the tortoise has also a small complexus, which is derived only from the transverse apophyses of two or three of the anterior cervical vertebrae, and runs to the head, ex- ternal to the splenius and to the fasciculus above mentioned. This splenius, which does not exist in birds, arises in the land and fresh- water tortoises from the dorsal crests of the fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae, and runs to the head, where, dividing into two portions, it covers the upper surface of the occiput: this is the biventer cervicis of Bojanus. In the turtles its divisions are more widely separated ; the internal arises only from the most anterior vertebrae, whilst the external is derived from beneath the anterior edge of the * Cu^•ier, Lemons d'Anatomie Coniparee, la^t edi* tion. T