PULSE. 192 difference of 10 beats ; in a boy from four to five years old, 16 beats ; and in a female, in her 27th year, 10 beats. In two pregnant women Hohl observed a difference of 10 and 11 beats respectively ; and the same author reports a difference of from 20 to 40 beats in new-born infants. He also attributes a re- markable decrease of frequency sometimes observed in the foetal pulse to the sleep of the embryo. Other authors have been cognisant of the effect of sleep, but have not made it the subject of experiment. Food.—The general effect of food is to excite the pulse; this takes place to a very slight extent with vegetable food, but more with animal food. Some articles of diet, as warm drinks, alcoholic liquors, and tobacco have a very marked influence on the pulse. The effect of food is nmch more considerable in infancy than in after life. * Mental Emotions. — The effect of these on the pulse is too well known to require any comment. Temperature of the Body. — Cold lowers the pulse, heat quickens it. Exposure to a very high temperature causes a marked accelera- tion. Thus Sir C. Blagden, on exposing himself for 8 minutes to a temperature of about 260°, found his pulse rise to 144, or double its ordinary frequency, f Density of the Air. — In the observations hitherto made, it is very difficult to separate the influence of this agent from that of the exertion which accompanied the change from one medium to another. There was a very considerable increase of frequency in the case of the men who accompanied Saussure in the ascent of Mont Blanc. The pulses that beat at Chamounix 49, 66, and 72, became, on the summit of the mountain, 98, 112, and 100 re- spectively. Dr. Clark also found the pulses of his companions, in a state of rest on the summit of the mountain, 84, 84, 88, 92, 102, and 108 respectively, being a considerable increase above the probable frequency of the pulses of the same persons under ordinary circumstances.J Miiller^, on the authority of Parrot, gives a table of the frequencies of the pulse corresponding to different elevations. They are as follows: — Level of the sea, 70 ; 1000 metres, 75; 1500 metres, 82 ; 2000 me- tres, 90 ; 2500 metres, 95 ; 3000 metres, 100; 4000 metres, 110. These numbers are pro- bably unauthorised by experiments. The foregoing are some of the leading causes which affect the frequency of the pulse in health. They may be thrown into two classes ; those which increase, and those which diminish its frequency. 1. The more common causes of increased frequency of pulse are : — Exercise, active and passive ; continued muscular effort; a change from a posture requiring little, to one re- quiring more exertion ; food, especially warm * Experiments of M. Valleix, Op. cit. p. 336. t See Sir David Brewster's Natiiral Magic, p. 311. X See Auldjo's Ascent of Mont Blanc, p. 68. § Physiology, vol. i. p. 163. drinks; spirituous liquors and tobacco; a high temperature ; diminished pressure of the air; extreme debihty ; sleeplessness ; the first degree of plethora; and exciting passions and emotions. 2. The common causes of diminished fre- quency of the pulse are, — continued rest; sleep; fatigue, when not carried to excess ; debility, when not extreme, and unaccompa- nied by disease; cold ; increased atmospheric pressure; a change from the erect to the sitting, and from the sitting to the recumbent posture, and the inverted position of the body ; and depressing passions of the mind. Hitherto we have been speaking solely of that character of the pulse which is most easily examined, — its frequency. To render the subject complete, it will be necessary to speak briefly of certain other characteristics of the healthy pulse. The pulse of the healthy adult male may be described as regular, equal, moderately full, compressible, and swelling slowly under the finger ; that of the female, and of the child of both sexes, is smaller, and quicker in the beat. The pulse of persons of the sanguine temperament is full, hard, and quick ; that of persons of the lymphatic temperament is softer, and slower in the beat. In old age the pulse, in consequence of the increased firmness of the arteries, assumes a hardness which would not otherwise belong to it. Exceptions to the general rule are not of very rare occurrence in persons who enjoy good health. — There are some persons, for instance, in whom every slight attack of indigestion, especially when attended with flatulence, leads to a well marked intermission. Instances are also on record in which the pulse is uniformly irregular or even distinctly intermittent in health, becoming regular in disease, and resuming its irregularity on re- covery. One other subject connected with the phy- siology of the pulse still remains to be exa- mined, viz. The relation of the Pulse to the Respiration. — The proportion which the pulse bears to the respiration has been va- riously stated by authors. Quetelet*, Parry f, Burdach, and the greater number of physio- logists estimate it as 4 to 1 ; ioyX as 4^ to I; and Floyer as 5 to \.§ M. Valleix states it at 4 to 1 in infants. Little dependence, however, is to be placed upon any of these estimates, as they were made in ignorance of the very remarkable effect of posture on the respiration ; and as the respiration itself was probably counted for very short intervals of time, and under the disturbing influence of a consciousness of the observation which was being made. Though the posture of the body, in which the pulse and respiration were counted, is not distinctly stated by the authors who have put forward the foregoing estimates, * Op. cit. vol. ii. p. 86. t Pathology, vol. i. § 890. t Library of Practical Medicine, vol. iii. p. 274. § Pulse Watch, p. 331.