407 ROTIFERA. D D 4 Eyes absent. Eyes present. With proboscis,'and appendi- cular processes on foot Analysis of the genera. No proboscis or processes Two frontal eyes LTwo cervical eyes. |Wheels pedunculated. \Wheels sessile. f Two toes Foot with processes. {Three toes. Foot without processes. Two toes. Callidina. Hydrias. Typhlina. Rotifer. Aetinurus. Monolabis. PhUodiiia. This family, which includes the true Ro- tifers of Dujardin, embraces some of the least known, as also the most common, animals of the class. The genera Hydrias and Typhlina were found during the travels of Ehrenberg in Asia. Callidina and Monolabis have been found by Ehrenberg at Berlin only. The Rotifer vulgaris was the first wheel-animalcule ever seen, and is certainly the most com- mon of the whole class. It was described with great accuracy by Leeuwenhoek in in his early papers on its discovery. It is this animal which has also been most fre- quently the subject of the desiccating ex- periments to which we have alluded. Acti- nurus Neptunius was known to the earlier observers of these creatures as the wheel- animalcule with the long foot, on account of the extension of its foot or tail. The Philo- dina, though not an unfrequent genus, was first described by Ehrenberg in 1838. The articulated character of the integument in the fepecies of this family, give them a habit dif- ferent from the rest of the group : by means of their probiscoid mouth and prehensile tail, they can successively grasp the object on which they are placed, and are thus enabled to crawl in the same way as the leech and other Annulosa. The affinity between the Rotiferge proper and the Arctiscon and whole family of Tardigrades, which are not ad- mitted as Infusoria by Ehrenberg, has been pointed out by Doyere; and there can be little doubt that we have, through this group, a transition from the Rotiferae to the Anne- lida. The Rotifer vulgaris is found very com- monly in the ponds and ditches of England, where it attaches itself to the Confervas, the various species of Lerana, and the Cerato- phyllum, which are so abundant in these places. M. Morren, of Liege, has recently pointed out a curious habitat for this animal. Roeper, many years ago, observed that this animalcule sometimes penetrated the cells of Sphagnuniy and even lived in those parts of the plant which were not immersed in water. Unger described, in 1828, some vesicles in the structure of Vaucheria clavata^ which had the power of moving about spontaneously, and which he discovered were produced by an animalcule in their interior. The subsequent researches of Morren showed that this ani- malcule was truly the Rotifer vulgaris. It seems to prefer such a situation to its liberty, for Morren says, " One day 1 opened a protu- berance gently; I waited to see the Rotifer spring out and enjoy the liberty so dear to all creatures, even to imprisoned animals; but no, he preferred to bury himself in his prison, descending into the tubes of the plant, and to nestle himself in the middle of a mass of green matter, rather than swim about freely in the neighbourhood of his dweUing." The species of Philodina are beautiful ani- malcules. P. roseola has a rose colour of its whole body; and the ova, when deposited, have a reddish colour. The ova of this ani- malcule are deposited in little heaps, which the parent attends to, and even remains with the young ones after they are hatched, which Ehrenberg attributes to a kind of social in- stinct. Professor Agassiz found this creature amongst the animalcules which contribute to the colour of the red snow. It was at one time supposed that this colour was due to a species of Alga, the Protococciis nivalis, Mr. Shuttleworth, of Berne, was the first to an- nounce that he had found, in addition to the cells of a plant, several species of Polygastria, belonging probably to the genus Astasia, Subsequently to this announcement. Professor Agassiz discovered the presence of this ani- malcule in the same situation. The author of this article has found Philodina roseola in com- pany with a red animalcule, apparently a species of Astasia^ in waters slightly im- pregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen. Ehren- berg says this animal sometimes occurs entirely colourless, so that its colour may depend on its food. Family 8, — Brachion^a. Character. Loricated Rotifers, with a double rotatory organ. The external covering of these animals is a. testula, such as is possessed by the tortoises, not a scutellum, as found in the Crustacea. The motory system consists partly of external organs, and partly of internal muscles. The rotatory apparatus is often apparently com- posed of five parts—three in the middle and one on each side.. The latter only can be regarded as the true rotatory organs ; the middle portions are only ciliated frontal pro- cesses. In the genus Synchceta there are two setae in the rotatory organs, which are also possessed by the Brachionsea. Noteus and Brachionus have a furcate foot, Anurcea is foot- less, and Pterodina has a kind of sucker in its place. The nutritive organs are very similar to those of the Hydatinaea and Euchlanidota. Intestinal glands have been observed in all the species. The reproductive organs consist of an ovarium, with a few large eggs, which are not hatched internally, but, with the ex- ception of Pterodina^ are externally attached to the parent after expulsion. The male organs consist of glands and contractile vesi-