G59 SKELETON. u u 2 that vertebral series (g, h, i, k, l, m, n) is still uninterrupted as it passes from dorsal ver- tebrae (p), through cervical vertebrje, to cra- nial vertebrse (f, e, d, c, b, a). Thus we find that vertebral series persists continuously, while costal series is interrupted by the cer- vical hiatus happening between the maxilla above and the thoracic costae below. This hiatus is caused by the degradation of costal quantity simply, for we still see that rudi- mentary ribs (g, h, i, k, I, m, n) are developed upon each of the cervical vertebrse. If the original plus ribs of the cervical vertebrae still persisted at the lines qqq, for them as the plus ribs (pp*) do for the dorsal ver- tebrae, then we should have the maxilla hold- ing serial continuous order with the thoracic ribs, in which case it could scarcely be doubted that the maxillae were structural homologues of the costae elsewhere. But in this occur- rence of cervical hiatus, which results by the metamorphosis of that plus costal quantity which I consider to be originally proper to the cervical vertebrae, we have the facial ap- paratus now disconnected from the thoracic apparatus ; and the only structural entity which at present relates the maxilla above to the costae below is the hyoid apparatus (f*,g*, h*, I*, k*). Hence this latter structure can come of no other source than cervical original costal quantity under metamorphosis. The idea of the plus costal quantity, which we now know to be lost at the cervix, is equal to the idea of the same quantity pre- sent ; and hence, when I say that they are the plus ribs which are lost to cervical vertebrae, it is as strong an idea as if I still viewed them persisting at the lines qq q. If these cervical plus ribs still persisted, they would leave no doubt that the maxillae are of costal origin. Indeed the maxillae, as they at present stand, prove a much stronger resemblance to ribs than cranial vertebrae do to spinal vertebrae; and if we see little reason to doubt the iden- tity between the latter structures, there is, as it seems to me, even still less reason to doubt the homology or correspondence between the two former. In ^g. 481. I have indicated the number of those vertebral forms which constitute the human cranium, taking as my guide the in- variable attendance of the costal structure upon the vertebral structure, as well in the head as in all other regions of the spinal axis. The first dorsal vertebra (p) is attended by the plus ribs stretching over tho- racic space from the back to the sternum. All the cervical vertebrae (n, m, l, k, i, h, g) are likewise attended by the minus costae (}i,77i,l,/c,i, h,g). From these severally I have produced lines to the hyoid apparatus, and these lines, together with the hyoid pieces, indicate thoracic costo-sternal quan- tity, which metamorphosis has degraded down to the quantities at present forming the cervi- cal region. The intervals between the cervi- cal lines of the original costae are marked (79) as corresponding wiih the intercostal spaces. The atlas (g) supports the occipital or first (reckoning from below) cranial vertebra. In the atlas vertebra* may be recognised (g) the vertebral end of its rib, which when pro- duced through the line q joins g, the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, to which latter the body g* is attached ; this group of elementary parts represents the debris of the archetypal sterno-costo-vertebral quantity ; the atlas stands in series with the other vertebrae, while the inferior half of the hyoid bone holds series with the sternum. The axis vertebra (h), in the same way, corresponds to the (/«*) thyroid cartilage. The third cervical vertebra (i) corresponds to the cricoid carti- lage (/*). The fourth vertebra (k), the fifth (l), the sixth (m), point to the rings of the trachea. The seventh vertebra (x) stands opposite to the clavicle (72), which I regard as the costa of that vertebra. The ^rsl or occipital costo-vertebral quan- tity of the head consists of (f) the centrum and the pieces V'^''\ 2, 3, which form the neural arch and spine. The rib and sternum or costo-sternal quantity of this vertebra is re- presented by the styloid process (/), which, when produced in a Ime to (/*) the upper half of the hyoid body with its lesser cornu, completes this group of elemental parts.-|- The second or j)etrosal costo-vertebral quan- tity of the head consists of (e) the centrum and the parts V"'\ 2, answering to the neural arch and spine ; the costo-sternal quantity of this vertebra is represented by the tympanic bone {e) coiled upon itself, and enclosing within its circle the auditory ossicles. The tympanic bone, together with the auditory ossicles, may be regarded as costo-sternal quantity, specially modified in subservience to the special sense of hearing.| The third or temporal costo-vertebral quan- tity of the head has no part corresponding to the body at d ; but the neural arch and bicleft spine of this segment of the skull are repre- sented by the parts V"\ 2. The costo-sternal quantity of this vertebra is represented by the lower maxilla (d) articulating like a rib with the glenoid cavity (r/). ^ The fourth or post sphenoid-costo-vertebral quantity consists of (c) the centrum and the parts 2, answering to the neural arch and spine. The costo-sternal quantity of this vertebra is represented by the zygoma (c, c) and upper maxilla (c*). * Professor Owen refers the clavicles to the atlas vertebra, and considers them as forming the hsemal inverted arch of this vertebra. See " Homolo- gies," &c. t The scapixlary limbs are referred bv Professor Owen to his occipital vertebra, of which he consi- ders the scapulae to be the ribs, and the rest of these members to represent Avhat he terms the " diverging appendages." X Professor Owen does not regard the petrous bone as a part of a cranial vertebra, but he calls it a " sense capsule," and refers it to the splanchno skeleton. § The styloid process is regarded bv Professor Owen as the rib of his parietarvertebra.'