REPTILIA. 280 surface of the pubis, confounding its anterior margin with that of the gkitceus medius. The obturator externus (adductor of Bojanus) arises by two portions, one coming from the pubis, the other from the ischium; their two tendons unite to form a broad tendon, which is inserted into the two trochanters. The adductors of the thigh do not arise from the pubis, but from the ischiadic portion of the symphysis. A muscle, the analogy of which it is diffi- cult to recognise, arises from the upper sur- face of the pubis, and goes to be inserted by a strong tendon at the side of the iliacus (iliacus internus of Bojanus, surpubien of Cuvier). In the turtles there is no iliacus, and the suprapubic muscle divides into two fasciculi, the external of which goes to the knee, and joins the rectus of the thigh. Muscles of the Leg. — The muscles of the leg are more recognisable than those of the thigh. In the land-tortoises these muscles are the triceps ; the sartorius, which is divided into two portions; the semimembranosus, which has a large accessory slip derived from the coccyx; the rectus anticus, which is situated slightly internally, has an origin from the ex- ternal ramus of the pubis, and is connected with the articular capsule of the knee joint ; the gracilis is confounded at its origin from the ischium with the adductors of the thigh, but it separates from them, and is inserted at some distance from the head of the tibia. In the turtles the muscles are not so thick as in the land-tortoises; the advanced position of the pubis gives to the anterior rectus great force in extending the thigh and the leg, for it is inserted into the knee almost at a right angle. The biceps and the semimembranosus arise from the coccygeal region only. In the terrestrial tortoises the movements of the foot upon the leg, and of the different parts of the foot one upon the other, are very limited, and consequently the muscles which execute them are indistinct. There is but one peroneus, which is con- founded by one of its margins with the ex- tensor communis, and which is inserted into the OS calcis and into the cuboid. The gastrocnemius externus alone takes its origin from the femur ; the gastrocnemius internus arises from the tibia and joins itself to the solaeus. This latter is divided into three portions, one external, one median, the other internal. These muscles, in conjunction with the peronei and the long flexor of the toes, form beneath the foot a thick ten- dinous mass ; they extend the foot upon the leg, and flex the latter upon the thigh ; but it is next to impossible to distinguish the dif- ferent portions. The tibialis anticus is distinct. In the turtles which have the foot, like the hand, flattened into the shape of an oar, the gastrocnemii are disposed as in the land- tortoises, and the soleus is equally strong. There exists, moreover, a slender plantaris longus, which arises from the external tube- rosity of the femur by a long round tencfon, and which terminates in a broad expansion. Fig. 200. Myology of the Tortoise. (^AfterBojanus.') 119, tibialis posticus; 120, interosseus cruris ; 122, interossei digitorum pedis dorsales; 123, in- terossei digitorum pedis plantares. which is inserted partly into the os calcis, and partly into the plantar fascia. This muscle is from its position an adductor of the foot. The tibialis anticus preserves its ordinary re- lations ; but the tibialis posticus runs from without to within, and its tendon becomes lost in the plantar fascia. The toes of the Chelonians not having more flexibility than their fingers, the muscles of the foot are much confused. The extensor communis longus digitorum, as in all other reptiles, only reaches as far as the bones oi the metatarsus. The extensor brevis alone reaches to the phalanges of the toes. There is, however, a proper extensor for the great toe, which arises from the inferior extremity of the fibula, an abductor of the little toe, and interossei, which latter, as in mammaha, are both adductors and abductors. In the turtles the extensor communis spreads out as it approaches the toes, and forms a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole foot. The extensor longus, and the abductor of Fig. 201. Myology of the Tortoise. {After Bojanus.) 117, teudous of the flexor longus digitorum ; 118, flexor brevis digitorum pedis. the inner toe, arise from the inferior extremity of the fibula, and are inserted into the meta- tarsal bone that supports this toe, as well as into the first and second phalanges. Another muscle, which also arises from the inferior extremity of the fibula, is in- serted into the whole length of the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe, and upon its first pha- lanx : it is both an extensor and an adductor.