275 REPTILIA. T 2 draws the head and neck powerfidly back- wards ;-dt is the retrahens colli of Bojanus. In the opinion of Cuvier, the former of these two muscles corresponds in function to the sacro lumbalis, and to the transversalis; the latter to the longissimus dorsi; but modified in arrangement to suit the disposition of the skeleton. In the turtle they are reduced to a single fasciculus, which runs from the third dorsal vertebra to the basilar bone, performing the office of the rectus capitis anticus. There is a third still more singular muscle which runs along the spine, receiving fibres from all the vertebrae, and traversing the in- tervals left between the heads of the ribs and the carapax, and terminating in front upon the anterior surface of the eighth cervical ver- tebra, which it draws forward, and with it the posterior vertical portion of the neck : its position reminds us slightly of the spinalis dorsi, but its insertion is very different. A muscular expansion, composed of trans- verse fibres attached on each side to the sides of the vertebrae, envelojies all the lateral and inferior portion of the neck, including the trachea and the oesophagus, joining in front the mylohyoideus, and connecting itself posteriorly with the inner borders of the plastron : this is a cutaneous muscle, similar to that which envelopes the neck of birds. In the Chelonian reptiles, the muscles of the head cannot be designated by the same names as those of birds and mammalia, because the carapax gives origin to the greater number of them ; we must therefore content ourselves by indicating their attach- ments. Upon the posterior part of the neck we remark, first, at the anterior edge, to- wards the angle of its crescentic margin, a broad muscle which runs as far as the lateral and posterior parts of the head, where it is inserted: this will draw the head back- wards. 2d. Beneath, and from the middle of the anterior crescentic space, there arises another muscle,which is slender and round, and which, separating itself from its fellow of the op- posite side, so as to form a figure of V, runs to be inserted upon the external border of the preceding: its office is similar to that of the last. 3d. The analogue of the splenius capitis arises from the spinous processes of the third, fourth, and fifth vertebrae of the neck by distinct slips, and is inserted into the occipital arch : this is the elevator of the head. 4th. The analogue of the rectus anticus major arises from the inferior tubercles of the four cervical vertebrae which succeed the first, and is inserted fleshy into the basilar fossa beneath the condyle. 5th. The trachelomastoideus arises from the inferior tubercles of the second and of the third cervical vertebrae, by two thin aponeurotic tendons ; it is inserted thick and fleshy into the eminence which corresponds with the mastoid process : this muscle bends the head to one side. 6th. Lastly, at the upper part of the cervical portion of the spine is a short muscle, which runs from the lower border of the hole formed by the temporal fossas to the spinous apophyses of the first, second, and third cervical vertebrae. In front of the neck may be remarked the analogue of the sternomastoideus which arises from the strong aponeuroses which covers the humerus near its articulation with the scapula. Its inferior third only is visible when the skin is raised, the anterior two- thirds being covered by a transverse muscular expansion representing the mylohyoideus, and the platisma myoides. It is inserted underneath the apophysis that corresponds with the mastoid process. Its action will be to draw the head inwards, and slightly to elevate the shoulder. The rectus capitis anticus arises from the inferior spine of the third vertebra of the back, and is inserted by a thin tendon into the basilar process of the occipital bone. In the Chelonian reptiles the head is arti- culated with the atlas by means of a single condyle; in the land-tortoises it is prolonged and divided into two; in the turtles it pre- sents three articulating surfaces resembling the leaf of trefoil. As this tubercle penetrates very deeply into the corresponding cavity of the atlas, the lateral movements of the head must be extremely limited; the other move- ments of the head in the Chelonians are those of protraction and retraction : these depend upon the flexion and extension of the neck. In the Trionyx, Nature has doubly provided against any lateral movement in the posterior region of the neck : first, the articulations of the last cervical vertebra with the first dorsal are disposed so as to form an angular hinge, the posterior articular apophyses of the cer- vical forming a hollow cylinder, whilst the anterior articulating process of the dorsal is likewise cylindrical; secondly, the body of the eighth cervical terminates anteriorly in two condyles, which are received in corre- sponding cavities in the body of the seventh. In the jVlatamata, which, instead of bending its neck vertically, bends it by lateral flexion, the disposition of the articulations is entirely different. The body of the eighth cervical ver- tebra is compressed laterally, and rounded at each end; that of the seventh, on the con- trary, is excavated at both extremities ; that of the sixth rounded posteriorly, and hollowed in front ; the fifth rounded at both ends ; and the others, as usual, concave posteriorly and convex before. It results from this arrangement, combined with the disposition of the articular apo- physes, that the neck is capable of a double lateral curvature. Muscles of the Shoulder. — These muscles in the Chelonian reptiles difi^er considerably from those of other vertebrate animals : they are four in number. The first is attached beneath the edge of the carapax between the two ribs, and the pieces usually regarded as sternal ribs, from the second to the fifth. It is very thin, and