282 REPTILIA. middle of its length. This muscle is described by Sir Everard Home* as being in the boa constrictor divided into two, an upper and a lower portion ; but in other species, although a slight line of demarcation may be detected, such a division is scarcely admissible. From the ribs of serpents muscular fasci- A71 internal lieu- of iht JImcles which move the Ribs in the Boa Co7istrictor. A A, the muscles which pass from cartilage to cartilage of the different ribs ; b B, a set of muscles ■which pass from the point of each rib, over two ribs to the middle of the third; c, a similar set of muscles continued from the opposite side of the rib, passing over three ribs to the body of the vertebra ; DD, the abdominal muscles which arise from the anterior edge of each rib, and pass to the linea alba ; E, the linea alba; f f, the terminations of the oblique muscles which pass from the bony ex- tremities of the ribs to the edges of the scuta ; G G, the muscles of the scuta, consisting of two sets, which decussate each other. culi are given off, which go to be inserted into the skin: some of these arise from the same point as the great lateral costals. Their course is from before backwards, and from above downwards as they run, spreading out like a fan, to be attached to the sides of the ventral scuta. The others arise from the lower part of the rib, opposite the point of attachment of the long inferior costal muscle ; these run from behind forwards to be fixed to the angle of a ventral scutum, about * Lectures on Comp. An at., vol. i. three ribs off. The ribs, moreover, give at- tachment to a visceral muscle. In serpents there is only one muscle pro- per to the head, which seems to represent the complexus; this arises from the articular apophyses of the five or six anterior vertebrge, and is inserted into the mastoid bone. The transverso-spinalis is continued as far forwards as the occipital bone, and thus re- places the recti capitis. The movements of the head upon the spine are, indeed, very limited in the ophidia. The body of the atlas presents three articular facets arranged after the manner of the leaves of a trefoil, which are attached to the occiput beneath the foramen magnum, so that the head is not more moveable upon the atlas than the other vertebra upon each other. The muscles of the head of serpents have been carefully dissected by M. Duges*, M. Duvernoyf, Brandt and Ratzburgj, and others. The following brief account of this part of their myology, taken from the last edition of Cuvier's Anatomie Comparee, must, however, suffice for our present purpose. The true serpents have the zygomatic (tympanic) bones {fg. 205, 7) moveable, and suspended from another bone analogous to the mastoid (6), which is attached to the cranium by means of muscles and ligaments that allow of considerable mobility : the two sides of the lower jaw, moreover, are but loosely connected with each other, and the superior maxillary bones (2) are only united to the inter-maxillary bones (1) by ligaments, so that they can be separated to a greater or less extent ; a circumstance which confers upon these reptiles the faculty of dilating their rictus, thus enabling them to swallow animals whole which could not otherwise bv possibility pass into their mouths. In ad- dition to the above arrangement, the maxil- laries (2), the palatine bones, and the ossa pterygoidea (3, 4), are more or less moveable beneath the cranium, so that the animal can raise or depress the palatine or pterygoid arches, as well as those formed by the upper maxilla, and also can separate them, or ap- proximate them to each other. The muscles subservient to the movements of the jaws are the following : — All serpents whose mandibular arches are moveable, as above described, have generally three distinct temporal muscles, one anterior, one median, and the other posterior. The antej^ior temporal {^jig. 204-, e) is at- tached superiorly behind the orbit, and de- scending downwards and backwards, Nsinds round the commissure of the lips, and turning forward again (e'), is inserted into the lower jaw, very considerably in front of the angle of the mouth. The middle temporal {fig. 20-t, i.) is partly covered by the anterior temporal, it descends nearly verticcdly from the middle and ujiper * Ann. des Sc. Nat, torn. xii. 1827. p. 378. t Ann. des Sc. Xat. tom. xxvi. 1832. p. 113. X Medezinische Zoologie, 4to. 1829