RODENTIA. 868 Zeitschrift fur rationelle Medizin, Band v. 1846. Ludwig, Einige Bemerkungen zu Valentin's Lehren von Athmen und vom Blutkreislauf, in Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medizin, Band iii. 1845. Renter, Be- leuchtung der Versuche von Prof. Scherer und Dr. Bruch uber die Farbe des Blutes, in Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medizin, Band iii. 1845, Letellier, In- fluence des Temperatures extremes de I'Atmosphere sur la Production de I'Acide Carbonique dans la Re- spiration des Animaux a Sang chaud, in Comptes Rendus, tom. xx. 1845, and Annales de Chim. et de Phys. tom. xiii. 1845. 3Iulder, Zur Frage, auf welche Weise der SauerstofF der Luft bei der Respi- ration vom Blute aufgenommen wird, in Hollan- dische Beitrage zu den anatomischen und physiolo- gischen Wissenschaften, Band i. heft i. 1846. The Chemistry of Vegetable and Animal Physiology, translated from the Dutch by Dr. Fromberg, Edin- burgh, 1845. Liehig, Ueber die Abwesenheit der kohlensauren Alkalien im Blute, in Annalen der Chemie und Phamiacie, Band Ivii. 1846. Animal Chemistry, &c., edited by Dr. William Gregory, 3d edition, London, 1846. 3Ioleschott, Versuche zur Bestimmung des Wassergehalts der vom Menschen ausgeathmeten Luft, in HoUandische Beitrage, &c., Band i. heft 1. 1846. Stiow, On the Pathological Effects of Atmospheres vitiated by Carbonic Acid Gras, and by a Diminution of the due Proportion of Oxygen, in Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. Ixv. 1846. Fr. Nasse, Verbren- nung und Athmen, chemische Thatigkeit und or- ganisches Leben, Bonn, 1846. Loewenberg, Bericht uber die neuesten experimentellen Leistungen in Bezug auf den chemischen Process des Athmens, in Beitrage zur experimentellen Pathologic und Physiologic, heraus-gegeben von Dr. L. Traube, Berlin, 1846. Harless, Monographic uber den Ein- fluss der Gase auf die Fonn der Blutkorperchen von Rana temporaria, Erlangen, 1846. Sibson, On the Mechanism of Respiration, London Phil. Transact, for 1846. Lehmann, Ueber den Gehalt des Blutes an kolensauren Alkali, in Journal fur praktische Chemie, band xl. 1847. (John ReicL) gnawing. The molar teeth have their crowns flattened and traveised by plates of enamel, arranged transversely, the better to antagonise the backward and forward movement of the jaws. Fis- 2i7. RODENTIA (G/ir^-^, Linn.) (Fr. Rongeurs). — An important order of mammiferous Verte- brata, distinguishable by the remarkable struc- ture of their incisor teeth, which are adapted to perform the ofEice of chisels by cutting and gnawing away the hard vegetable substances, which form their principal food. The animals of this order, indeed, appear to be specially ap- pointed to devour the hardest substances, ge- nerally living upon the wood and bark of trees, as well as upon nuts and other shelled fruits. The incisor teeth, which characterize the ani- mals of this order, are situated in both jaws, and are separated from the molar by a considerable space, so that they are ill-adapted to seize living prey, or to devour flesh, notwithstanding that certain genera of rodents exhibit decidedly carnivorous propensities. These incisors, also called denies sca/praini, are only provided with enamel upon their anterior surface, so that the posterior portion of the tooth being worn away more rapidly than the an- terior, these teeth always present a chisel-like edge. The lower jaw is articulated to the cranium by a longitudinal condyle, in such a manner that it has no horizonal motion ex- cept from before, backward, and vice versa; a movement adapted to effect the act of Pteromys volitans. Those genera in which these layers of enamel are simple plates, and which have the crowns of their molar teeth very flat, are more particularly frugivorous ; those in which the eminences of these teeth are divided into blunt tubercles, are omnivorous ; whilst a small number of genera, which possess pointed mo- lars, will attack other animals, and in some of their habits approximate the Carnivora. This order comprises the following genera : — Sciurus (Squirrel). Pteromys (Flying Squiriel) (j%. 247,). Cheiromys (Aye-Aye). Arctomys (Marmot). Myoxus (Dormouse). Echimys. Hydromys. Capromys. Mus(Rat). Gerbillus. Meriones. Cricetus (Hamster). Arvicola (Vole). Fiber (Musk Rat). Geo- rychus (Lemming). Otomys. Dipus (Jer- boa) {Jig. 248.). Poephagomys. Helamys. Spalax ("Rat Mole) {fg, 249.) Bathiergus (Cape Mole) (/g. 250.). Geomys. Diplo- stoma. Castor (Beaver). Myopotamus (Coui). Hystrix (Porcupine). Lepus (Hare). Lago- mys (Rat Hare). Hydrochcerus (Capybara). Rhyzomys. Cavia (Guinea F'ig). Dasyprocta (Agouti). Ccelogenys (Paca). Chinchilla.