ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 595 Q Q 2 herent, and in time, probably, anchylosis might have taken place." Observations on this case. — In this interest- ing case, recorded by Mr. Soden, it is true that the tendon of the biceps was dislocated; but, we may ask, are the appearances noticed during life, as well as the condition of the shoulder joint found on examination after death, capable of any other explanation than that given to them by Mr. Soden ? L^'pon such a matter we feel we ought to speak with the greatest diffidence, because this case is so far unlike almost every case of partial luxa- tion yet published in this circumstance, that its history was known before the post-mortem examination of the joint was instituted. However, we must confess that we do not as yet feel convinced that the case of partial displacement upwards of the head of the hu- merus, as the immetliate and direct result of accident, has been fully proved by Mr. Soden. If we analyse the symptoms the patient him- self reports to have observed immediately after the accident, we find that he at first supposed he had either suffered a fracture or a dislocation, but finding that " he could raise the arm over his head^^ he felt re-assured, and endeavoured to resume his work. It would appear to us, ihat if the tendon of the bi- cej;s were accidentally dislocated the patient would not be able, immedi tely after the acci- dent, to raise his arm over his head ; while the circumstance here noticed seems quite reconcilable with Mr. Soden's own impres- sion, that there was in this instance no other injury than a severe sprain of the joint. The symptoms under which the patient subse- quently laboured were those of an inflamma- tory character, such as might have been expected where so severe a sprain had oc- curred, as we may suppose the shoulder joint in this instance to have suffered. The ap- pearance the joint presented externally when the disease became subacute, or chronic, namely the flattening of the outer and poste- rior part of the joint, and the appearance of the head of the bone, which had been drawn up higher in the glenoid cavity, the crepitating sensation caused by the friction of the head of the humerus against the under surface of the acromion, the pain felt in the whole course of the biceps muscle, the difficulty experienced in abduction of the elbow from the side, the prominency of the head of the bone in front, almost to " the amount of a partial disloca- tion,"—all these symptoms we have repeatedly noticed to belong to the affection of the shoul- der joint which w^e have called chronic rheu- matic arthritis, and all these have been present in patients who have had this disease in both shoulder joints at the same time, and in whom they could not by any means be referred to accident. Finally, before we leave our anal\- sis of the symptoms of this case, we must not omit to allude to the author's own observa- tion—" The patient being of a. rheumatic habit, inflammatory action of that character was soon established in the joint, so that the peculiar symptoms of the injury were masked by those of general articular inflammation, which added greatly to the man's suffering, and to the difficulty of diagnosis." The patient being, as we are tokl, of a rheumatic habit, or [)redisposcd to this ar- ticular disease, it may be readily conceived that any injury this man, aged fifty-nine, might receive in the shoulder joint would be well calculated to give rise to the disease which we have calied chronic rheumatic arthritis. As to the anatomical examination of the joint, it will be recollected that the disease had been only six months established, and there'bre that the more striking results of chronic rheumatic disease should be found was not to be expected. Those which were noticed, however, were such as might be sup- posed to represent the anatomical characters of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder in an early stage. As to whether Mr. Soden's interpretation of his own case be the correct one, or the doubt we have ventured to express should be considered to have a just foundation, we must leave to the judgment of others, to time, and to the result of future investigations to determine ; but the subject must be con- fessed to be one of a truly practical nature, and therefore worthy of further inquiry. We had written thus much on the subject of partial dislocation of the head of the hu- merus upwards, with displacement inwards of the long tendon of the biceps, when (on the 12th of August, 1848) an opportunity occurred to us of examining anatomically both shoulder joints of a patient who had died in the North Union Poor House the day before, who had been for eight years one of the severest sufferers the writer had ever known from chronic rheumatic arthritis in almost all his joints. The disease existed in an aggravated form in his hips and knees, wrists and elbows, and of late years began also to affect equally both shoulder joints. It was very remark- able that, on examining anatomically the shoulder joints in this case, we discovered the same displacement of the head of the humerus upwards, with dislocation of the tendon of the biceps inwards, as in Mr. So- den's case, in both shoulder joints, and with the dislocation of the long tendon in both shoulder joints in this case, which we shall now relate, were found associated the ordinary anatomical characters of chronic rheumatic arthritis in rather an early stage of the disease; while in the other articulations of this same individual the chronic rheumatic disease was in a very advanced state. Case. Charles Mailly, aetat. 48, had been a farming servant in the country,and was remark- able for his strength and activity. He was addicted to drinking ardent spirits to excess, and it was stated of him that he frequently lay whole nights in the open air in a state of insensibility from drunkenness. To these circumstances he attributed the origin of his disease, which disabled him from earning his bread ; he was therefore admitted into the poor house, in 1840. For the last five years he