QUADRUMANA. 217 nected with those upon the Ceb'mcB, in which I said that the form of the bony framework passes gradually and in a descending line into the form of theLemurince, and by those into the form of the smaller Carnivora and Insectivora. The truth of this assertion will be proved by the examination of the skull. In all the skulls of the above-mentioned genera of LemiirincB, the orbits are open posteriorly, and most so in the Galeopithecus {Jig, 137), which we shall take as type, and in which there is a large distance between the orbital process of the frontal and of the zygomatic bone united to- gether in Tarsius, Lichanotus, Stenops, Otolic- nus, and Leviur, and forming there a boun- dary for the open orbit. In all the LemurincB there is a double frontal bone, with two nasal bones, which are universally very long, and protracted to the anterior part of the muzzle, principally in Stenops, in which they form a sort of tube with the inlermaxillar bone. The facial suture of the intermaxillar bone is in general distinct. The lacrymal canal is situ- ated not in the orbit, but on the facial surface of the superior maxillary bone ; in Cheirogaleus {fig. 138) and Lemur^ there is a regular oval Fig. 138. Skull of the Clieirogaleus Commersonii. ( Original, Mus. Leyden.^ opening, in the zygomatic bone, similar to that, which I described in Lagothrix, Mycetes, and Ateles. In the glenoid cavity of the tem- poral bone there is a vertical ridge to prevent the backward dislocation of the lower jaw. The coronoid process of the lower jaw is very distinct, as in all the animals, in which the orbits are open posteriorly, and the chin is more depressed than in the Monkeys and CeUncB. In the vertebral column the cervical vertebrcB are seven in number. The anterior vertical ridges of the transverse processes, in the pos- terior cervical vertebrae, are more developed than in the Cebince, and extended over a larger number of vertebrae. The spinal process of the epistrophaeus has the quadrangular form, with the posterior cutting edge of the Carnivora, In the dorsal vertebrae, the tendency to the form of the lower orders of Mammalia is still more distinct, firstly in their augmented num- ber, which is in general 13, but increases to 15 or 16 in Stenojjs. The spinal processes offer the opposite direction which is proper to the inferior orders of Mammalia, excepting in Ste- nosis and Lichanotus, in which they are all inclined backwards. The bodies of the dorsal vertebrae are in general all of the same size, and they do not augment, as in the higher order of monkeys of the Old World. In the lumbar vertebrae there is also an augmentation of number, which varies from 6—8 or 9. In Lemur the form and direction of the spinal lumbar processes have much analogy with those of the Carnivora^ being incurvated and directed forwards. In Stenops^ Otoiwnus, and Lichanotus, they have a more quadrangular form. The styloid processes are much deve- loped. The transverse processes are strong, quadrangular, and directed forwards, as in the Carnivora. The sacrum has the form of a large quadrangular bone, with sharp and straight edges, united by one, two, or three spurious vertebrae with the iliac bones. The form of the pelvis resembles that of the Car- nivora. The iliac bones have two surfaces, an anterior or internal, slightly convex and narrow, a posterior or external, concave and broad. They unite together in a sharp, an- terior edge, of which the anterior and inferior iliac tuberosity forms the anterior and inferior termination. The horizontal branches of the pubis are very distant, and make the pelvis pretty large. By this disposition and by the inclination of the pelvis, it resembles very much that of the Carnivora, and especially of the Cercoleptes caudivolvulus, which has so many other points of analogy with the Lemu- rincB. The thorax is compressed, but the ribs are not very convex, as in most of the Car- nivora. In the Sternum there is scarcely a manubrium, but its body is separated into as many long and narrow segments or Sternehrcs as there are true ribs. In the scapula, the coracoid process is recurved and directed downwards, as in the Squirrels and other claviculated Mammalia. This is, as I have said before, a distinct manifestation of infe- riority. In the humerus there is, in general, an aperture in the internal condyle for the passage of the brachial artery and the median nerve. The fore-arm has a different disposition in the various genera. In most of them it is composed of the two ordinary bones, the radius and the cubitus, of which the radius is in general curved outwards, and the cu- bitus straight. But in the Galeopithecus, the transition to the form of the Bats appears in the disposition of the ulna, which is imperfect, not prolonged to the carpus, but terminated in a slender filiform extremity, which is united with the radius. In the hand, the quadrumanous type is visible in the thumb, which is separated from the other fingers, even in the Galeopithecus. But in no genus of the Lemurince is the form of the hand so peculiar as in Stenops. Its prin- cipal character consists in the shortness of the index, and in the proportional length of the thumb and of the fourth finger, which is the longest. The carpus is composed of the same number of ossicles as in the monkeys of the Old World ; but as I have proved in another paper*, its connexion with the anti- * W. Yrolik, Rech. d'Aiiat. Comp. sur le Genre Stenops d'llliger, in N. Verliand. d. eerste classe van het Koninkl. Xederl. Instituiit. Amsterdam, D. ix. 1843.