547 SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. N \ 2 in close proximity to the artery which bears the same name. The remaining branch of the nerve takes a vertical direction, ascending perpendicularly behind the ear through the fleshy bundles of the retrahens aurem. To this muscle it is chiefly distributed ; but a few of its filaments continue to the posterior sur- face of the auricle, probably to supply its transverse muscular fibres. The trunk of the posterior auricular nerve, or some one of these its branches, is usually found to be joined by filaments of the great auricular nerve from the cervical plexus, and more rarely by some twigs from the lesser occi- pital branch of the same plexus. Arnold also describes a filament of the auricular of the pneumogastric uniting with it. The two following branches not unfre- quently arise by a common trunk. The di- gastric, the larger of the two, leaves the facial nerve to penetrate the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and supply it with many filaments. One of its branches, of more con- siderable magnitude, perforates its substance, and passing directly inwards, joins the glosso- pharyngeal immediately on its emergence from the skull. Other filaments of smaller size are said to join the superior laryngeal of the pneu- mogastric. The stylo-hyoid branch, leaving the trunk of the portio dura near the preceding, passes downwards, forwards, and inwards ; crossing the styloid process obliquely, then running along the upper border of the muscle, and finally penetrating its fibres to be distributed to its interior. It is beheved to unite, by nu- merous minute twigs, with the sympathetic around the neighbouring carotid vessels. At the place of its division, the nerve occu- pies a position in the parotid gland which is superficial to the many other vessels and nerves found here; and especially, at right angles to the external jugular vein and carotid artery. The temporo-facial (livisio7i or branch is larger than the cervico-facial ; it passes forwards and upwards over the condyle of the lower jaw, and joins, towards the zygoma, with one or two large branches of the auriculo-temporal nerve. This comes from the third division of the fifth in the pterygoid fossa; and the place of its union with the portio dura is in close proximity to the external carotid artery. The intimacy of the junction which connects the two nerves has probably led some anatomists to describe this temporo-facial branch as giving many filaments to the front of the ear. These, however, with many others which ramify in the gland itself, belong to the associated branch of the fifth, and not to the portio dura. Beyond this its junction with the fifth, it is no longer possible to trace any special nerve, or to indicate its subdivisions by names, since, on the masseter, a succession of diverging branches are given off from it, each of which, by uniting with its neighbours above and below, and giving off fresh ramifications from the branches of union, forms part of a com- plicated network, in which the original con- stituent branches, and the respective shares which they take in the new loops, can scarcely be recognized. Cruveilhier and Bonamyhave traced this looped arrangement still more minutely, having followed it into the smallest branches of the nerve, and especially into those which supply the orbicularis ; and it has been likened by them to the mode in which the mesenteric arteries break up to reach the intestine. Notwithstanding this free communication, however, the different portions of this re- ticulated arrangement may be conveniently regarded in succession, in order the better to appreciate their distribution. Superiorly are the temporal branches ; these emerge from beneath the upper border of the parotid, and cross the zygoma to be distri- buted to the superficial muscles of the auricle, the attoUens and attrahens aurem, and to the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis beyond these. The orbital branch of the second division of the fifth joins, by its long ascending filaments, with these branches of the facial; so also a perforating filament from the deep temporal of the third division, with others from the auriculo-temporal of the same portion of the fifth, are usually traceable to an union with this nerve. Anteriorly to these are the numerous or- bicular or supra-orbital branches. They pass obliquely forwards and upwards over the malar bone, to supply the orbicularis palpe- brarum, and corrugator supercilii muscles. Their connection with the fifth occurs chiefly by the supra-orbital and lachrymal of the oph- thalmic division ; but others join the malar branch of the second division, where it emerges from its foramen in the malar bone near the outer angle of the orbit. The infra-orbital filaments pass almost hori- zontally forwards from the temporo-facial divi- sion towards the side of the nose. In this course, accompanied by the parotid duct, they cross over the masseter muscle; and more anteriorly, they pass beneath the different muscles which descend to the angle of the mouth and upper lip, and are distributed to them by numerous filaments which enter their deep surface. In this manner the greater and lesser zygomatic, with the proper and common elevator of the lip, and the elevator of the angle of the mouth, receive their ner- vous supply; and the pyramidalis and trans- versalis nasi also obtain filaments from this part of the facial. Many of these, in passing forwards, unite at right angles with the ra- diating bundles of filaments into which the infra-orbital nerve divides after leaving the foramen of the same name. Besides this union with the second division of the fifth, it unites with the ophthalmic by a small twig of its nasal branch, which appears between the lateral cartilage and the nasal bone, and generally by an infra-trochlear filament of the same portion in the angle of the eye. Thebuccal branches, with the same direction as the preceding, occupy a position at a some- what lower level on the face, in the neigh-