59 POLYPIFERA. variety of motions which the gemmules are capable of executing, were it not obvious how complete is their control over the action of the cilia, which are their sole locomotive organs. They generally swim with the convex part forwards, and with the greatest rapidity. Sometimes they simply rotate upon their axis or they tumble over and over, or, selecting a fixed point, they whirl round it in rapid cir- cles, carrying every loose particle after them. Others creep along the bottom of the watch- glass upon one end with a waddling gait; but generally, after a few hours, all motion ceases, and they are found to have attached themselves to the bottom of the glass. At the expiration of forty-eight hours the rudi- Fig. ments of a cell were observed extending be- yond the margin of the body, but at this stage the animals invariably perished, and Dr. Farre had no opportunity of witnessing their further metamorphosis.* Reproduction by ova. — In the genus Pedicel- Una Van Beneden discovered in most of the individuals he examined, situated immediately above the stomach, some rounded opaque cor- puscles of a lactescent appearance {Jig. 65, which seem to be attached to that viscus ; this he considers to be the ovary, containing ova in various stages of development. In the same situation he perceived an organ that he * Phn. Trans. 1837, p. 410. 65. Pedicellina Belgica. A. Section. B. A group of individuals in various states. The letters refer to each of the pohT)es. a, mouth ; h, oesophagus ; c, stomach ; d, pylorus ; e, intestine; f, anus; g, tentacular sheath; h, ten- tacles; i, oral disc ; k, o\um in the ovary; I, parietes of the pol\TDary; m, stalk; n, superior, and 0, inferior, enlargement ; p, muscles of the stalk; q, intermuscular cellules? 1. An adult individual retracted into its cell, showing the uuiscular fasciculi; r, sphincter; s, retractor; t, oblique; m, v, animalcules accidentally attached to the stalk; 2, 3, 4, pol}T)es in the act of expanding; 6, 6, 7, young individuals; 8, buds in different stages of development; a, 8, xery rudimentary; h, 8, shomng the celhde; c, 8, d, 8, a little more ad- vanced ; e, 8, the embryo \asible; 9, the connecting stalk; 10, an enlargement giving rise to several buds; 11, tentacle magnified; 12, a httle group of the natural size. (^After Van Beneden.^