KESPIRATION. 332 In those animals possessing special organs of respiration, this function is not necessarily restricted to these organs ; on the other hand, there are generally other parts of the organism which serve as auxiliary organs of respiration. We have already seen that re- spiration may take place wherever the atmo- spheric air and the nutritious juices are not separated by tissues impermeable to gases. When these tissues are feebly permeable by gases, or when the quantity of nutritious juices in these tissues is small, their re- spiratory qualities must be feeble, however abundant the amount of atmospheric air in contact with them may be : while under more favourable physical conditions of the tissues, the amount of respiration effected may be con- siderable. We can readily understand, there- fore, how the external cutaneous surface in fishes and in the batrachian reptiles may con- siderably assist the special organs of respira- tion ; and how, in some fishes, the mucous surface of the digestive tube may act as an accessory organ of respiration when they rise to the surface of the water, and swallow a quan- tity of air. As in the crocodiles, and in certain cartilaginous fishes, there are apertures by which the water may enter the peritoneal cavity, it is believed that in these animals the large ab- dominal serous membrane, which is the chief respiratory organ in the Echinida, serves as an auxiliary organ of respiration.* In fishes the air-bladder, formed by a prolongation of the internal tegumentary membrane, and consti- tuting a rudimentary lung, is generally consi- dered to be an accessory respiratory organ. Even in the higher Mammalia, the external tegumentary membrane, and the Internal tegu- mentary membrane of the digestive tube, but more especially the former, may be regarded as auxiliarv organs of respiration, but the aid they afford to the special respiratory mem- brane in the lungs is so feeble, that in a prac- tical point of view they may in most cases be disregarded, and they can under no circum- stances supply the place, even for a brief period of time, of the special respiratory membrane. A moist condition of the respiratory mem- brane appears to be essential to the proper performance of its functions, and this is obtained in those animals w'hich breathe atmo- spheric air, by its deep position, and by the fluid secretions poured out upon its surface. The structure of that portion of the respi- ratory apparatus w^hich acts in bringing fresh supplies of atmospheric air into contact with the respiratory surface, is chiefly regulated by the animal being terrestrial or aquatic, and by the amount of respiration required. In many of the lower aquatic tribes the respiratory surface is external and floats in the water, and any movements on the part of the animal, greater than that of the whole external surface of the body. * In the Holothima the tentacula appear to act as auxiliary respiratory organs. I have observed an active circulation of the nutritious juices in the ten- tacula of the Ocnus bninueiis of Forbes. and currents in the water, must change, more or less rapidly, the fluid in contact with the respiratory surface. In such cases, the only structural provision for promoting such move- ments in the water, is the presence of nume- rous cilia on the surface of the respiratory membrane, which by their incessant action produce currents in their neighbourhood. In those aquatic animals, where the respiratory organ assumes the form of branched tubes or of cavities, the water in their interior is con- stantly undergoing a gradual renewal by the incessant action of the cilia upon the inner surface, and it is at other times expelled or renewed much more rapidly by the action of the surrounding contractile tissues. In some of the Crustacea where the branchige are lodged in a cavity placed under the lateral portions of the carapace, the renewal of the water is effected by the movements of distinct appen- dages, belonging more especially to the masti- catory and locomotive organs ; and in the Cephalopoda, where the branchise are placed in a cavity beneath the mantle into which the rectum and generative organs also open, the water is chiefly renewed by the contractions of the mantle. In fishes, whose demand for atmospheric air is greater, a complicated appa- ratus of muscles, bones, and nerv es is arranged around the branchiae, for keeping up a con- stant stream of water over the respiratory membrane. In insects the air in the tracheae is chiefly renew^ed by the contractions and dilatations of the abdominal segments of the body. In all the vertebrata that breathe by lungs, the muscles for renewing the air in contact with the respiratory surface are numerous, are called into action involuntarily and by ex- citations conveyed through the nervous sys- tem, and contract more or less frequently according to the wants of the organism. In batrachian reptiles, where the ribs are want- ing, and in chelonian reptiles whose ribs are soldered together and immovable, the air is not drawn into the lungs, as in birds and the ISlammalia, by the dilatations of the walls of the cavity enclosing them, but it is forced into the lungs chiefly by the action of the muscles attached to the hyoid bone as by a forcing- pump, from which it is again expelled chiefly by the abdominal muscles, as in the Mammalia and birds. * The manner in which the nutritious juices are carried to and from the respiratory mem- brane is usually regarded as a part of the function of the circulation, and has already been described in the article on that function. The position and extent of the respiratory membrane, and the degree of activity required of it, are the circumstances that chiefly in- fluence the arrangement of this portion of the circulatory apparatus, and the quantity and velocity with which the nutritious juices are circulated through it. When the respira- * Detailed accounts of the respiratory organs in the different di\'ision3 of the animal Idngdom are given in the articles under these heads. See also the article Paoio, supplement.