RESPIRATION. 362 On the manner in which the air in the upper and lower parts of the respiratory ajyparatiis becomes intermixed.—The respiratory qualities of the other parts of the inner surface of the air-passages must be very feeble when com- pared with the membrane of the air-cells of the lungs ; and there can be no doubt that almost all the carbonic acid present in the ex[)ired air is derived from the blood circula- ting in the capillary blood-vessels of the air- cells ; and that this evolution of carbonic acid gas is continuous, going on during expiration as well as during inspiration. As a portion only of the atmospheric air, probably not much more than a fourth or a fifth part, is re- newed at each ordinary respiratory movement when the body is in a state of rest, the air expelled during expiration will chiefly consist of that occupying the larynx, trachea, and the larger bronchial tubes ; so in the same man- ner, the air drawn in by inspiration will chiefly occupy the same parts of the respira- tory apparatus. It is well known that the air expelled in the first part of an expiration contains less carbonic acid than that expelled towards its close ; thus the air in the deeper parts of the respiratory apparatus must be richer in carbonic acid and poorer in oxygen than that in the upper parts. The amount of intermixture of the gases in the different parts of the respiratory apparatus effected by the muscular movements of the chest would, in all probability, be too imperfect for the proper arterialisation of the blood, were this not aided by the well-known tendency of gases to diffuse themselves through each other. As the air in the air-cells differs from that in the higher parts of the respiratory apparatus in containing more carbonic acid and less oxy- gen, the nitrogen being nearly the same in both, this diffusion of gases is probably chiefly confined to the two former. From the oxy- gen being of lighter specific gravity than the carbonic acid gas, the descending current of oxy gen gas will exceed the ascending current of carbonic acid, and 81 parts of carbonic acid will be replaced by 95 of oxygen, for according to the law regulating the diffusion- volumes of gases under such circumstances, established by Graham, in the case of each gas this is inversely proportional to the square root of its density.* On the nature of the actions between the blood and the atttwspheric air in the lungs, by vihich a quantity of oxygen is removed from the inspired air, and a quantity of carbonic acid gas added to the expired air.—Four views have been maintained on this point.— 1. That of Lavoisier, La Place, and others; that the oxygen which disappears from the inspired air unites directly in the lungs with hydro- carbon furnished by the venous blood, and forms the carbonic acid gas and watery vapour that escape along with the expired air.f * Edinbiu-gh Transactions of Royal Society, vol. xii. p. 573. 1834. t Seguin and Lavoisier " Sur la Transpiration des Animaux," in Memoires de I'Academie des 2. That of La Grange and Hassenfratz; that free carbonic acid gas is present in a state of solution in the venous blood before it arrives at the lungs, where this gas is ex- haled ; that nearly the whole of the oxygen gas abstracted from the inspired air is absorbed at the lungs, and held in solution by the arterial blood ; and that the combination of the oxygen with the carbon and formation of carbonic acid chiefly take place when the blood is passing through the capillaries of the systemic circulation.* 3. That the oxygen that disappears from the inspired air enters into chemical combina- tion with one or more of the constituent parts of the blood in its course through the lungs, that in the passage of the blood through the capillaries of the systemic circulation this oxygen leaves the substance or substances to which it had united itself, and combines with carbon to form carbonic acid, or with carbon and hydrogen to form carbonic acid and water, and that the carbonic acid thus formed does not combine chemically with any of the constituent parts of the venous blood, but is held in solution by it, and is evolved while passing through the capillaries of the lungs. 4. That not only the oxygen that disap- pears from the inspired air is united chemi- cally in the arterial blood, but also the carbonic acid formed during its circulation through the systemic capillaries enters into chemical combination with some one of the constituent parts of the venous blood; that the combination thus formed is decomposed in the pulmonic capillaries by the agency of the absorbed oxygen, and the carbonic acid thus set free is evolved and escapes in the expired air. The first view, viz. that the carbonic acid that appears in the expired air is formed in the lungs by the combination of part of the oxy- gen of the inspired air with the carbon of the venous blood, must now be regarded as unte- nable. The existence of free gases in the blood, the evolution of carbonic acid from the blood at the lungs in animals made to breathe gases devoid of oxygen, the small increase of Sciences for 1790, p. 601. It is still maintained by some chemists and physiologists, Avho appear to re- gard the fmiction of respiration simply as a process of combustion, but who do not uphold the opinion that this combustion takes place in the hmgs and that the watery vapom- in the expired air is imme- diately derived fi-om this soiu-ce, that a part of the oxygen that disappears from the inspired air vmites with hydrogen to form water. No satisfactors' evi- dence is offered in support of this opinion, and in the present state of our knowledge it must be re- garded as a mere conjecture. * This doctrine, as propounded by Hassenfratz (Annales de Chimie, tom. ix. p. 261.* 1791), which has received various modifications since his time, was based on the ^•iew that the purjile colour of the venous blood is the result of the combination of oxygen vdih. the carbon and hydrogen of the blood, while the scarlet colour of arterial blood is caused by the solution of oxygen gas in it, and consequently there can be little combination of the carbon and hydrogen of the blood Anth the atmospheric air in the lungs.