HEPTILIA. 292 The size of this perforation in the tooth and of the depression in the jaw, compared with that of the calcified part of the tooth matrix, proves them to have been, in great part, caused by the soft matrix, which must have produced its effect by ex- citing vital action of the absorbents, and not by mere mechanical force. The resistance of the wall of the pulp cavity having been thus overcome, the growing tooth and its matrix recede from the temporary alveolar depression, and sink into the substance of the pulp contained in the cavity of the fully formed tooth. As the new tootii 2rows, the pulp of the old one is removed: the old tooth itself is next attacked, and the crown, being undermined by the absorption of the inner surface of its base, may be broken off by a slight external force, w hen the point the new tooth is exposed. The new tooth disembaiTasses itself of the c\lindrical base of its predecessor, with which it is sheathed, by maintaining the excitement of the absorbent process so long as the cement of the old fang retains any vital con- nexion with the periosteum of the socket ; but the frail remains of the old cylinder, thus reduced, are sometimes lifted out of the socket upon the crown of the new tooth, when they are speedily removed by the action of the jaws. No sooner has the young tooth penetrated the interior of the old one, than another germ begins to be developed from the angle be- tween the base of the young tooth and the inner alveolar process, or in the same relative position as that in which its immediate pre- decessor began to rise ; and the processes of succession and displacement are carried on uninterruptedly, throughout the long life of these cold-blooded carnivorous reptiles From the period of exclusion from the egg, the teeth of the crocodile succeed each other in the vertical direction ; none are added from behind forwards, like the true molars in Mammalia. It follows, therefore, that the number of the teeth of the crocodile is as great when the animal first sees the light, as when it has acquired its full size ; and, owing to the rapidity of their succession, the cavity at the base of the fully-formed tooth is never consolidated. Tongue.—In reptiles the tongue can scarce- ly be regarded as an organ of taste, and in- deed, seeing how little their teeth are adapted for mastication, and how very genei'ally their prey is swallowed entire, such a sense could hardly be usefully accorded to them. The lingual apparatus is, therefore, variously modi- fied in different genera, and converted into an instrument of prehension in some cases, whilst in others it seems to perform functions, the nature of which is not so obvious. In the Chelonian reptiles the tongue is but little adapted to appreciate savours : it is covered with a thick iug< se membrane, the surfiice of which in the turtles is smooth, but in some tortoises, as, for example, in the Testudo indica, it is remarkably beset with numerous elongated and pointed papillae. Fig. 212. Tongm of tiie CJiameleon partially extended. o, slender extensible portion of the tongue; h, c, its bulbous extremity; d,e,f, prehensile apparatus at the end of the tongue. Beneath the mucous membrane which covers this organ, there exists, in this order, a thick stratum of glandular follicles, whilst others situated beneath the tongue poiir out their secretion through numerous ducts situated on each side of the fraenum linguae. The body of the OS hyoides is cartilaginous, and from its extremity a glosso-hyal or lingual bone is prolonged into the substance of the tongue. In those lizards which feed upon vegetable substances, the body of the tongue is fleshy, generally bifid at its extremity, and its surface is papillose. In some instances, as in the Iguana, its apex is tipped with horn. In other genera of lizards, which feed principally on insects, the extremity of the tongue is fissured, and the w hole organ is remarkably extensible, forming an apparatus wherewith to catch their insect prey. Perhaps in no animal is the tongue more reiiiarkalDle than in the Chameleon, where by its extraordinary power of extension, and by the rapidity of its movements, it is made to com- pensate for the extreme sluggishness which characterises the muscular system of that animal. The chameleon, fixed firmly by means of its bifid feet upon the boueh of a tree, and concealed as much as possible by adopting the colours of the branches around,