97 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. with fat in a peculiar form of atrophy * of their proper texture, which is often attended with fracture. The latter circumstance distinguishes such cases from those of ordinary osteoma- lacia, wherein (in addition to other characters not belonging to the present head, as, for in- stance, disappearance of their gelatin-element, Miiller,) accumulation of free oil appears as an important character. (ni.) Adventitious Products. — Numerous adventitious products contain fat within their proper substance. Thus fat is a very frequent constituent of urinary calculi, and of various concretions,—for instance, the arterial species. In deposits, (as the typhous, tuberculous, and purulent,) it occurs occasionally in great abun- dance in the granule and oil-globule forms; and it forms a constituent of no mean impor- tance (though an accidental one) of various growths. Thus in fibroma and osteoma the total absence of fat is unusual ; and in cancer fatty matter occurs with such constancy as almost to take rank with its essential elements. (B.) Fattt/ matters excreted in the semi-Jliiid or fluid state. — («.) Fat does not exist natu- rally in appreciable quantity in the urine ; in certain states of disease, however, oily matter is discharged in some quantities with the fluid. Simon and others have discovered fat in the urine of persons labouring under phthisis and tabes mesenterica ; and it is commonly said to be of most frequent occurrence in diseases at- tended with rapid emaciation. We have our- selves in vain sought for it in numerous cases of phthisis at all stages, and consequently re- gard its presence as by no means constant. Dr. EUiotson relates the case of a female suf- fering from biliary calculi who passed about the third of an ounce of oil daily with her urine f : such cases are, however, not to be regarded without suspicion. Fat occurs, oc- casionally at least, in considerable proportion in the urine of females affected with puerperal fever. J: Heller $ found the same principle in three cases of herpes zoster. Fat also exists, * The frequent association of atrophy with fat- deposition in various organs (Carswell, Gluge) is as curious as it is positively established; but the mode of connection of the two phenomena has not been fully ascertained, and is probably not con- stantly uniform. It would appear rational to sup- pose that the fat-production acts most commonly as the cause (mechanically) of the atrophy with which it is found; but (to go no farther) in certain atro- phies of the kidney, the latter is, if not the cause, certainly the occasion of the former. It is a notable fact that in the organ which imdergoes the process of senile atrophy to the highest amount—namely, the lung —coexistent fat is not found; at least, we have sought for it unsuccessftdly with the micro- scope ; it is true that M. Guillot's mode of inves- tigation might point out fat that had othen\ise eluded detection. Be this as it may, however, the same difficidty in determining the relationship of atrophy and other coexistent morbid changes (as, for instance, of serum-accumulation in atrophy of the convolutions of the brain in certain insane per- sons) is met with, as in the case of fat-deposition. t Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xviii. t Bouchardat, Joum. des Connaiss. M^dicales, Aout, 1843. § Simon's Chemistry, vol. ii. p. 320. VOL. IV. associated with albumen, in some cases of Bright's disease, in saccharine diabetes, and in the so-called chylous urine : and tbere are three cases on record (by Canubio, Alibert, and Graves) in which the fluid was actually milky, containing fat and casein. (/>».) The fieces sometimes contain oily and tallowy-looking matters in large quantities. The circumstances under which intestinal dis- charge of this kind occurs, are not by any means fully understood. Peculiar functional derangements of the digestive process are suf- ficient, independently of organic disease, to produce discharge of the kind, whether per anum or through the mouth.* The faeces in diabetes mellitus are remarkable for their large proportion of fat. Dr. Percy found this prin- ciple amount to 16.16 per cent, of the dried faeces in a case where food of all kinds was taken.f May the alleged fact that grape- sugar is converted into butyric acid by bile, be considered to explain (or at least to illus- trate) the occurrence of fat in these faeces ? Some of it is probably derived from non- digested food. (r.) The saliva occasionally contains " ad- ventitious fatty matter and fatty acid," accord- ing to Dr.Wright % ; he found so much as 3.9 of these principles in 1000 parts of one variety of morbid saliva. {d.) Tlie sweat is said to contain fat in the colliquative hectic state ; but we know of no analysis satisfactorily proving the point. § (C.) Encysted fats. — Fatty matters of dif- ferent kinds occur in cysts. The chief varieties of these are atheroma (from aOijpa, pnltis); meliceris (from mel, honey, and cera, wax) ; and steatovia (from artap, fat); so called re- spectively from their pultaceous, honey-like, and suety appearance. The most common seats of atheromatous and meliceric cysts are the scalp and eyelids the new matter some- times accumulates in the sebaceous follicles. One peculiarity of the fatty matter in meli- ceris and atheroma appears to be the absence of containing cells — the fat is free. Miiller hence presumes that the cyst is formed of the thickened walls of an original single fat-cell, —apparently an unnecessary hypothesis. Be- sides the fat, there is a granular matter of albuminous nature in these masses. Analyzed by Valentin j], the following was found to be the composition of this encysted fatty matter : — Cholesterin 0.352 Elain and oleate of soda 3.216 Stearin 0.222 Albumen and potass ; chloride \ j of sodium and lime J Coagulated albumen 5.923 Water , 88.715 Steatomatous matter is most commonly ac- cumulated in the ovaries, between the vagina * See the author's work on Cancer, p. 324. t Quoted in Simon, vol. ii. p. 378. t Loc. cit. I See Simon, op. cit. vol. ii. p. 110. II Repertorium, 1838, p. 307. H