REPTILIA. 313 subsequently two dorsal ganglia occur, and further down, towards the middle of the back, there occurs a third and last ganglion, which furnishes the splanchnic nerve : the re- mainder of the sympathetic is made up of one or two cords, which, in the sacral region, give off a great number of branches, the divisions of which form the renal, hypogastric, and sa- cral plexuses. According to Mr. Swan, in the turtle {Tes- tudo My das), the sympathetic is free and distinct throughout the whole length of the neck, but it gives off filaments of intercom- munication to the nervus vagus. One of its branches passes along with the division of the carotid artery into a canal in the base of the cranium, gives off a filament to the facial, and communicates with the second division of the fifth pair. Organ of Hearing. — In all reptiles the organ of hearing is constructed to appreciate sounds communicated through the medium of the atmosphere, and consequently differs from that of fishes in several important particulars, amongst the most obvious of which is the addition of a membrana tympani and tym- panic cavity, wherein is lodged an ossiculum auditus, the ofhce of which is to convey the vibrations of the tympanic membrane to the labyrinth contained within the skull. In all reptiles the internal ear consists of the same parts as that of fishes, only they are comparatively of smaller size and more com- pact in their arrangement. In crocodiles and lizards, the internal ear consists of three semi- circular canals, which exhibit the usual ar- rangement, each canal forming a considerable portion of a circle, and presenting internally a membranous ampulla before opening into the vestibule. Towards the interior of the skull, there is an organ appended to the vestibule, which is evidently analogous to the sac met with in the ear of fishes. The walls of this sac are membranous, and copiously supplied with bloodvessels. It is found to contain in its interior three otolithes; but these are very small, and even of softer textin-e than those of the chondropteriginous fishes. Besides the above parts, the internal ear of reptiles presents for the first time an addi- tional part, which is undoubtedly a rudimen- tary cochlea. This is an appendage to the vestibule, of a conical shape, and slightly bent towards its extremity; it lies inferior to the vestibule, its apex being directed towards the mesial line of the cranium. On opening this organ, it is found to be divided internally into two compartments by a double cartilaginous septum : the two compartments communicate with each other towards the apex of the cone, whilst at their opposite extremities one of them is found to open into the vestibule, whilst the other terminates at a small orifice closed by membrane, which communicates with the tympanic cavity. This organ, it will be perceived, is precisely comparable to the rudimentary cochlea met with in the ear of birds, the two canals representing respectively the scala vestibuli and the scala tympani of the human ear. In Crocodiles this cochlea is of considerable size, and may be easily exhi- bited in very young individuals ; it is more difficult to find in the Chameleon and in Lizards, whilst in Serpents it is reduced to a very rudimentary condition. In Tortoises, that part of the ear which seems to represent the rudimentary cochlea resembles exactly that part of the ear called by Cuvier the sac, both in its shape, and from the circumstance of its containing otoUthes, and he is disposed to consider this sac as truly analogous to the cochlea of the human ear ; whilst that portion of it which he calls the sinus, he considers as representing the vestibule. In all reptiles the membranous labyrinth is enclosed in an osseous sheath, which euibraces it more or less closely in different genera ; in the iSaurians the bony hbyrinth is complete, but in Tortoises that portion which separates the vestibule from the cranial cavity is not ossified, but remains partially membranous. The tympanic cavity, which in reptiles is for the first time interposed between the ves tibule and the exterior of the body, varies in its arrangement in different genera. In the Crocodiles this cavity might be divided into two portions, one external, which is very wide, and is closed externally by the membrana tympani and the skin ; and an internal portion, which is separated from the former by a con- striction. It is in this latter compartment that the two fenestras are situated ; and it contains, moreover, some cavities which are analogous to the mastoid cells, but of much larger size than in mammiferous animals. The position of the tympanum in this reptile is near the upper part of the cranium. The tympanic cavity of the Chelonian reptiles is situated much more laterally than in the crocodile, and the constriction which separates the external from the internal portion is less remarkable. The internal compart- ment of the tympanum is here prolonged backwards into a wide rounded cell. At the bottom of this cavity, just opposite the mem- brana tympani, there is a narrow canal lead- ing to the fenestra ovalis, in which the ossi- culum auditus is lodged. The Eustachian tube is a canal of moderate length, which runs downwards and slightly backwards to communicate with the palate just behind and internal to the articulation of the lower jaw. In the generality of Saurian reptiles, the walls of the tympanic cavity are membranous posteriorly and inferiorly : the Eustachian canal is very short, and opens into the palate. In many genera the tympan'c bone is much enlarged superiorly, so that the cavity of the tympanum is made more extensive; this ar- rangement is most consj)icuously seen in the genus Draco. In Serjjcjits there cannot, strictly speaking, be said to be any tympanic cavity, the handle of the auditory ossicle being imbedded amongst the flesh, so that its extremity only touches the skin close behind the articulation of the lower jaw.