322 REPTILIA. traordinary and apparently unnecessary length of its canal. In the upper jmrt of its course, the walls of the oviduct secrete the albumen, in which the yoke becomes enveloped, and subsequently the membrana putaminis and the egg-shell are supplied by its inferior por- tions. In correspondence with these changes of function, its lining membrane is found to dif- fer in appearance and structure in different re- gions of the oviduct. Towards the commence- ment of that canal {fig. 65, p), it is exceedingly Ooiduct of Emys Europceus. (^After Bojanus.') a", commencement of oviduct; nop, canal of oviduct laid open; s t, ovum contained in lower part of oviduct, broken to show the yolk, the albu- men, and the egg-shell; b, allantoid bladder; c d, kidney; E, ureter; r, oviduct; u, termination of oviduct; m, termination of the opposite oviduct laid open. delicate, gathered into longitudinal folds, and covered with vibratile cilia lower down (o) ; the walls of the oviduct become evidently glandular, and tov/ards its termination (n), where the outer investments of the egg are secreted, it is thrown into broad irregular rugae, which are continued as far as its termination in the cloaca (m). External to the mucous membrane, there is a stratum of muscular fibres, by the contractions of which the ovum is propelled along the oviduct; and externally it is invested with a peritoneal tunic that ex- tends throughout its whole length. The oviducts in the reptilia are very exten- sible, and in many genera are constructed to contain numerous ova at the same time, as for example in lizards {fig. 240, e). In ser- pents, owing to the slenderness of their bodies, the numerous ova thus contained in the ovi- duct are arranged in a very remarkable manner: those lodged in the right oviduct correspond with an unoccupied space in the left, and vice versa those in the left are lodged in an inter- space between the ova contained in the right. The reptilia proper differ in a very impor- tant particular from the Amphibia in the manner in which their eggs are fecundated: in the latter, the fertilisation of the ova is ef- fected after their exclusion, so that the en- velope of the egg consists merely of a thin chorion: but in the former, where impregnation takes place internally, the ova, after being fe- cundated, are provided with an external cover- ing, the nature of which varies in different races. Among the Chelonian reptiles, the land and fresh-water tortoises produce eggs covered with a hard calcareous shell like that of birds ; but in the turtles, the outer shell remains soft, presenting a texture something like that of parchment. In crocodiles the egg-shells are calcareous and brittle, but in the generality of Saurians they are flexible and pergamentaceous. In the Ophidians the egg-shells are made up of su- perposed layers of soft membrane, secreted by the walls of the oviduct. Some reptiles are generally but improperly styled viviparous. The common viper, for example, derives its name from the circum- stance of its sometimes producing its young alive. In this, and in all similar instances, however, such an occurrence is merely for- tuitous, and depends upon the length of time the eggs are retained in the oviduct prior to their expulsion. If they are not expelled before the young are hatched, of course the creatures bring forth their progeny alive ; and the same animal may, from the nature of its food, be made to produce eggs at one time and living animals at another. The females of those reptilia whose males are provided with a single penis are furnished with a clitoris, but in those genera which have the penis double or invaginated, this organ is deficient. In the female Chelonlans the clitoris has very much the same struc- ture as the penis of the male, from which indeed it only differs in its smaller propor- tional size : it is long, grooved throughout its whole length along its dorsum, and terminated by rounded glans on each side: it contains peritoneal canals similar to those of the male, and is moreover provided with muscles re- sembling those of the male penis, by which it is retracted into the cloaca. The female crocodiles have likewise a clitoris very similar to the male penis, but of much smaller proportional dimensions. Dcve/ojment of the Embryo. — As relates to the internal structure of the egg, and de- velopment of the embryo, the Reptilia differ in no essential circumstance from the warm- blooded Ovipara. Within the calcareous or pergamentaceous egg-shell there is a con- siderable quantity of exceedingly transparent albumen, which so completely fills the shell that no air bubble is to be detected in its