SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. 551 incredulity any account of the unaltered pas- sage of a nerve through a ganglion, as viewed by the unassisted eye ; and, in the particular instance before us, the microscope disproves this supposition. So, also, concerning the various theories of the derivation of the super- ficial petrosal nerves which have been set forth as based on dissections. Let it be granted that there are two ganglia, — the sphenopalatine and the geniculate, — which are united by an intervening nervous cord : in such a case, I cannot see how any merely anatomical skill would enable one to predicate a definite di- rection as taken by the connecting nerve. Indeed, any statement of this kind really amounts to asserting a special direction or quality of the nervous force, and to the affir- mation or denial of such a view, the scalpel affords no assistance. The unravelling of the nerves themselves, even as performed in the above dissections, requires, perhaps, to be received with con- siderable caution; and that natural separation or simplification which is afforded by their comparative anatomy must be regarded as vastly increasing the value of the results obtained. The chorda tympani affords a good instance of the conflicting results of these dissections, when unaided by this latter method of inquiry. Some have considered, with H. Cloquet and Longet, that, after remain- ing a short time in contact with the gustatory or lingual branch of the fifth, the whole of this nerve passes away from it, to form one of the roots of the submaxillary ganglion. Others have described it as only giving a fila- ment to this ganglion, and uniting itself by the remainder of its bulk with the branch of the fifth ; while others have failed to detect any direct transition of the chorda tympani into the ganglion, but, on the contrary, have found the two nerves inseparably mixed up below the situation of their visible junction. And more recently it has been traced by Guarini* to the lingualis muscle. On general grounds, the first of these notions is liable to much objection, since it seems singular that a nerve so far removed from the facial as the chorda tympani is at the base of the skull, should be involved in such an accidental proximity as this would make it, or should run so closely to the gustatory without any interchange of fibres. Again, the total pas- sage of the nerve to the ganglion appears very improbable, when the relative size of the entering and emerging branches is considered, — that is, on comparing the bulk of the chorda tympani with that of the two or three filaments which join the ganglion, it may be seen that the former is larger than all of them together. This is especially the case in some of the lower animals, as the dog ; in whom the submaxillary ganglion and its roots from the cerebral nerves are so greatly reduced in size as to be scarcely visible to the naked eye, while the chorda tympani continues a compa- ratively large branch. But these general * Annali di Medicina. Maggio. 1842. objections will not apply to the supposition of a partial connection of the chorda tympani with the submaxillary ganglion, and the ques- tion must accordingly still remain in doubt. Physiology of the seventh nerve. — The func- tions sustained by the auditory nerve are recognised with sufficient certainty. The anatomy of its distribution, its variations in the different classes of the animal kingdom, and the results of experiment or disease affecting its structure, all unite to indicate it as the nerve which, specially adapted at its periphery in the organ of hearing to receive impressions from the vibrations of the ex- ternal air, conveys them to the brain, and by exciting corresponding impressions there, gives rise to the production of a sensation which we term a sound. For the further details of its function, reference is made to the article Hearing. The facial nerve.— It has been seen from the preceding description, that the facial nerve is distributed almost exclusively to muscular structures ; and, although these are very numerous, yet they all admit of being reduced to one class, viz. the muscles of the face. A further subdivision would next sepa- rate them into several groups, which serve to enlarge or diminish the size of the various apertures by which impressions are admitted to the organs of the special senses, as the eye, ear, nose, and tongue. But these ori- fices are also the pathways of food and air, so that the muscles which regulate their size have thus far an influence on the functions of respiration and digestion. In man, they fulfil the further purpose of organs of expres- sion ; their various and complicated adjust- ments conveying, for the most part, a toler- able index of the passions or emotions of the presiding mind. This prominently muscular distribution of the facial would lead us to expect d priori that the nerve was chiefly motor in its func- tion ; and, if we turn from its anatomy in the human subject to its varieties of arrangement and appearance in the animal kingdom, this view will be abundantly confirmed. Not only is its peripheric distribution almost ex- clusively muscular, and in connection with the same facial set of muscles, but it also experiences a development which is co-equal with that of these organs, increasing with their augmented development, or disappear- ing with their suppression. Thus, in Fishes, the facial scarcely exists as a separate nerve. In Reptiles and Birds, its small size corre- sponds with the bony and immobile state of the face. In the Mammalia, it becomes much more considerable, and both the nerve and muscles experience various degrees of aug- mentation. Thus, in the monkeys it attains a large size, in accordance with the number and magnitude of the facial muscles generally ; and the trunk of the elephant, and the mus- cular apparatus connected with the blowholes of Cetaceans, are supplied by large branches from this nerve, which here experiences a partial development, to meet the special exi-