QUADRUMANA. 211 p 2 of it the genus Chrysothrix. Its tail is not prehensile, but depressed, and often twisted round objects. Its head is flat ; between the two orbits there is but a membranous septum, instead of a bony wall, and the glans penis is round, as in man; while it is flat, in the form of the head of a mushroom, in the Cebi^ which have the penis in continual erection. 6. Sixth Genus. Nochthora F. Cuvier. Aotus Humboldt. Dourocoidi. Diflfers only from the genus Calliihrix by large nyctalope eyes and ears, which are partly co- vered by the skin, and by a small face. The species of this genus have nocturnal habits, and a feline physiognomy. They feed not upon fruit, as the precedent species, but on small birds and insects. In their form, noc- turnal habits, and great sensibility to light, the NochthorcB approach very much to the species of the genus Steno}n^ from which they differ in their internal structure. Their nails are straight, long, and snlcated. The dental 4, 1 1 formula is: incisors ,, canines ^— , molars %—%. They inhabit Brazil. ^ D—6 * Spec. — Nochthora trivirgata. 7. Seventh Genus, Pithecia. Saki. The characters of this genus consist in the bush}-, but short, prehensile, and long tail, the slender body, the large ears, the dense beard in some species, and tlie straight, but claw-Hke nails. Their incisor teeth are more prominent than in the genus Cebus. Brazil. Spec. — Pithecia SatanaSy P. rufiveyitris^ P. leucocephala, P. inusta. 8. Eighth Genus. Hapale. Ouistiti. Sahui. This genus departs more from the typical genera of monkeys of the New World than any other, inasmuch as they have only the same number of teeth as the monkeys of the Old 4 I ] World,viz.32: incisors canines -, molars 4 1—1 5 5 --—-. The nails, by being compressed and o—o pointed, assume the appearance of claws, ex- cept the thumbs of the after-hands, which have flat nails; but the thumbs of the fore-hands, which have no flat nails, are so slightly sepa- rated from the other fingers, that it is not without hesitation that the Ouistitis are called four-handed or Quadrumana. All the species belonging to this genus live in troops in the Brazilian forests, where they spring from bough to bough, more like birds than quadru- peds. They resemble squirrels, whose form they seem to represent in South America, which possesses but one species of squirrels, Sciurus cBstuans. Their incisors, canini, and false molars, are sharp and acuminated. The inferior incisor teeth are long, narrow, and prominent. They feed upon insects, eggs, birds. Their voice is a gentle whistle, which de Humboldt* compares to the voice of some birds. He says that their larynx is similar to the inferior larynx of birds, l)ut he did not illustrate this opinion by sufficient anatomical details. The species can be divided into two groups. The first contains those in which the inferior incisors are cylindrical and the tail is annular. Hapale jacchus^ 11. ponicillatus^ II. leuco- cephalus. In the second, the inferior incisors are truncated like the mouthpiece of a pipe, and the tail is not annular. H. argentatus, H. midas, H. ursuJus, H. lahiatus, H. chrysomclas, H. rosalia, II. c1irysoj)ygus^ H. wdipiis. Osteology. — If we take a general survey of these eight genera of monkeys of the New World, we may observe in them, as well as in those of the Old World, an indication of the descending line, by which they pass into the form of the Lemuriua, and by those into the Insectivora. In this way they constitute a series, which is parallel to that of the monkeys of the Old World, the latter passing into the Carnivora, the former into the Insectivora. The truth of this assertion will be proved by a more minute examination of the skeleton. We shall first consider the skull. J. A. Wagner divided the monkeys of the New World by their skull into two great divisions. Tiie first is a pyramidal skull, in which the height is greater than the length, and in which the occiput has no posterior eminence, and the occipital foramen is situated backwards. To this division belong Mycetes., as eminently characteristic, and, in subsequent gradation, CalUthrix, Nochthora, Pithecia, and Lagothrix. The second form of skull is elongated, with a prominent muzzle, a convex occiput, and an occipital foramen, situated at the basis of the skull. Wagner refers to it the Saiiniri, offer- ing a typical pre-eminence, and subsequently Hapale, Cebus, and Ateles. In Mycetes (Jig. 132) the forehead is ele- Fig. 132, Skull of Mycetes ursinus. (^Original, Mus. Vrolik.) vated, the face flat and large ; the distance between the two orbits very great; two nasal bones ; the chin very depressed ; the lower jaw high, with distant branches, between * A. de Humboldt, Obser^^ de zoologie et d'ana- tomie comparee. Paris, 1811, vol. i. p. 8.