RESPIRATION. 357 A A 3 ance of nutrition and secretion than of respi- ration. The most marked difference, more espe- cially in warm-blooded animals, between ar- terial and venous blood is that of colour, — arterial blood being of a scarlet red, and ve- nous blood of a dark Modena hue. The extent of this difference of colour between the blood in the arteries and in the veins varies in the diflferent vertebrata, and is greater in birds and in the mammalia than in reptiles and fishes ; and it tiho varies in different con- ditions of the body and surrounding media in the same animal. In animals exposed to artificial high temperatures*, or Hving in warm climates-f-, when the energy of the re- spiratory function is naturally diminished, the venous blood may be of a brighter colour than usual, while the arterial may be less so, and it may then be difficult to distinguish the one kind frdm the other. In certain cases of high febrile excitement of the circulation, as in acute rheumatism when the blood passes rapidly and abundantly through the lungs, the blood in the veins may be of a scarlet colour: on the other hand, where the aeration of the blood is imperfect, as during the state of hy- bernation, in certain diseases, or from some mechanical impediment to the free passage of the air into the lungs, the blood flowing along the arteries apj)roaches more or less the dark colour of venous blood. The temperature of the arterial blood in the left side of the heart, aorta, and large vessels springing from it, is higher than the venous blood by from 1° to 2° Fahr., according to Dr. John Davy $, and 1°-01 C (I°-818 Fahr.) on an average, according to Becquerel and Breschet.§ According to Dr. Davy, the ca- pacity of venous blood for caloric is 852, that of arterial blood 839. || The specific gravity of venous is somewhat greater than that of arterial blood. Dr. Davy gives the specific gravity of arterial blood as 1050, that of venous as 1053. If Some of those who have published analyses of both kinds of blood, procured more solid materials and less water from venous than from arterial blood; others again have obtained the oppo- site result; while Denis, in his analysis of the blood of a dog, observed no difference in this respect. The number of instances, — taking the more trust-worthy analyses only into ac- * Crawford. Experiments and Observations on Animal Heat, p. 309. 3rd edit. t Dr. J. Davy. London Phil. Transact, for 1838, p. 28. X Researches, Physiological and Anatomical, vol. i. p. 147. 1839. At page 211 of the same volume, another series of experiments is given, in which the difference in temperatm-e varied from 1° to 3° F. § Annales des Sciences Natm-elles, 2me serie, tom. vii. p. 94. 1837. Becquerel and Breschet, in their experiments, used a thermo-electric apparatus. They found the difference of temperature between the two kinds of blood diminish as the blood-vessels are more distant from the heart. II Researches, Physiological and Anatomical, vol. i. p. 146. ' ^ b ^ Opus cit. vol. ii. p. 22. count, — where the quantity of water was greater in the arterial than in the venous blood decidedly prej)onderates. In all pro- bability the relative quantity of water in the two kmds of blood is determined by the rela- tive extent of the loss of that fluid by the arterial blood at the kidneys, lungs, skin, &c., and of the supply entering the veins from without, but chiefly through the mesenteric veins. A larger quantity of fibrin has been ob- tained by some analysts from arterial than from venous blood in man and in the domes- ticated animals; others again have procured a larger quantity from venous than from arterial blood; while a few have obtained dissimilar results in their analyses of these two kinds of bl jod in different genera of animals, and even in different individuals of the same species.* In the greater immber of the analyses, however, more fibrin was obtained from arterial than from venous blood, f According to Denis and Scherer, the fibrin of the two kinds of blood differs in regard to its solubility in nitre. When a portion of well-washed fibrin from venous blood is triturated with a third part of nitre, and four times its weight of water, and a small quantity of caustic potass or soda is then added, it dissolves into a gelatinous mass, having the chemical characters of albu- men ; while the fibrin from arterial blood si- milarly treated undergoes no such changes. The blood-corpuscles are more abundant in arterial than in venous blood, according to Prevost and Dumas, Lecanu and Denis ; ac- cording to Meyer, Hering, and Nasse, they are more abundant in the venous blood; while the analyses of LeteUier and Simon tend to show that the proportion is fluctu- ating. According to Simon, the blood-cor- puscles of arterial contain less hasmatin than venous blood, while the quantity of globulin is variable. Mulder states that the chemical composition of haematin is the same whether derived from arterial or venous blood.t The statements made regarding the relative proportions of the albumen, fat, osmazone, and salts in the two kinds of blood, differ too much to justify us in attaching any importance to them, — a remark which, as yet, we are afraid applies with too much truth to most of the other statements regarding the che- mical difJerences between the two kinds of * Xasse (article Blut, in "Wagner's Handworter- buch der Physiologic, Band i. S. 171) states that the difficulty of conducting a coiTect quantitative analysis of the fibrine of the blood is sufficient to ac- count for these discrepancies. t We refer those who may •wish to obtain more detailed information upon this and some other points connected -with the chemical differences between the arterial and venous blood, with references to the different authors who have investigated this subject, to Nasse's Treatise, entitled Das Blut, &c., and the article by him in Wagner's Handworter- buch already referred to, and the first volume of Simon's Animal Chemistry, translated fcr the Sy- denham Society, by Dr. Day. X The Chemistry of Vegetable and Animal Phy- siology. Translated from the Dutch by Fromberg. Part XL p. 334.