PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 80 in urine (cold and hot), and in acetic acid. It is soluble in ammonia, from which solution it may be obtained by evaporation in the peculiar crystalline form {fig. 82), visible with the microscope only. Cystin is soluble without effervescence in nitric acid ; from this solution silky crystals of aciculated shape and brilliant white colour may be obtained by evaporation. Treated with nitrate of potass, the sulphur (26 per 100 nearly) contained in the cystin passes to the state of sulphuric acid, discoverable by a salt of baryta. Cystin exhales a peculiar phos- phorus-like odour when burned on platina. The crystalline form of cystin is the hexa- gonal prism ; the crystal is ti'ansparent, more or less regular, and varies considerably in size {fig- 82V Fig. 82. Crystals of cystin : some are of much larger size than those represented. 5. The phosphate of mnmonia a-nd magyiesia calculus (triple phosphate) is generally of oval or rounded shape, but may be of irregular form ; when constituting the entire substance of a calculus (which is rare), it is of small size usually ; its external colour is whitish; its surface uneven and crystalline. Internally it is generally granular and opaque, though occasionally laminated and somewhat trans- parent ; in the former case of porous texture, in the latter compact and dense, and of dirty white colour. 6. The neutral phosphate of lime calculus, remarkable for the smoothness of its exterior, is of pale brown colour, moderate size, and great rarity, — so much so that to the chance experience of Dr. Wollaston almost alone are we indebted for what is known of its charac- ters. It is composed of laminae, easily separ- able from each other, and striped transversel3\ 7. The phosphate of ammonia and magnesia and phosphate of lime (mixed phosjjhates or fusible) calculus is of irregular shape, often of large size, white colour, and roughish surface. In the majority of cases its section looks like a piece of chalk of loose texture, being homo- geneous, non-laminatetl, and minutely porous ; in other instances it is lamellr.r, and between the laminae minute shining crystals of triple phosphate may often be detected. It marks the fingers or other bodies like chalk. Phosphoric acid exists in healthy urine in combination with ammonia and magnesia, in such proportion as to form a perfectly soluble salt. If the proportion of base increases, the salt becomes insoluble, and, according to the amount of excess, is deposited either as the neutral or a bibasic triple phosphate. The neutral phosphate of ammonia and mag- nesia (the only one observed in urine at the moment of emission) occurs in white trans- parent crystals of perfectly regular forms, re- ferable to the right rectangular prism (^g.83). Fig. 83. Neutral phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; crystals of spontaneous formation. These crystals are often mixed with amor- phous powder, commonly composed of phos- phate of lime, rarely of urate of ammonia. They are instantaneously soluble in weak acids, and the solution is precipitable by am- monia in the form of the bibasic phosphate. The bibasic phosphate of ammonia and mag- nesia does not appear to exist in urine, even the most strongly alkaline, at the moment of emission. But its crystals are developed with the progress of decomposition, and may be obtained from any urine by rapidly adding large quantities of ammonia. Microscopically {fig. 84) these crystals appear aciculated and grouped at angle's of 60°, so as to resemble a pinnate or bipinnate leaf. Fisr. 84. Bibasic phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. Phosphate of lime occurs as an amorphous powder ; very soluble in acids, it does not effervesce under their action, like the urate of ammonia, nor, like that salt, furnish crystals of uric acid under the same circumstances; when the phosphate has been dissolved in an acid, ammonia precipitates a white amorphous mass from the solution. 8. The xanthic oxide {uric oxide, xanthhiy urous acid) calculus is of extreme rarity ; four examples only (analysed by Marcet, Laugier, Stromeyer, and Dulk,) have as yet been met with. The external surface is described as smooth and polished, and of light brown co- lour. Some fragments of the calculus analysed by Stromeyer are preserved in the University College Collection; their fracture is sharp, their colour pinkish brown j they are com- posed apparently of easily separable concen- tric laminae, and are very hard ; they become waxy-looking when rubbed. Marcet's speci- men weighed 8 grains, that of Stromeyer 338 grains, that of Dulk 7 grains; those examined by Laugier were very small. In Dulk's case