REPTILIA. 312 and palate. It is worthv of remark, tliat the nerves distributed on the membrane of the m(>uth and nose communicate so many times •vrith branches of the second trmik of the fifth, and their connexion is so much greater than in the turtle; but in this creature the palate is homy, and not so extensive in proportion to the size of the head. 3, pro- longation of the sympathetic connected with the trunk of the par vagimi, but nc>t directly with the ganglion of the sympathetic ; it commimicates with the ninth nerve, then passes down the spine and communicates with the eleven superior spinal nerves ; it emerges on each side at the place the superior branches of the vertebral artery enter to distribute branches in the intercostal spaces: it is continued downwards in a very fine plexiform prolongation with the vertebral arterv. as far as the origin from the right aorta: it then branches to each side be- neath the membrane connecting the viscera with the ribs and spine, and communicates with fila- ments of the par vagum; it is afterwards ccmtinued downwards, receiving a filament from each spinal nerve; in its course it is a very fine nerve, and has not any more ganglia than the first, and those com- municating with the second trunk of the fifth ; but at different points from which the nerves pass to the viscera, there is an appearance of a delicate plexus: this plexiform structure varies in different parts, and becomes much greater about the be- ginning of the intestine, where it resembles that corresponding with the semilunar ganglion in the turtle; near the kidney it assumes the fc>rm of a nervous membrane or retina, bef(:)re it is distributed on the urinary and generative organs. Branches pass from the plexuses with the arteries to the dif- ferent viscera. 4, second trunk of the fifth: after communicating with the sympathetic, and giving filaments to the membrane of the mouth, palate, and nose, it passes out of its canal in the upper jaw, and terminates in branches on the upper lip. 5, third trunk of the fifth; it gives branches to the muscles of the jaws, the greatest portion of it then passes within a canal in the lower jaw: it sends three branches through the opening at the inferior margin of this part, two of them to c<:>mmunicate with the branches of the par vagum and ninth, dis- tributed on the muscles and parts underneath the jaw; the other to give filaments to the memlirane of the mouth as far as the sheath erf the tongue: the trunk is continued onwards through the fora- men, near the chin, to divide into branches and terminate on the lower lip. 6. hard portion of the seventh ; it communicates with the ganglion of the sympathetic, and then passes through the digastric uiuscle, to which it gives a branch: it communi- cates with the first spinal nerve, and terminates on the costomaxillary muscle, 7, glosso-pharyngeal Si/mpathetic Sj/stem.—The sympathetic sys- tem of the tortoise is so feebly developed as to be detected with difficulty, except in the interior of the carapax, where nerv ous ganglia are distinctly recognisable both in the peri- toneal folds and on the bodies of the vertebrse. The ganglia exactly resemble those of birds; they give off two filaments superiorly and two infrriorly: the latter pass beneath the trans- verse process of the vertebrae, which is here connected with the carapax. From the inner margin of each ganglion a splanchnic nen-e is given off, which runs to assist in forming a plexus, ramifications from which accompany each of the arteries given off by the aorta, and likewise assist in forming a pulmonary plexus. The intercostal ganglia may be traced as far as the sides of the first vertebra of the tail. Bojanus has represented the sympathetic of the European tortoise (^Evir/s evropdea) as nerve: it passes to the ganglion oi the symjiathetic. 8, trunk of the par vagum: it commxmicat<iS with the sympathetic, and then with a branch that ap- pears to be the continuation of the glosso-pharyngeal from the ganglion of the sympathetic: it i>eiKls a branch to communicate with the ninth, to pass to the musclfes, &c-, of the £Mices; and is then continued downwards close to the trachea, in compiany with each jugular vein ; on the left side it also ac- companies the carotid artery, and from this a small vessel also ascends with the right trunk: it sends filaments on the large vessels towards the heart, and others behind each attrta. similar to the recurrent nerves, to be distributed on the trachea and cei<o- phagus; each trunk, for a short space. ac.c<:>mpanies its corresponding pulmonary artery: a little al'cve the liver it passes in front of the superior pan of the lungs, and proceeds a short distance, where it is joined by its fellow to form a single nerve: this is cctntinued downwards under a thick membrane on the hver, and apipears to give filaments tc- this viscus, the lungs, and oesophagus: abc>ut the termi- nation of the liver it sends a large branch, which has commxmicated freely with branches of the sym- pathetic to the left surface of the stomach: this gives filaments to the lowest part of the lungs, and terminates on the stomach. The right division, or the continuation of the nerve itself having com- municated several times with the 1^ divisi(>n and filaments from the jtlexus of the sympatht-tic- is continued a short way on the membrane connecting the viscera, it passes on the right sairface of the stomach, distributing branches to this viscus. and terminates on the beginning of the intestine, reach- ing as far as the pancreas. 9, a nave from the ganglion of the sympathetic; it appears tit be the continuation of the glosso-pharyngeal after its junction with the ganglion, it commimicates with the ninth after its connection with a branch of the trunk of the par vagum. and terminates on the glottis and muscles attached to the antm<»- point of the jaw for drawing forward the trachea. 10. ninth nerve; it receives a branch from the trunk ci the par vagum, and from the hard p«rtion of the seventh; after this has communic-ated with the first cervical nerves, it gives off several branches to the muscles of the tongue and throat, and. one that reaches to the end of the tongue, and CMie to cc»m- mxmicate with l>ranches of the third trunk oi the fifth, issuing out of the inferior part of the lower jaw. The glosso-jiharyngeal, the trunk erf" the par vagum, and the ninth, are so connected together that it is difficult to determine precisely to which nerve each branch belongs; they have beai with great care af^ortioofid to tbax respectiTe nerves in this descriptioi. accompanying the carotid artery into the cranium, and uniting with the vidian and the facial nerves. On issuing from the cranium, he describes it as being closel\ connected vith the vagus and with the glosso-pharyn- geal nerves, so that it is difficult to say whe- ther a superior cervical ganglion exists or not: and as the cervical vertebra are here devoid of the vertebral canal, the nerve is equallv inse- parably connected with the vagus throuirhout the whole length of the neck. Below the sixth cervical vertebra the sympathetic nen e separates itself from the sheath of the va<rus, and becomes connected with a middle cervical ganglion, whence issue filaments that are dis- tributed to the aorta, the cardiac plexus, and the cseliac plexus. Between the seventh and eighth cervical vertebrse is situated the inferior cervical ganglion, which seems to be merely an elongated swelling of the nerve;