167 PROTEIN. of their composition must render such meta- morphoses comparatively easy. The composition of fibrin is C400 ^310 Oj2o '^P' or ten equivalents of protein united to one of sulphur and phosphorus. It also usually contains from 1*3 to 2*3 per cent, of inorganic matter, chiefly phosphate and sulphate of lime, and alkaUne salts. Albumen. — This important compound, so called from its constituting the solid matter of white of egg, exists in two conditions, perfectly distinct in physical properties from each other ; the one soluble and miscible with water in all proportions, as it is found in the serum and white of egg ; the other solid, and quite inso- luble in water, as in white of egg after boiling. The solid form is also met with, in a some- what modified condition, in the albuminous tissues of the body, as the brain, spinal cord, nerves, &c. Tlie proportion of albumen con- tained in some of the animal products may be seen in the following table. 100 parts. Albumen. Blood of ox 18-6 hog 18-58 goat 19-28 „ sheep I8-35 East India isinglass 7'2 to 13 5 Egg, white of 15-5 „ yolk of 17-47 Liver of ox, parenchyma of 20-19 Sweetbread (thymus) of calf I'^'O Muscle of beef 2-2 „ veal 3-2 „ pork 2-6 „ roedeer 2-3 „ pigeon 4*5 „ chicken 3-0 „ carp 5-2 „ trout 4-4 Brain 7-0 Optic nerve 22-0 Albumen, in a state of absolute purity, has been but imperfectly examined. It may be prepared by the following process, recently adopted by Wurtz. A quantity of white of egg is well beaten up with about twice its bulk of water, and strained through linen to separate the cellular membrane. A solution of subace- tate of lead is cautiously added, which throws down a copious precipitate ; but care must be taken to avoid adding an excess of the preci- pitant, which would partly redissolve it. The precipitate should be well washed, and while suspended in water a stream of carbonic acid passed tiirough it: the liquid soon becomes frothy, owing to the decomposition of the albu- minate of lead and liberation of free albumen, carbonate of lead being precipitated. The solu- tion of albumen, after filtration, generally con- tains a trace of oxide of lead, which may be separated by adding a few drops of solution of sulphuretted hydrogen, and warming the liquid till it just begins to coagulate, when the whole of the sulphuret of lead is entangled in the coa- gulum: the liquid, which after another filtration is clear and transparent, should be cautiously evaporated at a temperature not exceeding 120°, when it leaves a residue of pure albumen. Albumen thus prepared is brittle, semitrans- parent, without taste or smell, and almost colourless. When burnt it leaves avery minute quantity of inorganic residue, which seems to be quite free from alkali: this fact is important, as it tends to settle a question which has been long disputed, viz. whether pure albumen is really soluble in water, or whether its solubility is due to the free alkali with which it is usually associated. If dry albumen be digested with water in a moderately warm place it readily dissolves, but a small insoluble residue always remains. According to Wurtz a solution of pure albumen begins to coagulate when heated to about 140°; but if it be perfectly dry it may be raised to 280° or 290° without losing its solubility. It appears to have a slightly acid reaction, and if digested at a gentle heat, with a solution of carbonate of soda, it dis- places the carbonic acid and combines with the soda. The albumen contained in white of eggs is composed of C^^q II3, „ N.^ SP. or ten equivalents of protein j^lus one equiva- lent of sulphur and phosphorus; while that obtained from the serum contains an additional equivalent of sulphur, or C^qq ^aio -^so Oj2o ^2 P- usually associated with from two to five per cent, of inorganic salts. The appearances presented by albumen with reagents are in most cases very similar to those of protein, which I have already described, and its solution in hydrochloric acid has the characteristic blue colour. Most of the acids precipitate it from its solution, but this is not the case with tartaric, acetic, and tribasic phos- phoric acids. Hence nitric acid is often used to detect albumen in the secretions. Another delicate test for albumen is ferrocyanide of potassium, which gives a white precipitate even with acid solutions; the ferridcyanide of potas- sium gives a yellowish precipitate. The appli- cation of heat is also a good test for this pruiciple: but as the presence of free alkali tends to prevent its coagulation, it is always ad- visable to add at the same time a drop or two of nitric acid, when, if both cause a precipitate, the presence of albumen may be considered certain: it must be remembered too that the presence of those acids which do not precipi- tate albumen, such as the tribasic phosphoric, tartaric, and acetic, also interferes with its coagulation by heat. Many of the metallic salts, when added to albumen, form insoluble precipitates, which are in most cases compounds of albumen with the acid or the base of the salt. A drop of a solution of bichloride of mercury will thus indicate the presence of albumen, even when diluted with two thousand times its weight of water; and this property of forming an insoluble compound has been taken advantage of in the treatment of cases of poi- soning with the bichloride, when the white of egg has been found of great service ; the white of one egg being sufficient, according to the experiments of Peschier, to neutralize the effects of four grains of the poison. Albumen is precipitated from its solutions by many »i 4