75 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 1. When the materials forming them are cri/s- talline, minute crystals, the basis of the future calculus, go on increasing in number, though not individually in size, and by their accretion, depending upon mutual attraction,form masses. Animal matter may aid in cementitig together the constituent parts, but in this form of coales- cence its occurrence to any amount is acci- dental, and tends rather to diminish the firm- ness of union. Pure uric acid calculi are formed on this model. 2. When the substance form- ing calculi is primitively amorphous, no attrac- tion exists between the minute particles form- ing the deposit; hence a medium of union or cement is necessary. This is furnished by animal matters secreted with the urine, or thrown out by the surfaces along vrhich it passes. The quantity and quality of these matters being liable to vary, the general aspect of the resulting calculus, and its properties of density, &c., must be subject to similar variety. Impure urate of ammonia calculi illustrate this mode of formation. 3. In the third species of aggregation, saline particles in a semi-liquid state form a sort of thick magma, as particu- larly insisted on by M. Civiale * ; the condensation of this magma produces a uniform mass, or small spherical bodies, or simply a pulverulent mat- ter. This mode of formation is chiefly observed in oxalate of lime calculi, but occurs also in the uric acid species mixed with various salts (e.g. in a calculus in the University College Collection composed of uric acid, urate of ammonia, triple phos- phate and phosphate of lime), and in the phosphatic. The first deposition of matter from the urine in these cases depends upon some one or more of the causes we have already enumerated in speaking of the precipitation of the saline con- stituents of secreted fluids generally. If this matter be not expelled from the body, it acts in various wnya as a source of further de- position and accumulation around itself; it is for this reason called the nucleus, and the matter accumulated around it the cor/ex, of the entire mass. Every calculus may hence be theo- retically resolved into a nucleus and cortex ; but it is not the practice to give the central part the former name, unless it be distinctly different in composition, or, at least, in aspect, from the matter immediately investing it; there are, therefore, practically speaking, non-nuclear calculi, of which the pure uric acid and cystin species furnish examples. The nucleus of a urinary calculus, although commonly formed of sedimentary saline matter, may likewise consist of various materials not naturally existing in the urine, and these ma- terials may be either formed in the body or introduced from without. First: sedimentary nuclei may be composed * Traite de I'Affection Calculeuse. of any one of the more important materials (with perhaps a single exception) detected in urinary calculi; of these uric acid and oxalate of lime are the most common, while the phos- phate of hme and triple phosphate hold the opposite position in the scale. A law esta- blished by Dr. Prout, that " a decided deposi- tion of the mixed phosphates is not followed by other depositions," is, with few exceptions, universal. Cystin has not (as far as we are aware) been found playing the part of a nu- cleus in any recorded case; to this statement a large calculus of cystin surrounded with a very thin coating of phosphates (Univ. Coll. Museum) cannot fairly be considered to sup- ply an exception. A calculus commonly contains a single nu- cleus only ; but instances are not wanting of calculi containing two, three, and more nuclei. Masses of the latter kind are probably simply aggregations of smaller ones, as appears to have been the case with that exhibited in Jig. 74. Fig. 74. Calculus with " double nucleus,^* probably a double calculus. (Univ. Col. Mus.) The mode of connection of the nucleus and cortex varies. (1.) The union may be inti- mate and general by every point of the ap- posed surfaces ; this is the most common case ; (2.) the nucleus may adhere to the cortex by asperities on its surface only ; empty spaces, or spaces filled with grey gritty matter, being interposed between them : (3.) the nucleus may be free in the centre of the mass. Of the latter rare state a striking specimen exists in University College Museum ; the surface of the nucleus is covered with dark-coloured matter in powder (dried and altered blood), some of which helps to fill the cavity existing between the nucleus and cortex. The nucleus (when of the present species) is generally the hardest part of a calculus. It forms either in the kidney, or, much more rarely, in the bladder. Secondly: animal matter, having such cha- racters as render it impossible, according to Berzelius, to determine whether it is composed of mucus or of albumino-fibrinous substance.