SKELETON. 664 are proper to the plus originiil. This interpre- tation will, I believe, stand the test of rigor- ous reasoning, and will teach the anatomist this, or nothing truthfully besides this, viz. that if the presential characters of the fore- limbs manifest such a diversified condition as precludes him from naming them quan- titatively equal and uniform things, still the diversity, such as we find it, can have occurred by no other process or law, save that of de- gradation or the metamorphosis of elemental parts. A certain part is wanting to one organ compared with another organ; and if it be by reason of the w ant of this part in one organ, which part is present in another, that I am unable to name both these organs uniform, it is no less true that this very want of the part constitutes the species. The fore-limbs of the man, the horse, the ruminant, the carnivore, the rodent, the mar- supial animal, the bird, the reptile, are not quantitatively uniform things, and this is the only reason why they are various things. If it be this quantitative difference which in- duces us to classify them separately, it is only this same mode of difference which stands in our way preventing us from naming them ab- solutely ahke. The one organ has one part which the other organ has not, and therefore both organs are various or special; but it is still most true, that it is the want of the known part rather than the superaddition of an un- known part which constitutes both organs thus special. The special thing compared with the ideal unity is simply the minus quantity compared with the plus quantity. All comparative method proves this. When I compare the fore-limb of the ass with the arm of the man, and endeavour to ascertain the law which has rendered the first as a form special to the last, I find that my analysing instrument must be not the scalpel but the calculation. For while I see that in the soliped member are arranged certain parts taking order in the self-same manner as the like parts in the human arm ; and while I further discover that the latter organ developes certain parts, which parts are not developed for the former, and that hence only arises the difference or species ; I must therefore conclude that the species depends upon the absence of some- thing, which thing, being absent, I cannot dis- sect bv any other instrument than the under- standing ; and the thing, though absent, may be still visible to the mental although in- visible to the physical eye. For the knowledge of the thing absent, viz. some of the digits of e,/fg. 483., is, I con- tend, equal to the knowledge derivable from the actual presence of the very same quan- tity, viz. those digits in a ; and, therefore, so long as I know the quantity which is absent from one ens to be the same as the quantity which is present to another ens, this must furnish me with the idea of equality, or the uniformity, as saliently as if the quantity were present for both enses. When, for example, J compare the soliped or the cloven foot with the human hand, I find that the leaser ens is contained in the greater ens, and that the other parts, which are wanting to the lesser, are still manifest in the greater; there- fore I conclude, that as the greater, viz. the human hand, can undergo a metamorphosis or subtraction of parts, so as to reduce it to the proportions of the cloven or the soliped organ successively, so has the original or plus quantity, which may be regarded as equal to the human hand, undergone a metamorphosis of parts in such degree as now yields for our contemplation the special or minus quantities, which we name cloven or soliped foot. Prop. XLI. The scapxdary and 'pelvic mem- bers are homologous. — In a former place I have given reasons why we should consider the clavicles, the pubic, and ischiadic bones as the homologues of ribs; and therefore I shall not need their presence in this place while holding comparison between the fore and hind members.* The fore-limb {fig. 485. a.) separated from the clavicle, consists, like the hind limb (e), separated from the pubis and ischium, of a fixed and invariable number of segments; and the parts which constitute these segments in both are absolutely corresponding. The scapula (a) corresponds to the ilium (e) ; the hu- merus (b) to the femur (f) ; the radius (d) to the tibia (h) ; the ulna(c) to the fibula (g). The hand is manifestly the counterpart of the foot. The carpus represents the tarsus ; the metacarpus corresponds to the metatarsus ; the phalanges of the hand are represented in the phalanges of the foot. The pisiform bone (7) of the carpus is similar to the os calcis (q) of the tarsus ; the great toe represents the thumb ; the little toe simulates the little finger. The common structural identity be- tween both organs is plainly manifest at all points save one ; and this, though often at- tempted to be explained, has not as yet yielded up its mystery. How happens it that the patella (h) and fore aspect of the hind limb (e), corresponds to the olecranon (//) and back of the fore-limb (a)? I believe that the complete solution of this problem may be had from the following remarks made in reference to Jig. 485. On comparing the right scapulary organ (a, b, c, d) with the left pelvic member (e, f, g, h), I find that the fore aspect of the former does not correspond to the fore aspect of the latter ; but when I compare the back of the arm a, b*, c*, d* with the front of the lower member (e, f, g, h), their correspond- * Yicq d'Az^T regarded the coracoid and acromiou processes of the scapuhi as repre^ienting the pubic aud ischiadic bones, while Cmveilhier states it as his opinion that the spine and acromion process of the scapuhi has no part analogous to them in the ihum. Professor Owen considers the cla^-icle as the homologue of the os pubis, agreeing in this view with Cruveilhier. But, according to Professor Owen's views, it is not with the rib that either the clavicle os pubis or ischium manifests an homology; on the contraiy, he regards the ihac bone and the scapula as the true representatives of the ribs — his pleurapophysial elements.