PROSTATE GLAND. 157 superficially ulcerated, and in some places the ulcerated surface was incrusted with a thin layer of coagulated lymph. Simple enlargement of the prostate is an- other consequence of common inflammation. It is one of the not unfrequent sequelae of repeated and neglected attacks of gonorrhcea. It is generally accompanied with induration, and is confined to the lateral lobes, rarely im- plicating the middle lobe. This condition is occasionally dependent on the irritation or stricture of the urethra, and subsides on the cure of the latter disease. Tubercles.—The deposit of scrofulous tu- bercles in the prostate is rare. When this happens it is generally found to co-exist with similar deposition in the testicles, vesiculae seminales, and the adjacent lymphatic glands, and is associated with tubercles in the kings. It occurs occasionally in the form of one large mass, occupying a large portion of the gland, and causing an increase in its size, or many small distinct depositions are found in various situations. Scrofulous tubercles of the pros- tate undergo the same progressive disintegra- tion as in other parts, and terminate in ab- scesses, which take a similar course and direction as common abscesses. I have seen the whole tissue of the gland broken down by the gradual softening of scrofulous tubercles. Mr. Cross, of Cincinnati, met with one in- stance of this disease ; it was in a young man who died in the Cincinnati Hospital of psoas abscess. There were six or eight small masses of a pale yellowish colour, and of a soft curdy consistence, scattered through different parts of the gland, which was considerably reduced in size ; he thinks they are originally formed in the follicles of the gland. Lallemand also mentions a case in which thirty small abscesses, and the same number of crude tubercles were found in the prostate. There were similar deposits in the kidneys. Cancer.— Cancer in any form is extremely rare in the prostate. Carswell regards it as a not uncommon cause of haemorrhage from the urethra, whilst Cruveilhier says that he has never seen an instance of it.—(Walshe on Cancer.) The encephaloid form is that which most commonly attacks this gland ; and, ac- cording to Walshe, in M. Tanchon's tables, out of 8289 fatal cases of cancer, in five death occurred from the disease in the prostate. Rokitanski regards the affection as very rare, and makes allusion only to the encephaloid variety. When the disease attacks the pros- tate, the gland becomes increased in size. It has been found by Mercier of the size of an ostrich's egg, " and was attended with effusion of blood into both lobes, communicating with each other and with the urethra by means of false passages." In a boy, five years old, Mr. Stafford found the prostate of a globular form, and as bulky as the largest walnut ; the mid- dle lobe was nearly as large as a small hazel nut. — (Walshe.) By the same author, a case is recorded from LangstafF of an encephaloid growth as big as an orange, which sprang principally from the middle lobe. Cancer of the prostate, as it advances, generally makes its way towards the bladder, and thus forms a bleeding mass in the cavity of that viscus, oc- casionally filling it up completely, and giving rise to a distinct hypogastric tumour, whichi have known mistaken for a bladder over-dis- tended with urine, the true nature of which was not suspected until after the introduction of the catheter. The cancerous mass at its base was surrounded with a distinct border of ulcer- ation, so characteristic of cancerous tumours, when they have made their way into cavities lined with mucous membrane. The secretion of urine is frequently, under this condition, in a great measure suspended. I have known one case where the bladder was tapped above the pubis, under the idea that it was filled with urine ; but little or no urine escaped, and alter death the bladder was found filled with a cancerous tumour originating in the prostate; and no doubt many such in- stances have happened. It is a mistake of no very serious consequence, but might be avoided if a careful examination of symptoms were instituted. If an elastic catheter were gently introduced into the bladder, it would be found to give the impression as if it entered a spongy substance, little urine would escape, and that tinged with blood and mixed with shreds of cei ebriform matter: if doubt still existed, a microscopical examination of the substance voided would, I apprehend, set the matter at rest. The introduction of the finger per rectum will assist the diagnosis. True scirrhus of the prostate is extremely rare. Mr. Travers and Sir Benjamin Brodie both allude to supposed cases of this disease, and from the narration there can be little doubt of their genuineness. The former sur- geon examined one case after death, and described the gland as occupied by a tumour, having all the character of scirrhus ; and the latter mentions an instance " where the prostate was found much enlarged, and of a stony hardness."—(Walshe.) Fibrous tumours, according to Rokitanski, are frequently found in the prostate. They are of a size varying from that of a pea to that of a hazel nut, are round or oval, causing, when seated at the peripheral portion of the gland, knotty protuberances on its surface. They are always attended with distinct hyper- trophy of the gland. This eminent patho- logist attaches great interest to them, on account of their similarity to fibrous tumours of the uterus. They are of very frequent oc- currence; and in many cases of the enlarged prostate of old men that I have had an op- portunity of examining, I found them readily distinguishable on section. This subject has been alluded to before, in the account of the morbid anatomy of the enlarged prostate. Clastic Prostate. — The prostate, like the kidney, is occasionally the seat of cystic disease. It is characterised by the formation of cysts in various parts of the gland. It is extremely rare. There is an excellent exam- ple of it in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. The gland was hypertrophied, and