588 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. afFecteJ with chronic rheumatic arthritis was, that the long intra-articular portion of the tendon of the biceps was absent from the joint, although adherent outside to the highest point of the bicipital groove (^/?^. 428.). Thisremoval of a large portion of the tendon of the biceps strikes the observer who is unacquainted with this disease as a direct proof that the tendon had been ruptured by accidental violence, and that a partial luxation of the head of the hu- merus has been the consequence. Another character of this disease is, that the humerus has a very general tendency to pass upwards towards the coraco-acromial vault; and besides the removal of the tendon of the biceps, the superior part of the capsular ligament is observed to be deficient. Those who do not know that this perforation is a consequence of slow disease, immediately take it for granted that the same accident which ruptured the tendon of the biceps had also caused the head of the humerus to be partially dislocated upwards, perforating as it passed the superior part of the capsular ligament. If, in addition to these abnormal appear- ances, small portions of bone, as if fragments broken otf from the margins of the glenoid cavity, are found to be present, as they fre- quently are, this also is an appearance cal- culated to confirm an erroneous impression, that some external violence has been the source of it; and if in addition the acromion process be found divided into two portions, as we have frequently noticed it, the preju- dice in the observer's mind may at first be strongly in favour of the idea, that accidental violence has been the source of these many and combined phenomena. But notwithstanding all these lesions, namely, the total disappearance of the articular part of the tendon of the biceps ; the perfora- tion of the superior part of the capsular liga- ment by the head of the humerus, and the separation into two portions of the acromion process, we feel convinced that all these phe- nomena combined should by no means be considered as proof of any accident having occurred to produce them ; but, on the con- trary, should be looked upon as the usual result of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder. The tendon of the biceps in all those cases of presumed accidents is said to be ruptured ; yet the chronic disease of the shoulder joint is frequently found to affect both shoulder joints in the same individual, and the long tendon of the biceps, in these cases, to be removed on both sides. It is easy to conceive that this double lesion may be the effect of disease, but difficult to imagine how any accidents could occur to "rupture" the tendons of the biceps in both shoulder joints. Nor is it easy to ad- mit that the long tendon of the biceps can be readily ruptured in partial dislocations of the humerus from accident, when we know that this tendon is rarely if ever ruptured, even in complete luxation of this bone. The statement made in the report of various cases in surgical works, and in the catalogues of Hjuseums, in which we find it briefly noted, " that the tendon of the biceps was found ruptured," has been made by the writers con- fessedly without any knowledge of the pre- vious history of the case, the anatomical cha- racters of which they are describing. On this account we feel t*ie less delicacy, after long and patient consideration of the subject, in expressing our conviction that the tendon of the biceps, in the numerous cases published, was not (as supposed to be) ruptured bv acci- dent, but absorbed as the result of disease. AVe have stated that the bones entering into the formation of the shoulder joints are very generally enlarged as a consequence of this chronic disease having for a considerable time existed in the articulation. It is right, however, here to observe, that very exten- sive inquiry into the pathological anatomy of this peculiar affection as it presents itself in the shoulder joint, will prove that some few exceptions to this rule may be occasionally met with ; and that, instead of the bones enter- ing into the formation of the shoulder joint being found hypertrophied, they may be dis- covered, on the contrary, to be in a state of atrophy; or portions of these bones may be removed altogether, as the apparent result of this chronic rheumatic (hsease. That the writer may not appear to have been singular in having observed the changes which the acromion process and neighbour- ing bones have undergone as the result of this chronic rheumatic disease, he mav refer to the dissection of a case mentioned by Cruveilhier, in which the affection we have called chronic rheumatic arthritis was so ge- neral that there was scarcely any articulation in the body exempted from its effects. When adverting to the anatomical changes observ- able in the region of the shoulder in this ex- ample, he sa\s, the external extremity of the clavicle and the neighbouring part of the acromion were in a great part destroyed, dec* In the museum of the College of Surgeons in Dublin will be found a preparation of a shoulder joint, which is styled by the late Dr. Houston in his catalogue, a specimen of chronic rheumatic arthritis of tJie shoulder ; ancl that it was justly so styled may also be inferred from the " bunches of synovial fim- briae," which hung into the synovial cavity of the joint ; the existence of hydrops ar- ticuli, or over-distension of the synovial sac by an albuminous fluid; and from the de- ficiency of the intra-articular portion of the tendon of the biceps, mentioned in the ac- count given of this case : — all these show the disease to have been correctly designated. The writer finds upon examining this prepa- ration with the intelligent curator, Mr. Carte, that the acromial end of the clavicle is ui> supported, and that the acromion process has been removed for the amount of an inch in extent; that which remains for this process * Cruveilhier, livraison ix. p. 12.