PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 90 has described a concretion found in the tho- racic duct. The lymphatics of the small in- testines have been found in this condition by Walther.* The lymphatic glands, especially the bron- chial and mesenteric, are, however, not unfre- quently the seat of calcareous precipitation in points, patches, or through their entire sub- stance ; it chiefly occurs in connection with tuberculous disease. (/) Serous and synovial cavities. — These cavities occasionally contain calcareous pro- ductions, evidently produced by the deposition of saline matter in a pre-existing organic basis. This basis, commonly effused fibrin (when the concretion has been free from the moment the process of saline deposition com- menced), has in other instances been the sub- stance of fibrous tumours once attached be- neath the serous membrane, and accidentally set free. (g.) Similar bodies are occasionally found in connection with the fibrous membranes. Andralf describes a very interesting case of tumour of this kind attached to the tentorium cerebelli. {h.) Cerebral. — A concretion taken from the brain analyzed by Lassaigne;|: was found to be composed almost wholly of fibrin, of a small quantity of cholesterin, and of 4 per cent, of phosphate and carbonate of lime — the evi- dent, though rare, result of previous hsemor- rhage. A concretion from the cerebellum, exa- mined by Simon j^, about the size of a nut, of irregular angular form, very solid, both inter- nally and externally resembling a piece of bone, and enveloped in a fine coriaceous capsule, con- sisted principally of phosphate and carbonate of lime with a little cholesterin. A similar concre- tion analyzed by John consisted of 75 parts of phosphate of lime and magnesia, and 25 of animal matter ; another examined by Morin was composed of cholesterin, coagulated albu- men, and earthy phosphates. (i.) Uterine. — Much confusion has arisen from want of accurate distinction of the diffe- rent kinds of saline deposition occurring in the uterus. These kinds, we hold to be, three in number. 1. The internal mucous surface may be coated with phosphatic salts. 2. The parenchyma of the organ may contain " ossi- form " (really calcareous) globular masses re- sulting from the deposition of saline matter in the interior of fibrous tumours. 3. The uterine tissue may be the seat of phosphatic accumulation around foreign bodies. These bodies may be either introduced {a) from with- out, or (b) enter the uterus from some other part of the genital system, (a) Of the former case Brugnatelli records a curious instance. A calculus weighing about two ounces, of rough surface, and composed of phosphate of lime, was removed from the uterus of a young peasant, and on division found to have a small * Mem. de I'Aoad. des Sciences de Berlin, 1786- 87, p. 21. t CI. Me'd. t. V. p. 8. X Journal de Chim. Med. t. i. p. 270. § Loc. cit. p. 474. piece of the tibia of a fowl for its nucleus,— broken off, no doubt, from the entire bone, which had been introduced per vag!nam,for the purpose of inducing abortion, (b) Fragments of foetus derived from extra uterine pregnancy, as also moles and hydatids, occasionally form the nucleus or basis of saline concretions. The Fallojnan tubes, too, sometimes contain calcareous concretions. Walther had in his possession a globular calculus of yellowish co- lour, a third of an inch in diameter, weighing ten grains, taken from the left Fallopian tube of a woman aged forty. It is extremely pro- bable, though not proved by examination, that these masses are, in some instances at least, the remains of fibrous tumours. (k.) Pulmonary concretions. — The pulmo- nary parenchyma is an extremely frequent seat of concretions. The basis, in which the saline material accumulates, is by far the most fre- quently tuberculous ; more rarely the fibrinous substance of simple inflammatory exudation forms its nidus: numerous points of interest are connected with these kinds of concretions, and will be more fully referred to in the section on tubercle. Cancerous substance in the lung may become locally infiltrated with saline sub- stances ; we have not known such change to occur in blood effused in this parenchyma. The appendages of the lung are likewise among the habitats of concretions. Fibrinous exudations in the pleura occasionally form the basis for simple saline precipitation ; or less frequently of an ossification-process. The bronchi become in very rare instances more or less completely blocked up with solid concre- tions, the organic basis of which, in the majo- rity of instances, is not improbably (but this point requires further investigation) that mate- rial holding a medium position between diph- theritic deposit and common inflammatory exudation matter, which constitutes the anato- mical character of " plastic bronchitis." In a case observed by Gorup-Besanez*, such, how- ever, could not have been the origin of the saline accumulation,—at least presuming the chemical analysis to have been correct. Here a coral-like " ossification " was found in the bronchi of a man aged forty-five, as thick as a crow's quill, and extending through the whole length and breadth of the lungs. It broke with a crack; whether it was hollow or not, we are left to conjecture. On analysis it furnished Fatty matters and traces of soluble salts 17.17 Mucus 32.46 Phosphate and carbonate of lime, with traces of oxide of iron 50.37 (/.) Arthritic. — The substances termed tophi or gouty concretions belong to the pre- sent class. Variable in shape, rounded or tuberculated ; of yellowish white or brownish red colour externally, internally white ; vary- ing in consistence from soft toughness to very considerable hardness; sometimes unctuous to the feel; and apparently enveloped in a * Heller's Archiv. Feb. 1846, or Medical Times, 1S46 ; also Ticc, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvi.