629 SKELETON. ^4) of the lateral mass of the sacral vertebra • (^,^g. 448.), which causes the human anatomist to name this anterior nucleary appendage as the *' peculiarity" of sacral form. This anterior nucleus of the sacral lateral mass, I call a rudimentary rib abutting against the iliac bone. Prop. X. The coccygeal vertehrce are de- prived of their costal apjiendages. — The serial order in which we find all spinal figures standing, renders it, under comparison, a de- monstrable fact, that the coccygeal bones (B,^g. 449.) are the debris or metamorphosed Fig. 449. remains of true and complete vertebrae, such as A of the thorax. It matters not as an ob- jection to the truth of this idea of coccygeal bones being the minus proportionals of full costo-vertebral quantities, that we now find them wanting many of those elemental pieces which are existing to these latter. For thongh it be true that it is impossible now to read the same number of elements in the last caudal ossicle (b) which we find elsewhere posited for all other vertebrae of the spinal series, yet I hold it to be also impossible for any ana- tomist to contemplate the presential character of a caudal bone and remain unproductive of the idea that the caudal bone (b), as a cen- trum (5), is a proportional left standing after the metamorphosis of all its other parts. If, then, we agree to this, we must also agree to the fact that those very parts (1, 2, 3, 4, of a) which a caudal centrum (such as b) wants, are identical with those same parts which are left standing to other vertebrae. Now, when I find that a coccygeal ossicle (b, 5) holds series with the centra (5) of all other vertebras, I have every reason to name it as being the centrum of its own vertebra, which has under- gone metamorphosis ; and therefore I may conclude that the plus original of the caudal ossicle (b, Jig. 449.) is equal to a, or to any other vertebra of the spinal series. It will be sufficient to the present argument, which holds comparison in order to establish the ideas of original or archetype uniformity, that we clearly understand how the original or archetype of a coccygeal bone is equal and uniform with any other vertebra of the spinal axis. The coccygeal bones (b) as nature pre- sents them to us are vertebral centra, having had subtracted from them their spinous (1), neural (2), and costal elements (4); and un- der this interpretation we nay have as strong an idea of the whole or plus quantity (a) of which caudal bones (b) have been metamor- phosed, as if we saw those quantities still per- sisting entire. The difference between any of the costo-vertebral spinal segments and a caudal bone is like the quantitative difference between a-\-bi\nda —b. Thus A,^g.449., minu.s the elements 1, 2, 3, 4, equals b ; while b plus the elements 1, 2, 3, 4, equals A. Prop. XI. 77ic first seven thoracic costo- vertebral figures are ivhole or phis qunntitics. —In no one respect do the first seven thoracic costo-vertebral figures (all equal lo fig. 4.50.) differ from each other; in each of them m;.y be counted the same elemental pieces ; and those pieces of each (marked as in fig. 450.) are identical or homologous both as to position, use, mode of growth, number, and linear order. These elements consequently bear the same name in each, and most properly, be- cause the corresponding pieces of each are absolutely similar. Consequently, also, tiie whole quantities (such as fig. 4i0.), which are Fig. 450. compounded of those pieces (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7), should properly bear the same name ; and therefore I call them sterno-costo-verte- bral circles. There are, then, seven whole seg- ments (such as fig. 449.) of the human spinal axis, which absolutely resemble each other in quantity. These segments are posited in linear order, and by this arrangement they yield an absolute linear uniformity. Such linear uniformity is evidently the result of quantitatively equal figures being posited in serial order ; these figures enclose the thoracic space completely ; and, l)ecause they severally manifest an equal number of homologous ele- ments, so is it impossible to read any condi- tion of specific variation between them. As archetypes, or whole quantities, of the mam- mal spinal axis, these seven thoracic sterno- costo-vertebral figures have no special di- versity. When we compare them with one another we discover no more distinction between them than we find between the serial quantities + a-\-b, a-\-b. It is quite true, therefore, that there is at least one regional department of the mammalian spinal axis, to which we may apply the name of absolute uniformity, as fittingly as we might apply it to a linear series of circles. And it is, moreover, true that the thing called species is, so fiir as regards this linear series of plus thoracic figures, as perfectly absent, as if it were non- existent everywhere. But yet it is possible for nature to work specific variety from out of this linear series of thoracic archetypes (such as fig. 450.). And how may nature effect this ? Just in the same mode as she effects it in the creation of skeletal bodies comparatively contemplated, and this mode is the sub- 5 s 3