SECRETION. 437 finishes the vital activity of the Hving tissues, tends also to increase their duration ; and this not merely by causing them to live more slowly, but by obstructing the spontaneous decom- position of their organic constituents. This reduction may be carried to such an extent as, on the one hand, to suspend all vital action, whilst, on the other, it prevents decomposi- tion ; so that the body remains in a state of dormant vitality, undergoing no change what- ever for an indefinite period, but ready for a renewal of its vital activity whenever an in- crease of temperature shall awaken its slum- bering energies. (See Life.) The more nearly a living structure is reduced to this con - dition, the less interstitial change does it un- dergo ; the less nutriment, therefore, does it require; and the less effete matter is there to be thrown off. The activity of that spontaneous interstitial change, which takes place as a part of the mere vegetative life of the animal organism, further varies in accordance with the period of life of the flibric taken as a whole. Thus all the tissues, even those most consolidated, are undergoing continual changes in the young animal, in which the processes of decay and renewal go on much faster than in the adult; and in the adult, than in the aged person. Thus we have seen that the duration of the deciduous teeth is very limited; whilst that of the permanent teeth may be coeval w^ith the hfe of the entire animal, little or no inter- stitial change taking place in them during the whole of that period. So also the component parts of the bony structure, which in the adult are almost permanent, and in the aged become so remarkably solidified that little or no in- terstitial change can take place in tliem, are liable in the growing child to continual de- composition ; no part of the substance of a long bone having any permanence, but the in- terior layers of the shaft being removed (by absorption^ it is commonly said, but the absorp- tion being probably in reality preceded by de- generation), so as to enlarge the medullary ca- vity, in proportion as new layers are formed on the external surface. This may be partly ac- counted for by the imperfect degree in which, so long as the entire organism is undergoing rapid increase, the normal structure is de- veloped in any one portion of it ; for as the degree of consolidation is less, the tendency to decay will be greater. But this explanation is not in itself sufficient, and we must be con- tent, for the present, to regard it as a general law, that, with the advance of life, the duration of the individual components of the organism increases, whilst their functional activity diminishes. (See Age.) 3. But, in the third place, the exercise of the Animal functions seems to be essentially destructive of the structures which are their instruments ; every operatic n of the muscular and nervous systems appearing to require, as its necessary condition, a disintegration of a certain portion of their tissues, probably by the union of their elements with the oxygen supplied by arterial blood. The duration of the existence of these tissues may be clearly shown to vary inversely with the use that is made of them, being less as their functional activity is greater. Hence, when an animal is very inactive, it requires but very Httle nutri- tion ; if in moderate activity, there is a mode- rate demand for food ; but if its nervous and muscular energy be frequently and powerfully called into exercise, the supply of aliment must be increased, in order to maintain the vigour of the system. In like manner, the amount of the effete matters, which result from the disintegration and decay of those tissues, must increase with their activity, and diminish in proportion to their freedom from exertion. 4. A necessity for the secreting process may further arise within the system from the ingestion of superfluous aliment. This would not be the case, if the amount of food prepared by the digestive process, and taken up by absorption into the current of the cir- culation, were always strictly proportional to the demand for nutriment created by the wants of the system. There can be no doubt that almost every individual who is not re- strained by considerations of economy, or by fear of unpleasant consequences, from indulg- ing his natural appetite, really takes in more food than the wants of his system absolutely require \ and all that is not appropriated to the reparation of the waste, or to the increase in the weight of the body, must be thrown off by the excreting organs, without having ever been converted into organised tissue. The superfluous portion of the non-azotised con- stituents of the food may be deposited as fat in those individuals who have a disposition to the production of adipose tissue ; but the azotised constituents cannot be applied in like manner to the unlimited increase of the mus- cular and other tis-^ues ; and that which is not speedily converted into organisable material, and drawn off from the blood by conversion into organised tissue, would accumulate in- juriously in the circulating current, and would taint it by decomposition, if it were not con- tinually removed by the excreting processes. 5. Again, it cannot be deemed improbable that the changes which the crude aliment un- dergoes, from the time of its first reception into the absorbents and blood-vessels, to that of its conversion into organised tissues and into the materials of secretions eliminated for some special purpose in the economy, involve ti^.e liberation of many products, of which the elements are superfluous, and therefore injuri- ous to the system if retained within it. The condition of organic chemistry, however, is not at j)resent such as to admit of anything beins: advanced with certainty under this head. From these various sources, then, a lar^je amount of effete matter is being continually- received back from the tissues into the current of the circulation, or is generated in the blood by the changes to which it is itself subject; and it is one great object of the secreting ap- paratus, to free that fluid of the products which w^ou'J rapidly accumulate in it, but for the