SHOULDER JOINT—(Normal Anatomy). 576 shoulder joint, and as being intended to com- pensate i'or the incomplete reception of the head of" the humerus by the glenoid cavity. The centre of this arch is formed by the coraco- acromial or triangular ligament, of which the apex is situated at the acromion, and the base at the outer edge of the coracoid process. The ligament consists of two bundles, sepa- rated by a cellular interval, and placed more anteriorly the one than the other. The acro- mion and coracoid processes constitute re- spectively the extremities and the points of support to the arch, whilst its under surface is accurately adapted to the convexity of the head of the humerus, the tendon of the supra- spinatus muscle intervening. The existence of the large bursa (elsewhere noticed) between this tendon and the coraco-acromial ligament, abundantly proves that considerable motion takes place between them : the upper surface of the ligament is concealed by the deltoid muscle. In this arrangement may be recognised a provision for protecting the shoulder-joint against violence from above (Voute jjrotcc- tatince, Blaudin), and the humerus against displacement from below, either directly up- wards or with an inclination backwards or forwards. And for such a provision there is the greater necessity, as the upper extremity is constantly exposed to forces which act upon it from below. Mechanical functions. — In common with other enarthrodial articulations, the shoulder joint enjoys the following varieties of motion : 1. Flexion ; 2. extension ; 3. adduction; 4. ab- duction ; 5. circumduction ; and 6. rotation. 1. Of the opposed motions of flexion and extension, the former possesses the greater latitude. When carried to its utmost extent, the humerus appears to move through the arc of half a circle of which the centre is at the joint ; for the arm from being parallel to the trunk in the direction downwards, may by this motion be raised vertically upwards. 2. Extension, on the other hand, is much more limited, being restrained by the great strength of the anterior portion of the capsule, by the inter-articular ligaments, and by the contact of the head of the humerus with the coracoid process, which are all calculated to check the advance of the head of the humerus, the necessary result of extension. Flexion and extension, although apparently performed in the scapulo-humei al articulation solely, are really distributed over a much more extended sphere, being shared by the scapula, and by the articulations of the clavicle with the acromion and with the sternum. When extreme flexion or extension takes place, the scapula undergoes a motion of rotation upon its axis (an imaginary line i)ass- ing through the centre of the bone) ; and the result is, that when the humerus is flexed the superior angle of the scapula moves back- wards, and its inferior angle forwards , wht reas, in extension of the arm, a change of position the reverse of this is produced in the scapula. This rotation of'the scapula is favoured by the looseness of the ligamentous connections of the acromio-clavicular articulation, whilst it is restrained within bounds by the coraco- clavicular ligaments (conoid and trapezoid). The trapezoid limits the advance of the upper angle of the scapula ; the conoid checks the rotation which would carry it in the opposite direction. The muscles which chiefly effect the rotation of the scapula are, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboidei scapu- las, serratus magnus anticus, and the pectoralis minor. Of these the trapezius and serratus magnus rotate the scapula, so as to elevate its acromial end ; whilst the rhomboidei muscles and the pectorahs minor produce the contrary effect ; the latissimus dorsi can only act on the scapula when it takes an origin from its inferior angle. If it were possible for the levator anguli scapulae to act independently of the other scapular muscles, it would depress the acromion ; but as this rarely, if ever occurs, its ordinary action is to assist those muscles which elevate the entire scapula, and, conse- quently, the shoulder joint. 3. The motions of adduction and abduction are remarkably contrasted : the former can hardly, with strict propriety, be said to exist, being prevented by the immediate contact of the arm with the side; adduction, however, in an oblique direction forwards and inwards, is permitted. This motion is limited by the projection of the thorax : when the arm is placed in this position the head of the humerus is strongly pressed against the posterior por- tion of the capsule, and if force -were to be applied to the distal extremity of the lever under these circumstances, dislocation back- wards might be produced. 4. The motion of abduction is the most extensive of those enjoyed by the shoulder- joint ; it permits the separation of the arm from the side, until it becomes parallel to the trunk in a direction upwards ; flexion has been stated to be capable of the same range, but the latter owes much of its freedom to the mobility of the scapula, whereas in abduc- tion the scapula moves but little, and nearly all the motion takes place in the scapulo- humeral articulation. Abduction is limited by the contact of the neck of the humerus with the acromion, and by the resistance of the capsular ligament. When fully performed, the head of the humerus revolves in the glenoid cavity, and in its de- scent presses strongly against the inferior portion of the capsule; if force be now ap- plied to the upper extremity from above, the ligament may give wav and dislocation be effected. More frequently this accident oc- curs when the arm is moderately abducted, and the mechanism b} which, under such cir- cumstances, it is effected, may be briefly ex- plained. When a person falls on the inside of the elbow, while the arm is abducted, the upper extremity represents a lever of the third order, of which the fulcrum is at the point of contact of the elbow with the ground, and the power at the " folds of the axilla;" the at-