PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 74 faeces, to be readily soluble in sulphuric and hydrochloric acids without effervescence. Crystals discoverable during life in connec- tion with acknowledged states of disease may be provisionally arranged as follows : — Crystals forming in (a), Natural secretions and excretions al- tered in properties (h), Products flainmation.. of (c), Specific fluids of ((/), Adventitious For Urine, Faeces &c. Plastic 1 exudations, Serous J Pus, Gangrenous products, Catarrhal discharges. Vaccinia, Variola, Syphilis, Glanders, f Cancer, mations \ Acephalocysts, &c. Of the natural secretions which (in conse- quence of alteration in their composition) are liable to contain saline matters in the form of minute crystals, the urine is by far the most important. With the strictly crystalline variety may be associated certain amorphous pulveru- lent precipitates. These products occur in the urine in the form of pe/licle, cloud, or sedi- ment; in other words, they form a thin stra- tum on the surface of the fluid, float between the upper and lower surfaces, or gravitate^^to the bottom of the containing vessel. These varying positions, appreciable to the naked eye, aid the observer in forming a rough esti- mate of the nature of the saline matter, and may be almost conclusive on the point. The microscopical and chemical characters com- bined supply, however, the real evidence from which their composition is ascertained*; in order to avoid repetition, we will defer the consideration of these characters until engaged with the subject of urinary calcuH. We shall have occasion to recur, in describing the mor- bid substances (b, c, d), referred to in the above classification, to the appearance of crystals within them. But it may be stated here, as a general fact, that as the materials of all such crystals exist primarily in solution, and as absorption, evaporation, or chemical appropriation of water leads to their deposi- tion in the crystalline form, there is a source of fallacy in the examination of preparations kept in spirits ; certain salts, combined with the aqueous part of the material examined, are deprived of their water by the alcohol, and separate in crystalline forms. § 2. Masses. — Adventitious products be- longing to the present sub-class, and possess- ing sufficient bulk to be called masses, form ♦ As the majority of the substances included tinder the present head enter (though comparatively in small quantity) into the composition of healthy lu-ine, it is necessary to observe that they, practi* cally speaking, acquire the character of adventitious products through the new form they assume, when the proportion in which they accumulate increases. an important group, divisible into two series differing from each other in a variety of im- portant natural characters. Some of them are, in truth, composed wholly or essentially of saline or other non-plastic materials, precipi- tated from the fluids of the system ; others of similar materials, deposited in an adventitious basis, itself stromal or non-stromal. In the first series, the non-plastic compounds form the essential, if not the whole, " materies morbi;" in the second, these compounds are merely superadded to pre-existing matter (com- monly morbid) of another kind ; and such superaddition, instead of increasing the ac- tivity of functional disturbance in the system, tends frequently to weaken the destructive influence of that pre-existing matter. For the sake of convenience, bodies belonging to the first series may be termed true calculi, or sim- ply calculi; to the second, jjscudo-calculi, or co}icretio7is. (A) Calculi. — True calcuH, answering to the definition just laid down, may be deposited from almost all the secreted fluids. But of these fluids, the urine is, perhaps, the only one of which the sahne and other actual constitu- ents, independently of any materials naturally foreign to their composition, form the sub- stance of calculi; when calculous formations occur in other secretions, foreign ingredients may almost invariably be detected. The saline substance thus met with in calculous masses, and which does not enter naturally into the composition of the secretion, (or enters in excessively small proportion,) is most com- monly the phosphate of lime. So frequent is the occurrence of this salt in calculous masses on mucous surfaces, as to lead irresistibly to the conclusion that mucous membrane has a specific tendency to secrete this salt, under certain conditions of local irritation. (a) Urinary calculi. — Various constituents of the urine are capable of accumulating indi- vidually, or in association with each other and with certain animal substances, (mucus, fibrin, albumen, fatty matters, colouring matters,&c.,) so as to form masses of variable form and size ; these masses are according to their bulk termed calculi, miliary calculi, and gravel. The same materials unaggregated into masses form the substance of sediments, clouds, and pellicles. The following are the substances which to various amounts have been recognized as the constituents of urinary calculi: uric acid, urates of ammonia, of soda, of magnesia and of lime, oxalate and benzoate or hippurate of ammonia*, oxalate of lime, xanthin or uric oxide, cystin, phosphate (neutral and basic) of lime, triple phosphate of ammonia and mag- nesia, carbonate of lime, carbonate of magnesia, silica, peroxide of iron, fat, extractive matter, colouring matters, fibrin, albumen, and mucus. The coalescence of the component parts of urinary calculi is effected in three chief w ays. * Simon remarks that the presence of the ben- zoate, as recorded by Bruguatelli, and of the oxa- late, as described by Devergie, is scarcely compatible with the great solubility of those salts.