646 SKELETOy. thoracic rib, invites the reason to name all these pieces as costiform, wherefore should F>g. 468. TTie cervical spine of the Ornithorhynchus, Showing that h the coracoid bone, d the clavicle, and e the sternal end of the rib, are serial homo- lognes. we not regard the pieces 1,2,3.4,5, con- tinued serially into the rib of 6, as beins cos- tiform like^vise, despite the fact that anato- mists have already regarded the pieces 1 and 2 as the coracoid and cla^acular bones r Do we not see in fig. 469. that the parts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 point to the parts a, by c, rf, e, just as the part 6 points to the part/'? If it be said that the parts 1 and 2 (the coracoid and clavicle), being disconnected from the cervical ribs (a and b) are therefore to be regarded as quantities unrelated originally to a, b, I must doubt whether this can efface from the rational mind the belief that the now separated pieces o, 1 or b, 2, taken as whole quantities, equal the costo-sternal form/, 6. Whether or not the above-mentioned interpretation as to the origin of the bones called clavicle and coracoid be true, must be seen through the facts as they are here recorded: but be this interpretation as it may, I plainly affirm that the comparative anatomist has no positive evidence, near or remote, directly or indirectly, either by a similarity of structure, or function, or po- sition, or auiiht else, to resard the cora- Fis. 469. T7i€ cervical spine o f a Lizard. In which the cervical ribs, a, b, c, d, e, point to the coracoid bone 1, the clavicle 2, and the pieces marked 3, 4, 5, as their proper continuations, and j ust as the sternal rib, 6, continues the vertebral rib, /, to the sternal median line. coid process of the human scapula as the counterpart of the bone (d fig. 466.) called coracoid in the bird, or of 2. the coracoid of fig. 469., the reptile.* The anatomist may just as well call the sternum a series of vertebrae (a statement by-the-by which some * On referring to the " Homologies of the Verte- brate Skeleton," I find, in the section " General Homology-," the following opinion, advanced re- specting the coracoid bone, that it " is always deve- loped from an independent osseous centre (a rudi- mental representative of the hsemapophysis), which coalesces with the pleurapophysis in mammalia, and only attains its normal proportions completing the arch with the haemal spine (epistemum) in the monotremes." The reader will not, perhaps, com- prehend the author's meaning in this sentence, taken separate from the flowing context of the work cited. The meaning of the sentence is this : — The scapularv- organ is referred to the occipital vertebra, as the hjemal arch of this segment of the skull, the scapula is interpreted as its pleurapophysis or rib, and the coracoid bone (process) is accoxmted the haemapophysis appended to the costiform scapula, and thus the t^-pical occipital vertebra is formed. Although I regard the work from which I have quoted to be a lasting monument of learning, re- search, and inductive reasoning — a worthy effort in a great cause — still I cannot concur in the opinion which that work announces respecring the relation between the scapulary member and the occipital vertebra. have made)*, as to say that there is identity between the human coracoid process and the bird's coracoid bone. However endless may be the whole account of specific difference be- tween bone and bone, and between one skele- tal form and another, st:ll there does appear happily some well-marked limits to the homo- logies. Xo one, for example, wiil torture the bone named scapula into an identity of cast w ith the bone named rib t ; and I believe that the same absolute difference is possible to be pointed out between the coracoid process of the human scapula and the bone named cora- coid in the bird, or that bone so named in the chelonian reptile. The coracoid process of the human scapula is an elemental part proper to the scapula, just as the centrum is a part proper to the vertebra The bone called coracoid (d, fig. 466.) in the bird abuts against that part of the bird's scapula where the coracoid process usually appears in mammal scapulae; but this coracoid bone is not representative of the mammal coracoid * De Blainville, Meckel, and Carus entertain this opinion, which certainly has no support from, natural evidence. + It is true, however, that this very opinion re- specting the scapula is advanced by the distin- guished author of the " Homologies," &c.