66 PORIFERA. fasciculate, and diverging from the centre to the circumference. Skeleton. — The framework, or fibrous portion, from the arrangement of which the sponge derives its form is composed, as we may gather from the preceding table, of va- rious materials differently disposed in different species, and it is upon the modifications in Fig. 68. A minute portion of the surface of Tethea Cranium magnified; spicula projecting beyond the surface. (^After Johnston.^ the nature and arrangement of the solid por- tions that the general characters of the mass depend. In the true sponges {Spongin), so remarkable for their elasticity and softness, and for their capability of absorbing fluids, properties which render them valuable for many important uses ; the whole substance is composed of horny subcylindrical fibres, which ramify and interlace in every possible direc- tion, anastomosing with each other so as to form innumerable continuous cells and intri- cate canals, the walls of which, in the recent sponge, are crusted over with the gelatinous Fig. 69. Single interspace or open cell, and surrounding finer mesh-work of the skeleton of Euplectella Aspergillum. (^After Owen.) living cortex. The horny threads composing tliis inextricable labyrinth are of unequal thickness, and by some writers have been erroneously described as being throughout tubular; but this latter is a mistaken view of their structure, dependent upon optical ap- pearances, as has been {)roved by Mr. Bovver- bank * and others, the horny fibres being, in fact, solid and imperforate. In a second group of Sponges, called Halichondria (xaAi?, silex; x^^^P^^i carti- lage), the solid framework of the body is principally made up of silicious spicula,'im- bedded in the fibre or parenchyma of^ the * Microscopic Journal, vol. i. p. 10. sponge. These spicula, which are composed of pure silex^ are generally united into fasciculi by an enveloping glutinous or condensed cel- lular substance, and by the junction of these fasciculi in various modes fibres are formed, which traverse every part of the body, form- ing the boundaries of canals and orifices, and giving form and support to the whole of the gelatinous or soft cellular substance of the animal.* The spicula, so far as the British species are concerned. Dr. Johnston observes, seem to be always in the shape of simple needle-hke crystals {Jig. 70); nor does any Fig. 70. A minute film of the rijid of Tethea Lyncurium com- pressed between plates of glass, and highly magnified to show the needle-like and starred spicula. {After Johnston.) species present us with spicula of two differ- ent forms, though they sometimes vary much in length and gracility ; but he cannot assent to the opinion of Dr. Grant that the form is different in every distinct species, otherwise the task of distinguishing them would be com- paratively easy.-j- A third group of Sponges, designated by Blainvllle, Calccspongia, has the framework which gives them form solidified by the pre- sence of spicula, which are entirely composed of carbonate of lime : in sponges belonging to this group there is, according to Dr. Johnston, no net-work, their basis being a porous mem- brane, rendered compact by the profusion of spicula imbedded in it. The siliceous spicula belonging to the preceding group form mostly needle-like spines ; but there are found along with them, in the genus Tethea, some that might have been the model from which mytho- logicid painters might have drawn the trident they have placed in the hands of Neptune. {fig. 71, d). The calcareous spicula are more variously shaped — either simple and acicular or clavate, or formed with three, or even some- times with four prongs. The two kinds, viz. the calcareous and siliceous, have not hitherto been detected co-existent in any British sponge ; but the spicula of every species are very constant to the same figure, although in point of size they vary exceedingly.;]: " When these spicula are examined through the micro- scope after exposure to a red heat, we dis- tinctly perceive," says Dr. Grant §, " a shut * Grant, Com p. Anat. p. 5. f British Sponges, p. 89. Johnston, loc. cit. Edin. Phil, Journ., xiv. p. 184.