REPTILIA. 289 jaw are fixed together at the symphysis, and are opposed by the usual vertical movement to a similarly complete maxillary arch above : these belong to the genera Amphisboena and Anguis of Linnaeus. The rest of the Ophi- dians (true serpents), which form the typical members, and by far the greatest proportion of the order, [)rey upon living animals of fre- quently much greater diameter than their own ; and the maxillary apparatus is conformably and peculiarly modified to permit of the requisite distention of the soft parts sur- rounding the mouth, and the transmission of their prey to the digestive cavity. The two superior maxillary bones have their anterior extremities joined by an elastic and yielding fibrous tissue, with the small and single intermaxillary bone; the symphysial extremities of the lower maxillary rami are connected together by a similar tissue, allowing of a still wider lateral separation. The op- posite or posterior extremity of each ramus is articulated to a long and moveable vertical pedicle, formed by the tympanic or quadrate bone, which is itself attached to the extremity of a horizontal pedicle formed by the mastoid bone, so connected as also to allow of a certain yielding movement upon the cranium. The palatine and pterygoid {d) bones have similar loose and moveable articulations, and concur with the other dentigerous bones of the mouth in yielding to the pressure of the large bodies with which the teeth may have grappled. ^^'ith the exception of the Deirodon scaber and some congeneric species, in which the teeth of the ordinary bones of the mouth are so minute as to have been deemed wanting, the maxillary and premandibular in all true Ophi- dians are formidably armed with sharp-pointed teeth ; there is on each side the palate a row of similar teeth supported by the palatine and pterygoid bones. In the great Pythons, and some species of Boa, the intermaxillary bone also supports teeth. All the teeth, -whatever be their position, present a simple conical form ; the cone being long, slender, and terminated by an acute apex; and the tooih is either straight, or more commonly bent a Uttle beyond the ha>e, or simply recurved, or with a slight sigmoid inflection. The teeth are thus adapted for piercing, tearing, and holding, and not for dividing or bruising. In some species, certain teeth are traversed by a longitudinal groove for conveying an acrid saliva into the wounds which they inflict : in others, two or more teeth are longitudinally perforated for trans- mitting venom ; such teeth are called poison fangs, and are always confined to the superior maxillaries, and are generally placed near the anterior extremity of those bones. In the genus Deirodon the teeth of the ordinary bones of the mouth are so small as to be scarcely perceptible ; and they appear to be soon lost, so that it has been described as edentulous. An acquaintance with the habits and food of this species has shown how ad- mirably this apparent defect is adapted to its VOL. IV. well-being. Its business is to restrain the undue increase of the smaller birds by de- vouring their • eggs. Now if the teeth had existed of the ordinary form and propor- tions in the maxillary and palatal regions, the egg would have been broken as soon as it was sei/ed, and much of its nutritious contents would have escaped from the lip- less mouth of the snake in the act of de- glutition ; but, owing to the almo>t eden- tulous state of the jaws, the egg glides along the expanded opening unbroken ; and it is not until it has reached the gullet, and the closed mouth prevents any escape of the nutritious matter, that the shell is exposed to instruments adapted for its perforation. These instruments consist of the inferior spinous processes of the seven or eight pos- terior cervical vertebrae, the extremities of which are capped by a layer of hard cement, and penetrate the dorsal parietes of the oesophagus : they may be readily seen, even in very young subjects, in the interior of that tube, in which their points are directed backwards. The shell being sawed open longitudinally by these vertebral teeth, the egg is crushed by the contractions of the gullet, and is carried to the stomach, where the shell is no doubt soon dissolved by the acid gastric juice. ' In the Boa Constrictor the teeth are-^lei^der, conical, suddenly bent backwards antl jn- wards above their base of attachment, ?kyith the crown straight curved, as in the po**^r;or teeth. The intermaxillary boiie supports four small teeth ; each superior maxillary bone has eight much larger ones, which gradually decrease in size as they are placed further back ; there are eight or nine teeth of similar size and proportions in each pre- mandibular bone. These teeth are separated by wide intervals, from which other teeth similar to those in place have been detached. The base of each of the above teeth is extentled transversely, compressed antero- posteriorh', and anchylosed to a shallow alveolus, extending across the shallower alveolar groove. An affinity to the lizard tribes is manifested by the j:reater develop- ment of the outer as con.pared with the inner wall of the alveolar furrow. The palatine teeth, of which there are three or lour in each palatal bone, are as large as the superior maxillary, and are similarly at- tached : the pterygoid teeth, five or six in number, which complete the internal dental series on the roof of the mouth, are of smaller size, and gradually diminish as they recede backwarils. In the interspaces of the fixed teeth in both these bones, the places of attachment of the shed teeth are al- ways visible ; so that the dental formula, if it included the vacated with the occupied sockets, would express a greater number of teeth than are ever in place and use at the same time. In the smaller species of boa the intermaxillary bone is edentulous. In certain genera of the non-venomous serpents, as Drj/op/iisj Dijjsas, and Bucephalus, u