319 REPTILIA. This portion of the cloaca is bounded both before and behind by a ring projecting in- ternally, composed of strong muscular fibres, which form two sphincter muscles. The second portion of the cloaca has its walls thinner than the preceding. The longi- tudinal folds of the mucous membrane of the first portion suddenly terminate, with the exception of the median fold, which is con- tinued around the termination of the ureter, enclosing it, as it were, between two broad lips, which are then prolongetl in the shape of two folds along the median line of the dorsum of the penis, becoming gradually less distinct as the urethral groove which they bound becomes deeper: it is in this second portion of the cloaca that the penis is folded up when in a state of repose. In the crocodiles the disposition of the cloaca is nearly similar, but in these Saurians there exist on each side of the root of the penis two wide apertures, through which a free communication is established between the exterior and the cavity of the peritoneum. In the caiman (Alligator sclcrops) the cloaca is divided into three compartments, the ante- rior of which receives the rectum ; the second contains the orifices of the vasa deferentia, of the ureters, and of the allantoid bladder; whilst the third is appropriated to the lodgment of the penis. In this case the dorsal groove of the penis is bounded by two folds of mu- cous membrane, which are prolonged back- wards into the middle chamber, so as to establish a communication with the openings of the vasa deferentia. In those reptiles which have the penis doubled, viz. the Saurians (minus the croco- diles) and the Ophidians, these organs are not enclosed in the cloaca : in such races the external opening of the cloaca is always a transverse slit, bounded by two lips, the pos- terior of w hich is more or less moveable : it is between these lips, just within their lateral conmiissures, that the two male organs are situated. The posterior lip of the cloaca encloses in its substance a series of orifices which are the openings of the excretory ducts of as many little glands, which seem to represent the anal glands of other vertebrata : they secrete a thick sebaceous matter. Besides these, there are in many genera of reptiles a series of crural glands, situated near the orifice of the cloaca; these exist in all the Lacertidae. In many Iguanidae and other Saurians these glands become largely deve- loped as the season for impregnation ap- proaches. In the Chelonian reptiles the peyiis is very large, and both in its structure and form somewhat resembles that of the ostrich. It is long, nearly cylindrical in its shape, and enlarged towards its extremity, which termi- nates in a point. A deep groove extends along the whole length of its dorsal surface, which becomes gradually deeper as it ap- proaches the glans, near the middle of which it terminates by a kind of orifice, divided into two by a papilla. From the depth of this groove it is evident that the mere approxi- Firr. 236. Penis of the Tortoise. (After BoJ anus.) E, bulb ; L, corpus cavernosum ; ii, urethral groove; k, its termination near the centre of the glans; i, glans penis ; 56', retractor muscle. mation of its edges will convert it into a complete canal. This penis is composed of two corpora cavernosa, the fibrous walls of which are blended together throughout some part of their extent. They commence by two vascular enlargements, analagous to the bulb of the urethra in the penis of mammalia. The erectile tissue is prolonged from this bulb (Jig. 23G), Fig. 237. 31ale Organs of Generation of the Tortoise. (After Bojanus.) a, the rectum; c, convolutions of epididy-mus terrainatmg in the vas deferens; x, which likewise indicates the point where the urethra enters the cloaca ; o, p, the kidney; y, the testes ; e, the bidb of the urethra ; k, cavernous portion ; m, the urinary bladder; q, the left supernumerary- lateral bladder; l,r, r', s, X, z, blood-vessels; 55,'retractor muscle of the penis. along two canals, the walls of which are fibrous, and at first very thin ; but they soon increase in thickness considerably, their cavity becoming diminished in the same proportion. All the enlargement that constitutes glans is composed of this vascular tissue, prolonged from the cavernous body, which is covered by a loose and wrinkled skin, and, moreover, sup- ported by a prolongation of the fibrous wall of the corpus cavernosum, which is continued to its point. The skin which lines the urethral groove has also a layer of this erectile tissue placed beneath it ; but this is equally a prolongation from the erectile tissue contained in the ca- vernous body. There is on each side of the dorsal groove