203 QUADRUMANA. wanted, and the rest of the sternum composed of as many segments or stcrnebrce (Blain- ville), as there are true ribs. The form of the ribs has much analogy in the anthrojjo-morphous Apes with the ribs of vian. Their number corresponds with that of the dorsal vertebrae; consequently it is 13 in the Chimpanzee and in the Siamang, 14 in some Gibbons, 12 in the Orang-oetan and in the greater number of the other species of monkeys. They form a very ample and con- vex thorax in the Chimpanzee, the Orang-oetan, and the Gibbonsy which becomes gradually more narrow and compressed in the Semno- pitheci, the Inui, and Cynocephali. In the size and length of the anterior extremities, the Orang-oetan and the Siamang are remote from man, to whom the Chimpanzee ap- proaches a little more. In the Orang-cetan and in the Siamang they are so long that they touch the ground, and in the quadruped position of the trunk the Orang-oetan is forced to curve the hands outwards, and to support itself upon their dorsal surfaces. In the Chimpanzee, sustaining himself in a semi-erect position, they touch the superior third part of the fibula. In the erect position of man they descend not lower than the third inferior part of the thigh. Consequently the Chim- panzee, the Orang-oetan, and the Gibbons, exhibit, as permanent conditions, proportions of the posterior extremities, w^hich in the human subject are transitory, and proper to the early periods of foetal life. It is, however, according to the observations of Owen, a remarkable fact, that in the young Chimpan- zee the lower extremities, instead of being shorter, in relation to the trunk, are longer, their adult proportions arising from the in- creased development of the trunk and ante- rior extremities, which are thus made fit for the vigorous acts of climbing. In the Chimpanzee the clavicle exhibits the same sigmoid curve as in vian, but the sca- pula deviates from the human form by being narrower, in proportion to its length, by the spine running more in the direction of the axis of the trunk, and by being situated more towards the middle of the scapula, and more perpendicular to its plane. The acromion process Is longer and narrower than in man. In the Orang-oetan the scapula is broader and more analogous to the scapula of man, but its spine is inclined towards the superior costa; its acromion is narrower and clavi- form, and its coracoid process has a greater inclination downwards. This inclination is an indication of inferiority manifested in all the lower species of monkeys, but it is wanted in the Chimpanzee and in the Gibbons, in which the coracoid process has the same direction as in man. That it is an indication of being placed on a lower scale is proved by the fact, that in all the Mammalia with cla- vicles the same disposition is observed. The humerus is long in the Chimpanzee, and in all the other long-armed Apes, in which also the fore-arm is longer than the humerus, and composed of two bones, radius and ulna. curved in two opposite directions, so that the space existing between them becomes very large. In the Mandrill, and all the other monkeys of the Old World, the disproportion between the anterior and posterior extremi- ties exists no more ; or if there is a dispro- portion, it is produced by the greater length of the posterior extremities. The humerus and forearm are in them almost of the same length. The hand of the Chimjwnzee is com- posed of the same number of bones as the hand of man; but the trapezium and trape- zoides are proportionally smaller, while the OS jnsiforme is of larger dimensions, being nearly equal to the os magnum. The small size of the trapezium evidently relates to the shortness of the thumb, which it supports. The little finger is also shorter, as compared with the other fingers, than in the human subject. The metacarpal bones are chiefly remarkable for their length; the phalanges, both for their length and their interior curva- ture. The hand is thus admirably formed for clasping the thick boughs of forest trees. On the sides of the anterior surfaces of the first and second phalanges, there are ridges for the insertion of the ligaments for the tendons. The general opinion is, that the carpus of the Orang-oetan offers the same number of bones as in man and in the Chimpanzee; but I have proved in my Rech. d'Anatomic comparee sur le Chimpanse, that there is in the Orang- oetan an additional bone, situated between the two series of carpal bones (/g. 124.), which I found also in the Gibbons, and which seems to exist in all the lower monkeys. De Blain- viLLE has described it by the name of os intermediaire. Its existence in the Orang- oetan, and its absence in the Chimpanzee, are facts of some importance, as they prove that also in this point of organisation the Chim- panzee is superior to the Orang-oetan. Another character of the hand of the Orang- oetan, and of all the other Monkeys of the Old World, is the length and the narrowness of the metacarpus, and the length of the digital pha- langes, with the comparative shortness and backward position of the thumb. The sole ex- ception I know is in the Siamang, whose hand represents almost the hand of man, on a more elongated scale. The trapezium is not situated on the same level as the other bones of the carpus ; consequently the thumb, the bones of which are comparatively longer and thicker than in the Chimpanzee or Orang-oetan, can be opposed to the other fingers. "The middle finger is the longest, and the metacarpal bones decrease from the index to the httle finder in the same manner as in man. In the Mandrill, on the contrary, the four metacarpal bones of the fingers are of the same length, and the middle finger is not longer than the other. Thereby the forehand loses all its analosy with the hand of man, and approaches to the form of the paws in the Caryiivora. In the Semnopitheci the thumbs offer a dispropor- tionate shortness, which scarcely surpass the rudimentary form, and prepare us in some