619 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. flammation of the membranes of the brain, and Dr. Smith* made the post-mortem ex- amination. Upon entering the room his attention was attracted by the appearances which the shoulder joints presented. The de- viations from the normal state were most remarkable at the left side. The muscles of the shoulder and arm were atrophied, the acromion process projected considerably, and the head of the humerus could be perceived lying a little beneath the coracoid process, the apex of which was in a line with the bicipital groove of the humerus. The na- tural roundness of the shoulder did not exist, and the elbow could be readily brought into contact with the side. The right shoulder joint presented similar appearances, but in a slighter degree; the head of the humerus was not placed so directly beneath the coracoid process ; but the flattened form of the shoul- der, the atrophied muscles, and the projection of the acromion, all indicated that the condi- tion of the joint was nearly similar on both sides. From the last circumstance, and the absence of any external sign of disease, it was concluded that the deformities were the result of an original or congenital malformation. The anatowical examination of the joints confirmed this opinion. Upon the left side there existed scarcely any trace of an arti- cular surface in the situation which the gle- noid cavity occupies in the normal state ; but there had been formed on the costal surface of the scapula a socket of a gle- noid shape, measuring an inch and half in its vertical direction, and an inch and a quarter transversely. It reached upwards to the under surface of the coracoid process, from which the head of the humerus was merely separated by the capsular ligament, there being no interval between the summit of the abnormal socket and the coracoid pro- cess. Around this socket the glenoid liga- ment, perfect in every respect, was continued from the margin of that small portion of the natural articulating surface which existed upon the axillary margin of the bone, and to the apex of which the tendon of the biceps was attached. The capsular ligament was perfect. The head of the humerus did not present its natural spherical form; it was of an oval shape, its long axis corresponding with that of the long axis of the shaft of the bone. The shaft of the humerus w^as small and seemingly atrophied, and the position of the bone with respect to the coracoid and acromion processes varied according as the motion of rotation inwards or outwards was imparted to the arm. During rotation out- wards in this case the head of the bone passed towards the acromion process, and occupied the small portion that existed of the glenoid cavity on the normal site; while rotation inwards brought the head of the humerus altogether beneath the coracoid process, so that the finger could be easily sunk into the outer portion of the socket.f * Smith on Fractures, &c. t This species of locomotion of the articular head On the right side, although the condition of the bones was somewhat different, the cha- racteristic features of the deformity were similar. In this case it was ascertained, that there never had been any disease of either of the shoulder joints at any period of the patient's life, nor had they ever been the subject of in- jury or accident of any description. The position of the glenoid cavity in this case, beneath the coracoid process, the remarkable form of the head of the humerus, the presence of a perfect glenoid ligament, the absence of any trace of disease, and the existence of the deformity upon each side, all indicate that the nature of the malformation must have been congenital, although but little of the early history of the case was known. Congenital malformation of the sJionlder joints with displacement of the head of the humerus on the dorsum of the scapula. — The second case we think right to abstract from Dr. R. Smith's work is also a very important one, equally proving that a double congenital luxation of the head of the humerus may be observed to take place backwards on the dorsum of the scapula, just as we have already shown that Fig. 442. Congenital luxation on the dorsum of the scapula. an analogous dislocation forwards has oc- curred. of a bone representing the proper rotation which should exist, is a consequence of the existing lax state of the fibrous structures of the joint. "We have ah-eady noticed a similar condition of the liga- ments, and a similar effect, when describing a case of congenital malformation of the vadio-humeral joint. See Elbow Joint, Vol. II. note to page 81, where it is said — " These movements did not con- sist in a simple rotation of the radius on its longi- tudinal axis, but a real change of the upper extre- mity of the radius on the outer condyle of the humerus." J