445 SECRETION. lacteals are dispersed; and in part of substances taken up by the lymphatic or interstitial divi- sion, and probably consisting chiefly of par- ticles which are 'set free by the continual disintegration of the living structure, but which, not being yet decomposed, are capable of being again employed for the purposes of nutrition. The materials derived from these sources appear to require a considerable pre- paration or elaboration, before they are fit to be introduced into the current of the circula- tion ; and this elaboration is effected by an agency of precisely the same nature with that which is concerned in the removal of various products of secretion from the blood ; for the tubuli of the absorbent system, like those of the kidney or the testis, are hned by epithe- lial cells, and their duty seems to be altogether analogous. The alterations which the ab- sorbed matters undergo during their passage along this system of tubes, and the evidence thatlhese alterations are in great part due to the elaborating action of cells, having been heretofore considered (^see Nutrition), need not be again dwelt on ; but a few words may be added respecting the structure and func- tions of the glandulag or ganglia, with which the absorbent vessels of man and the mam- malia are copiously furnished. These bodies are composed of lacteal or lymphatic trunks, convoluted into knots, and distended into cavities of variable form and size, which are known as the "cells" of these glands. Amongst these cells there is a copious plexus of blood-vessels, but there is no direct com- munication between their cavities. Accord- ing to Prof. Goodsir *, the epithelium which lines the absorbent vessel undergoes a marked change where the vessel enters a gland, and becomes more like that of the proper glandu- lar follicles in its character. Instead of being flat and scale-like, and forming a single layer in close apposition with the basement mem- brane (as it does in the lacteal tubes before they enter the gland, and after they have emerged from it), we find it composed, within the gland, of numerous layers of spherical nucleated cells, of which the superficial ones are easily detached, and which appear to be identical'with the cells that are found floating in the chyle and lymph, especially after their passage through these bodies. The absorbent glands may be regarded, therefore, as concen- trating within themselves that agency, to which the whole system of tubuU is more or less subservient. Such an idea is strictly ac- cordant with the facts of comparative anatomy; for in reptiles, in which there are no glands, the tubuli or vessels are enormously length- ened by the convolutions which they present along their course, as if to furnish a suffi- cient extent of epithelial surface. There is strong reason for regarding the spleen, the thymus and thyroid glands, and the supra-renal capsules, as parts of the same assimilative apparatus, their office apparently * Anatomical and Pathological Obsen^ation r. 4G. being, to withdraw certain crude matters from the blood, to submit these to an elaborating action whereby they shall be rendered more fit for the nutrition of the tissues, and then to restore them to the circulating current. The details of the structure of these organs will be found under their respective names; and it will be sufficient to state here, that they all show an essential correspondence with the true and recognised glands in every respect but this, that they have no eflf'erent ducts. Each of them may be described as consisting essentially of a number of vesicles, which are either closed and isolated, or open into a common reservoir, which is itself closed ; the vesicles in either case are lined with epithelial cells.* Around these, as around the follicles or tubuli of the true glands, blood-vessels are copiously distributed; and the elimination of products from the blood appears to be effected by their agency, precisely as if these products were destined to be cast out of the body. The mode in which they are taken back into the circulation, after they have been subjected to the elaborating process, is not very clear; both blood-vessels and absorbents have been supposed to participate in the operation ; and this idea may not be regarded as improbable, v^hen the large size and number of the lymphatics distributed to these organs is considered. Having thus taken a general survey of the principal varieties of secretory structure, and of the chief aspects under w^hich the secreting function presents itself, we shall pass on to a more particular consideration of the mode in which this operation is performed, and of the instruments by w^hich it is effected. For this purpose it will be preferable to select a par- ticular gland, and to examine the minutiae of its structure in the most diverse forms and conditions under which it presents itself; and there is none which suits our purpose so well as the liver, which is the gland of most universal existence throughout the whole animal series, and which presents almost every leading variety that is found in the whole series of glandular structures. And we gladly avail ourselves of the opportunity thus afforded, of bringing the account already given of that gland (see Liver) into con- formity with the increased knowledge of its structure that has been since acquired. There are few animals possessed of a dis- tinct digestive cavity, in which some traces of a biliary apparatus (recognisable by the colour of the secretion) may not be distinguished. Thus in the Hi/cb-a, some of the cells that form the lining of the stomach contain a brownish-yellow matter, strongly resembhng bile, which is probably poured into the cavity on the rupture of the cells. In the walls of the stomach of the Actinia^ Dr. Thomas Wil- liams has described sulci formed by duplicatures of the lining membrane, in which are lodged a set of cells of glandular appearance, some *■ See Prof. Ecker, in Annales des Sciences Na- turelles, Zoologie, Aout, 1847.