344 RESPIRATION. several of the calculations of the amount of the watery vajiour exhaled from the lungs proceed on the supposition that the expired air is saturated with moisture, but this has not been substantiated by the only experiments made with the view of deter- mining this point. In Moleschott's experi- ments, the amount of water held in solution varied. In five out of seven experiments the watery vapour in the expired air was appre- ciably less than what is sufficient to saturate air of the same temperature, while in one experiment it was saturated. On taking the average difference in the seven experiments performed, as much as possible under similar circumstances, between the actual quantity of moisture in the expired air, and in air of the same temperature saturated with moisture, he found that 2420 cub. cent. (147-620 Eng. cub- inches) of the expired air would require a quantity of watery vapour additional to that already existing in it equal to 10 millegrammes ("150 Eng. Troy grains) to saturate it. From these experiments he concludes "that in the greater number of instances the expired air in man is not saturated with watery vajiour, but sometimes such a saturation occurs."* Magendie observed, in experiments on dogs, that the escape of an increased quantity of watery vapour from the mouth follows the injection of water into the veins, caused, as he supposes, by the transpiration from the lungs being considerably increased.f Animal mattei's in quantities too minute to be subjected to analysis are also exhaled from the lungs, and escape along with the expired vapour. The condensed vapour from the lungs, when collected in a vessel, and kept for some days, putrefies, and emits an ammoniacal smell.;}: We are also often sensible of the escape of different substances, previously taken into the sto- mach, along with the expired air, by their smell ; and the experiments of Nysten §, of air respired by himself in a state of rest, supposing the temperature of the expired air to be 980-6 Fahr., and saturated ^\ith. moisture, the temperature of the inspired air to be 570-2 F., and containing only its average quantity of moisture, that the quantity of water in the expired air ^-ill amount in the '24 hours to 55oo-880 Troy grains, of which, on an average, 4953-993 grains may be allowed for the loss of water from the inner surtace of the lungs and air passages, and 601-887 grains for the quantity previously con- tained in tiie inspired air. As, however, the body is not at rest during a considerable part of the "24 hours, the loss of watery vapour must be greater than this. * Hollandische Beitrage zu den anatomischen und physiologischen Wisseuschaften, band i. S. 96. 1846. t Compendium of Phvsiologv, translated by Mil- ligan, p. 395. 1831. X Valentin and Brunner (Opus cit. pp. 571, 572), in their experiments on the human species, detected the presence of a minute quantity of organic matter in the expired air. This was ascertained by the sulphuric acid, through -which the expired air was made to pass, becoming red. Marchand (Journal fiir praktische Chemie, von Erdman imd Marchand, band xxxiii. S. 129. 1844), in his experiments on frogs, also observed this. § Recherches de Physiologie, &c. p. 145. Magendie*, Tiedemannf, and others, prove that various organic and mineral substances, when injected into the veins, escape in part by exhalation from the lungs. If the inspired air, during its sojourn in the lungs, becomes increased in bulk from an increase in ten-iperature and an addition of watery vapour, it suffers a small diminution from the absorption of part of its constituent gases. The older experimenters observed a diminution in the air respired, but as they experimented with imperfect apparatus, and transmitted the expired air through water which would absorb part of the carbonic acid gas, little confidence is to be placed in their results.J There can be no doubt that a greater amount of oxygen disappears from the inspired air than what is sufficient for the formation of the quantity of carbonic acid gas in the expired air, and that there is a slight diminution in the bulk of the expired air from this cause ; but we cannot speak so decidedly regarding any changes in the quan- tity of the nitrogen. Provencal and Hum- boldt §, in their experiments on the respi- ration of fishes, and J>pallanzani ||, in his experiments on snails, observed an absorption of azote : while Jurinel and Xysten**, in their experiments on the human species, and Ber- tholletf-f-, Despretzjj, Dulong§§, and Mar- tignyll II, in their experiments on warm-blooded animals, and TreviranusTT in his experiments on the cold-blooded animals, observed an exhalation of azote. Dr.W.F.Edwards***, in * Opus cit. t Zeitschrift fiir Physiologie, band V. 1835. This paper is translated in the British and Foreign Quar- terly Review, vol. i. p. 241. Tiedemann, in this paper, has given an account of all the experiments previously performed on this point by others. X GoodAv^-n (Opus cit. p. 51), Plafi" (Nicholson's Journal of Natural Philosophy, vol. xii. p. 249. 1805), Dr. Alex. Henderson (Nicholson's Joimial, vol. Aiii. p. 40), and Sir H. Davy (opus cit.), in their experiments on the human species, observed a dimi- nution in variable proportions in the respired air; and Henderson, Plafl', and DaA^-, supposed that part of this diminution was caused by the absorption of nitrogen at the lungs. § Me'm. de la Societe d'ArcueU, [torn. ii. p. 388. 1809. II Memoire sur la Respiration, traduit par Sene- bier, pp. 162, 184, and 230. 1803. An absorption of azote was not imiformly observed by Spallanzani. ^ Me'moire couronne en 1787, par la Socie'te Rovale de Me'decine, as quoted bv Nvsten. ** Opus cit. p. 186. ft INIe'm. de la Societe d'Arcueil, torn. ii. p. 459. XX Annales de Chimie et de Physique, torn. xx\i. p. 337. 1824.' §§ Maaendie's Journal de Phvsiologie,'torn. iii. p. 4b. 1823. nil Magendie's Journal, torn. x. p, 337. 1824. Zeitschrift fiir Physiologie, band iv. Trevi- ranus says, " in some of my experiments there was more azote than carbonic acid exhaled, and this not only in the avertebrata, but also in the frog." p. 33. *** De rinfluence des Ascens Phvsiques sur la Tie, p. 420. Tableaux 63, 64, aiid 65. 1824. Dr. Edwards concludes from his experiments that there is both a constant exhalation and absorption of azote at the lungs, and that these two actions are sometimes equal, while at other times the one preponderates over the other.