215 QUADRUMANA. often wanting. The first molar of the lower jaw on each side is so much acuminated and in- curved that it resembles a canine. The muzzle is short and triangular ; the ears small; large nj'ctalope eyes, close to each other; no tail, or a short one, and a long narrow tongue. They feed upon insects. Their habits are nocturnal, and their movements very slow. They inhabit Eastern Asia. Spec. — Steiiojjs iardigradus, S. gracilis^ S. javanicus. To these ought to be added the Stenojjs potto Bosnian, coming from the coast of Guinea. It has a short tail and a short index. In a skull of a young Stcnops potto, from the Museum at Leyden (y?g. 135), the distance Fig. 135. Skull of Stenops potto. ( Original, Mus. Leyden.') between the two orbits is much larger than in Steno'ps javanicus, iardigradus and gracilis. It is the narrowest in Ste?iops gracilis, broader in Stenojjs javanicus, still broader in S. Iardi- gradus, and the broadest in ^S*. potto. In S. potto the circular boundary for the orbits is not so distinct as in other species. Fourth Gemis. Lichanotus Illiger. Iiidri. The same form of teeth, but they have only two incisors in the lower jaw. This genus has but one species (L. Indri), distinguished by the want of the tail. Madagascar. The dental formula is : Incisors, - ; canines, ? : molars, 1^=30. '2' '2' '10 Fifth Genus. Semnocebus Lesson. Avahi. The Semnocebus approaches very much to Lichanotus, from which it differs by the exist- ence of a tail, and by the form of its skull. In a skull of the Mus. Leyden {f g. 136 ), Fig. 136. Sliull of tlie Avahi. (^Original, 3Ius. Lei/den.) I observe a depression on the frontal surface, between the two orbits, which part is, on the contrary, convex in Lichanotus. The muzzle is not so much protruded as in Lichanotus^ and more flat on its anterior part, formed by the intermaxillary bones. The teeth are the same in both. Madagascar. Spec.—Semnocebus laniger or Avahi. Sixth Genus. Cheirogaleus. Among the unpublished drawings of Com- merson, Geoffi'oy St. Hilaire discovered re- presentations of certain Lernur-like animals, which he considers as constituting a distinct genus. The characters were at first very in- distinct ; but we are now acquainted with the external aspect, the skull, and the teeth of this genus. The dental formula is : incisors, 2—2 . 1—1 1 6—6 rp. ; canmes, ; molars, =36. The 6 1—1 5—5 superior incisors are situated in two pairs, with a great interval between both. On each side of the upper jaw there is a large canine, with six molars, of which the two first have acuminated crowns, and seem to be spurious molars; the four posterior are tuberculated. In the lower jaw there are six long and narrow prociive incisors, of which the two exterior are the strongest; a vertical canine on each side; a spurious molar with acuminated crown, and five true tuberculated molars. In the form and the size of the skull, Cheiro- galeus has some analogy with Lemur, parti- cularly by a pecuhar opening in the zygo- matic bone. The muzzle however is not so prominent, and the interval between the orbits smaller. The form of the skull is in- termediate between Lemur and Stenops. Spec,—Cheirogaleus Commerson11. Seventh Genus. Lemur. Malci, Fr. Meer-kal, Dutch. Incisors, ^ ; canines,^?—^; molars, ^ - = 36. 4 1 — 1 '6—6 The six inferior incisors are compressed and directed forwards ; of the four superior ver- tical incisors, the two middle are distant from each other; the canine teeth are very acumi- nated ; the molars acuminated and alternating in each jaw. The ear not much developed. The tail long, bushy, and highly ornamented. The muzzle is very prominent, lengthened, and pointed ; for which reason the French call the Makis Singes d museau de renard They feed upon fruits, and inhabit chiefly Mada- gascar. Spec.—Lemur calta, Tj. macaco, L. ruber, L. mongos, L. albifrons, L. nigrifrons, L. rufus, L. albimanus, L. cinercus. The Lemur murimis, Maki nain ought to be separated from the other Lemurs. It seems a transition to OtoUcnus. Eighth Genus. Galcopithecus. Vliegoide-hat, Dutch. This genus has been considered by Cuvier to belong to the Cheiroptera, but Temminck and De Blainville have perfectly well de- p 4)