271 REPTILIA. bones, the larger of which (c) supports the metatarsals of the fourth and fifth toes, whilst the smaller (^d) is situated between the preceding and the metatarsal bones of the second and third toes. This latter is also slightly connected with the astragalus, which alone supports the metatarsal bone of the internal or representative of the great toe. The four first metatarsal bones are slender and nearly straight, becoming progressively longer as far as the fourth. The fifth is short, wide, and curved superiorly towards the larger of the two bones of the second row (c), to the side of which it is articulated. The thumb or internal toe consists of two phalanges, the second of three, the third of four, and the fourth of five ; this is the longest toe in the foot of a lizard, giving to it the peculiar elongated and unequal form by which it is immediately distinguished. The fifth toe, although almost as short as the first, is composed of fouf phalanges. The ungueal phalanges of all the toes are sharp, hooked, and pointed. The above description, with slight dif- ferences as to the proportions, is applicable to all those subgenera of lizards which have their limbs fully developed, with the exception of the Chameleons and certain Geckos. Even in the chameleon it is the proportions Fig. 188. Anterior Extremity/ of the Chameleon. of the carpal and tarsal bones that differ, rather than their number or arrangement. The five bones of the last row of the tarsus are very large and oblong, instead of being flattened. In the state of pronation and torsion in which the foot is placed, the os pi- siforme is attached to the inner margin ofthe ulna, between it and the radius. The ulnar carpal bone (fg 188, d) and the radial (c) are small, the central bone (e) being the largest of all, and around this the five carpal bones of the last row are arranged hke the spokes of a wheel. These five bones are longer than in ordinary lizards, and in fact represent the metacarpal bones as well as the last row of the carpus, leaving the fingers possessed of their proper number of phalanges. This re- markable arrangement permits the foot of the chameleon to be, as it were, split into two divisions. The thumb, the index, and the middle finger are connected by the skin into one group, which is turned inwards, while the two remaining fingers, similarly encased, are turned outwards, thus enabling this remark- able reptile to grasp firmly the boughs among which it lives by a mechanism very similar to that of the foot of a parrot or other scansorial bird. In the tarsus of the chameleon the me- chanism is very similar. The tibial tarsal bone {^g. 189, a\) and the fibular tarsal bone (I)') Fig. 189. Posterior Extremity of the Chameleon. are equally of small dimensions, whilst the central bone of the tarsus (f/), which articu- lates with both the above, is of a spherical form, and serves as a pivot for the move- ments of the foot. It has another bone (c) attached to its outer side, and the rest of its circumference is occupied by the attachments of the five metatarsal bones, the shape of which resembles precisely that of the cor- responding bones in the hand; and in like manner they most probably represent the last row of the tarsal bones of ordinary lizards conjoined with those of the metatarsus. This being allowed to be the case, the thumb- finger of the chameleon consists of two pha- langes, the first finger of three, the second