6^1 SKELETON. that, because it is plus quantity, no new appa- ratus ever appears, or can appear, at that locality which it occupies. Anatomical re- search has never 3et discovered, and never can at any future time discover, a new and hitherto unknown osseous piece of any form or cast whatsoever at that spinal region where the thoracic apparatus stands fully created from the sternum in front to the spinal bone behind. Anatomical science may safely ven- ture to predict that the searcher after variety and specific differences will never find in any skeletal form, whether of extinct species, of existing species, or as yet uncreated species, a new osseous apparatus happening where the complete thoracic apparatus occurs. It can- not occur at this locality, because the full archetypal osseous quantity is already existing in thoracic structure. There is no regional spinal variety, and no new or special apparatus, in the thoracic ophidian skeletal axis, be- cause the full or archetypal osseous quantity already exists in the thoracic form. The ophidian skeleton has neither cervix, loins, sacrum, clnvicles, coracoid bones, ventral ap- paratus, pubic bones, or marsupial bones, be- cause the whole length of its spinal axis is already persistent in costo-vertebral thoracic character. If it be said that these various apparatus are not created for the ophidian skeleton, because they would not suit this particular cast of form, and that the " nihil supervncaneumy^ is a rule with nature in the construction of animal beings, I grant the truth of this most freely ; but still I will main- tain that this has no power to invalidate my present argument, which is conducted not to disprove design, but to demonstrate that all de-ign occurs by the omission of elemental structure proper to plus archetypal structure. I grant that the ophidian thoracic skeleton, though deprived of all the above-named special apparatus, is as perfect in its own design as the " paragon of animals" himself is, or as any other cast of skeletal form furnished with those same apparatus ; but yet I say that it is as impossible, as it would be unfitting, for creative force to give birth to such a form as the thoracic ophidian, and furnisli it at the same time with clavicles, cori.coid bones, ven- tral apparatus, marsu[)ial bones, cervical, lum- bar, and sacral vertebrae. Moreover, I assert it to be likewise impossible for creative force to produce any of those apparatus, or all of tliem, for a skeletal figure, if such figure were not at the same time to manifest a cervical, a lumbar, or a sacro-caudal spinal region. In whatever skeletal form the cervix or loins or sacro-caudal spinal region is developed, in this same form alone can we find the hyoid and ventral apparatus. It is quite true that a skeleton may be found characterised with the cervical and Km.bar, &c. vertebrae, and yet not characterised with clavicles, coracoid bones, ventral ribs, or marsupial bones ; but where the^e do exist, then such a spinal axis as that of the ophidian, consisting of costo-vertebral archetypes, cannot at the same time exist. The continuity of such a thoracic spinal axis must be broken directlv anv Sf^ecial apparatus, such as 1, 2 offg. 462.,' or 'l,'^,3,4 o\'Jig. 463., appears upon it. A thoracic skeletal axis, in TTie cervical spine of the Jlenopone, Showing that the hyoid circles 1, 2 appear as the ribs of cervical vertebra, and hold serially related to those ribs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, which, having been subtracted from the thorax, give to this latter its particular form. order to be of what I call full plus archetypal dimensions, should present its spinal segments, one and all, from the skull to the other ex- treme, in sterno-costo-vertebral quantities, such as the thoracic spinal segments of the human skeletal axis. Upon such a skeletal axis there could not appear such an apparatus as the h\oid structure (1,2 of/^. 462. or 1, 2, 3, 4 of^g. 463.),orthe clavicles, the coracoid bones, marsupial bones, pubic bones, or ventral appa- ratus, and for this reason, namely, that all the osseous quantity which goes to construct these, when fitness and special design demand their presence in the skeleton, must be drawn from the costal and sternal quantity of the continu- ous series of archetypes, and in such case the presence or creation of the hyoid species of VOL. IV. apparatus must imply the metamorphosis of the other costo-sternal species of form. Now, the ophidian skeleton itself proves to be im- perfect when compared to this standard ske- letal figure, consisting of sterno-costo-verte- bral archetypes ; for the sternal median structure is lost to the ophidian throughout its entire length. In the ophidian skeletal axis, I find the cervical region, or that division of the spinal segments which immediately succeeds the occiput, having the costae or ribs persisting ; but those ribs are free, that is to say, they do not meet the sternal line in front. The sternal pieces and the sternal ends of the ribs are wanting ; but in that very locality where these should appear, if the archetypal sterno-costo-vertebral segments were perfect T T