o o 2 would seem to be peculiarly abundant, being apparently of the same kind as that of which the byssus of these animals is composed. The ordinary account of the mode of growth of the shells of Bivalve Mollusca,— that they are progressively enlarged by the deposition of new laminaj, each of which is in contact with the internal surface of the preceding, and extends beyond it,—does not express the SHELL. whol 563 truth ; for it takes no account of the fact that most shells are composed of two layers of very different texture, and does not specify whether both these layers are thus formed by the entire surface of the mantle whenever the shell has to be extended, or whether only one is produced. An examina- tion of Jig. 417. will clearly show the mode in w^iich the operation is effected. Tliis figure Ficr. 417. Vertical section of shell of Unto occidens, near the U and tlie internal or nacreous layers: a a', hV, cd, Magnified 8 diameters. represents a section of one of the valves of Unio occidens, taken perpendicul^rly to its surface, and passing from the margin (at the right hand of the figure) towards the umbo (which would be at some distance beyond the left). This section brings into view the two substances of which the shell is composed ; traversing the outer or prismatic layer in the direction of the length of its cells, and passing through the nacreous lining, which is seen to be made up of numerous laminae, separated by the lines aa\ bl/, cc\ &c. These lines evidently indicate the successive formations of this layer; and it may be easily shown, by tracing them towards the umbo on the one side, and towards the margin on the other, that at every enlargement of the shell its whole interior is lined by a new nacreous lamina, in immediate contact with that which preceded it. The number of such laminae, therefore, in the oldest part of the shell, in- dicates the number of enlargements which it has undergone. The outer or prismatic layer of the growing shell, on the other hand, is only formed where the new structure projects be- yond the margin of the old ; and thus v/e do not find one layer of it overlapping another, except at the lines of junction of two distinct formations. When the shell has attained its full dimensions, however, new laminae of both layers still continue to be added ; and thus the lip becomes thickened by successive for- mations of prismatic structure, each being applied to the inner surface of the preceding, instead of to its free margin. The same ar- rangement may be w^ell seen in the Oyster; with this difference, that the successive layers have but a comparatively slight adhesion to each other. The shells of Terchraiulcc, and of several ), showing the arrangemtnt of the outej or prismatic, successive lines of growth; d, margin of the valve other genera of Brarhiopoda., or Pa.ll'iobran' chiate Bivalves, are distinguished by peculiari- ties of structure, which serve to distinguish them from all others. When thin sections of them are microscopically examined, they present a very peculiar texture, {fg. 418. a.) FiiT. 418. a b Portion of the shell of Terebratula australis, shoicing the orifices of the perforations, and the peculiar structure of the shell: at a the shell is traversed by the section; at i is sho-svn its internal surface. which might be referred either to long flattened cells, or to plications in the shell-membrane ; on the other hand, the natural internal surface of these shells always exhibits an imbricated aspect of great regularity (b). If the section pass very obliquely towards this surface, it becomes evident that these imbrications are formed by the outcrop of the long flattened cells or folds, which were seen when the plane of the section has passed in the direction of