190 PULSE. at noon and in the afternoon for subsequent consideration. The earlier authorities who have been cited as favourable to an increase of frequency towards evening were not without support from actual experiments, though those experi- ments were made in ignorance or disregard of some essential circumstances which tended to impair their value, such as the effect of pos- ture and of food and exercise. The earliest series of experiments which admits of being employed for the purpose of deciding this question is that contained in the Medicina Statica Britannica of Keill, published in 1718, and which the writer has been at some pains to analyse. Next in order of time are the tables of Bryan Robinson, published in his Animal Economy, 1732. The last series of facts, in confirmation of the opinion of the older authorities, was published by Falconer, in his Observations respecting the Pulse, pub- lished in 1796. It will economise time and space to present the general results of these three series of experiments in a tabular form.* Morning. Evening. Difference. Keill 80-50 89-72 9-22 Bryan Robinson (Pulses of A.) 70 76 6-00 (Pulses of B.) 68-50 78 9-50 Falconer - 69-60 76 6-40 Average 72-15 79-93 7-78 The results of these four series of experi- ments would appear to furnish a very strong probability in favour of the theory prevailing among the older authorities of an increased frequency of pulse towards the afterpart of the day; and if all the experiments had been made in full cognisance of the influence of posture and other exciting causes on the pulse, and with a due regard to those circum- stances, they would have been quite conclu- sive. Even as it is, they must be admitted to establish a presumption, if not in favour of a universal law, at least for a general rule, or for a frequent exception to the opposite theory. Some experiments, however, per- formed by Nickf on his own person, of which part were made in the same manner as those of Robinson and Falconer, and part with the precautions just indicated, would lead us to entertain a doubt whether the older authorities may not have been altogether misled by an erroneous or careless mode of performing their experiments. Nick's expe- * A minute account of the experiments of Robin- son and Falconer, and of the literature of this part of the subject of the Pulse, will be found in the Me- dical Gazette, June 10. 1839. Keill's observations, from which the averages are calculated, amount to 256 in the morning, and 275 in the evening; the observations of Bryan Robinson were continued for twelve weeks in the first case, and three weeks in the second; while the observations of Falconer were continued almost daily for more than three months. t Op. cit. p. 5—13. riments, performed in the same manner as those of Keill, Robinson, and Falconer, that is to say, without any unusual precautions, gave, as an average of four series, made on four different days, a pulse of 59 at h past 7 A. M. and 64 at midnight ; and as the result of a single series beginning at 5 a. m. and ending at 10 p. M., a pulse of 59 for the first named hour, and 64 for the last. In each of these experi- ments the pulse was more frequent in the even- ing by 5 beats. In both these cases the posture was disregarded; but even when, as in Bryan Robinson's experiments, the sitting posture was preserved in all the observations, but other precautions disregarded, similar results were obtained. Thus, in one instance, the pulse was 66 at 6 a. m., and 71 at 8 p. m,; and in an average of three series of observations the pulse, which was 70 at 9 a. m., was 72 at ^ past 10 P.M. In the one case, therefore, there was an increase towards evening of 5, and in the other of 2 beats. When, however, the experiments were conducted still more carefully, the recumbent posture being pre- served in all the experiments, all mental and bodily excitement being avoided, no food taken, and the same temperature preserved, an average of six series of observations gave 63*8 as the pulse at 8 a. m., and 58 at 7 P. m., being a difference of 5'8 beats. The credit of propounding a diminished frequency of the pulse towards the afterpart of the day, as the true theory, is due to Dr. Knox*, who made several series of experi- ments, in order to establish it. The general results of these experiments with those of the writer, and some facts gleaned from other sources, are thrown together in a table.f As the true state of the case did not seem to be made out even by this balance of autho- rity, it was thought desirable to add to the number of observations. Accordingly several averages of the number of the pulse the first * Ed. Med and Surg. Journal, vol. xi. p. 53.1815. f The second and third experiments of Dr. Knox were made after dinner and supper respectively. For full particulars of his other experiments the reader is referred either to the original essay or to the Medical Gazette, June, 1839. An account of the writer's experiments will be found in the Guy's Hospital Reports, No. viii. Dr. James Saunders' ex- periments were not made with any \aew to this ques- tion, but as a preliminary to the effect of digitalis on the pulse (Treatise on Pulmonary Consumption). Except when taking large doses of the drug, the pulse retained in this respect its normal character, being, in three experiments (dose 15 di-ops twace a day), 70 in the morning and 66 in the evening, and in two experiments (dose 25 di-ops), 76 in the morn- ing and 70 in the evening; but when the dose was raised to 50 drops twice a day, the pulse became 80 in the morning and 90 in the evening, and, on the following day, when the dose was again reduced to 25 drops, it remained at the last named numbers. From some experiments on the pulse, which form part of Dr. Front's Essay on the quantity of car- bonic acid emitted from the lungs during respiration (Annals of Philosophy, vols. ii. and iv. 1813), it would appear that the morning and evening fre- quency was very nearly the same, the eleven ob- servations in the morning, which correspond with a like number in the evening, gi\ang as averages 70-91 and 70-27.