572 SHOULDER JOINT— (Normal Anatojiv). is formed by the bone, whilst the edges are constituted by the adjacent muscles ; in- feriorly, the interstice becoming smaller de- generates into a groove, which continues to separate the muscles from each other, until at length the clavicular fibres of the great pectoral unite with the deltoid, and are in- serted conjointly with it into the humerus. In this muscular interstice the cephalic vein is lodged, which, ascending to the triangular space below the clavicle, there dips into the axilla, and joins the axillary vein. The descending branch of the thoracica acro- mialis (arteria thoracica humcraria^ descends in the same groove, twisting in a spiral manner around the cephalic vein. More deeply still the ligamentum hiconie, enclos- ing between its layers the subclavius muscle, may be seen. The axillary vein and artery, brachial plexus of nerves, and inferior to these and crossing before them, the lesser pectoral' muscle, may also be made apparent in this space ; but to bring these latter parts into view, the anatomist must first freely separate the muscles from each other. It has been proposed by Hodgson, in order to place a lig iture around the axillary artery in the first stage, to cut between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, and then to separate the clavicular attachment of the great pectoral to an extent sufficient for insulating and tying the artery. As in other radiated muscles, the tendinous structure of the deltoid is chiefly placed in its interior ; as many as three or four laminae attached to the bone above, penetrate into the substance of the muscle, and multiply the points of origin of its fleshy fibres. The fasciculi, of ^hich the deltoid muscle is com- posed, hke those of the gluteus maximus, which is its analogue in the lower extremity, ai"e remarkably coarse and large. When the deltoid is cut across and reflected, the following paits are found in relation with its deep surface ; anteriorly is seen the cora- coid process and the insertions of the ])ectora- lis minor, of the coraco-brachialis, and of the short head of the biceps into its inner edge, and of the ligamentum bicorne (coraco-clavi- cular ligament) into its summit; external to the coracoid process is a triangular space, the sides constituted by the opposed edges of the coracoid and acromion processes, the apex placed superiorly at the clavicle, the base inferiorly formed by the convex promi- nence of the head of the humerus ; this space, filled by the coraco-acromial or triangular ligament, should be familiar to the surgeon, as the point of the knife must be here introduced when disarticulation at the shoulder-joint is being performed after the method of MM. Champesme and Lisfranc. Immediately be- neath the coraco-acromial triangle the capsular ligament is situated, and a large bursa (sub- deltoid) which intervenes between it and the deep surface of the deltoid muscle ; still lower down, the insertions of the capsular muscles into the tuberosities of the humerus, also the neck of the humerus, and the bicipital groove, present themselves. The bicipital groove looks directly forwards and ledges the long tendon of the biceps ; into its anterior edge the tendon of the pectoralis major is inserted, whilst those of the latissimus dorsi and teres major take attachment to the very bottom of the groove, passing a little below the level of the former. The anastomosis of the circum- flex arteries, and the circumflex nerve in a great part of its course, constitute also re- markable relations to the deltoid, separating it from the neck of the humerus ; and under the posterior division of the muscle are placed the infra-spinatus, teretes and latissimus dorsi muscles, with the triangular and quadrilateral spaces which they circumscribe. {Vide Sca- pular Region.) The anterior and the posterior fibres of the deltoid may act independently of each other, and draw the arm forwards and upwards, or backwards and upwards, respectively. The central portion of the muscle is the principal abductor of the upper extremity ; although its insertion is at a considerable distance from the fulcrum, and the power arm of the lever on which it acts is therefore of considerable length, yet the ef&cient power of the muscle, relatively to its size, is feeble, owing to the fibres whilst in action being invariably parallel to the lever which they are raising. In this action the deltoid is assisted by the supra- spinatus muscle. SCAPLLO-HUMERAL ARTICULATION. The scapulo-humeral articulation is formed by the contact of the head of the humerus with the slenoid cavity of the scapula. This, the prin- cipal articulation of the upper extremity, is placed at the superior and external portion of the trunk, behind the hue of the axis of the hip-joint ; an arrangement which is produc- tive of this advantage, that the most impor- tant motions of the upper extremity (those in the direction forwards)^have a more exten- sive range than if the articulation had been located nearer to the anterior aspect of the thorax. The arrangement of the articular surfaces and of the ligamentous structures belonging to the shoulder joint, accords with the general plan on which the bones and articulations of the upper extremity are constructed ; " the disposition and structure of the bones of the upper extremity afford a marked contrast to those of the lower ; the latter are organs of support, and therefore are solid, firm, strong, and withal elastic. The former are destined to perform extended motions, as well as minute and nicely adjusted ones, and there- fore, while they possess all the requisite strength, they are light, present little expanse of surface, and are articulated by numerous very moveable articulations.'' {Todd and Bow' man's Physiological Anatomi/, vol. i. p. 147.) The varied uses fulfilled by the upper ex- tremity, added to its remarkable mobility, especially predispose the shoulder joint to accidents; but as we proceed we shall take