146 PROSTATE GLAND. suddenly in a state of syncope, after having been repeatedly bled, and in whom the cere- bral veins and choroid plexus v/ere found full of air. M. Rerolie* has published several cases of the kind, where profuse haemorrhage had existed; in one of fatal epistaxis, the heart, arteries, and veins, contained large quantities of air. Another of these is ren- dered particularly remarkable by the fact that the gas (subcutaneous) took fire with slight detonation (as in M. Bally's case), and burned with a bluish flame ; here the patient had died of hasmorrliage after removal of a tumour from the back, and was examined six hours after death, the thermometer (Reaum.) mark- ing only + 2°. Similarly Dr. Graves has noticed emphysema of the abdominal parietes in a sufferer from frequent epistaxis. In all this there is much mystery. M. Rerolie conjectures that, in such cases, air is absorbed by the radicles of the pulmonary veins, — the air would then have no claim to be considered adventitious, and the hypo- thesis is, perhaps, not to be rudely rejected. ( Walter Hoyle Walshe,) PROSTATE GLAND. (Corpus glandu- losum ; UpoGTOLT^Cj Gr. ; die Vorsteherdruse, Germ.; La Prostate, Fr.).—The prostate is a glandular body surrounding the neck of the bladder and beginning of the urethra of the male, deriving its name from its position in front of the vesiculae seminales. It is situated in the anterior part of the pelvis, behind and below the level oi' the symphysis pubis, posterior to the triangular ligament of the urethra, with which it is connected by a continuation of the latter with its capsule. It has the mem- branous part of the urethra in front of it, and somewhat below its level, and it rests upon the anterior surface of the middle of the rec- tum. The prostate is perforated by the ure- thra, two thirds of the gland are below this canal ; it inclines oblirjuely downwards and forwards from behind, its apex being situated rather below the base. In shape the prostate resembles a Spanish chesnut, or the ace of hearts on playing cards, and presents a base behind and an apex in front ; it is compressed from before back- wards ; its sides are convex, and its base is notched. From base to apex the prostate measures from an inch to an inch and a quar- ter; from side to side, from an inch and a half to two inches; and from half an inch to an inch in depth from before backwards: a healthy prostate weighs five or six drachms. This measurement nearly accords with that given by Dupuytren, who devoted much at- tention to this subject, as having a most im- portant bearing upon the bilateral operation of lithotomy. A correct knowledge of the relations of this body to the adjacent viscera is of the highest practical importance. If, after the introduc- tion of a catheter through the urethra into the bladder, the finger be passed into the rectum, * Theses de Paris, Xo. 129. 1832. and carried forward, the bulb of the urethra is first indistinctly felt, behind which is the membranous portion; whilst beyond this, and still within reach of the finger, the prostate is perceived. In the empty state of the blad- der the outline of this body is usually distinct enough ; but when the bladder is over dis- tended with urine it becomes in a great mea- sure confounded with the posterior surface of this viscus, and cannot be easily distinguished. To obtain a good view of the connections of the prostate, a side view of the pelvis should F'g. 100. a, OS pubis ; h, ischium ; c, bladder; d, ligaments of the prostate ; e, prostate gland ; /, posterior false ligaments of the bladder ; g, ureter ; h, vas deferens ; i, left vesicula seminalis ; j, rectum ; k, a small portion of levatorani. be prepared in the ordinary manner, by the removal of the left os innominatum, with the soft structures in inmiediate connection with it, leaving a small portion of the sym- physis and ramus of the os pubis, together with the spine and a part of the ramus of the ischium. In this manner the levator ani is first brought into view, at the upper edge of which is seen the point of division of the pelvic fascia into the vesical and obturator. The levator ani has no immediate connection with the prostate, for, although it gives it a general lateral support, it is separated from it by the vesical fascia. Internal to the leva- tor ani lie the vesical fascia and the levator prostatae muscle. The vesical fascia is con- tinuous w ith the pelvic, it passes inwards over the prostate, rectum, and bladder, inclosing these structures in separate sheaths. Thus the prostate gets a complete investment from it ; this covering is above continuous with the anterior true ligaments of the bladder, in front it is connected with the posterior layer of the deep perinaeal fascia, and beneath, the fascia passes between the gland and the rectum; thus the gland is completeh' invested by a fibrous capsule. This envelope incloses w ithin it the prostatic plexus of veins, and the blood-vessels and nerves of the prostate; the veins are coniinuous in front with the dorsal