234 REN. tical(i) and a medullary substance (c),the latter terminating in a mamillary process (d) which is received into an infundibular offset from the ureter. All the lobules are thus connected with the ureter, forming a clustered mass like a bunch of grapes. The entire kidney is invested by a cellular capsule (e),a deep layer of which (/) passes into the fissures between the lobules, and in the substance of this interlo- bular tissue the vessels are imbedded. Tliere is no anastomosis between the blood-vessels of neighbouring lobules, as shown by the cir- cumstance that when the artery in any of them has been obstructed in an injected pre- paration they remain uninjected.* This form of kidney is observed in amphibious Carnivora, as the otter and the seal tribes ; it is also found in the bear, and still more remarkably in the cetaceans. The lobular division of the kidney, which in these animals is a persistent condition, exists in the embryo of all the mammalia. In process of development in the greater number of genera, the lobules coalesce, and thus form a solid glandular organ having a smooth con- tinuous surface, and presenting in the normal state no trace of the original lobular divisions. The kidney of the ox presents a condition intermediate between thelobulated kidney and the solid organ of man and most other mam- miferous genera. In this animal the medullary portion of the kidney has coalesced, while the cortical part is marked out by deep interlobu- lar fissures. The coalescence of the lobules appears to have been arrested at a certain period of its progress. The manner in which the tubes open into the pelvis of the solid kidney admits of some variety. In some genera they open on a continuous concave surface, as in the horse and ass ; in others on a continuous ridge, as in the dog. A more common termination is in a conical projection, the apex of which is received into a calyciform cavity in the pelvis of the kidney. In some genera, as in the human subject, there are several of these conical processes in each kidney ; while in other animals, all the tubes of the gland converge to a single cone, as in the lion, the racoon, the kangaroo, the monkey, the squirrel, &c. The renal artery, derived from the abdominal aorta, enters the hilum of the kidney. The veins generally follow the arteries, but there are exceptions to this rule. In the lion kind the cat kind, as also in the hyaena and in the seal, perhaps one half of the veins yet on the external surface, over which they pass, enclosed in a doubling of the capsule, and so join the trunks from the inside just as the latter are passing out from the hilum..f PART II. THE HU3IAN KIDNEY. We now proceed to give a detailed account of the anatomy of the human kidney, with such facts in the minute structure of the gland in certain of the lower animals as serve to * This is seen in the kidney of a walmss, Xo, 12G5 in tlie Museum of the College of Suvgeous. f Ilunterian Museum and Catalogue. throw light upon the structure and office of this important organ in man. Furni.—The form of the kidney being so familiar as to serve for a standard of compa- rison with other objects, it appears needless to speak of its resemblance to a French bean, the concave margin being directed towards the spine, while the convex margin, which is thick and rounded, is directed outwards. The upper extremity is usually broader and thicker than the lower. The anterior surface is convex ; the posterior is flatter and rests upon the muscles and fascia. The two kid- neys are occasionally, but very rarely, united by a band of renal substance, extending transversely across the spine in front of the aorta. The two glands thus united have the form of a horse-shoe, the concavity of which is directed upwards. Dimensions and lueight.—The average length of the kidney is from ^ inches to 4^ inches, its breadth 2 inches, and its thickness 1 inch. Its usual weight is from 3 to 4 ounces. Position and relations.—The kidneys are situated deeply in the lumbar region on each side of the spine, occupying a space corre- sponding to the last dorsal and the two or three upper lumbar vertebrae. The right is usuall}^ somewhat lower than the left, being depressed, as it were, by the liver, which is placed just above it. Occasionally one or both kidneys maybe found very much out of the natural position, being situated either in front of the spine, or much below the usual posi- tion, even as low as the cavity of the pelvis. The kidneys are placed somewhat obliquely, the upper extremities being inclined towards the spine and approaching nearer to each other than the lower. They are imbedded in a layer of adipose tissue, the quantity of which is very variable, being thick and abun- dant in fat subjects, while in those who have died much emaciated, the loose investment of reticular tissue presents scarcely a trace of fat. The anterior surface of each kidney looks somewhat outwards ; it is partly covered by the peritoneum, chiefly at the upper extre- mity, and more on the right side than on the left. The right kidney is covered by the ascending colon, and the left by the descending colon. The anterior surface of the right kidney is also in contact with a small portion of the duodenum, and is covered by the right lobe of the liver. In some instances the gall- bladder covers a large part of the anterior surface of the right kidney. The left kidney at its upper part lies in contact with the spleen, and is covered by the great end of the stomach when this viscus is distended. With reference to diagnosis, it is important to bear in mind the proximity of the kidneys to the colon, and the possibility of disease ex- tending from one organ to the other. Ab- scess of the kidney has in many instances been known to burst into the colon, and it is not improbable that ulceration of the colon, either simple or malignant, might extend backwards into the kidney.