REN. 243 the kidney it frequently happens that the epi- thelial lining of many of the tubes is entirely removed, or only a few particles of epithelium remain scattered over the inner surface of the membrane. " It sometimes happens, that when the epithelium may seem to be alto- gether detached, the basement membrane re - tains, scattered evenly over its surface and at some distance apart, a number of roundish marks, of the size and aspect of the nuclei of epithelium particles. These are most probably the early condition of the new or advancing series of these particles."* The basement membrane is united externally to the capillary venous plexus and the investing fibrous matrix ; there is probably some organic con- nexion between these tissues, which allows of the free transudation of materials from the blood-vessels through the basement membrane to the epithelial cells. When a tube deprived of its epithelium is detached from the sur- rounding tissue, the basement membrane is readily thrown into folds and wrinkles, and appears to possess a considerable amount of elasticity. The thickness of this membrane, according to Mr. Bowman, does not exceed -_^-_th of an English inch. In certain diseased states of the kidney its thickness is much increased, and simultaneously the cavity of the tube becomes dilated so as greatly to exceed its normal diameter, thus constituting the serous cysts which are so frequently ob- served in the kidney. The basement membrane of the tubes is continuous on the one hand with the capsule of the Malpighian bodies, and on the other through the straight tubes of the pyramids with the basement layer of the mucous membrane which lines the pelvis of the kidney. The mean diameter of the tubes is about inch. The entire diameter of the convo- luted tubes in the cortical portion somewhat exceeds that of the straight tubes in the pyra- mids, although the cavity of the latter is greater than that of the former. The latter fact resulting, as will be seen hereafter, from the difference in the character of the epithe- lium in these portions of the tubes. After the brief allusion just now made to the epithelium of the tube and its relation to the basement membrane, it will be more con- venient to postpone for the present the par- ticular consideration of this important struc- ture, and to proceed to the examination of the Malpighian bodies. We shall then revert to the epithelium, and we shall find that the varying characters which it presents in different parts of the organ are of the great- est interest and importance in connection with the physiology of the renal secretion, as well as on account of the assistance which they afford in the interpretation of the patho- logical changes to which the kidney is liable. Malpighian Bod'es, — The Malpighian bo- dies have been objects of much interest since their discovery by the distinguished anatomist whose name they bear. Malpighif * Art. Mucous Membrane. f Exercitatio Anatom. cle Renibus. ascertained that these bodies, which he calls internal glands, could be readily injected from the arteries, to the branches of which they are appended. He could not succeed in in- jecting them from the veins, in consequence, as he believed, of valves in these vessels pre- venting the passage of the injected material in a backward direction ; he, however, considers it a rational inference, that the venous radi- cles commence in these bodies. Malpighi further endeavoured to demonstrate the con- nection which he believed to exist between these bodies and the urinary tubes. He made unsuccessful attempts to inject the tubes from the arteries and from the veins : and, finally, he experimented on a living dog, by tying the renal veins and the ureters. On examination of the kidneys after death, there were some appearances of the renal glandules (the Mal- pighian bodies) and the tubes being con- nected and continuous; but he confesses that his opinion on this point was derived rather from analogy than from ocular demonstration, his idea being that the urinary constituents were separated from the arteries of the Mal- pighian bodies, and that the tubes were the excretory ducts of these glands. Ruysch* appears to have been ths first to show that the urinary tubes may be injected through the arteries of the Malpighian bodies, and he supposed that the arteries become directly continuous with the urinary tubes. Boerhaave f described the cortical portion of the kidney as being composed partly of glan- dular Malpighian bodies, and partly of blood- vessels, which form a plexus without being connected with the Malpighian bodies ; he also inferred the existence of two kinds of excretory ducts, the one kind being connected with the Malpighian bodies, while the others are directly continuous with the blood-vessels ; and he supposed that the more watery portion of the urine is excreted by the latter, while the denser portion prepared in the Malpighian bodies is carried off* by the first-mentioned ducts. Bertin J agrees for the most part with Boerhaave as to the anatomy of the kidne}--, but he assigns to the Malpighian bodies the office of secreting the more liquid portion of the urine, and supposes that the denser parts are separated by those blood-vessels which, as he believed, are not connected with the Malpi- ghian bodies, but are directly continuous with the urinary tubes. Schumlansky^, while he confesses the great difficulty of arriving at an accurate knowledge of the structure of the Malpighian bodies and their connexion with the urinary tubes, ap- pears to have had as definite an idea of these parts as it was possible to arrive at with the imperfect means of observation which he pos- sessed. He describes the Malpighian bodies as consisting of a glomerulus of vessels, con- nected on the one side with the arteries, and * Thesaurus Anatom. f Institut. Medic. X Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. des Sciences, 1744 Op. cit. § De Structura Reuum. Argent. 1788. R 2