455 SECRETION. takes place from the caecal extremities; and Prof. Goodsir considers that they originate in a " germuial spot," which is the persistent nucleus of the parent cell, whose enlargement and connection with the gland forms the folUcle. Growth in glands of this kind is regulated, according to him, by the following laws : — " 1st. Each follicle is virtually permanent, but actually in a constant state of develop- ment and growth. " 2d. This growth is contemporaneous with the function of the gland ; that function being merely a part of the growth, and a conse- quence of the cu'cumstances under which it occurs. " 3d. The vital action of some folUcles is continuous, the germinal spot in each never ceasing to develope nucleated cells, which take on the action of, and become, primar\' secreting cells, as they advance along the folUcle. The action of other follicles is periodical. 4th. The wall, or germinal membrane, of the follicle is also (probably) in a state of progressive growth, acquiring additions to its length at the blind extremity, and becoming absorbed at its attached extremity. A pro- gressive growth of this kind would account for the steady advance of its attached con- tents, and would also place the wall of the follicle in the same category with the primary vesicle, germinal membrane, or wall of the acinus, in the vesicular glands. " 5th. The primary secreting cells of the follicle are not always isolated. They are sometimes arranged in groups; and when they are so, each group is enclosed within its parent-cell, the group of cells advancing in de- velopment according to its position in the follicle, but never exceeding a particular size in each follicle." * Prof. Goodsir further expresses the opi- nion, that there is an order of glands with very much elongated ducts, which do not possess " germinal spots " in particular situ- ations, but in which these spots are diffused more uniformly over the whole internal sur- face of the tubes. To this order he refers the kidney in Man and the higher Vertebrata. We have thought it right to give Prof. Goodsir's statements in full, as being in the main unquestionably correct; but we must express our own doubts as to that part of the doctrine which relates to the production of the secreting cells from distinct " germinal centres." We have examined a great number of membranes bearing an epithelial covering, without being able to discern these; and our own impression is, that the membrane itself is in a continual state of change, deriving from the blood-vessel, on the one side, the elements of the new growth, and yielding these up on the other. Of the first devclo]mie7it of secreting struc- tures, a partial account was formerly given (see Gland) ; and as this is on the whole in * Op. cit. p. 31. conformity with our present views, it is only requisite to add here the principal facts, as- certained by microscopic research since thzt article was written. The "plastic mass" of which the entire gland consists in its early condition, is now known to be composed of nucleated cells, which appear to be the parent-cells within which the true secreting cells are afterwards to be formed ; these parent-cells themselves becoming the vesicles or follicles of the gland, by the establishment of communications be- tween their cavities and the branches of the duct. It seems probable that some of the original component cells of the gland coalesce or break down altogether, so as to form the smaller ducts, the development of which has been observed to be quite independent of the protrusion of the principal duct, and of its primary branches, from the cavity of which it is a diverticulum. These last are properly intercellular passages; which, as Prof. Good- sir justly observes, " is an important consider- ation, inasmuch as it ranges them in the same category with the intercellular passages and secreting receptacles of vegetables." Sources of the demand for the secreting function.—We must now consider in more detail, the causes which render the perform- ance of this function essential to the active existence of every living being. 1, In the first place, nearly all the solids and fluids of the animal body are liable to continual decomposition and decay, in virtue of their peculiar chemical composition. That the living state antagonises this decay, and that decomposition can only take place after death, is a doctrine which long held undis- puted sway in physiological science, but which is now generally admitted to be com- pletely untenable. The resistance to decay which living organised structures present, is rather apparent than real; for it only con- tinues so long as the circulating current con- tinues to pass through or near them, carrying off the products of incipient decomposition, and replacing these by matter that is newly organised. 2. In the second place, a continual decom- position and decay of an organised fabric is involved in its mere t^e^c/aZ/ye existence. For every portion of it has an individual and indej^endent life, and a limited duration of its own: each part, like the simple isolated cell of the lowest Cryptogamia, grows from a germ, arrives at maturity, and finally dies and decays ; its debris being directly cast off, if the organ be external; but being taken again into the current of the circulation, to be eliminated by another channel, if the part have no direct communication with the surface of the body.* Perhaps the most obvious example of this general fact is presented to us in the vegetable * The author believes that he may claim the credit of having been the first to enunciate this doctrine in definite terms, and as more than a mere h}T)Othesis. (See Mr. Paget's Lecturer on Nutrition, &c. Medical Gazette, 1847.) G G 4