106 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. tubercular matter, in other situations as an admixture of the same matter and coagulable lymph ; the majority of observers hold them to be actual tubercle in an early stage of development. The latter opinion under cer- tain modifications, we believe, for reasons which will presently appear, to be the true one. These bodies occur in different organs and textures in association with yellow tubercle ; they are more or less transparent, and, though in their own substance of light greyish colour, their translucency sometimes gives them in ap- pearance the tint of the circumjacent structure; their section exhibits a smooth and close sur- face ; hard as cartilage almost in some instances, and invariably remarkable for firmness; in gene- ral outline seeming roundish, yet in reality of somewhat angular form ; and adhering so closely to the adjoining tissues that they cannot be removed without particles of these, they have a striking tendency to accumulate in groups. Now the motives for connecting this pro- duction pathologically with yellow tubercle, and regarding the one as a phasis of the other, are derived as well from (a) naked-eye observa- tion and considerations of general pathology, as from (b) microscopical examination, (a) Common yellow tubercle appears in the sub- stance of the grey granulation at a certain stage of its existence, and gradually (in the lungs and in bone for example) fills the entire space it had occupied. In the lungs the grey granulation follows the same topographical course as yellow tubercle ; originating in the upper regions, it migrates downwards ; and the quantity of the one, as of the other, is greatest at the apex.* Grey granulations are found mixed with yellow tubercle in various organs, and so rare is the development of the one without the other, that M. Louis f only encountered grey granulations without yellow tubercle five times, and the lat- ter without the former once. The material composing the grey granulation also occurs in the form of shapeless masses, and \vhen so de- posited (as in the lungs and lymphatic glands) also becomes the seat of yellow tubercle, (b) Microscopically considered, the elemicnts of the granulation prove the relationship of the two products. A hyaline substance, non-stromal, holds together cells, identical with those already described, mixed (sometimes) with melanic matter in small quantity, and the elementary fibres of the implicated tissue (doubtless the objects mistaken in the lung by Kuhn for vege- table filaments). The proper granular matter of tubercle alone is absent, or present in very minute proportion only. The disintegration and breaking up of the cell-structure, and the exudation, further, of blastema, which, incapa- ble of furnishing cells, generates granules, cause the appearance of yellow opaque amid grey semi-transparent tubercle. It appears, then, that the two conditions, grey and yellow, are stages of each other. But * In acute niiliaiy tuberculization, however, the grey granulation, scattered equably tlirougli the various parts of the lung, is deposited in an isolated manner. t On Phthisis, Transl. p. 2. is this sequence necessary ; must grey matter precede the yellow in the order of evolution ? No : for in some textures, as the lymphatic glands, grey matter is very rare ; in others, as the brain, it is not, as far as we know, ever seen, though yellow tubercle is not of very uncommon occurrence there in infancy ; and, lastly, in the lungs, tubercles are sometimes found of the minutest conceivable size, yet yel- low throughout their entire substance without the least grey appearance. It follow s, then, that the ordinary first or grey stage may be to all seeming passed over,—an idea by no means repugnant to reason, inasmuch as such a state of things would naturally occur wherever a peculiarly low crasis of the system leads to primary production of granular matter in ex- cess and unusually rapid disintegration of cells. Another kind of granulation occurring in the lungs, first described by Bayle, and by him supposed to be composed of adventitious carti- lage, has been by almost all writers confounded with the common grey production. This va- riety is, w e believe ourselves justified in affirm- ing, of great rarity ; at least we have met with but one example of it—some years since at the Hospital for Consumption. In this instance the granulation was of round or oval form, as large as a good-sized pea (all present very uniformly so), of dull white colour, opahne without yellow points, present in moderate numbers, disseminated equably through all parts of both lungs, not grouped, but deposited solitarily, producing no visible change in the circumjacent texture, and unassociated with yellow or grey tubercles. Bayle, maintaining the obviously erroneous opinion, just stated, of their anatomical nature, connected these bodies pathologically with phthisis; Laennec regards them as a modification of the common grey granulation; our own opinion on the point is unformed. Among the numerous published analyses of tubercle, we have for some years been in the habit of referring to that of Preuss* as at least the most elaborate in existence. According to the results of this analj'st, one hundred parts of tubercuhzed pulmonary substance consisted of Water . . * . . . 79.0.5 Tuberculous matter . . . 13.52 Fibrous residue, vessels, bronchi,&c. 6.53 One hundred parts of the fibrous residue consisted of Fat 4.13 Substances yielding gelatin by boil- ing 20.G7 Substances yielding no gelatin by boiling ..... 75.20 The tuberculous substance itself, without water, contained : Snhstonces soluble in hot alcohol onlj/. Cholesterin 4.94? Ill cold alcohol and not in icatcr. Oleate of soda .... 13.50 * Preuss, Dis. Inaug. Tuberc. Pulmon. Crudorum Analysis Chemica. Berol. 1835.