100 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. ingesta and digesta of diabetic patients, con- tinued in two cases daily w ithout interruption for several months, and for a few days at a time in several orher cases, are as follows: — " The quantity of saccharine matter found in the urine never exceeded the sugar and starch in the food. On the other hand, the sugar and starch of the food were accounted for in the urine to within one-fourth or one-fifth of the ■whole quantity. As there was always sugar besides in the fasces in a sensible, although not considerable, quantity, it appeared to follow that sugar and substances convertible in the stomach into sugar, are, in diabetic patients, nearly if not entirely indigestible; that is, they pass through the blood without being burned and thrown off in the form of carbonic acid and water, as they are in a healthy state. The idea of any portion of the saccharine matter found in the urine being formed from the pro- tein or azotized portion of the food was entirely excluded. " The proportion of sugar in the urine has a limit which it cannot exceed, but which varies within a small range in different patients, about 4i per cent, being the usual maximum. The volume of the urine comes, therefore, to be en- tirely governed by the quantity of saccharine matter in the food. " Although sugar escapes oxidation in the respiratory process of diabetic patients, alcohol is entirely consumed. On one occasion a dia- betic patient swallowed twelve ounces of abso- lute alcohol, contained in a quart of whisky, within twenty-four hours, without a trace of it appearing in his urine or other excretions. Gum arabic also, taken as food to the extent of five or six ounces a-day, did not cause an in- crease of sugar in the urine, and was probably, therefore, digested. Both alcohol and gum are, like sugar, pure aliments of res[)iration. " It is well known that in the air expired by man, the proportion between the volume of carbonic acid found and oxygen deficient is remarkably uniform, and indicates that an excess of oxygen, nearly constant in amount, is consumed above what is represented by the carbonic acid, due of course chiefly to the oxidation of hydrogen. An amylaceous diet, in which the only combustible element is carbon, tends to reduce this disproportion, while an animal diet increases it. 1 therefore espected to find a deficient proportion of carbonic acid in the expired air of a diabetic patient confined to an animal diet; but such was not the case ; the proportion proved to be perfectly normal. This implies a considerable waste of azotized food,—that even the protein-compounds are only partially digested in the system of a diabetic patient. The assimilating power ap- pears, indeed, to be generally deficient." According to Mr. Graham, then, the disease is to be understood thus :—In consequence of deficient oxidation of sugar in the respiration- process, that substance (which in the natural state of things is burned off as quickly almost as it mixes with the circulating fluid) accumu- lates to a greater or less extent in the blood, and its elimination from this fluid is partially effected through the secretions, especially the urine. This is a most plausible and clear view of the chemical mechanism of sugar-disease; but a quid ignolum — the cause of the deficient oxidizing power — remains in the back-ground, mysterious and impenetrable. Class II. — Plastic Products. This class includes all products possessed of organized arrangement, whether their structure be of a rudimentary or advanced kind; we shall distinguish them by the term Formations. Formations are themselves separable into two very distinct sub-classes; — the one m which the formation depends for continued existence upon the immediate and direct access of nutri- tious matter from the blood of the parent or- ganism {Blastemal Formations); the other in which the vitality of the formation is not dependent upon such direct access {Germ- Formations or Parasites). While the products referrible to these two sub-classes differ in their structural characters, in their properties, in their vhal actions, and in their influence on the organism containing them, they are no less distinct in their mode of origin. Those belonging to the one sub-class originate in a structureless fluid or blastema; those belonging to the other spring from a germ. And the distinctive attributes of the two sub-classes may in the most concise manner be put thus: — Sub-Class I.—Dependent existence ; origin from a blastema. Sub-Class II. — Independent existence ; origin from a germ. sub-class I.—blastemal formatioxs. The structureless fluid just referred to is termed blastema (from ^KacrToc, a germ) in consequence of its being the germinal material from which certain formations are evolved ; and likewise cytoblastema {kvtos, a cell), be- cause an essential process in that evolution is the generation of cells. The source of this material, as of the forma- tive material of the natural elements of the organism is none other than the circulating fluid —the blood.* But there are three possible forms in which the blood may be supposed to furnish the germinal material in question. First, the blood in substance may itself constitute blastema ; secondly, some of the elements of the blood, unaltered in properties, may con- stitute blastema; and, thirdly, some of those elements altered in properties may constitute blastema. Now, analogy is opposed to the admission of the flrst of these possible cases : there is no instance of a natural structure being evolved from the blood as a whole. But arguments founded on analogy are valueless, if at variance with the results of direct and satisfactory observation. As matter of experience, then, does blood in substance, unaltered in apparent physical properties, and either retained within * Of the chyle and lymph, as suppliers of blaste- mal elements, nothing is kno^vn practically.