SEMEN. 478 shape, which gradually passes off into the pos- terior tail-hke portion. The body, in most birds prolonged into a cylinder, is distin- Fig. 328. Spermatozoa of the Cock (Gallus domesticus). guished by a greater thickness from the thin and filiform tail, which is twice its length [fg. 328.). In other instances, how- Fig. 329. ever, it makes a number of spiral twists, generally four, which make it look hke a corkscrew. The anterior end, in that case, is generally point- ed, and the posterior end is gra- dually extended into a long and straight tail {fg. 329.). The latter form is generally peculiar to the singing birds, and, indeed, an ex- clusive characteristic of them, en- abling us, even by this circum- stance, to detect the Picarii of Nitzsch from the true birds of song. Birds of the genera Coracias, Ca- primulgus, Alcedo, at all events, show this corkscrew form as little as those of the genera Cuculus, Picus, &c. ; whilst the birds of the raven tribe exhibit this same characteristic in common with the siniiing birds. The number of separate twist- ings or turnings of the body, and their distance from each other, is different, however, in the several families and genera of singing birds. Among the thruslies, for instance, the spiral is very extended, and almost undulating, whilst the numerous twinings pass into one another at an obtuse angle. The twistings are less in number (from 4 to o), in the Lanius (the Shrike); they are very narrow, and almost acute- ly angular, whilst they are at a greater distance from each other, among the Finches, where their number is still less (3 to 4). The upper windings are, in most cases, the most considerable, and likewise the most constant, whilst the lower become continually slighter, extend- ing themselves sometimes (especi- ally in Turdus, and likewise occa- sionally in Fringilla) throughout Sperma- the greatest part of the tail ex- tozoonof tremitv of the spermatozoon. The f7l£ length and thickness of the tail, •-f"" • Yike the number and arrangement of the windings, is subject to many changes and fluctuations among the several genera. It is particularly strong and rigid among the Fringillidas, the spermatozoa of which (as in Fringilla ccelebs, the Chaffinch) attain some- times a length of whilst in other cases they are much shorter (in Fr. Spinus = -^o"\ F. Canaria yV'") F- domestica oV'O- The tail part of the spermatozoa of the Lanidse is, on the other hand, very short and fine, its length scarcely measures J^'"—^o"\ of which about —too''go^^ to the anterior spiral body. The spermatozoa of Oriolus are only slightly larger. Among the Thrushes the length is about oV''> of which the anterior spiral body occupies quite one third. The same is the case among most other singing birds, as Sturnus, Hirundo, Parus, Alauda, Arthus, Certhia, &:c. Motacilla and Emberza have spermatozoa of ^V'"* Sylvia (Phoenicurus vibilatrix) and Saxicola of tV''- Among the last-mentioned genera, the spermatozoa form by their shape a kind of approach to the cor- responding formations of the Fringilla, whilst the spermatozoa of others remind us more of these formations in the thrushes and the Lanidse. In other words, the formations just aliuded to form a medium between the latter mentioned birds and the Fringilla. The spermatozoa with a simple cylin- drical body are much more uniform in size and shape, and differ from each other chiefly as regards the length of the tail, very little as to the length of the body. The body generally measures from yl-o'"— -n\s"' (Picus, Falco, Columba, Galius, Pavo, Anas, &c.), but seldom less (in Vanellus and Cuculus = 2^'")- The tail is .very thin, and can usually only be traced to its ter- mination with difficulty. The anterior part, which is connected with the body, is but little distinguished from the posterior, and is always without any remarkable thickening. Its length is always more considerable than the length of the body, the entire fibre gene- rally measuring and rarely less (Va- nellus, Cuculus) or more (Gallus, Co- lumba). It is an interesting fact that the difference of form of the spermatozoa in birds is associated with a difference in the man- ner in which they adhere to each other. Those which have a simple cylindrical body, are constantly dispersed about in the canals of the testicles without any order, whilst the spermatozoa of the singing birds are generally met with in regular bundles. The spermatozoa in each of these bundles, as in the mammalia, lie together in parallel hnes, and with their tails all in the same direction. It is only in their passage through the vas deferens that the bundles gradually lose their regular connexion. The genesis of the spermatozoa of birds, is essentially the same as among the mam- malia. Their proportions are, however, much more distinct, and therefore more easv to trace. The examination of the domestic fowl is much to be recommended in this re^^pect ; some time ago we described