ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 593 tion, and the deltoid muscle was cut across and thrown back, when the attention of the dissector was attracted b}' the head of the humerus, which was exposed and firmly sup- ported against the under surface of the acro- mion process by the lips of a vertical rent in the capsular ligament, which was otherwise healthy, firmly girding the anatomical neck of the humerus. The articular cartilage of the head of the humerus had been universally eroded. The head of the humerus had been increased in size by the addition of an osseous margin, which overhung the anatomical neck of the humerus. Several cartilaginous bodies, connected to the surrounding fibrous tissues, projected into the cavity of the joint. The larger were pedunculated and pendulous, while the smaller were attached by broad sur- faces. The articular part of the biceps tendon had disappeared. The capsular ligament was thickened; and the longitudinal aperture al- ready mentioned, which existed in the upper part, was sufficiently capacious to allow the head of the bone under certain circumstances to pass with facility from its natural situation upwards, and to come in contact with the under surface of the acromion process. The coraco-acromial articulation of the same side, as well as several of the other articulations in this subject, exhibited unquestionable traces of having been affected with the same dis- ease.* When a specimen of chronic rheumatic ar- thritis of the shoulder joint, such as the pre- ceding, has been met with, by anatomists not familiar with the ordinary anatomical charac- ters of the disease, it is usually mistaken for a case of partial displacement of the humerus upwards, the result of accident. We find many such cases and such mistakes recorded. Although the history of Mr. Labatt's case was unknown, the ap[)earances which the head of the humerus presented were sufficiently cha- racteristic to clearly designate the true nature of the affection, independently of the condi- tion alluded to of the coraco-clavicular and other articulations, so many concurring cir- cumstances sufficiently proved that, in the above case, the shoulder had been long affected by the chronic rheumatic arthritis, and that this, and not accident, was the source of the partial luxation upwards which existed. In April, 1840, Dr. Robert Smith, who is well acquainted with this disease, laid before the Surgical Society of Dublin an account of the post-mortem examination he had made of an aged female, who died of an internal organic disease in the House of Industry. She had been long affected with a partial displacement upwards of the right humerus, which was the result of chronic rheumatic disease. He pre- sented a cast of the upper part of the body, taken after death, showing the degree of ele- vation of the summit of the humerus on the affected side; and also exhibited a prepara- * This specimen is presers'ed in the ^Tuseum of the College of Surgeons. Vide Catalogue, Coll. Surg. Ireland, vol. ii, p. 396. VOL. IV. tion of the shoulder joint to the meeting. The post-mortem examination had been made a few weeks previously to Dr. Smith's com- munication of this case to the society. " It may be seen," he said, '* from the cast, that in this case there was a remarkable contrast in the appearance the two shoulder joints pre- sented : on one side, the head of the hinnerus was placed far above the level of the coracoid and acromion processes. Many persons," he added, " in viewing the cast and accompanying preparation, might consider the specimen as one of some unusual form of congenital mal- formation, or the result of accident ; but the abnormal appearances were clearly the result of that peculiar affection of the joints, of which so many specimens had been elsewhere brought forward by the president in the chair (Mr. Adams), and which disease he has denominated * chronic rheumatic arthritis.'" Dr. Smith added that his chief reason in bringing forward the case was, that it pre- sented some peculiarities he had not observed in other specimens of the same disease, as it affects the shoulder joint: he had often before noticed the elevation of the head of the bone as a symptom of this affection, but had never seen the elevation to the same degree it had amounted to in this case. The head of the humerus was displaced upwards, even to a point above the level of the clavicle and acro- mion process. The capsular ligament was enlarged, and as thin as if the synovial mem- brane alone constituted it. Superiorly, this capsule was altogether deficient: a large aper- ture was here found, which permitted the head of the humerus to pass upwards, as already mentioned ; the tendon of the biceps was perfect, but was thrown off the head of the bone inwards. The cartilage of the head of the bone was abraded in several places, and osseous depositions had been formed in the vicinity of the bicipital groove, and around the margin of the articular head of the humerus, as is usually the case in examples of chronic rheumatic disease. Mr. Smith observed, that the preparation s'lowed a large deficiency in the upper part of the capsular ligament — a fact not before observed by him, until he had seen Mr. Labatt's preparation ; and even then he was disposed to attribute the deficiency to some injury received in removing the parts. He had therefore taken the greatest care in removing the preparation just exhibited to the society, and had found that in dividing the deltoid muscle he had cut at once into the cavity of the joint. Dr. Smith and the writer have lately care- fully examined this preparation, and find that the acromion process has been nuich reduced in thickness ; its under surface is excavated, and denuded of all periosteal covering ; this process is divided into two portions, as if a fracture had traversed the original line of the junction of the epiphysis with the rest of the process : half an inch in extent of the bone is thus separated from the rest, and seems merely retained by a ligamentous connection. The deltoid and triangular ligament were