160 PROSTATE GLAND. tions are occasionally met with in the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia; but, according to Peschier, their analysis differs slightly from prostatic concretions. Thus he found in 100 parts Phosphate of lime . . . 90*0 Carbonate of lime . . .2*0 Animal matter . . . . 1*0"* Comparative Anatomy. — Assuming the prostate to be represented by a glandular structure placed at or near the termination of the vas deferens, it is found in many of the invertebrate animals. As a general rule, it is only discovered in those pos- sessed of an intromittent organ; this, how- ever is not invariable. In the medicinal leech, among the annellata, according to Owen and Brandt, the two vasa deferentia and the two sacculated vesiculae seminales send their ducts to a common prostatic body, from which the penis is continued. '* In the centipede, among myriapoda, a minute efferent tube is continued from both ends of each testis, which tubes unite with those of the adjoining organ, and ultimately form a single vas deferens, which, having received the ducts of three pairs of small prostatic glands, terminate in the cloaca. In the male ajMs there is a long pyri- form vesicular gland attached to each lateral vas deferens, and in many insects representa- tives of prostatic glands communicate with the ductus ejaculatorius." \ In the slug, among gasteropoda, the vas deferens is joined by the short and simple duct of a small pros- tatic sac ; and this is the case in the common snail, in whom the duct is, however, longer. In the cephalopoda, as in the octopus, " the anterior extremity of the contractile vesicula, into which the efferent duct opens, communi- cates with a wide, bent, coecal tube (prostate), with thick glandular parietes, and having the form of a simple pouch in the sepia. The prostate in the ^e/jio/a communicates by a long and slender duct with the vesiculae semi- nales." t In mammalia, two varieties of prostate are found, distinguishable as to structure from each other : one, the cellular, in which small cells open into a central cavity, from which a large duct arises ; and the other, the follicular, composed, as MUller says, " of large intesti- nules, or larger ramose follicles." In the ape tribe, the form of the prostate is larger from above downwards than from before backwards, and surrounds the urethra in the form of a crescent. In position, si/e, and structure, it resembles that of man. In the mandril some accessory lobes are found. The prostate of the makis sends off two pro- longations, which surround the excretory ducts of the vesiculae seminales. In the tarsier, there are two distinct glands, placed in front of the vesiculae seminales, on the side of the urethra. The galeopit/ieci have a single prostate * Yogel's Pathological Anatomy of the Human Body, translated by Dr. G. E. Day. f Owen's Lectures on the Inveirtebrate Animals. of large size, surrounding the base of the vesiculae. In the roussette, the prostate is simple, and surrounds a large portion of the circum- ference of the urethra. In the dormouse, it surrounds the whole circumference of the urethra, and is composed of a number of lobules. In the hedgehog, the prostates are four in number, and they belong to the tubular class. The superior prostates are the larger, and are composed of long flexuous tubes, united into lobules, which form lobes, whose tubes re- unite to form a single excretory duct, which pierces the superior surface of the urethra. They are attached by processes of the perito- naeum to the abdominal muscles. — (Hunter.) Two other bundles of smaller size, and of a rounded form, represent the inferior prostates. They are composed of smaller tubes, which separating in the form of a fan, pass towards the circumference of the gland, and terminate in ccecal ends. The excretory ducts open one on either side of the veru montanum. The tubes are composed of membranes of extreme dehcacy. In the mole, the prostate is single, and is formed of membranous tubes folded upon themselves. At the period of heat, it in- creases so enormously as to exceed the urinary bladder in size; it is placed around the urethra in front of the bladder. The prostate of the bear is confounded with the dilatation of the united vasa deferentia. It surrounds the beginning of the urethra, and forms a bed for the canal of variable thickness, according to the species. In the otter, weasel, and marten, it consists of a thin layer, without any enlargement. In the ichneumon, there is a gland of consider- able size, composed of distinct lobes, situated on the rectal aspect of the urethra; each lobe has a distinct duct. In the dog and cat, it forms a large promi- nent collar around the urethra; it resembles the human prostate in structure, and mode of termination of its ducts. In the hyena, it is of large size ; and in the civet it forms two tubercles in front of the in- sertion of the vasa deferentia. In the marmott, among the rodentia, it is divided into two lobes, and forms a consider- able swelling around the commencement of the urethra. The glandular covering of the vesiculne seminales, which extends below the muscular structure of the urethra, represents the pros- tate gland in the rabbit. In the squirrel, it is as long as the muscular portion of the urethra, of large size, ovoid in shape, flattened from above, and is divided into two lobes ; it adheres to the urethra by two points, where its excretory ducts pene- trate the canal. According to Mliller, in the rat genus, be- sides three glands of different structure on each side, the urethra is surrounded by a glandular mass, consisting of bunches of vesi- cles, representing the prostate.