RESPIRATION. 339 z 2 a determinate ratio between the pulsations and respirations ; however, in many indivi- duals, and I am of the number, it is as 1 to 4." Dr. C. Hooker* informs us that, from numerous careful observations, he has arrived at the conclusion, that the numerical relation between the beats of the heart and the respi- rations (except in infancy) is as I to 4^, and that any marked deviation from this relation indicates some mechanical or structural impe- diment to the free play of the lungs. Accord- ing to Burdachf, the same circumstances which diminish the frequency of one of these movements acts equally upon the other ; but it is proved by the recent observations of Dr. Guy, that these variations do not bear the same proportion to each other. In Dr. Guy's experiments J, the proportion between the respirations and the pulse has varied from 1 : 2*60 to 1 : 5*23 ; and whereas the pulse be- comes less frequent as the day advances, the respiration increases in frequency, so that there are 18 respirations in the evening for 17 in the morning. The chief cause of the varia- tion in the ratio of the respirations and the pulse "is the position of the body. Thus, for a pulse of 64, the proportion standing was 1 : 2-95; sitting, 1 : 3'35 ; and lying, 1 : 4-97. In the sitting posture, but from different fre- quencies of the pulse, it has varied from 1 : 2*61 to I : 5*00. The proportions morn- ing and evening for the same frequency of the pulse are about 1 : 3 60 and 1 : 3-40. The proportions which the respiration bears to the pulse decreases as the pulse increases. Thus, for a pulse of 54 the proportion was 1 ^ 3, for a pulse of 72 it was 1 : 4." Quantity of air drawn irito the lungs at each insj)iration, and expelled at each expiration; and the quantity of air in the lungs at different times. — During ordinary respiration in a state of health, and when the body is at rest, a small quantity only of the air which the lungs can contain is exchanged by each act of inspiration and expiration. The average amount of air in the lungs in the state of ordinary respiration, may be considerably in- creased or diminished by forced inspirations and expirations, but the whole air contained in the lungs cannot be expelled by the most powerful action of the muscles of expiration. The quantity of air drawn into the lungs by each inspiration and again expelled by expira^- tion, in the state of ordinary aspiration, not only varies in different individuals, but in the same individual in different conditions of the body, so that the results obtained by physio- logists on this point must necessarily be dis- similar, and the more especially as the greater number of these have experimented only upon a single, or a very limited number of indivi- duals. The difficulty of ascertaining the ave- rage quantity of air exhaled at an ordinary * Boston Medical and Surgical Journal for 1838, Vide also British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. vii. p. 2G3. t Op. cit. p. 39. X Hooper's Vade-Mecum, edited bv Dr. Guy, pp. 131, 132. 184G. expiration, and the great range that occurs in this respect, may be judged of by the state- ment of Vierordt, that the variation in his own person is as great as 1 : 4"75.* The pro- bable average quantity of air drawn into the lungs at each inspiration even in healthy indi- viduals, at different ages and in different states of the body and of the physical conditions under which it may be placed, can only be ascertained by the performance of a much more extended series of experiments than we at present possess ; and the ascertainment of the causes which determine these variations from the average quantity will be still more difficult, and of still more importance. All such experiments are liable to many sources of fallacy, both from imperfections in the instruments used in conducting them, and from the muscular movements of respiration being unwittingly influenced by the attention of the persons experimented upon being fixed upon these movements j but the later experi-> ments on this point are more trust-worthy than the earlier, as the instruments employed are better suited for the purpose, and by fre^. quently repeating the experiment on the same persons, they at last become accustomed to the artificial circumstances under which they are placed, and they breathe more naturally. Herbst, from his experiments, concluded, that a healthy adult of average size should in an ordinary inspiration inhale from 20 to 25 Parisian cubic inches (24*211 to 30-263 English cubic inches), and exhale the same quantity in expiration; while an individual of a feebler constitution of body should inhale from 16 to 18 Parisian cubic inches (19*368 to 21*789 English cubic incites).f Valentin gives as the result of his experiments upon seven males between 17^ and 33 years of age, that the quantity of air expired in ordinary up to a somewhat quickened respiration, ranges between 239*3 and 1567*7 cubic centimetres (14*603 and 95*672 English cubic inches), the average of which was 655*11 c. c. (40*081 English cubic inches).^ Vierordt §, in re- peated experiments upon himself, ascertained that at each expiration, when in a state of rest, he ex[)elled from the lungs on an average 507 cubic centimetres (30*940 English cubic inches), and that the average of the five high- est values was 699 c. c. (42*657 E. c. inches), and of the lowest 177 c. c. (10*801 E. c. inches). II Bourgery, from experiments upon * "Wagner's Hand-vvorterbuch der Physiologie, band ii. s. 836. f IMeckel's Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physio- logie, band xiii. S. 83. 1828. X Lehrbuch der Physiologie,! band i. S. 538. These calculations of Valentin rest on the supposition that the expired air is fully saturated with moisture — a supposition invahdated by the experiments of Moleschott. § TS^agner's Handworterbuch der Physiologie, band ii. S. 835. Vierordt elsewhere states that he is. of the middle height, and has no particularly roomy chest, was 59 kilogrammes in weight and 25 years of age Avhen he performed his experiments. II The following estimates have been drawn from a limited number of experiments upon a single individual, or upon a very small number of iu-