3 POLYGASTRIA. universal distribution wherever water is to be met with fit for their reception, it is impos- sible not to be overwhelmed with the con- templation of a scene so calculated to impress upon us the infinitude of the works of the Creator. Our knowledge of the class of animals under consideration dates from a very recent period. The earliest observers with the microscope, partly from the imperfection of their instru- ments, and partly from ignorance of any cha- racteristic distinctions, were in the habit of grouping all the creatures of microscopic dimensions, which they perceived swimming in the water they examined, as belonging to the same category, under the name of " Infusorial Animalcules," a title which consequently em- braced creatures of the most dissimilar forms and habits, and even widely removed from each other in the scale of animal existences by their internal organization and general economy; thus the Rotifera, the larvae of insects, the gemmules of Polyps, and innumerable other minute creatures were confounded under the same denomination. It is to the researches of Ehrenberg, the great historiographer of these beings, that we are indebted for the breaking up of this chaotic assemblage, and the introduction of order where all was previously confusion and uncertainty. Prior to his discoveries naturalists denied the existence of any alimentary apparatus in the Infusoria, believing them to be nourished by a kind of imbibition, and regarding the granular bodies contained within them as being their eggs or young ones. Ehrenberg, however, by placing indigo, carmine, sap-green, and similar extremely pure coloured vegetable sub- stances in the water containing them, soon found that the coloured material was readily admitted into the interior of the body, and there disposed in such a manner as to convince him that there were numerous receptacles in the interior of these little beings, which he con- sidered as forming their nutritive apparatus; and having applied to them the name of stomachs, he was induced to establish a distinct class for creatures thus organised, and distinguished them from all other animals by the name of POLYGASTRIA.* These stomachs he subsequently discovered to be variously arranged in different genera, and was consequently induced to make these variations in the construction of the alimen- tary apparatus a basis on which to erect a scheme for their further subdivision. This kind of nutritive system of organs he found presented itself under different forms; in some species the stomachal cavities communicate separately with the oral orifice, so that there is no intestinal tube or passage of intercom- munication between them: to such he has applied the term ANENXERA.f In all others there is a wide intestinal tube in the interior of the body, to the sides of which the numerous alimentary vesicles or reservoirs are appended, * woXu?, many ; yaa-riif, a stomach. + a, priv. ; ivTspov, intestine. terminating by an anal orifice: these have been named from this circumstance Enierodela.* The Enterodelous Polygastria are again divi- sible :— 1st. Into those in which the intestinal tube is disposed in a circular form in the interior of the body of the animalcule, winding round so that the mouth and anus are contiguous. (CYCLOCGELA.f) 2nd. Into those in which the intestine tra- verses the body of the animalcule, passing along its longitudinal axis, and presenting two orifices completely distinct and opposite to each other; that which is anterior forming the mouth, the posterior the anus: such are characterized as Ortuoccela.J 3rd. Such as have a winding or twisted intestine, which never passes in a direct line through the long axis of the body : these genera are named Campyloccela.§ Such a classification, founded entirely on the anatomical arrangement of one set of organs, Ehrenberg acknowledges would be quite con- trary to the established rules of zoology, were it not that the external characters of these animalcules are most exactly conformable with the structure of the alimentary canal; but find- ing that the Polygastria are thus resolvable into very natural families, he proceeds to classify them in the following manner:—1| Family 1. — Monadinid^ (Monadida). Polygastric animals, without intestinal canal, without external shell, body uniform, dividing by simple spontaneous fissure into two, but by cross divisions into four or several individuals. Monas. Uvella, (1,/^. 1.) Polytoma, (2,1 •) Microglena, {3, fig. 1.) Phacelomonas. Glenomorum. Doxococcus. Chilomonas. Bodo, (4, Jig. 1.) Family 2. — Cryptomoxadinid^. Poly- gastric animals, presenting all the characters of the Monadinidae, or at least deprived of the characteristic features of other families, and individually enveloped in a soft or slightly indurated shell. Cryptomonas. Ophidomonas. Porocentrum. Lagenella, {5, fig. 1.) Cryptoglena. Ti-achelomonas. Family 3.—Volvocinid^e. Polygastric ani- mals, without intestinal canal, without external • EVTEpov, intestine; JnXoc, manifest. t kvkXo;, a circle; xoTXof, large intestine. i ofBi:;, straight ; koiXo;, intestine. § KafxirvXot;, crooked ; xoTxo?, intestine. II In the following list it will be perceived we have omitted altogether the numerous families of Baccillaria; and kindred forms, being by no means satisfied as to their claims to rank as members of the animal creation. They stand, indeed, very dubiously between the domains of zoology and botany.