384 RODENTIA. and other Rodents with rootless molars, the already been cited ; but in the rootless molars reproduction of the molar, like that of the in- where the folds of enamel extend inwards from cisor teeth, appears to continue throughout the entire length of the sides of the tooth, the the animal's existence. The rootless and per- characteristic configuration of the grinding ' petually growing molars are always more or surface is maintained without variation, as in Fig. 2G8. Upper jaw of the Patagonian Cavy (^Chloromys Patagonicd). t, incisor tooth, laid bare throughout its whole length; m, p, molar teeth implanted without fangs into arched sockets. less curved; they derive from this form the the Guinea-pig, the capybara, and the Pata- same advantage as the incisors, in the relief gonian cavy. of the delicate tissues of the active vascular The whole exterior of the molar teeth of matrix from the effects of the pressure which the Rodentia is covered by a cement, and the would otherwise have been transmitted more external interspaces of the enamel folds are directly from the grinding surface. filled with the same substance. In the chin- The complexity of the structure of the chilidae and the capybara, where the folds of crown of the molar teeth, and the quantity of enamel extend quite across the body of the enamel and cement interblended with the tooth, and insulate as many plates of dentine, dentine, are greatest in the rootless molars of these detached portions are held together by the strictly herbivorous Rodents. The crowns the cement ; such folds of enamel are usually of the rooted molars of the omnivorous rats parallel, as in the large posterior lower molar and mice are almost as simple as the tuber- of the capybara, which, in shape and structure, culate molars of the bear, or of the human offers a very close and interesting resemblance subject, which they appear to typif\'. They to the molars of the Asiatic elephant, are at first tuberculate ; when the summits of The partial folds and islands of enamel in the tubercles are worn off, the inequality of the molars of the porcupine and agouti, the grinding surface is for a time maintained typify the structure of the teeth of the rhi- by the deeper transverse folds of enamel, the noceros; the opposite lateral inflections of margins of which are separated by alternate enamel in the molars of the gerbille and Cape valleys of dentine and cement; but these mole-rat represent the structure of the molars folds, sinking only to a slight depth, are in of the hippopotamus; the double crescentic time obliterated, and the grinding surface is folds in the jerboa sketch out, as it were, the reduced to a smooth field of dentine, with characteristic structure of the molars of the a simple border of enamel. A similar Anoplothere and Rurainantia. change in the.grinding surface, consequent Although, as has been shown, the molar on age and use, is shown in the molars teeth in many Rodents are rootless and of un- of the souslik, or ground squirrel; as also limited growth, as in the Edentata, in none in those of the gerbille, and is common is enamel absent ; or vascular dentine, as the to all that possess roots. It will be seen that chief constituent of the tooth, present. These these folds have a general tendency to a trans- essential dirferences characterise the molars verse direction across the crown of the tooth, of those Rodents, which by use have their Baron Cuvier has pointed out the concomitant grinding surface reduced to a simple depres- modification of the shape of the joint of the sion bounded by a raised circular margin, as lower jaw, which almost restricts it to horizontal in the great Cape mole; that margin being movements to and fro, in the direction of the formed by true enamel, but in the sloths by axis of the head, during the act of mastication, hard dentine. When the folds of enamel dip in vertically It is peculiar to some of the Rodents with from the summit to a greater or less depth rootless molars to have the sockets of these into the substance of the crown of the tooth, long curved teeth open at both extremities, so as in those molars which have roots, the con- that, in the dry skull, the base of the tooth figiu'ation of the grinding surface varies with protrudes as well as the grinding surface ; the the degree of abrasion, of which examples have matrix in such instances adheres to the peri-