448 SECRETION. with a finely granular matter, intermingled with nucleoio-nucleated bodies, and the an- Fig. 312. Biliary Organs of Artacus affinis. a, cjBcum of the liver of Cray-fish, with its contained cells ; h, c, d, e, /exhibit the progressive changes of the cells, as they advance fi-om the bottom of the tube. ( After Lddy.) terior half with a mass of fat cells, the nucleus hardly visible, from the property of oil ren- dering organic tissues more or less trans- parent. The central cavity of the caeca is filled with fat globules, and' a finely granular matter corresponding to that in the interior of the cells." In some of the lower forms of Crustacea, the liver is reduced to the simple condition which it presents in insects ; and there is one very curious group, that of Pyc- nogonidcB, in which the biliary apparatus is as much diffused as in the Radiata. In these animals, the stomach sends caecal prolonga- tions into the legs, and these extend nearly to their terminal claws. The walls, both of the central stomach and of its tubular exten- sions, are studded with brownish-yellow cells; but beyond this there is no rudiment of any organ for the secretion of bile. In the MoUuscous animals, the general structure of the liver closely corresponds with that which has just been described in the higher Crustacea. Among the Compound Tunicata, however, to which the Bryozoa are so nearly related that many naturahsts asso- ciate them together in one group, the struc- ture of the liver is the same as that of Bower- bankia; the hepatic follicles being isolated from each other, and lodged in the walls of the stomach, into the cavity of which they pour their secretion by separate orifices. In the Solitary Ascid'ians, the hepatic follicles are more developed, and cluster round the ex- terior of the stomach, so as to give it a shaggy appearance, very much as in the earthworm. In the Conchifera, the liver presents itself as a distinct organ, composed of numerous lobules ; each of these is made up of a cluster of tubes, terminating at one extremity in flask-shaped follicles, whilst at the other they coalesce into a few larger trunks, which discharge themselves into the digestive ca^'ity. The follicles are filled with cells containing the bihary secretion. The structure is nearly the same in the Gasteropoda ; the ducts of the several lobules coalescing, so as to form two main trunks, by which the secretion is poured into the duodenum. The folio wing is Dr. Leidy's account of the minute structure of the liver of the snail ; a portion of which, moderately en- larged, and showing the arrangement of the lobules, is shown in fig. 313. a. *' When one Fig. 313. Biliary Organs of HeUx alholabris. a, portion of the liver of the snail, moderately mag- nified, exhibiting the arrangement of the lobules; b, a biliary c£ecum from the same liver, highly magnified. of the bulbiform caeca (fig. 313. b) is examined beneath the microscope, it is found to have a structure differing in no important particulars from that of the cray-fish. The cells at the bottom cf the sac (fig. 314. a, I, 2) average