474 SEMEN. may be most reailily traced among birds, the increase ot' size of the testicles bemg very striking with them at the period of copula- tion, as proved by the researches of Hunter, as quoted by O .Ncn*, to which we may add our own, which hkewise have beeu instituted with the sparrow. During the winter the testicles only pos- sess a very small size. In a specimen which we examined in the middle of January, they scarcely measured a millimeter. Both tes- ticles were equally developed, had a globular shape, and weighed together (in a fresh >tate) about 3 milligrammes. The vasa deferentia, which we were only enabled to discover alter a very accurate ex:imination, appeared in the shape of a couple of thin and almost solid strings. Henceforwi\rd the testicles and sper- matic ducts begin to grow, although at first but very slowly. Tne increase of the testicles does not however extend itself in all directions. It is limited principally to the longitudinal diameter, thus causing the subsequent kidney form of these parts. Towards the end of the month of January they reach the length of about H Mm., whilst the transverse diameter is not materially changed : weight of both tes- ticles = 4 Mgrs. In the middle of February" the length reached about 2 Mm., the width 1^, the weight 6 Mgrs. By the end of the month the organ enlarges itself to a body of Mm. in length. If Mm. in width, with a weight of S Mgrs. At the commencement of the next month the testicles measured 2^ Mm. in length, 2 Mm. in width. They had a weight of 15 Mgrs.. which increased at the middle of the same month to 4S Mgrs.. the length simul- taneously increasing to 3 ^ Mm., the width to 2^ The subsequent developement of the testicles is much more rapid and extensive. At the commencement of April we found them to be of a considerable size, with a longitudinal diameter of S Mm., a width of almost 7 Mm. The weight, w e are sorry to say, we did not note down. The microscopical analysis now for the first time exhibited to our view spermatozoa in the different stages of de- velopement. The former stages of develope- ment had not been capable of producing such formations. The testicles obtain their p>erfect develope- ment towards the end of this month (April), when they measure 10 Mm. in length, with a width of 8 Mm., and a weight of nearly f Gramme (0.575 Gramme.). The researches which we have now com- municated are of course only of an average value or validity, and cannot be applied to all individual cases. Deviations from them are theretbre by no means rare. Individual spe- cimens exhibit either a very premature or a very late developement. Thus we met "* ith. for instance, as early as the middle of January, specimens, the testicles of which had a length of 2 Mm., a width of 1^, and a weight of 6 Mgrs., such occurring usually only four weeks afterwards. Towards the end of * VoL L p. 35-L art. Avis. the same month the testicles of another indi- vidual measured a length of 2^, a width of 2 Mm. As an opposite instance, we may mention that we found at the end of the month of February, in the testicles of a sparrow, a length of 1^ Mm., a width of 1 Mm. Furm and historu of developement o f the sper- matozoa.— The first thing that strikes the observer, on entering into a microscopical research of the semen of a great number of ani- mals, is the difference of the shape of the sper- matozoa. The specific shape of these elements generally corresponds with the individual Classes, genera, and species, and this so dis- tinctly, that one may often safely venture to infer from it the systematic position and the name of the animals investigated. We will not, however, venture to determine whether this variety of the shape is connected with the rich variety of animal formations, or whether the specific shape of the spermatozoa has a de- termining influence upou the developement of the germ into a certain specific form. Such a conjecture, however, would certainly not be supported by the circumstance that a corresponding shape of the spermatozoa is frequently met with in animals very far re- moved, indeed quite different, from each other. The variety of form in the spermatic elements is the more striking, because the female ge- nerative elements, throughout the animal creation, are distinguished by a uniform de- velopement. Most of the spermatozoa have a slender, linear body, either filiform throughout, or swollen and enlarged at one end, which for convenience we designate the anterior end. This swollen extremity is differently developed, and frequently grown into a peculiar independent part, as, for instance, into a head or body, from which the other thin and longer part is extended as a whip- like tail. Various other forms of the sper- matozoa cannot, however, well be reduced to this type, or at least only by the assump- tion that the filiform body is abridired in its longitudinal axis, to compensate for which it afterwards increases much in width and thickness. Hence the short dense thick corpuscles of a different shape, which are occasionally found in the genuine semen in- stead of the filiform spermatozoa. The size of the spermatozoa, like the size of all the elementary constituents of the animal body, is only very slight. It is only in a few cases that it exceeds the length of a line, a much shorter dimension being however much more general. Let us now trace the different histological formations of the semen, according to form and connexion in the principal groups in the anuual creation. Man. — In man (in which the sperma- tozoa i^Jig. 323.) are composed of head and tail), as indeed generally in the whole division of the Vertebrata. the size * does not often amount to more than » outside • * We always refer in our measxirements to Pari- sian line?; a 'miUim. = 0.443 of a Paris line.