660 SKELETON. being the product of a law of metamorphosis, exercising itself upon the whole quantity or unity. Comparison teaches me the fact that not only are the fore-limbs of the animal classes varied amongst themselves as to osseous quantity, but 1 find that even the individuals of any one species have not the fore-limbs developed of invariably fixed and equal quan- tity ; for there is no one species free from the possibility of that occurrence which we term "anomaly." The human hand is seen to develop (by no means unfrequently) a plus number of digital appendages. I have seen the hke anomalies upon the fore-hands of the Quadrumana. The Ruminantia now and then develop in the fore-foot solipedal character. The solipedes are known to pro- duce the fore-limbs in cloven stamp some- times. The individuals of every species, I doubt not, would, if we studied them with sufficient care and in large masses, prove themselves to be subject to the occurrence of a plus or minus quantitative variety to that character which is general or normal with them. It is because I find that these ano- malies to species are facts not more mar- vellous in themselves than are the facts which vary species to species, that I will here embrace them in the general interpretation of a plus unity undergoing metamorphosis for the creation of variety. The variety between species can be nothing more than the variety which the anomaly proves to the species of normal character. There is no member of the animal fabric which more interestingly illustrates the fact that nature adheres to a unity of type than does the osseous fore-limb. Whatever be the variety which fore-limbs manifest, when comparatively contemplated, still we find that the bond of unity embraces and girds within its circlet the whole subject of the variety. A proof of this fact may be seen Fh. 483. A, the fore limb of the lion ; b, that of the wild boar; c, that of the rhinoceros; D, that of the bull; E, that of the horse ; showing a serial degradation from plus to minus quantity. even in the use of that nomenclature, by tude the one to the other, we should not and which we designate all varieties of the sea- could not afford to generalise them under the pulary organ; for, were it not that all such common appellation ofscapulary organ, members proved a greater or lesser .simili- The fore-limbs of all osseous skeletal fabrics