449 SECRETION. •02 millim. in diameter; those towards the other extremity about ^04 millim. Some of Fig, 314. Hepatic cells of Helix alholahris, a, 1, 2, two cells from the bottom of the caecum ; 6, 1, 2, two cells more advanced, containing nu- merous oil globules; c, 1, 2, 3, three cells, con- taining larger oil globules; d, a cell distended with oil; e, a cell containing nothing but six deep yellow consistent oil globules; f, a cell con- taining a hard yellow mass of fat; g, a cell rup- turing, and its contents escaping; A, nuclei of hepatic cells, highly magnified. the fully ripe cells (6,1, 2) are filled with innumerable minute globules of oil, hardly distinguishable from the granular matter ; others (c, 1, 2, 3) with globules of a larger size ; some are found with from one to ten or more large, deep yellow, oil globules in the centre ; a few (/) with a hard or crystallised mass of fat in the centre ; and many (d) are distended with oil. By pressing the cells (g) between two plates of glass, the contents will be squeezed out, and the structure will be seen as follows : — the vesicular transparent, amorphous cell-wall, finely granular matter, fat globules, and a granular nucleus (h), mea- suring about '01 millim. and containing a hard transparent nucleolus. A few of the cells contain two nuclei. The blood-vessels, con- sisting of arteries and veins, form a rete around the bulbiform caeca, but do not appear to come in immediate contact with the secreting cells " (loc. cit.). The general plan of struc- ture of the liver of the Cephalopoda is essen- tially the same ; the hepatic ducts and follicles being clustered as in a raceme, and the follicles being crowded with biliary cells. In the LoligOy these follicles are described by Dr. Williams (op. cit.), as being themselves sac- culated, by duplications of their membrane ; and some of the biliary cells appear as if pro- ducing a new generation within themselves. A very remarkable departure from the general type is presented by certain of the Nudibranckiate Mollusca, of which Eolis may be taken as the type. In these animals, the VQL. IV. stomach gives off on either side a number of branches, which usually redivide, and then Fig. 315. Eolis Farrani, showing the branchial papilla;. (^After Alder and Hancock.') give off smaller tubes, which are contirnied into the branchial papillae that cover the dor- sal surface (^g. 315.). "The prolongations of the branches that enter the papillae undergo a considerable enlargement and change of form ; and from the variety and brilliancy of their colouring are the chief attraction of these elegant little animals. The simplest form of this peculiar organ is met with in Eulis concinna, where it is a mere dilated tube, having its walls slightly waved, and the inner surface sprinkled with darkish granules. In E. Farrani {Jig. 316. b) it still retains a con- siderable simplicity of structure, but becomes decidedly sacculated. The complexity is much increased in E. olivacea, in which it is produced into puckered follicles or sacculi ; but in E. papulosa (Jiq. 316. a) it appears to attain its highest development. The central canal is there somewhat tortuous, and gives off on all sides variously sized, irregular, blind sacs, which are crowded with little conipound follicles. The whole of the inner surface is lined with a thickish layer of irregular vesicles or globules, filled with numerous granules. These last, when submitted to a high magni- fying power, are seen to be of various sizes, transparent, rounded, and nucleated. The whole of the internal surface of the gland is covered with vibratile cilia. These compound glands are evidently biliart/ organs, diffused throughout the several papillae, and supplying the place of a compact liver, Avhich is wanting in the body of these animals. The stomach G G