SKELETON. 632 and sterniira drawn at neck and loins, as well as thorax, degrades this prime-model to the dimensions of a specific or proportional variety, by obliterating costal quantity at Ficr. 455. neck and loins, than to understand her as having first given creation to an ens of lesser, proportions (such as Jig.-ioo.), with the cervical and lumbar vertebrae lesser than T7ie JIavimalian Skeletal Axis," Shovring in dotted outline at the neck and loins ttiose costo-sternal quantities which, if present, would render these regions equal to, and uniform with, the thorax. those of the thorax, and then varied all other forms to this ens by a superaddition of new and hitherto unknown elements. The former idea is that which I am endea- vouring to establish throughout these pro- positions. Original uniformity, or the prime model or archetype, \\z. Jig. 455., with the costo-sternal quantities at neck and loins, is that figure whose proportions I mean to develop by my mode of comparison; and the idea that the degradation or subtraction of parts proper to this archetype is that law which becomes the creator of specific variety. When I find that the osseous quantity of a caudal centrum, a sacral, a lumbar, or a cervical vertebral quantity can severally be referred to the like quantities contained in a sternal thoracic costo-vertebral segment*, I entertain the opinion that the latter, as a whole or prime model, has undergone meta- morphosis to the creation of such propor- tional variety as the former instance ; and this opinion, I fancy, is more consonant with reason, or is, at least, more pliable for un- derstanding, than to suppose that nature, after having first given creation to the caudal, lumbar, or cervical S'^gments of the spinal axis, created, as it were b}^ after thought, other figures secondar}- and special to such as * Every' lesser unit of the vertebral chain finds its quantitative homologue in a part of the greater unit, and all lesser units in the greatest unit, which I therefore name as the archetype. In the following beautiful sentence, Carus expresses his idea of the organic whole quantity compared with the lesser thing or species : — " La partie d'un tout organique est incontestablement douee d'un organisation d'au- tant plus e'leve'e qu'elle repe'te plus parfaitement en elle I'ide'e du tout, et le tout lui-meme est d'autant plus parfait qu'il correspond d'avautage a I'ide'e de la nature entiere dont nous devons reconnaitre que I'essence est Funite des lois eternelles revelees dans I'infinie diversite de la manifestation." See C. G. Carus,Traite Element. d'AnatomieComp. c. xi. p. 26., traduit par J. L. Jourdan; see also Carus, You den Urtheilen des ELnochen und Schaleugeriistes, fol. Leipzic, 1828. these by the addition of new and unknown elemental structure, such as a thoracic rib and a sternal piece ; for in the absence or presence of certain elements consists all the specific difference between all segments and regions of the mammalian spinal axis. Prop. XVIL Uniformity of structure is a conditio7i proper to the plus thoracic 07-igi- nals of the spinal axis of the mammalian body. —It is a demonstrable fact, that all the spinal segments of those regions (^Jig. 455.), named cervical, lumbar, and sacral, differ trom the first seven thoracic costo-vertebral circles (those numbered from 8 to 14) by quantity only ; and this quantity is costo-sternal. It is also demonstrable, that the coccygeal seg- ments of the spinal region, represented by the centrum (o,Jig. 453.), differ from the same whole forms by quantity only : this quantity is the neural arch and spinous process, in addition to costo-sternal elements, all of which I have drawn in dotted outline around the caudal centrum (d, Jjg. 453.). Now this differential condition, visible between all such spinal segments, being one of quantity only, it must appear evident that the idea of a structural uniformity can alone be established, first by interpreting the present condition of cervical, lumbar, sacral, and caudal segments, lis being one of proportional variety; and second, by comparing them as such with their originals, which I assert to be of sternal costo- vertebral quantity. If, then, the original or archetypal quantity of a caudal, a sacral, a lumbar, or a cervical segment be a sternal costo-vertebral segment, it will follow that the series of such originals constitutes plus uniformity, as indicated in Jg. 455., whose serial units at neck and loins are equated with the thoracic units, whereas the series of such segments as cervical, lumbar, sacral, and caudal quantity constitutes proportional va- riety or specific difference, created out of the substance of the uniform archetype costo- vertebral originals. In order to fix the idea