127 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS, (it may be) a more or less uniform red hue ; and yields on pressure a small quantity of slightly glutinous, thin, yellowish, transparent fluid. The vessels of sarcoma may be pretty equally distributed through its substance, or set in a sort of patch-work. These growths are essentially disposed to become encysted. Their cyst, vascular and cellular like themselves, may be fibrous in part, and is formed both of natural cellular tissue condensed, and of exudation-matter solidified. This secondary or pseudo-cyst adheres close'y to their surface, and appears continuous with the cellular and thin, or fibrous, thick, and opaquely white, membranous septa of the growth. Molecular matter, granules, spherical, oval, and caudate cells, and fibres form the ulti- mate constituents of sarcoma. Its spherical cell seems to us identical with the common inflammatory exudation cell. (See PsEi do- TissuES.) The oval cell, of larger size (mea- suring .00073 of an English inch and upwards, according to some estimates by Miiller), is provided with a dark, well defined, but small nucleus : such cells are sometimes enclosed within a mother cell-wall of proportional dimensions, and aftbrd clear evidence of endo- genous procreation. Slightly elongated at opposite ends, as they sometimes are, they eventually pass into the state of caudate or spindle-shaped cell {fg. 93). Such cau- Fig. 93. Caudate cells from an albuminous sarcoma of the conjunctiva. (After Jliiller.^ date cells are either arranged in linear juxta- position, as above ; or they are scattered loosely through the mass. They are not plainly nucleated, as a general rule ; but acetic acid brings out a parietal nucleus. They seem to pass by an easy transition into fibres ; and eventually these fibres acquire for the greater part the characters of those of cel- lular tissue, but occasionally of fibrous, and yet more rarely (we have seen this) of elastic texture. The molecular and granular matter of sarcoma is probably in part fatty; but oil- globules are of rare occurrence. Sarcoma is mainly composed of albumen ; but (especially when a c\st with thickened processes exists) will yield a small quantity of gelatin by boiling. There are probably few sites in which sar- coma does not form. We have seen it in the cellular tissue under the lower jaw; in the substance of both maxillas (whence it has fre- quently been removed with successful results); under the periosteum of the long bones, or (more rarely) in the actual substance of these ; in the mamma; in the eye; in connection v\ith fibrous textures, as the dura mater, &c. Hremorrhage, calcification, and suppuration occur in sarcoma ; the latter with great rarity. We have never seen cancer within the area of a sarcc ma. Condensation and detrusion of surrounding parts are mechanically caused by this growth ; it has no intrinsic tendency to affect those parts otherwise, though inflammatory changes may, from over distention, be induced among them. ยง 3. CYSTOMA. See Pseudo-Tissues ; Serous. ^ 4. ANGEIECTOMA. Masses of variable size composed of dilated and elongated vessels may be described under the name of angeiectoma {ai'yuov tkrui-uj). They are rare productions, and seem essen- tially produced by dilated hypertrophy of the small vessels, venous or arterial. A tumour of this kind has been figured by Dr. Carswell, (Fascic. Melanoma, pi. ii. fig. 2). It was sunk into the substance of the brain, but evidently in connection with the pia- mater. " The bloodvessels of the pia-mater passed into it, and constituted by far the greater part of the tumour. They became tortuous in its substance; some of them, being nearly a line in diameter, were reflected back- wards at their extremities in the form of irre- gular intertwined bundles, towards which two or three small arteries, coming from the pia- mater, were seen to distribute themselves." Lobstein (Anat. Path. t. i. p. 461) describes a similar mass formed of a venous plexus. In both these cases the veins contained, and were bathed in, melanic liquid. Dr. Warren (On Tumours) figures and describes a case of con- genital tumour composed of greatly dilated and knotty veins seated in the neck. There is a species of ej.ulis which appears to be composed of dilated and hypertrophous arteries. Cruveilhier (Anat. Pathol, livrais. 33.) describes certain tumours on the surface of the skull, pulsatile, erectile, and the seat of blowing arterial murmur, which had eroded the bone ; there were similar forma- tions in the external soft parts; they were composed of dilated " arterial capillaries." A man was admitted some years ago into Univ. College Hospital (Mus.' Model 2854), under Mr. Liston, having a series of pale red, knotty tuberosities, extending from the left orbit to the occiput, pulsatile, erectile, and the seat of blowing murmur at a particular point. Death ensuing, Mr. Marshall examined the larger of the series, and found that it con- sisted in the main of dilated and tortuous arteries, with intervening fibrous tissue and granular tat ; large straight veins existed, and one or two of these uniting at obtuse angles, passed between (but did not communi- cate with) the arterial branches at the site of the blowing murmur. No true erectile struc- ture was to be seen. Tumours ot" this kind (such are many naevi, na?vi verrucosi, and aneurisms by anastomo- sis), bccause/>//y5io/ogica//y erectile, have been