412 ROTIFERA. ^g. 291. b). To the semicircular pieces are attached some of the longitudinal muscles, which, by their action, cause the teeth to work upon the central plate. The general structure of" the jaws is, in all instances, the same, but the number of processes, called teeth, varies considerably. Sometimes no such processes are discoverable, as'm Cyphojiautes; in others, there is but one tooth on each side, as in spe- cies of SynchcBta, Diglena, Lepadel/a, and il/o- nostz/la. Some have two on each side, as AIo- nocerca, Alastigocerca, and Rotifer {Jig. 301.). Others, again, present three, four, or several teeth on each side, as in Brachionus brevisd- mus (fg.300.), Triarthra longisefa (Jig. 297.), Brachionus pala {Jig. 296.). Such are the cha- racters afforded by the teeth in this family, that Ehrenberg gives an arrangement of the Fh. 301. Rotatory organs of Rotifer vulgaris enlarged. {After Ehrenberg.^ a, hornlike process (respiratory tube); 6, b, muscles of the jaws; c, c, intestinal glands. genera into orders, according to the absence or presence and number of the teeth, as follows : — 1. Agomphia. Rotifers without teeth. Examples : Chcetonotus, Enteroplea. 2. MoNOGOMPHiA. With a single tooth. Examples: Pleurotrocha, Furcularia. 3. PoLYGOMPHiA. With many teeth. Ex- amples : Hydatina, StephanoceroSy Brachionus. 4. Zygogomphia. With double teeth. Examples: Rotifer, Philodince. 5. LocHOGOMPHiA. With teeth in rows. Examples : Pti/gura, Megalotrocha. The teeth seem to form the most dense part of the body of the Rotifera, and, after the crushing of the animalcule, may be ob- tained for separate examination under the microscope. The whole masticatory apparatus is at- tached to the upper part of the alimentary canal, the oesophageal head, where it may be observed, being constantly in motion. This movement, which goes on whether the animal is partaking food or not, was mistaken by the earlier observers for the action of a heart. Although, in most instances, the food is brought to the jaws of the animal by the rotatory apparatus, yet we have often ob- served, in species of Brachionus, that they have the power of projecting their jaws be- yond the margin of the tegumentary mem- brane, and bringing them immediately in con- tact with the substances on which they are feeding. The form of the alimentary canal varies : it is sometimes a simple tube, as in Dinocharis paupera {Jig. 302. b). In many species, an enlargement of the middle portion takes place from constriction of the canal, above and below, forming a kind of stomach, as in Xo- tommata myrmeleo {Jig. 303. c), Brachionus pala {fg. 296.). Sometimes there are two en- Fifi. 302. Dinocharis paupera. Back \'iew. a, anal orifice ^ b, alimentary canal. largements of the canal, as in Triarthra lon- giseta {fig. 297.). When the enlargement takes place below alone, as in Rotifer vulgaris {fig. 299.), and Philodina roseola {fig. 295, rf), Ehrenberg calls this portion a rectum. Eh- renberg points out the form of the alimentary canal as a mode of dividing the Rotifera, as follow: — 1. Trachelogastrica, those with a long sim- ple alimentary canal. 2. CcElogastrica, with a short oesophagus and an oblong conical alimentary canal, as in Hydatina. 3. Gasterodela, in which the alimentary