SALIVARY GLANDS. 422 Mucus, with trace of ptyalin - 2'6 Lactates - ( potash 1 Hydrochlorates - <j soda r - 1-9 Phosphates - |,Hme J An excessive sweetness of the saliva has been observed in some cases of phthisis. It was an indication to which some importance was attached by the late Dr. Cholmeley, of Guy's Hospital. BILIOUS SALIVA. Water ----- 986*7 Ptyalin 0*5 Fatty matter and fatty acid - - 1*3 Biliary matter - - - - 3*2 Cholesterine - - - - 0*4 Albuminate of soda - - - 1-9 Mucus 1-6 Carbonates - f potash 1 Hydrochlorates - < soda V - 2*3 Phosphates - [ lime J GELATINOUS SALIVA. Dr. Wright considers this variety of saliva was known to Baglivi. He describes it as imperfectly transparent, dingy-looking, viscid, and tremulous when cold. It decomposes readily, and is above the natural specific gra- vity, being 1009 to 1010. It has a mawkish taste and greasy odour, giving no odour of ptyalin when heated. It contains that prin- ciple, as well as sulphocyanogen, however, though in smaller proportion than healthy saliva. Gelatinous saliva is neutral, or faintly acid ; absorbing oxygen sparingly, and possessing but little digestive power. Dr. Wright con- siders it indicative of a depraved and debili- tated state of system. He saw one instance in a case of scurvy, and another in a case of carcinoma uteri. The analysis is as follows : — Water - 987-2 Ptyalin •6 Fatty acid •8 Gelatine - - 3-6 Albumen and soda 1-3 Sulphocyanogen - a trace Mucus - 2-5 Lactates - f potash 1 Hydrochlorates - < soda >- - 1-7 Phosphates - lime J Loss - 2-3 MILKY SALIVA. This kind of saliva has been noticed by several authors, A case is related by Nuck in which, during four months, milky saliva was secreted by a woman who became gravid dur- ing lactation. When the flow of milky saliva commenced, an intumescence of the breast was observed to decline. Richard, speaking of milk fever (Ann. Clin, de Montpellier), says the malady occasionally terminates favourably by the occurrence of a salivation consisting of milky saliva. Other authors also have noticed the occurrence of milky saliva, in connection with a suppressed flow of milk from the mammary gland. Dr. Wright describes milky saliva as white, completely opaque, neutral to test paper, and rendered curdy by acetic acid. URINARY SALIVA. This variety of saliva has been described by Dr. Prout. The salivation occurred spon- taneously. The patient suffered anorexia, and was weak, but otherwise healthy. The renal secretion was diminished, and the saliva had a urinous taste- It was opalescent, foamed when agitated, and was slightly ropy. Its specific gravity was 1005. It restored the blue colour to reddened litmus paper. The soluble salts of lead, mercury, and silver, caused precipitates when added to it, as did also the mineral acids. Dilute acetic acid caused a precipitate, but no further precipitate could be obtained by subsequent addition of a solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. There- fore no albumen was present. 1000 grains of this saliva, when evaporated to dryness at a temperature between 212° and 300°, left 8*65 grains, which were composed as follows :— Animal matter peculiar to saliva - 3'33 Alcoholic extract, apparently! similar to that from the blood J Sulphuric acid - - - - 0"90 Hydrochloric acid - . . 0*75 Phosphoric acid - - - - 0*06 Alkali—partly potash and partly 1 o.kk soda J 2_ 8-65 In this case, when the urinary secretion was restored by the use of diuretics, the sa- livary discharge was proportionally diminished. (G. Owoi Rces.} THE SALIVARY GLANDS (Les Glandes Salivaires, Fr. : Die Spcichel-Drusen^ Germ. ; Le Glandule Salivali, Ital.). A series of conglomerate glands, arranged in a curved manner, and following the circumfe- rence of the inferior maxilla from the posterior border of one side to that of the other, and pouring their secretion into the mouth by means of excretory ducts, are thus denomi- nated. They present a distinctly lobulated granular appearance, the component lobes and lobules being more or less loosely connected together by areolar tissue derived from the surface, and which, though serving the pur- pose of an investing membrane, is not of a sufficiently definite character to constitute a distinct capsule. They have a yellowish or greyish-red appearance, and are thus at once distinguished from the soft structures with which they are in immediate connection, namely, the cellular membrane and the lym- phatic glands, the former being perfectly white, and the latter pale brown. They are three in number on either side, and are named from above downwards the Parotid, Submaxillar}', and Sublingual, and have in the same direction a relation as to their size, the parotid having the largest, the sublingual the smallest, and the submaxillary an intermediate volume. Though usually se- parated from each other by a slight interval.