REPTILIA. 284 of repose, in which condition it covers them by drawing the inclosing pouch over them. The internal 2Jtcrijgoid (k), shorter and smaller than the external, runs from the alar bone to the posterior part of the lower jaw, which it consequently draws forwards. The s2)/ieno-j)teri/goid (I), which has no ana- logue in other vertebrata, arises from the mesial portion of the base of the cranium, and runs outwards and backwards to be at- tached to the inner surface of the pterygoid plate, which it can thus drag forwards a»ul inwards so as to cause the protraction of the superior maxillary bone, thus raising the venom fangs; it will likewise narrow the mouth by causing the approximation of the two internal arches. It is assisted in its ac- tion by a muscle, which Cuvier regards as a dismemberment of the temporal, the post-or- hilo-palatine, which runs from the temporal fossa behind the orbit to the palatine arch. The 8j)heno-j>alatine {fig. 205, n) antagonises the two last ; it extends from all the length of the palatine arch to the mesial line of the base of the cranium ; its direction crossing that of the preceding muscle, above which it is placed. i3y its contraction it brings back- wards the entire upper jaw, approximating at the same time the branches that form it. Two small muscles {fig. 205, o) advance fx-om beneath the sphenoid, and run close to each other to be inserted by a slender tendon into the vomer. These are the spheno-vomerine muscles of Duges, for which it would be dif- ficult to find analogues. These muscles de- press the muzzle. In all the true serpents the tongue is en- closed in a membranous sheath, to be de- scribed hereafter ; and the os hyoides, which in the ophidia has no connexion with the larynx, consists of two simple cartilaginous stems {fig. 206, b,) running parallel to each other, which bend forwards underneath the sheath of the tongue, where they unite to form a sort of arch of almost membranous consis- tency. Corresponding with this simple form of the OS hyoides; the hyoid system of muscles is very simple. The mylo-hyoideus, above described as being anadductorof thetwo divisions of the lower jaw, has some of its fibres confounded with those of the costo- mandibular muscles {fiigs. 204<. 206, %i\ which, coming from the anterior ribs, is attached to the lower margin of the inferior maxilla. Its central fascicuU are adherent to the rami of the OS hyoides, and more especially to the membranous arch which they form in front. They can therefore draw it either forwards or backwards, accordingly as it is the maxillary or the costal portion which contracts; and thus these fasciculi hold the place of both sterno-hyoidei and genio-hyoidei. In ser- pents, therefore, there are no muscles exclu- sively appropriated to the os hyoides. The tongue of serpents is slender, cylindri- cal, and forked at its extremity. It is lodged in a membranous sheath, the opening of which is situated near the anterior part of the mouth, and the animal can protrude it from its month to nearly its whole length, using it as an in- strument of touch, apparently comparable in Fio, 206. lluscles of the Throat of the Rattlesnake {Crotalus durissus). A, retractor muscles of the tongue (Hyo-vagi- niens); b, cornua of the os-Hyoides; h, external pterygoid; u, u, u, u, costo-mandibular muscles; V, V, anterior adductor muscle of the rami of the lower jaw; V, v', portion of the preceding connected with the skin of the throat; .r, posterior adductor of the rami of the lower jaw ; y, a muscle running from the symphysis of the lower jaw to the sides of the trachea (genio-trachien); z, geno-vaginalis, representing the genio-glossi; z', z", external and internal origins of ditto. some respects to the antennae of insects. The muscles by the agency of which it is pro- truded, are the gemo-vogimtle.s {fig. 206, z), re- presenting the genio-glossi. These arise by two fasciculi, of which the internal and small- est {z^) arises from the tendinous median portion of the adductor of the inferior maxillee {v); whilst the external (2''), which is the stroniicst, takes its origin from the ex- tremity of the lower jaw itself : these two portions unite and form a narrow^ band, which becomes applied to the sides of the sheath of the tongue, along which it is continued back- wards to its extremity. The retractors of the tongue {fig. 206, a) are analogous to the hyo-glossi ; they arise around the extremities of the rami of the os hyoides, and running forwards conjointly, enter the sheath of the tongue, and its proper investing membrane ; so that they constitute the ent've