REPTILIA. 287 intemiis(j%.208,23), and the triceps extensor of the fore-arm. Fig. 208. 3Iuscles of Salamander terrestris. On the fore-arm may be distinguished the flexor carpi radiaUs (25), the flexor carpi ulnaris {Jig. 207, 26), the extensor carpi ulnaris (27), the extensor carpi radiaUs (fg. 208, 28), a flexor communis digitorum (29), and an extensor communis digitorum (30). Muscles of the hinder Extremiti/. — The thick flexor of the thigh (fg. 207, 31), repre- senting the iliacLis internus, arises broadly from the whole inner surface of the os ilei passes over the os pubis, and is inserted into the femur below its middle. The long ex- tensor and adductor of the thigh (32) arises from the third and fourth caudal vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior aspect of the femur about its middle. The long abductor of the leg (fig. 207, 33) arises from the external surface of the os ilei, and is inserted into the tibia about its lower third. The anterior abductor of the thigh {^gs. 207 and 208, 34) arises from the anterior and internal surface of the os ilei, and is inserted into a broad tendinous expansion that covers the knee-joint. The thin flexor of the leg ( fg. 208, 36) arises from the inferior lateral surface of the os ilei, and is inserted into the outer part of the hea(l of the tibia. A long muscular slip (figs. 201 and 208, 37) arises from the transverse processes of the third and fourth vertebrae of the tail, and is inserted into the back of the thigh bone. The chief muscle of the sole of the foot (^38) arises from the side of the sacrum, and is inserted into the thick fascia of the sole. The other muscles of the foot are an extensor and abductor of the tarsus (39), which arises from the upper end of the tibia, and is inserted into the outer surface of the tarsal bone. An extensor longus digitorum pedis (40) arising from the fascia of the knee, and the anterior surface of the ligaments of that joint. This furnishes a tendon to each of the five toes. The flexor longus digitorum (41) , arising from the upper extremity of the tibia, and dividing into five tendons inserted into the last joints of the toes. A short ex- tensor arises from the entire anterior surface of the bones of the tarsus : its tendons unite with those of the long extensor. The short flexor arises from the ankle joint, and giving off* fleshy fibres to the tendons of the long flexor. There is likewise a special extensor and abductor of the great toe, and a similar one appropriated to the little toe. Both these arise from the ligaments of the tarsus. Ex- ternal and internal interossei muscles are likewise present. The other muscles represented in the atl- joining figures are the sphincter ani (42), and a flexor of the tail (43), derived from the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae. The Teeth. — The dental apparatus of the Eeptilia is so widely different in its construc- tion in the different orders and even genera of this class of animals, that no general description of it is possible. We shall therefore quote Professor Owen's * account of the various ar- rangements adopted in the principal groups into ■which they have been divided by naturalists. In the Deirodon scaber, the inferior spinous processes of certain of the cervical vertebrae are unusually prolonged, and penetrate the * Owen's Odontography, page 179, et seq.