46 POLYPIFERA. the two poles of the balloon becoming ap- proximated, the whole embryo becomes some- what disc-shaped, or the four vessels that communicate with the stomach (if vessels they really are), by moderately contracting, form as many depressions dividing the embryo into four lobes (^fg. 50. o, 6.), or by a more forcible contraction give it the appearance of a Greek cross, and ail these changes of form may take place in a few seconds. Observations are wanting relative to the manner in which the free embryo is con- verted into the fixed Tubularia ; for although Professor Van Beneden observed the latter at a very early period after they had become at- tached, he was unable to witness the changes that they undergo at the moment of becoming attached to some foreign body, and therefore gives a hypothetical outline of the forms through which he supposes them to pass {fig. 50.7) preparatory to their final establishment as young Tubularly (8, 9). Fig. 51. A. series shou-ing tJie development of Tubularia coro- natafrom ova. 1. A ramification or bud of the ovari'. The com- mon cavity continued into it as a cul-de-sac, beyond •which is the ovum. 2. The ovum becomes much enlarged, and sur- rounding the cul-de-sac. 3. The cid-de-sac turned aside by gentle com- pression. Indentations on the o^'ujn indicating the formation of tentacles. 4. An elevation (6) in the centre of the tentacles become perceptible, which afterwards forms the proboscis-like part of the animal. 5. The same compressed between two plates of glass. 6. The embryo after its escape from the ovisac, having as yet but one row of tentacles. 7. The young animal become fixed. The short tentacles beginning to project at the anterior pro- longation or proboscis. Third mode of propagnfion, hi/ f^imple ova.— Thii mode of reproduction approximates the nearest to what occurs in the higher animals. Cells are observed to become organised in the middle of a vesicle in the same manner as the vitelline cells, and to become converted into an embryo. In this case the vitelline cells be- come aggregated and modified, so as to give rise to a new individual, which is isolated from the commencement of its existence. The point of departure for the formation of the embryo is the same as in the preceding mode of development, and the reproductive vesicle has at first precisely the same structure as in the last case, but instead of preserving its transparency, this vesicle soon exhibits nume- rous cells, which render it more and more opaque, and give it more the appearance of a vitellus. In this case moreover there is a great difference in the relations which the red pedicle {fig. 49, b) bears to the embryo. In the preceding mode of development this pe- dicle constitutes an integrant part of the newly formed being, forming, in fact, its stomach, but in the oviparous mode there is no organic connection between the one and the other, the vitellus being formed between the pedicle and the integument of the offset, and on press- ing the latter between two plates of glass these structures readily separate without any laceration. As the vitellus increases in size it becomes impacted between the integument and the pe- dicle, and its augmentation of size still in- creasing, the upper part of the pedicle becomes covered with it as with a hood, and at last almost entirely enveloped by it. At this period the margins of the vitellus become in- dented on that side nearest the pedicle, and the tubercles between the indentations soon sliosv themselves to be the rudiments of ten- tacula. The tentacula become more and more elongated, the embryo separates itself slightly from the pedicle, and a protuberance (fig- 51. 4, h) is then perceived in the centre of the ten- tacular zone, which becomes the proper body of the polype, or rather forms the walls of its stomachal cavity. The walls of the bud, which has hitherto contained the embryo, now become ruptured, and it gains its liberty {fig. 51.6). In this condition it almost exactly resembles a young Hydra in its contracted state, and in fact both its body and its tentacula seem to have the same anatomical structure as those of that simply organised polype. Having attained to this condition its development proceeds ra- pidly, and it soon begins to assume the specific form of the Tubularia from which it sprung (/a. 51.7). Prof. Van Beneden likewise witnessed the same mode of propagation in Si/ncori/na pu- silla. Fourth mode of propogatiou, hy ova with a multiple vitellus. — The fourth mode of repro- duction observed by Professor Van Beneden to occur among the tubular polypes is ex- tremely curious. In this form, as in that last described, the young individuals are deve- loped from ova, and the first steps of the pro- cess are precisely similar. A bud is formed from the surface of the parent zoo[^hyte, in