SHELL. 568 structure in the calcareous rosette, with which, as long since observed by Monro, the sucker at the extremity of each am- bulacral tube is furnished. But it is in the spines with which the shell is beset, that the most remarkable displays of it are to be met with ; for it is there disposed in connection with iolid ribs or pillars, which increase the strength of these organs, in such a manner as to constitute a most regular and elaborate pattern, which appears to differ in every distinct species. When we make a thin transverse section of almost any spine be- longing to the genus Echinus, we are at once made aware of the existence of a number of concentric layers, arranged in a manner that strongly reminds us of the layers of wood in the stem of an exogenous tree. The number of these layers is extremely variable ; depending, not merely upon the age of the spine, but upon the part of its length from which the section is taken. The centre of the spine {fig. 424. a.) is filled up Fig. 424. Transverse section of spine of Echinus : a, medullary centre ; bb, first layer of solid pillars; cc, dd, ee, ff, successive rings of growth. Magnified 45 diameters. with the same kind of calcareous net-work as that of which the shell is composed; and this is sometimes so delicate, as to appear as if made up by the interlacement of mere threads. This medullary centre is bounded by a row, more or less circular according to the form of the spine (which is sometimes angular), of open spots {b, b, b), in which it is deficient : these, on a cursory inspection, might be supposed, from their transparency, to be void spaces ; but a closer inspection makes it evident that they are the sections of a circukr row of solid ribs or pillars, which form the exterior of every layer. Their solidity becomes very obvious when we either examine a section of a spine whose substance is pervaded (as frequently happens) with a deep colour, or when we look at a thin section of any spine by polarised light. Around the first circle of these solid pillars, we find another layer of the fibro-calcareous net-work, which again is bounded by ano- ther circle of solid pillars, whose transverse sections are seen at c, c, c. The same ar- rangement may be repeated many times, (dd, ee). On looking at the outer border of the section, we observe that the rounded sides of these pillars (/,/) form a series of pro- jections with hollows between them ; and these exactly correspond with the projecting ribs and furrows which we may notice run- ning along the natural surface of the spine when we examine this with a magnifying glass, or even (in some instances) with the naked eye. Although there is nothing like interstitial growth in the shell or spines of the Echinus, yet both are progressively enlarged by the addition of new matter. The polygonal plates of which the shell is composed are separated from each other by a membrane that passes into every suture; and the margins of each plate appear to receive periodical additions, by calcareous deposit in the substance of this membrane. In this manner the globular form of the entire shell is preserved, whilst it undergoes progressive enlargement; new plates being added, as they may be required, round the anal orifice of the shell (Agassiz). There can be httle doubt that the spines are, in like manner, periodically augmented in diameter by suc- cessive formations or acts of growth, which take place in the investing membrane ; and a longitudinal section of the spine makes it evident that these additions not only sur- round the preceding deposits from the base upwards, but pass considerably beyond them, thus adding to the length of the spine. The consequence is, that a transverse section taken near the base of the spine will exhibit all the layers of which it is made up, each layer being narrow, and the central medulla small. A section taken at about the middle of the length may very probably not cut across the original spine nor the older layers, which do not reach so far; and a section taken across the spine near its apex will only traverse the one or two layers last formed. Nevertheless, in many species, the spine is larger at that part than near its base ; but the large size is due to the great ex- pansion of the medullary centre, which is composed of a very loose calcareous reti- culation. The structure of the shell of the Echinus is repeated in that of the three genera which may be regarded as the types of the principal subdivisions of the order Echinida, — namely, Cidaris, Clypeastcr, and Spotangus: there can be no reasonable doubt, therefore, that it is universal throughout the group. The spines, however, of Cidaris, present a marked vari- ation from the plan of structure exhibited in Echinus ; for they are usually nearly cylin- drical in form, destitute of concentric layers, and composed of a calcareous reticulation en- veloped in a cylinder of a solid, apparently homogeneous substance, chiefly calcareous,