328 RESPIRATION. their respiration deteriorate the air to the ex" tent of removing in a century the 8000th part of the oxygen in the atmosphere, is to make a supposition very much beyond the truth.* Resjnration of plants,— The results of the chemical actions between the atmospheric air and the vegetable kingdom, are chiefly influ- enced by the presence or absence of light, and the condition of the plants at the time. When a plant is surrounded by the ordinary atmospheric air, and exposed to the sunshine, the green parts of the plant, and especially the leaves, decompose the carbonic acid contained in the atmosphere, seize upon the carbon, and liberate the oxygen; while the same plant in the dark, not only ceases to decompose car- bonic acid, but actually exhales into the sur- rounding atmosphere a portion of this gas. A quantity of nitrogen gas is also given off by plants along with the oxygen.f Plants, therefore, during exposure to light, purify the air by removing carbonic acid and adding oxygen, while during the night they, like animals, deteriorate the air by exhaling car- bonic acid gas. As, however, the quantity of oxygen gas liberated during the day from the decomposed carbonic acid is more than suffi- cient to counterbalance the quantity of car- bonic acid formed during the night, plants on the whole must counteract, either entirely or in part, the accumulation in the atmosphere of the carbonic acid gas formed by the respi- ration of animals, and in various chemical rocesses going on at the earth's surface, ndeed, nearly the whole of the carbon which enters so largely into the formation of the ve- getable tissues, appears to be obtained through the decomposition of the carbonic acid of the atmosphere. The parts of a plant which are not of a green colour, such as the roots, &c., absorb oxygen from the atmosphere, and give out carbonic acid gas even in the sunshine ; and this process seems essential to the vigorous growth of the plant. The flowers of a plant also absorb oxygen, and exhale carbonic acid, and the quantity of the latter gas evolved during inflorescence is considerable. The seeds of plants during germination also absorb oxygen and give out carbonic acid.+ The * Dumas' Essai de Statique Chimique des Etres Organises, p. 18, 3rd edit. 1844; and Dumas and Boussingault in Amiales de Chini. et de Phys., torn, iii. p. 288. 1841. t Daubeny, in Philos. Transactions of London for 1836, p. 149; and Professor Draper, in London, Edin- burgh, and Dviblin Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxiii. p. 161. 1843. According to Draper, " when the leaves of plants under the influence of light de- compose carbonic acid gas, they assimilate all the carbon, and a proportion of oxygen disappears, at the same time they emit a volume of nitrogen equal to that of the oxygen consumed." The greater part of the nitrogen evolved comes, he believes, from the decomposition of some nitrogenized constituent of the leaf. X The animalcula, especially those of a green colour, seem to exert the same effects upon the at- mospheric air under the influence of light as the green parts of plants. Vide observations of Morren and Wholer, already referred to; and also Ehren- berg, in Poggendortf's Annalen, band Ivii. S. 311. Fungi evolve carbonic acid gas in large quan- tity from all parts of their structure, and at all periods of their growth, even when exposed to a bright sunshine, and these plants derive their supply of carbon from the soil in which they grow.* It is also maintained that a quantity of oxygen is absorbed by the surface of plants during spring and summer, to assist in the elaboration of their acids, resins, and volatile oils. We thus perceive that the che- mical actions between the atmospheric air and plants are varied, and diflTer in some important respects from those that occur in animals. Attempts have been made to show that the respiratory function is essentially the same in these two great divisions of the or- ganic kingdom ; that the fixation of carbon and the liberation of the oxygen gas by the leaves, and other green parts of plants during their exposure to the rays of the sun, form a part of their digestive process; while the evo- lution of carbonic acid, which proceeds during the day as well as during the night, from seeds during germination, from the flowers, from the surfaces not coloured green, and also, it is asserted, partly from the leaves, is their true respiratory process.f According to others, if the actions of the juices upon the atmospheric air, by which they are changed from the crude to the fully elaborated sap, and rendered fit for the nutrition of the plant, constitute the function of respiration, then the green surfaces, and especially the leaves, * Marcet (Bibliotheque Universelle de Geneve, (Sciences et Ai-ts,) tom. Ivii. p. 393. 1834; and An- nales de Chim. et de Phys., tom. Iviii. p. 407. 1835) ascertained that Fungi, when confined in a limited quantity of air for some time, disengage a larger quantity of carbonic acid gas than could have been formed by the combination of carbon with the oxy- gen which has disappeared from the air: that when confined in nitrogen gas, a small quantity of car- bonic acid is evolved, and in some cases a small qu.antity of nitrogen is absorbed; and that when confined in oxygen gas a larger quantity of this gas is absorbed than what is sufiicieut to constitute the carbonic acid gas evolved, and that this is replaced, at least in part, by a quantity of azote disengaged from the plants. We thus perceive that if certain of the lower organized bodies, generally regarded as belonging to the animal kingdom, effect the same changes upon the atmospheric air by their respira- tion as the higher vegetables do, there are, on the other hand, certain of the lower organized plants that resemble in this respect the higher organized of the animal kingdom. Other crjqitogamic plants having a green colour, such as the Ferns and Algag, liberate oxygen gas when exposed to the sunshine. Vide Morren's Experiments on Algje, already re- ferred to; and those of Daubeny, upon Ferns and Algae, in London Philos. Transact, vol. xlii. p. 166. 1836. t Burnett, in the Journal of the Royal Institixtion of Great Britain, vol. i. p. 83. 1831. Mr. Burnett also maintains that the analogy further holds good " between the functions of respiration and digestion in animals and plants, for to both is carbonic acid deleterious when breathed, and to both is it imigo- rating to the digestive system Avhen absorbed as food,'* p. 100. Professor Draper (London and Edin. Philos. Magazine, 1844) proceeds still farther, and asserts that the whole of the action of the leaves upon the atmospheric air constitutes a true digestive and not a respiratory function.