501 SEMEN. K K 3 This connexion is, however, least distinct among the higher Vertebrata; in which, inde- pendently of the spermatic cells which exist free in the semen of the seminal canals, there likewise occurs a special and generally well developed stratum of epithelial cells, which are distinguished from the former by size and appearance. But this arrangement is only to be met with during the period of generative maturity. Previous to it, free spermatic cells do not exist, and the canals of the testicle have then uniform contents, con- sisting of small cells of of a line in dia- meter,, in which one or two small granules are contained. We have not been able to trace the history of the real seminal cells, but we do not consider it as altogether impro- bable that they are produced from the former epithelial cells, and most likely are developed in an endogenous manner. The possibility can certainly not be denied, that they may have been produced independently and free in the interior of the seminal canals. But even in this latter case it is unquestionable that the vesicle in which they develope themselves is furnished by the epithelial cells and has formerly been contained in their in- terior. The difference even in this instance, therefore, would not be so very material,-and might be reduced to a mere difference in the periods of formation. In both cases the seminal cells might be assumed to be produced from the contents of the epithelial vesicles, either at a period when such contents are still contained in the interior of them, or after they have become free. Our preceding remarks respecting the his- tological relations of the seminal cells apply in an equal measure to ail animals, and not merely to those the spermatozoa of which possess a linear form and are produced in the interior of the vesicles of developement. The Ghilopoda, Acarina, Entomostraca, and Nematoda furnish ns with sufficient proofs of this, — proofs which contradict the as- sumption of Koiliker*, that a linear form of spermatozoa is common to all animals. Al- though many of the differently-shaped seminal elements may, after a more accurate research, be proved to be mere forms of developement of the real spermatozoa, even this cannot be asserted with regard to all of them. These differently-shaped seminal elements are the very ones that here more particularly concern us ; we know that they differ in their develope- ment from the ordinary seminal fibres. They are solid massive corpuscles, which, as we have already shown, have been produced simply and immediately from a metamorphosis of nuclei. But even here it is the nuclei of the seminal cells, which serve for the developement of the spermatozoa. The whole difference consists in this, that the nuclei are metamorphosed altogether into the fructifying elements of the semen, whilst otherwise they produce the spermatozoa in the interior, they themselves * Page 63, getting dissolved when the latter arc about to be liberated. The external cellular mem- brane which encloses these nuclei remains, however, without any immediate participation in the formation of the spermatozoa. It gets^ destroyed in the course of the developement, in order to enable the nuclei, which in the mean time liave been converted into sperma- tozoa, to make their exit. This at least holds good in most of these cases, the Nematoda only being an exception. The membrane of the cells belonging to the metamorphosed nuclei, persists in the latter-named animals. According to this we have a threefold mode of developement of the spermatozoa, viz.:— 1st. The cell membrane and nucleus of the formative vesicles convert themselves imme- diately into the spermatozoon. 2d. The nucleus of the formative vesicles alone metamorphoses itself into the sperma- tozoon. 3d. A new formation, which takes place m the interior of the nucleus (or immediately in the cell cavity), performs the functions of a spermatozoon. On comparing the spermatozoa developed in these different ways, we cannot deny that they have a different stage of developement in a morphological point of view. The sper- matozoa resulting from endogenous forma- tion are most highly developed ; they are the produce of a perfectly new generative process-, whilst the other forms of spermatozoa owe their origin to a persistency and further developement of structures, which, first of all, were mere transitory elements, and were onlv of importance as the seat of that neoplastic process. Under such circumstances we may assume, then, that all these forms of sperma>- tozoa, according to the morphological relf^ tion in which they stand, are mere different stages of developement in one common con- tinued series,—mere variations of one thema, in which the differences seen are not essen- tial, but only of a relative import. Taking; into consideration this unity, we cannoi^ agree to the objection tliat may possibly be made to us, as if we had described the spermatozoa (which, essentially and in fact,^ are identical formations) to have been pro- duced in different ways. The mutual rela- tion of these differences is in perfect unison with the laws of organic architecture, whirh every where (when a common plan is made the basis of a series of formations) exhibits the variety of the concrete form principally through a variable developement and perfec-. tion of the ideal type. It might not be without interest to re-< fleet upon the important part which the nucleus plays in the formation of the sperma- tozoa, since it is an element which is usually only important for the form,ation of cells, and does not participate in their subsequent me-? tamorphoses. This at least is the rule; a rule, however, by no means without excep- tion. We already know that in many cases the nucleus is important for the developement of certain parts ; we know that the nucleus