488 SEMEN. Spei'mntozoon of PhaUuria monacha. (^AfterKoUiker.) Tunicafa.—Among the Tunicata the Ascidia possess spermatozoa quite similar to those of the Lamellibranchi- Fig. 365. ates, having a dis- tinct head of dif- erent shape and a slender tail. The size of the sperma- tozoa is, however, usually rather larger (/g-.365.); the head is usually t^o'^^ — the'tail fluctu- ating between ■^■^"^ The sper- matozoa seem to want a body in the Salpae, according to the observations of KoUiker. The endogenous formation of the spermatozoa in the Ascidia is as little distinct as among the Lamellibranchiata. It seems, also, with regard to the former, that the developing vesicles simply extend themselves into the spermatozoa. At a previous stage of deve- lopement, these vesicles are, however, con- tained (either singly or in a greater number) in the interior of cells. Articulata.—In the second great division of the Invertebrate animals, among the Arthro- j)oda, the filiform shape of the spermatozoa, if indeed it occurs at all, is generally still more marked in its developeuient than in the Mollusca. The spermatozoa are long and slender fibres, which, perhaps in all cases, are deficient of a real, distinct, and separate body, being at the utmost only slightly enlarged at the anterior end. The spermatozoa of some few groups, however, differ from this, and ex- hibit so striking a form and arrangement that one can hardly at first recognise in them the genuine spermatic elements. The question, indeed, arises, whether these parts are really in all cases the developed spermatozoa, or whether they do not constitute mere stages of developement. We shall subsequently return to this question ; let the remark suffice for the present, that in some cases the circumstances observed seem to favour the latter hypothesis. Insecta,—The spermatozoa among the hexa- pod insects are of great uniformit}'. They ap- pear, without exception, as filiform fibres'(^o-. 366.), which are frequently distinguished by being extremely slender in proportion to their length (the latter exceeds f^^in Staphylinus, but is generally less ; in Culex 23"^; in Agrion Virgo -^q'"—aV^O- The anterior end is pro- bably always rather thickened for a consider- able extent, and thereby distinguished from the posterior pointed end of the fibre. Remark- able deviations from this fundamental shape occur but rarely, but are nevertheless not en- tirely wanting. We may mention, for instance, that a peculiar angular appendix is found in the spermatozoa of the Locustinae at the an- terior end of the bod}^ this appendix being formed of two short crura, which converge and pass into one towards the anterior part, like the head of an arrow. Fis. 366. Spermatozoa of an Insect. The spermatozoa of the Hexapods are developed in the same endogenous man- ner, as among the Vertebrata. This process may very easily be observed. The vesicles of developement, which measure pretty uniformly, when in a developed state, ^^q'' (they are smaller in many Diptera, Culex(3^'^'), Musca, Fis. 367. Ci/sts, ivith developing vesicles, from the testicle oj Staphylinus cyaneiis. &c.), are in a variable, generally, however, in considerable number (twenty, thirty, forty), enveloped by larger cysts {fg. 367.) These cysts or enveloping cells frequently attain the size of J/'' (Carabus, Staphy- linus, Locusta, &c.),'and they are evidently the mother cells of the enclosed vesicles. In the upper division of the testicle, the