SECRETION. 471 u u 4 more disconnected from it ; until, in zoo- phytes, we are scarcely able to distinguish a nervous system at all, whilst all the operations of growth, nutrition, and secretion take place very much as in plants, in which no nervous system exists. Thus we find that " the ner- vous system lives and grows within an ani- mal, somewhat as a parasitic plant does in a vegetable," deriving its nutriment from the structure in the mitlst of which it is deve- loped, and capable of exercising a certain ac- tion upon it, but being strictly a superadded part, and having rather an adaptive than an essential connection with that structure. Now this view has derived from late dis- coveries in minute anatomy, as con)plete a confirmation as any such facts are capable of affording. For it has been shown, not merely that the functions of nutrition and secretion are common to animals and plants, but that the component elements of the organs by which they are performed are in both instances essentially the same. We have seen that the act of secretion is effected, even in the most complex gland, by the agency of aggregations of cells, each of which lives for and by itself, and appears to be dependent upon no other external conditions, than those which are re- quired for the grov.-th of the simplest cellular plant, namely, food and warmth. And it is difficult to conceive how, over that most es- sential part of the secreting process — the de- velopement of the secreting cells — the ner- vous system can exert any direct influence. Another natural experiment, whose imme- diate bearing is rather upon the physiology of nutrition than upon that of secretion, but which is really as conclusive in regard to the latter as the former, is exhibited to us in the early growth and developement of the em- bryonic structure ; which makes considerable progress, especially in invertebrated animals, before any trace of the nervous system can be detected. And in the human species the case is not unfrequent, of the foetus coming to its full size with the usual variety of textures in its composition, but without either brain or spinal cord. It has been said, however, that in such instances the ganglia of the sympa- thetic system probably exist, and supply the influence supposed to be needed; but there are cases on record, in which these would seem to have been carefully looked for and not de- tected.* And moreover, even if their uni- form presence were to be admitted, and the power of sustaining the operations of nutri- tion and secretion be supposed to reside in them, how are we to explain the effects of in- juries of the brain and spinal cord, the gangli- onic centres being left intact ? We can see no other consistent account of these i)henomena, than that which is presented by the last of the three hypotheses enumerated ; the functions of nutrition and secretion (like the contrac- tility of muscular fibre) not being regarded as dependent for their ordinary exercise upon any power supplied by the nervous system, but being considered to be modified by causes operating through it. And that this is the true view of the mat- ter, would further appear from a careful exam- ination into the nature of the phenomena which folio iv the section or injury of nerve- trunks or centres, and which have been supposed to indicate the impossibility of the continuance of true nutritive operations after the withdrawal of the hypothetical nervous influence. In the first place, the effect pro- duced by section of those nerves which are suj)posed to exert the greatest influence, is prol)ably not in any case a simple suspension of the nutritive operations, nor a death of the part; but it is of the nature of inflam- matory action, involving disordered nutrition and perverted secretion. Further, this dis- ordered condition does not seem to be the direct result of the paralysis of the nerves, so much as an indirect consequence of the want of power to resist morbific causes. " If the section of the sensitive nerves of a part," it has been observed (with special reference to the inflammations of the eye, the lungs, and stomach, couseciuent upon section of the fifth pair and par vagum), " were the dn-ect cause of its inflammation, we should expect to see in- flammation in all parts of which the sensitive nerves are cut ; whereas the phenomenon in question is seen only in a few parts ; and in those parts it originates, and is chiefly seated, in a single texture, viz. the mucous mem- brane : that membrane is distinuuished from others in the body by its power of bearing the contact of air, of foreign substances, and of excretions elaborated within the body, with impunity. This power seems obviously con- nected with its vital power of throwing out, when irritated, a mucous secretion, which protects it f qually as the cuticle protects the true skin ; and this adaptation of the quantity of protecting mucus to the irritation which may act on a mucous membrane, may be very naturally supposed to depend on its sensi- bility, and to cease when its sensitive nerves are divided, and allow the mucous membrane to inflame and slough, equally as a serous membrane would do from the irritations which, in the natural state, excite only a healthy action upon it. On this supposition, the inflammations in question depend, not simply and directly on the division of nerves, but on the action of the air, the food, the bile, &c., on mucous membranes de()rived of their sensibility, and thereby in great measure of their protecting mucus ; and bear an analogy to the inflammations of the same membranes which frequently take place from deficiency of the nuicous secretion, incases of death by starvation, and tow'ards the close of lingering and exhausting diseases."* And lastly, even supposing the inflaumiatory changes to be the direct result of the paralysed state of the nerves, they in themselves afford conclusive evidence against the doctrine, that the nervous influence is essential to the nutritive and * Elber, cle Acephalis, pp. 31. 35. 45. * Brit, and For. IMed. Rev. vol. iii. p. 14