589 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. is thinner than natin-al, and in a state of atrophy.* The coracoid process is not usually found so much altered by the existence of this peculiar disease in the shoulder joint as the acromion; but we have found its under concave surface in some cases to have entered into the forma- tion of the shoulder joint, and to have pre- sented a broad glenoid-shaped surface, which had been smoothed off from frequent contact with the head of the humerus, while the breadth of the process had been at the same time much increased. We have thought it necessary to enter into this subject thus minutely, because we are convinced that, up to the present hour, these remarkable appearances, when met with, have been misunderstood even by some of the most intelligent anatomists and physicians. This circumstance may appear perhaps ca- pable of explanation, by recollecting that the disease generally runs a long course, is not in itself fatal; and hence, although the practical medical man may have had numerous oppor- tunities of witnessing the symptoms of this disease in the living, he may never have had any opportunity in any case of informing himself of the true relation subsisting between the symptoms of this disease of the shoulder joint as observed in the living patient, and the 'phenomena which the post-mortem examina- tion of the same shoulder joint might have presented. On the other hand, when anato- mists have heretofore discovered in dissection appearances which are stated to be truly those of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoidder, they have not at that time been able to learn the previous history of the case. The following case may contribute some- what to supply this deficiency :— Case. Chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder. — J. Byrne, a servant, aet. 55, was admitted into the Whitworth Hospital House of Industry in 1834. Dr. Mayne, at that time resident clinical clerk in the hospital, informed the writer that, besides the disease of the lungs, for v^hich the man was admitted, he also had an affection of the right shoulder joint, which presented all the characters at- tributed to the case of partial luxation of the humerus, and was kind enough to invite the writer to examine him. The man complained of an inability to use his right arm well, in consequence of his having for some years an affection of his right shoulder joint, in which he felt almost con- tinually a dull boring pain. He could how- ever perform, without much inconvenience, all those motions of the arm which did not require it to be raised near to the horizontal line. The joint felt to his own sensation somewhat stiff; and he was conscious, under certain movements of the arm, of a sense of something crepitating or crackling in the joint. Upon viewing the shoulder in front, it had a * See a preparation in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, Dublin, Catalogue, vol. ii. p. 397. E. 6. 901. wasted aj)pearance; the acromion process was more prominent, rendering the bony eminences around very conspicuous; the head of the humerus seemed to be a little higher than usual, and to have advanced somewhat forwards. The amount of advance was best seen by viewing the joint in profile or laterally. In this aspect a slight elevation and the increase of the antero-posterior measure- ment of the joint became very obvious. When the arm was pressed by the surgeon, and very slight force used, the humerus could be easily made to descend somewhat, and at the same time to pass a little beneath the outer margin of the coracoid process ; and the finger could be readily pressed into the outer half of the glenoid cavity, into the space which the head of the humerus was found to have aban- doned. When again the shaft of the humerus was elevated vertically, its superior extremity could be felt to strike against the under sur- face of the acromion. In a word, the symp- toms strongly resembled those usually as- signed to the partial luxation forwards and inwards. This patient remained in the Whitworth Hospital until the pulmonary affection proved fatal. Dr. Mayne and the writer carefully examined the joint, which is still preserved in the museum of the Richmond School (/g.429.). We found the deltoid and other muscles around the joint in a wasted condition, and much paler than those of the opposite shoul- der. When the capsular ligament was ex- posed, it was found to have superiorly a much wider and more extensive adhesion than natural. Instead of this fibro-synovial sac having its ordinary attachment all round to the limited circumference of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, its adhesion to the upper margin of this cavity did not exist, but the superior and outer portions of the capsu- lar ligaments seemed to have acquired new attachments, and to be connected superiorly and externally with the anterior margin of the coraco-acromial arch ; and thus the space in which the head of the humerus had been permitted to move, had been rendered much more extensive than natural. The capsular ligament was much thick- ened, and when opened more synovia than usual flowed out. This membrane was lined with cellular flocculi, and several small carti- laginous bodies, rounded, and of the size of ordinary peas, were seen to float in the inte- rior of the synovial sac, appended by means of fine membranous threads. All those parts which, in the normal condition, intervene be- tween the superior part of the head of the humerus and under surface of the coraco- acromial arch, were completely removed. No remnant or trace of the supra-spinatus tendon, nor any portion of the capsular liga- ment to which this tendon is attached, was to be found. The entire of the articular portion of the tendon of the biceps was absent, and the highest point of the remaining portion of the tendon was attached to the summit of the