PROSTATE GLAND. 158 on section was found studded here and there with cysts containing fluid. These are, in all probability, dilated and closed follicles; and in this respect they bear a strong analogy to the cysts of the kidney, which are found to be dilated uriniferous tubes. In the situation of the uvula vesicae, the fold of mucous membrane is occasionally thrown up, so as to form a remarkable pro- jection or bar at the neck of the bladder. Mr. Guthrie especially directed the attention of surgeons to this, but it has been met with often by others, and there is a good repre- sentation of it in Baillie's Morbid Anatomy. No doubt it has often been confounded with supposed enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate, with which it is often combined, but of which, in many cases, it is wholly in- dependent. In a surgical point of view it is of very great interest. The bar in question, in its most simj)le form, consists simply of a double fold of mucous membrane, raised at right angles from the bladder; in other cases, there is found between the layers of mucous membrane a quantity of a substance of an in- termixture of elastic and organic muscular tissue, similar to what is found in the neck of the bladder in the normal condition ; whilst in other instances, apparently in the more ad- vanced stages of the disease, the middle lobe of the prostate, consideral)ly hypertrophied, is found as if it had forced its way between the mucous layers, and thus carried the fold with it ; in the latter condition, it will be found in the form of two wing-like processes, one on either side, connecting the middle lobe to the side of the bladder. The disease is necessarily attended with difficult micturition, and leads to retention of urine. The diagnosis between retention from this cause and from enlarged third lobe is difficult, but practically it is not unimportant, as Mr. Guthrie thinks it may be cured. In the rough introduction of the catheter or bougie, the bar is sometimes perforated. This sur- geon found in one case as many as fifty cal- culi behind this projection. It leads, if neg- lected, to similar changes in the bladder, as are found in cases of enlarged prostate. Prostatic Concretions. — The formation of calculous concretions in the minute follicles of the gland are not by any means of unfre- quent occurrence. They are not to be con- founded with calculi of larger size, which have been long recognised by pathologists, and have been especially alluded to and described by Baillie,Woollaston, Cruveilhier, and Prout. They have very recently been examined by Mr. John Quekett and Dr. C. H. Jones, the latter of whom has published a paper on the subject in the first number of the Transac- tions of the Pathological Society, and in the Medical Gazette of August 20th, 1847. The following is the result of the microscopical observations on this subject:—The calculi are found in great numbers in the follicles of the gland, presenting sometimes a deep yellow or red colour; occasionally they are pale and colourless, remarkably small, and scarcely to be distinguished from the tissue in which they are imbedded. Dr. Jones describes their mode of formation thus : " They arise in a large oval vesicle, of a single wall of homo- geneous membrane. This is occupied by a colourless finely-mottled substance, in the centre of which a nuclear corpuscle some- times occurs. Their mean diameter is about YoVo^h of an inch. In those of larger size, the envelope is still seen, but the contained amorphous matter is beginning to be arranged in layers concentric to the envelope. In the further stage, the vesicles measure ^-^^th of an inch or more, showing concentric layers, which are more developed on one side than on an- other, like so many repetitions of the original envelope, the intervals between the layers being occupied by a finely-mottled deep-yellow or red substance. There is a central cavity corresponding with the external contour in its form, which is triangular, with rounded angles or quadrilateral. From this normal appear- ance, these bodies present numerous variations in form and internal arrangement, and appear to occupy an intermediate position between organic growths and inorganic concretions : to the former, by their vesicular origin and by their growth, which chiefly appears to take place by the dilatation of the vesicle and suc- cessive depositions in its interior; to the latter, by their shape, their tendency to become infiltrated with earthy matter, and to pass into the condition of a dead amorphous mass of a deep yellow red, even almost black. The chemical composition varies probably with their different stages of development, at first consisting of little else but animal matter, then acquiring, especially when in a state of de- generation, calcareous salts, stated by Dr. Prout to be phosphate, with a little carbonate of lime. The colouring matter is unaffected by ether, liquor potassae, and muriatic acid." Fig. 107. IC3 Prostatic concretions. These minute concretions in the follicles and tubes of the prostate have been investi-