REPTILIA. 291 u 2 fang of the large cobra (Jig. 34.), where a fine hair is represented as passing through the poison canal: in figure {a) the relative position of the pulp cavity (.r) to the poison canal (?/) is shown in the plan of a longi- tudinal section of a poison fang. The colubriform poisonous serpents of the land have comparatively short venom-fangs, but they are larger than those of the pelagic serpents; and behind the venom-fangs there are likewise some smaller grooved teeth in the maxillary bones: there are three such teeth in the Bungarus pama, and five in the Bungarus annulatus. In the Hamadryas, or great hooded poisonous tree-snake of India, the venom-fang is relatively as large as in typical poisonous serpents, but three or four smaller grooved teeth are implanted behind it on the maxillary bone. In the most deadly venom-snakes, as the viper {Berus), the puff adder (Vipcra), the asps, or hooded snakes {Naja),the rattlesnakes (Crotalus)y the cophias and fer-de-lance {Tri~ go72ocephalus)y the poison fangs acquire their largest size, and are associated only with their successors: these are clustered in greater or less number behind them, presenting the same structure, but of a size proportionate to their degree of development, and further differing in being loosely imbedded in the thick and wide mucous gum, which likewise conceals the fixed and functional fang in its ordinary position of retraction and repose. This fang is more strongly curved backwards than the ordinary teeth, but its acute and slender apex is frequently bent slightly in the contrary direction, as in the rattlesnake. The poison glands occupy the sides of the posterior half of the head: each consists of a number of elongated narrow lobes, extending from the main duct which runs along the lower border of the gland upwards, and slightly backwards ; each lobe gives off'lobules throughout its extent, thus presenting a pin- natifid structure; and each lobule is subdi- vided into smaller secerning caeca, which constitute the ultimate structure of the gland. The whole gland is surrounded by a double aponeurotic capsule (b), of which the outer- most and strongest layer is in connexion with the muscles {a), by whose contraction the several cajca and lobes of the gland are com- pressed and emptied of their secretion. This is then conveyed by the duct to the basal aperture of the poison canal of the fang. We may suppose, that as the analogous lachrymal and salivary glands in other animals are most active during particular emotions, so the rage which stimulates the venom-snake to use its deadly weapon must be accompanied with an increased secretion and great distention of the poison glands; and as the action of the compressing muscles is contemporaneous with the blow by which the serpent inflicts its wound, the poison is at the same moment injected with force into the wound from the apicial outlet of the perforated fang. The duct which conveys the poison, al- though it runs through the centre of a great part of the tooth, is, nevertheless, as we have seen, really on the outside of the tooth, the canal in which it is lodged and protected being formed by a longitudinal inflection of the pa- rietes of the pulp cavity or true internal canal of the tooth. This inflection commences a little beyond the base of the tooth, where its nature is readily appreciated, as the })oison duct there rests in a slight groove or longi- tudinal indentation on the convex side of the fang: as it proceeds, it sinks deeper into the substance of the tooth, and the sides of the groove meet and seem to coalesce, so that the trace of the inflected fold ceases, in some species, to be percej.^tible to the naked eye; and the fang appears, as it is commonly de- scribed, to be perforated by the duct of the poison fang. The poison canal again assumes the form Fig. 211. Poison Apparatus of the Viper ( Vipera Berus, after Brandt and Ratzhurg^. a, the muscle inserted into the capsule of tlie gland; h, the aponeurotic capsule laid open ; c, the poison gland laid bare; d, capsule of the gum con- taining the supplementaiy fangs; e, a hair passed into the poison duct, and into the poison canal of the fang; f, g, anterior supplementary fang. of a groove near the apex of the fang, and terminates on the anterior surface in an elongated fissure. development of the Teeth.— In the black alligator of Guiana, the first fourteen teeth in the lower jaw are implanted in distinct sockets; the remaining posterior teeth are lodged close together in a continuous groove, in which the divisions for sockets are faintly indicated by vertical ridges, as in the jaws of the fossil Ichthyosaurus. The tooth germ is developed from the membrane covering the angle between the floor and the inner wall of the socket. It becomes in this situation completely en- veloped by its capsule, and an enamel organ is formed at the inner surface of the capsule before the young tooth penetrates the in- terior of the pulp cavity of its predecessor. The matrix of the young growing tooth affects, by its pressure, the inner wall of the socket, and forms for itself a shallow recess : at the same time it attacks the side of the base of the contained tooth : then, gaining a more extensive attachment by its basis and increased size, it penetrates the large pulp cavity of the previously formed tooth, either by a circular or semi-circular perforation.