39 POLYPIFERA. themselves mouth downwards, and crawl by polype, which is covered with a gelatinous means of their tentacula, but our observations membrane, a tuberculated appearance. Ex- have failed to confirm these remarks. ternally this fibrous membrane forms the The substance of the Actinia is entirely parietes of the creature's body, expanding in- composed of transverse and perpendicular feriorly into the basal disc, and superiorly, muscular fibres, which cross each other, the after forming a sphincter-like ring around the meshes of this interlacement being occupied tentacula, is continued inwards to form the by a multitude of granules, seemingly of a tentacula themselves {fig. 46, «), and then, glandular nature, giving to the surface of the becoming more delicate in its texture, reflected Fig. 45. Actinia alcyonoidea. {AfU into the interior of the body so as to form the stomachal cavity (6). Extending between the internal surface of the outer walls of the body and the exterior of the stomach are numerous longitudinal septa (c), evidently the homo- logues of the vertical partitions of the Alc} o- nide {fig. 31,/), and were these calcified by the deposition of stony matter in their interior they would represent exactly the radiating septa in the cells of the poly pary delineated in fig. 43. As in the preceding genera these mem- branous septa support the organs of repro- duction, which are constructed after the fol- lowing manner.* The whole interior of the Actinia, between the stomach and the muscular parieties of the body, is divided by means of the septa into numerous longitudinal cavities, each of which communicates with the bases of two or three of the tentacula around the mouth "j" and encloses an ovary. Each ovary is composed of three or four cylindrical and coherent tubes of extreme delicacy, which, towards the base of the * Spix, Annaks dw Museum d'Hist. Nat. torn. 13. t For an admirable diagrammatic representation of the structure of Actinia, the reader is referred to Dr. Sharpey's Article " Cilia," Vol. I. fig. 297. Quoi/ et Gaimard.) Fig. 46. a, Tentacles surrounding the mouth; h, stomach; c, longitudinal septa prolonged and enclosing the ovaries. (After Qiioy et Gaimard.)