POLYPIFERA. 54 lypes possessing no distinct muscles to assist in these operations. In some species of Bryozoa there are only two sets of opercular muscles, whilst in others one set only is perceptible. Alimentary system. — In Bowerbankia the whole alimentary apparatus has been minutely described and figured by Dr. Farre.* The ten- tacula are united together at their base to form a circle, in the centre of which is the mouth, and from which descends the oeso- phagus, bulging a little at its commencement, and then contracting and passing down nearly straight to its termination. The parietes of the oesophagus, especially at the upper part, which may be more correctly denominated the pharynx {fig. 56, a, 1), are thickly studded with minute oval spots, arranged closely in contact with each other. The whole organ appears to be highly irritable, and contracts vigorously when food is intro- duced into it. At the termination of the oesophagus is a small distinct cardiac orifice {fig. 56, a, 2) opening into a smali globular cavity (.3), of singular construction, that appears to perform the office of a gizzard, the parietes of which are thicker than any other part of the ali- mentary canal. This gizzard contains two dark round bodies, placed opposite to each other, from each of which dark lines are seen radiating. In the space between these two dark bodies may be seen a number of squami- form spots, arranged closely in contact, and presenting a beautifully regular tesselated appearance, which, on minute examination, is found to consist of a pavement of gastric teeth. The gizzard opens downwards into the true digestive stomach (4-), an oblong cavity terniinating below in a blunt extremity. The entire walls of the stomach are thickly studded with spots of a rich brown colour. These appear to be hepatic follicles, and to prepare a fluid that tinges the whole organ, as well as its contents, of a rich brown hue. From the uj)per part of the stomach, and by the side of the entrance from the gizzard, arises the intestine (6) by a distinct pyloric orifice (5) that is surrounded by vibrating cilia. The intestine is narrow, and passes up straight by the side of the oesophagus, from which it is entirely separate and free, and terminates by a distinct anal orifice in the delicate parietes of the body, close to the outer side of the tentacular ring. The pari- etes of the intestine are marked with f)ale spots, and, like those of the whole of the alimentary canal, possess a high retractile power. The animal, when in full vigour, is seen projecting from its cell with the arms extended and the cilia in active operation, the upper part of the body being frequently turned from side to side over the edge of the cell, tiie extremity of which, from its peculiar flexibility, moves with it. The particles carried to the mouth by the action of the cilia, after remaining a * Loc. cit. little while in the pharynx, are swallowed by a vigorous contraction of its parietes, and carried rapidly down the oesophagus and through the cardia into the gizzard, which expands to receive them. Here they are submitted to a kind of crushing process, the parietes of the organ contracting firmly upon them, and the two dark bodies being brought into apposition. Their residence, however, in this cavity is only momentary, and they are immediately propelled into the true stomach below, where they become mixed with its contents, which, during digestion, are always of a rich brown colour, being tinged with the secretion of its parietal follicles. The food appears to be retained for a con- siderable time in the stomach, and may be seen to be frequently regurgitated into the gizzard, whence, after having been again sub- mitted to its operations, it is returned to the stomach. Here it is rolled about by the con- tractions of its parietes, and at its upper part is frequently .submitted to a rotating motion. This rotation of particles is chiefly near the pyloric orifice, and a mass may be often seen projecting through the pylorus into the intes- tine, and rotating rapidly in the direction of the axis of the orifice. This rotation is ef- fected by the action of cilia surrounding the pyloric orifice, which, in very transparent specimens, are distinctly visible with high powers of the microscope. The granular matter, after rotating for some time at the pylorus (a provision for prevent- ing its too rapid escape from the stomach), passes into the intestine, where it accumulates in little pellets that distend the parietes of the tube, and it is possible that it may here be still further acted upon by these parietes which have a spotted appearance. By the contraction of the intestine the little pellets of excrementitious matter are carried rapidly upwards to the anal orifice, which is seen to open and the little pellet to be tilted over its edge, when it is immediately whirled away from the sight in the current produced by the cihated tentacles, and the orifice of the tube again contracts. The general character of the alimentary canal appears to be similar in all the cilio- brathiate polypes, but in ^many genera the gizzard does not exist. The anatomy of the animals inhabiting the cells of Fliistrce and Escharcs differs in some particulars from that of Bowerbanlda. In these, the crown of ciliated tentacula is in- serted into the extremity of a kind of pro- boscis, which is itself enclosed in a cylin- drical retractile sheath. From the mar- gin of the opening of the cell arises a membrane equalling in length the contracted tentacles, and serving to enclose them when the animal retires into its abode. The ten- tacula when thus retracted, as was the case in Bowerbankia, are not bent upon them- selves, but are perfectly straight and united into a fasciculus, the length of which, however, is much less than that of the same organs when expanded.