PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 138 tumour may present to the naked eye the cha- racters of encephaloid, be the seat of interstitial haemorrhage, affect the communicating lymph- atic glands, run in ail respects the course of cancer, and nevertheless contain no cells but such as are undistinguishable, in the present state of knowledge, from common exudation- cells. (4.) Nay more, while a primary " malignant" tumour contains these cells alone, the lymphatic glands secondarily af- fected may contain compound nucleated cells, spherical and shapelessly-caudate.* (5.) The granular and imperfectly nucleated cell of scirrhus is valueless as an evidence of cancer. (6.) The true fusiform cell {fig. 93) is an adventitious formation when it occurs in cancer, and has no diagnostic signification. (7.) The association of fibre and cell-structure, which will distinguish scirrhus from fibrous tumour, may be totally wanting in encepha- loid, and exists in sarcoma and enchondroma. (8.) If fat be associated in large quantity with fibre and cell-structure, the certainty that cancer is present becomes great, but not ab- solute. The property of infiltration, which serves well, as we have shown (p. 125), to distinguish cancer from other groiuihs nosologically, fails practically in the distinction of tumours gene- rally, because a true cancer is not necessarily infiltrated, and because tubercle and exuda- tion-matter may be infiltrated. In ultimate analysis the single character least likely to deceive is this: if a tumour be cancerous, it will yield on pressure an opaque, whitish (milky or creamy-looking) albuminous fluid f; if it be not cancerous, it will not yield a fluid of these qualities. Order III. — Pseldo-Tissues. The blastema from which Pseudo-Tissues are evolved is commonly known as coagulable lymph, itself nothing more than liquor san- guinis slightly modified in nature, and in the proportion of its elements (the modification consisting in excess of fibrin, — it comes from hyperinotic blood, — and in the presence of gelatin, Mulder), and like it composed of water, fibrin, albumen, fat and salts. Pro- duced by exudation from the vessels, homo- geneous and amorphous, this fluid soon be- comes the seat of cell-formation, the cell being that already described as the com- pound granule corpuscle. The fibrin it con- tains coagulates into patches or flakes of yellowish grey colour, semi-transparent, amor- phous to the naked eye, but fibrillar (in parallel fasciculated rows) under the micro- scope, the cells (and abundant granules) ap- pearing set in or upon the fibrils. Ha-matin, * Islw Ellis has recently ascertained this fact in examining a testicle, and communicating lymphatic glands. f We have found this the fact even vnih cancers of excessive transparenc}' and wateriness of look. (See Op. cit. p. 17.) Colloid cancer is compara- tively poor in this kind of fluid ; but fortimately its other characters unfailingly identify it. or entire blood-disks may appear, and pus corpuscles be produced, amid these coagula. Now the issue of this exudation-matter (which seems regulated rather by the consti- tutional state than by its own nature) may be of two kinds. Either a permanent material sui generis (which, for want of a better name, we will call Indurntion-matter) is produced; or a structure resembling some one or other of the natural adult tissues is evolved. The former result signifies a lower plastic power than the latter : the necessity of active con- gestion for the production of either is more than doubtful. liSDLRATION-MATTER. Coagulable lymph, destined to remain in the condition of induration-matter, becomes more and more opaque and solid, and acquires an imperfect fibrous character (as Mr. Gul- liver first showed) from simple condensation of the original fibrillated fibrin, and indepen- dently of cell-formation. The fibres become thicker, and run more flexuously, as the consistence increases, — a change probably caused by contraction from removal of water. The properties of induration-matter vary greatly. Of greyish, yellowish, or white co- lour ; opaque; fragile and cheesy in consistence, or firm as fibro-cartilage ; of trifling, or of extreme tenacity ; rarely crisp, and generally distinctly tough ; commonly elastic; in its firm- est condition creaking on incision; occurring in the forms of membranous la3erf, more or less perfect sacs, nodules, patches (plane, puc- kered, cupulated, or convex), points, granules, wart-like bodies, or altogether amorphous; essentially of protein-basis, yet yielding gela- tin in a certain proportion, prone to contain fat (granular or cholesteric), and often becom- ing the seat of saline (ossiform) deposits; induration-matter is perfectly similar to none of the natural textures. As it hardens, its texture densely and closely set, often acquires a chondroid appearance without containing a particle of true cartilage ; it is imperfectly (or not at all) vascular. Microscopically it is found to be unprovided with prolific cells ; nor are the few cells it may contain, nucleated as a general fact. It is rendered pale by acetic acid. Induration-matter is endowed to a remark- able degree with the property of slow con- traction,— a property which renders its presence most beneficial or most baneful. It is this property, on the one hand, which in the process of cicatrisation b\' granulation, reduces within reasonable limits the surface of the largest wounds ; while on the other, it may cause painful deformity, as in the instance of burns, or actually cause death, as in the instance of healing intestinal ulcers.* Presenting itself wherever vessels exist, and entering non-vascular textures by imbibition; * Tlie cure of ulcers of the small intestine in continued fever and in phthisis, and of the large bowel in chronic inflammation, has more than once proved the cause of fatal stricture.