043 SKELETON. T T 2 Where this original or archetypal thoracic structure suffers metamorphosis, as at the neck, there the hyoid apparatus appears as part of the original thoracic quantity, and hence it is that the hyoid apparatus, as such, bears an analogy with the thoracic apparatus as such, because the original of the former is thoracic quantity. When this original thora- cic quantity undergoes metamorphosis imme- diately after the occiput, then the vertebral cervix is formed, and also the hyoid apparatus below it. As both these have come by the metamorphosis of costo-vertebral quantity, so do we find them bearing analogy to those seg- ments, next succeeding them in spinal series,— those segments, namely, which persist as whole archetypes, and constitute the thorax.* Prop. XXXIII. The Ventral Apparatus oc- curs opposite to the lumbar spinal region, wJiere we understand that costal quantity is lost. The ventral ap)paratus refers to the lumbar vertebrce^ and consists of their ribs metamorj)hosed.—With the mere change of name from hyoid to ven- tral apparatus, I may apply the foregoing remarks, which prove that the hyoid appa- ratus has come of the metamorphosis of the ribs of cervical vertebi ae, to demonstrate, also, that the ventral apparatus (1, 2, 3, 4,5, 6, l,Jiy. 464.) has come of the metamorphosis of ribs proper to the lumbar vertebrae. As the origin nal or whole archetypal quantities from which the hyoid apparatus and the cervical vertebrae have been metamorphosed are of thoracic or costo-vertebral proportions, so, in like manner, Fis.. 464. The lumbar spine and ventral apparatus of the Crocodile, Showing that the ventral ribs (1 to 7) are the proper continuations of the lumbar costal pieces, h, c, d, e, f, g, h, with which they correspond numerically. I believe that the original or whole archetypal quantities, from which the ventral apparatus (1 to 8, /p. 464.) and lumbar vertebrae (b to h, /^.464.) have been metamorphosed, are also of thoracic costo-vertebral proportions. In the ophidian thoracic skeleton, I find that that region of the spinal axis which corresponds numerically to the cervical region of the mam- mal spinal axis presents in thoracic costo- vertebral proportions; and therefore I say, that the true interpretation of the law of for- mation, which strikes the skeletal neck of the mammal specifically different to the skeletal neck of the ophidian, must be this, viz., that the costo-vertebral original of the mammal neck is equal and homologous to the persisting figure of the ophidian neck; but that meta- morphosis has modified the original quantity of the mammal neck (fffA55.) to its existing appa- ratus of hyoid arcs a b and cervical vertebrae, whereas the original quantity of the ophidian neck still persists. In the latter we therefore find the cervix in thoracic costo-vertebral quantity, having appended to it, in front, the * Professor Owen considers the first circle of the fishes' throat apparatus as the only part of it which is homologous to that of other animals, and ac- counts all the succeeding arches (three or more in number, and all similar to the first, however,) as *' appertaining to the system of the splanchno- skeleton, or to that category of bones to which the heart-bone of the ruminants, and the hard jaw-like pieces supporting the teeth of the stomach of the lobster, belong." Sec Homologies, &c. simple hyoid apparatus metamorphosed of the sternal elements. In the former we find the cervix consisting of vertebrae with stunted ribs, which are occasionally produced to more imposing proportions, being then called " cer- vical ribs" and still having appended to them, in front, the hyoid apparatus. The same in- terpretation will apply, also, to the mammal lumbar spine {fig. 455.), viewed in connec- tion with the fibrous bands named " linecs transverscB'' (20 to 24) and 'Hinea alba" (d to e). And still more evidently will the same interpretation apply to the saurian lumbar region (b to h, fg. 464.), and the ventral appa- ratus (1 to 7) ; for this latter structure is evidently composed of sternal and costal ele- ments. What the hyoid apparatus is to the cervical vertebrae, namely parts of the thoracic original whole quantities, just in the same re- lation stands the ventral apparatus offig. 464. to the lumbar vertebrae ; for I regard both these latter structures to be parts, likewise, of the thoracic whole quantities. The hyoid ap- paratus refers to the cervical vertebrae, there- fore, just as the costo-sternal structures of the thorax refer to the dorsal vertebrae ; and in the same relation does the ventral apparatus of fig. 464. refer to the lumbar vertebrae. If we seek a proof still further that the original quantities of the cervical and lumbar regions of the spinal axis of any animal are thoracic costo-vertebral quantities, equal to those of the thoracic region of the same animal, we have this proof in the fact^ that all the spiral