343 RESPIRATION. z 4 than the inspired air by 6°'75 F. In the last experiment, though the inspired air was 7°'875 F. warmer than the internal tempera- ture of the body, the expired air was only about 1°*125 F. warmer than what it is when air of the ordinary temperature is breathed. The average temperature of the expired air is, according to Valentin, 99°'5 F. when breath- ing in an atmosphere of moderate tempera- ture.* According to his calculations, when a person breathes 100 cubic centimeters of atmospheric air at the temperature of 60° F., their bulk is increased to 107-87975 cubic centimeters when raised to the temperature of 99*5 F. in the lungs, since the expansive co-efficient of atmospheric air is 0 3C65. As the expired air, however, contains ^'^ per cent, of carbonic acid gas, and as the ex- pansive co-efficient of this last gas is 0'369087 the expansion of the expired air will differ slightly from what it would be were it com- posed of oxygen and nitrogen only, and will be 107*882197 cubic centimeters.f It is difficult to obtain an accurate estimate of the quantity of watery vapour that escapes from the body along with the expired air. Were the inspired and expired air always fully saturated with moisture, and were their quan- tities, barometric pressure, and relative tem- perature accurately ascertained, the absolute and relative quantities of watery vapour which they contain could be calculated by certain algebraic formulae. The atmospheric air which we breathe is sometimes saturated with moisture, more frequently the dew-'point, or that at which the precipitation of the atmo- spheric moisture can occur, is considerably below the temperature of the air, and the number of thermometric degrees between the actual temperature of the air and the dew- point shows the degree of dryness in the air, or in other words how much it is below the point of saturation with moisture. J The * Moleschott (Holljindiselie Beitrage zu den anatomischen und physiologischen Wissenschaften, band i. heft i. S. 86. Utrecht und Dusseldorf, 1846) has more lately made experiments on the temperature of the air in the hack part of the mouth,, and ascertained that in a range of temperature in the external air to the extent of 12°-6 F. that there was scarcely any difference in the temper- ature of the expired air. In 26 experiments,— three of which were upon women, — upon indivi- duals chiefly from 19 to 43 years of age, he found the average temperature of the expired air to be nearly 98°-6 F. The longer or shorter time which the inspired air remains in the lungs will modify the results in such experiments. t Opus cit. X According to the calculations made by the late Professor Daniell (Elements of Meteorology, vol. ii. p. 316. London, 1845) from meteorological tables,, kept for 17 years consecutively, the mean temper- ature of London is 490-54 F., while the mean dew- point is 440-31, giving 50-59 upon the thermometric scale, and 827 upon the hygrometric scale, as the degree of drjmess. The mean elastic force of this watery vapour is, he says, -342 of an inch of mercury, and a cubic foot contains 3-806 grains of moisture. The greatest degree of dr>niess was 49^ F., or the least degree of moisture when the hygrometric scale was 235. According to Dalton's observations (Man- chester Memoirs, 2nd series, vol. ii.) the medium of loss of watery vapour by the lungs will evi- dently be regulated by the temperature of the inspired air, the quantity of watery vapour it holds in solution, the volume of air inspired, and the length of time it remains in the lungs. The lower the temperature of the inspired air, the less it apprc^aches to the point of sa- turation with moisture, and the greater its volume, the greater will be the loss of watery vapour by the lungs. When the respirations are more rapid, and the sojourn of the air within the lungs is short, the same volume of expired air will probably contain less water in solution, than when its sojourn there is more prolonged, but the more frequent renewal of the air within the lungs will be more than sufficient to compensate for this. The most correct and trust-worthy expe- riments to ascertain by the direct method the quantity of watery vapour in the expired air are those of Valentin and Brunner.* These experiments were performed upon seven males between the ages of 17^- and 33 years, and the maximum of watery vapour exhaled was 13156*323 Troy grains in the 24 hours; the minimum 4511*374 grains, and the average 7819*222 grains. The quantity of watery vapour in the expired air within a given tin)e varied in the same individual ;. and in one exp^iment it was increased after drinking. In these experiments the entire quantity of water in the expired air was ascertained, so that the actual quantity given off by the fluids of the body must have been less than this; and Valentin calculates that if a person breathes atmospheric air saturated with moisture, at the temperature of 60° Fahr., and if the expired air be at the temperature of 99°*5 Fahr., and also saturated with moisture, about f of the watery vapour contained in the expired air will be lurnished by the fluids of the body.f, We have seen that aqueous vapour in this climate (that of Manches- ter) may be estimated at -30 5f an inch of mercury due to the temperature of 44^' ,F. This vapour, he says, is increased by the temperature of 98° in the lungs from -30 to 1-74 inch of mercury, being an increase of 1-44 inch; but it will only be equal in weight to air of 1 inch of force, as the specific gravity of vapour is less than that of air in the pro- partiou of 7 to 10. Valentin calculates (Opus cit. p. 533) that 100 cubic centimeters of dry air under a barometric pressure of 29-922 English inches, raised to the tempei-ature of 99-5 F., and saturated with moisture, would be expanded to 106-488 cubic centi- metres. * Opus cit. p. 536. Lavoisier has given different estimates of the quantity of watery vapour in the expired air in his papers on respiration and trans- piration in the Memoires de I'Academie des Sciences. Hales, Menzies, and Abemethy, from experiments on themselves, and employing different kinds of ap- paratus, all more or less imperfectly suited for the purpose, have respectively estimated it at 9792 grs. or about 20 oz., 2880 grs. or about 6 oz., 4320 grs. or about 9 oz. Dalton and Thomson, from calculations based upon the relative quantities of watery vapour required to saturate the inspired and expired air, have estimated it respectively at 1*55 or nearly l^lb. Troy or 8640 grs., and at 19 oz. t"^ Opus cit. p. 533. Vierordt (Physiologie des Ath- mens, &c. S. 155. 1845) calculates from the quantity