SECRETION. 446 of them containing scarlet-red, and others bright yellow granules ; the latter are regarded by Dr. VV., and probably with justice, as the diffused rudiments of a liver.* In the Bower- hankia densa, and in other Bryozoa, very distinct spots may be seen in the parietes of the stomach, which seem to be composed of clusters of biliary cells contained within fol- licles ; and during digestion, the contents of the stomach are seen to be tinged with a rich yellow-brown hue, derived from the matter discharged from these follicles.f In the Asterias the digestive cavity is surrounded by a more complicated glandular apparatus, but it seems difficult to determine the precise portion of this which discharges the function of a liver. The central stomach is furnished with a pair of glandular appendages, each composed of a cluster of follicles, which open into its fundus ; and these, from their dull yellow colour, have been thought to be a liver. Dr. Williams states, however (loc. cit.), that their ultimate structure does not sanction that idea, the terminal vesicles abounding in a white elastic tissue, in the meshes of which are entangled a number of small, compact, and granular cells, which are by no means hepatic in their aspect. He is disposed to agree with Dr. Grant, who hints that this organ may be a rudimentary pan- creas ; we should, ourselves, regard it as more probably a salivary gland, its secretion being apparently mingled with the food immediately upon the ingestion of the latter. In the walls of this central stomach, proper gastric follicles have been detected by Dr. Williams; and he regards in the light of an hepatic organ the dilated culs-de-sac, filled with large glan- dular cells, which are disposed in great num- bers along the ramifying caecal prolongations of the central stomach that are extended into the rays. In the lower groups of the Articulated series, we meet with a diffused form of the biliary apparatus, not unlike that which has been just described in the lower Radiata. Thus in the Earthworm, the large annulated alimentary canal is completely encased in a flocculent external coating, which, when exa- mined with the microscope, is found to consist of a mass of minute flask-shaped follicles, held by tubular peduncles, several of which coalesce to form the excretory canals for the discharge of the secretion into the digestive cavity. These follicles are composed of a membrane of extreme tenuity, and their inte- rior is filled with cells containing granular matter and oil globules, which are the consti- tuents of the hepatic secretion. In the Leech and some other Annehda, the alimentary canal is furnished with large sacculated appendages ; and in the walls of these, as well as of the central canal, the bifiary cells are closely dis- posed. These cells, according to Dr. Wil- liams, are not included within follicles, as in the earthworm ; the absence of caecal multi- * Guy's Hospital Reports, 1846, p. 280. t Dr. A. Farre, in Phil. Trans. 1837. plications of the stomach in the latter being compensated by a concentration of parts in Fig. 310. {Fig. 69. Vol. 1.) Alimentary canal of Leech, with ccecalprolongations. the biliary system. In the Myrapoda, there is a decided advance from this difJused form of hepatic structure, towards that more con- centrated and isolated condition, in which we find the liver of Lisects. The general distri- bution of the biliary organs in this class has already been described. (See Insects, Vol. II. p. 974.) They consist of a number of dis- tinct filiform tubes, usually of a yellowish- brown colour, placed in close apposition to the sides of the alimentary canal, and opening into it near the pyloric extremity of the stomach, usually by separate orifices, but sometimes after the junction of two or more with each other, to form short common trunks. Their number varies considerably; the fewest, namely four, existing in the Dij)- tera, six being found in the Lepidoptera^ and many more in the Orthoptera and Hymenop- tera. When few in number, they are very long, sometimes three or four times the length of the alimentary canal, and are tortuous and convoluted ; when numerous, they are pro- portionally short, and are more delicate in structure. In many larvae, they are furnished with lateral caeca, but these almost always disappear as the insect approaches the imago state. The following is the description re- cently given of the minute structure of the biliary tubuh, by a well qualified observer : — " When more intimately examined, these tubes are found to consist of a delicate tube of clear, transparent, amorphous basement membrane, the inner surface of which is co- vered with secreting cells. From the thin- ness of the tube, the cells often project, so as to give it a granulated appearance when