SEMEN. 494 at regular intervals, which give to the corpus- cle sometimes an angular appearance, as in Pisa. The length of the rays holds an in- verse ratio to the size of the cells, and is, in most cases, either equal to, or double, their diameter. The peculiar form of these seminal ele- ments naturally provokes the question, whe- ther they really represent the developed spermatozoa, or whether they are not per- haps mere phases of developement. The relation in which they stand to the simple spermatic cells suggests a conjecture of this kind ; and the more so as the rays at- tached to them already present the greatest similarity with the usual filiform sperma- tozoa. We regret to say, that we are not yet in a position to decide this question with perfect certainty. From various obser- vations, however, the latter assumption gains in probability. KoUiJcei' has observed (in Calappa) that the adhering nucleus is lost at a later period ; further, that in Portunus corru- gatus, the cell membrane gradually gets very much contracted ; whilst, on the other hand, the rays considerably lengthen themselves. If we consider, in addition to this, that radiated cells are found in Ilia Nucleus, which (/g. 380.) Fig. 380. A cell with rays Jrom Ilia Nucleus. (After Kdlliker.) possess extraordinarily long fibres on a very small body; that finally in Pagurus, as it seems, the rays perfectly sever themselves from the corpuscles; that, at all events, developed radiating cells, without rays, are often found in the latter, it must induce us to share Kolliker's opinion, that the ra- diating cells, at this stage of their formation, are not yet perfected ; but that they are more likely to be instrumental in the developement of ordinary spermatozoa. Such spermatozoa, however (if we except the genus Mysis, which is certainly unjustly divided from the Decapoda), have not yet been proved to exist in any of the animals belonging to this class. Kolliker has succeeded only in Dronia Kumphii in discovering a great number of fine pale fibres of t^o'^^ the lowest part of the vas deferens, which probably owe their origin to the rays of the seminal corpuscles, which, however, are much shorter than those fibres, hardly measuring above -y^-qq"^. Such a negative result can, however, the less determine our judgment on the nature of the radiating cells, since the observations, which one of us (/?. Leiickart, together with Dr. Frey) has instituted, with regard to the deve- lopement of the spermatozoa in Mysis, have brought the question pretty nearly to a deci- sion. V. Siebold was already acquainted with the filiform spermatozoa in this crawfish, which are distinguished by their great length (of i'''). This animal possesses the more interest for us, owing to the remarkable mode of form- ation of the spermatozoa, which is extremely similar to the developement of the radiating cells in the other Decapods, The primitive seminal cells in Mysis appear as round pale nucleated vesicles of about t in diameter {Jig, 381.). In the course of their Fig. 381. ® i f B C P . Developement of the seminal corpuscles in Mysis. (After Frey and Leuckart.^ further developement, a small wart-like pro- cess (b) rises somewhere on this vesicle, which gradually lengthens itself (c, d), and grows into a long cylindrical tube of iV''- The nucleus does not participate, in any way, in this metamorphosis. It retains its original form, and remains at its original place in the interior of the seminal cell, which is seated on the cylindrical staff like a globular appendix. In spite of their rather peculiar shape, we do not hesitate to pronounce these seminal elements of Mysis as parallels of the radiating cells of the other Decapods. Excepting the rays, we can find no material difference between them. That the wall of the cell is not immedi- ately metamorphosed into the cylindrical body, is equally as little material as the circumstance that the nucleus remains without change, and does not project outwards. Indeed, we also find the same relation in the radiating cells of Astacus marinus (fig. 382.), where the nu- cleus likewise remains in the interior of the cylindrical radiated corpuscle. To judge from their form, these seminal cor- puscles would have most resemblance to the radiated cells of Pagurus ; but, according to Kolliker's observations, it would appear that the long cylindrical appendix has originated Fig. 362. Badiating cells of Astacus marinus (After Kolliker.) from the metamorphosis of the cellular nucleus. Tiie nucleus in INIysis, together with the sorrounding head-shaped part of the seminal corpuscle, is subsequently destroyed, the same as Kolliker has found it in Calappa. There merely remains, then, a simple long cyliiider (Jig. 383. a), which represents the radiating corpuscle. The formation of the spermatozoa takes place in the interior of this cylinder; they consist of long linear fibres, which He in