5G9 SHELL. which rises up in ridges upon the exterior. Hence it would appear that, like endogenous trees, whatever additions these spines may receive in length, they can receive little or none in diameter. The slender, almost fila- mentary species of the Sjmtangacecs, and the innumerable minute hair-like processes at- tached to the shell of the Ckjpeasteridce, are composed of a like regular reticulated tissue ; many of these are extremely beautiful objects when examined with the microscope without any preparation. It is interesting also to remark, that the same structure presents itself in the PedicellaricB, which are found upon the surface of many Echinida, and which have been so great a source of perplexity to naturalists. The complete conformity which exists between the structure of their skeleton, and that of the animal to which they are attached, would seem to remove all reasonable doubt that they are truly appendages to it; as their actions also would indicate. The same structure presents itself in the calcareous plates which form the less perfect skeletons of the Asteriadcs, and also in their spines, when these (as in the large Goniaster equesiris) are furnished with a calcareous frame-work, and are not mere projections of the hard integument. It is also met with in the family Ophiuridce, which forms, in some respects, the transition to the Crinoidal group ; but the calcareous skeleton is here generally subordinate to the firm and almost horny integument. In the Crinoidea, on the other hand, the calcareous skeleton is highly developed, and its structure is extremely characteristic. This is well displayed in the recent Pentacrinus Caput MeduscB, the stem and branches of which are made up of a calcareous net-work, closely resembling that of the shell of the Echinus. There is ex- hibited, moreover, in a transverse section of the stem of Pentacrinus, as in the spines of Echinus, a certain regular pattern^ which results from the varying dimensions of the areolae in different parts. This pattern, formed by the extension of five pairs of rays (strongly reminding us of the medullary rays of plants) from the centre towards the cir- cumference, is frequently well preserved in the fossilized stems of Pentacrini, and varies in different species sufficiently to serve as a distinctive character. In the round-stemmed Encrinites^ a transverse section of the joints exhibits a simple concentric arrangement. It only remains for us to notice the order JIolothuridcE^ in which, as is well known, the calcareous skeleton of the other Echinoder- mata is reduced to its most rudimentary con- dition ; never forming a complete and con- nected framework, but only showing itself in detached pieces, the disposition of which is extremely variable. In the typical Holo- thuria, there are five solid calcareous plates around the mouth, in which the calcareous reticulation is very characteristically seen. Each of the tentacula, also, has a small cal- careous disk at its extremity, which presents a sort of rude sketch of the beautiful struc- ture of the rosette that supports the ambu- iacral suckers of the Echinus. There can be no reasonable doubt that this peculiar arrangement is universal throughout the group, since it has been detected in cha- racteristic examples of every one of its prin- cipal subdivisions. And, consequently, as no similar calcareous reticulation is found in the internal or external skeleton of any other animal, even the minutest fragment which distinctly presents this structure may be re- ferred with certainty to an Echinoderm. And this structure is perfectly preserved, even after the substance has been infiltrated with calcareous matter in the act of fossilization, and has become so completely mineralised, that the disposition to rhomboidal fracture makes it difficult to obtain a section in any other direction than that of the plane of cleavage. As already remarked, the elemen- tary structure is essentially the same every- where ; so that it might not be possible to determine from a very minute fragment whe- ther it formed part of the shell of an Echinus, Cidaris, or Spatangus^ — a portion of the frame- work of an AsteriaSy Ophiura, or Holoilniria^ — or entered into the composition of the stem of an Encrinite, But where any regular pat- tern is displayed, this is frequently sufficient to distinguish the genus, or even the species, to which the fragment belonged. This is certainly the case in regard to the spines of Cidaritcs and the stems of Pentacrinitcs ; and will probably be found no less true in other instances, when these beautiful structures shall have been more extensively investigated. Crustacea. — The structure of the shell in Crustacea has been hitherto examined only in the Decapod order ; and that of the common crab (^Piafi/carcinus pogurus) alone has been subjected to a minute investigation. It is in the Decapod order that the shell attains its most perfect development, and contains the largest proportion of mineral matter: the special respiratory apparatus in this order being so elaborate as to render unnecessary any participation of the general tegumentary surface in the function of respiration. (See vol. i. p. 752.) The shell of the Decapod-Grtistaeea con- sists of three layers;—namely, 1. a horny epidermic membrane Govermg the exterior; 2. a cellular or pigmentary stratum ; and 3. a calcareous or tubular substance. The horny epidermic membrane is easily detached from the subjacent layers, after the shell has been immersed for a time in dilute acid ; it is thin but tenacious, presenting no trace of structure, though it may exhibit markings on the under surface, derived from its contact with the cel- lular layer beneath. The pigmentary stratum is very thin in the crab and lobster; but in some other Decapods it is much thicker. In Scijllurus latus, it is stated by M. Lavalle to be the thickest of the three layers of the shell ; and in the cray-fish and many other species, according to the same observer, it seems made up of a considerable number of layers, its ver- tical section being traversed by several ex-