SEMEN. 482 tened. The posterior end is continued into the tail, which latter is tolerably thick, and almost straight at its commencement. It gradually, however, assumes a very thin appearance, becoming a very attenuated hair-like ap- pendix, which exhibits the same spiral wind- ings that occur among the Salamanders. The length of the spermatozoa, as far down as where the tail bends itself, amounts to — "so" • Another very singular form of spermatozoa is met with in Pelobates fuscus. The sperma- tozoa measure . There is no boundary perceptible between the body and tail part, but one half of the spermatozoon distinguishes itself from the other by a considerable thick- ness. Both, however, gradually pass into one another. The thicker part exhibits from its commencement a number (generally eight) of spiral windings, which increase in size towards the anterior free end (/g.342.}. The anterior F'lg- 342. Spermatozoa of Pehhates fuscus. end itself does not however participate in this formation. It is of a more delicate qualit}', paler, and has a constant vibrating motion, which gives to it a varying form. It generally appears to be wound in an undulating manner. A fascicular group of the spermatozoa is only found among the Reptiha in Batra- chians ; Bombinator, however, forming an ex- ception. In the latter, as well as in the scaly Reptilia, the spermatozoa lie confusedly toge- ther. In the latter instances we can readily trace thtir production in the interior of se- parate solitary cells of developement ; as, for instance, in Anguis fiagilis, or Bombinator inneus. The cells of developement of the latter animal (which to the number of two or four are enclosed by a mother cell, when in the earlier stages of developement) mea- sure in a developed state about At first, when the spermatozoon forms itself in the interior of these cells, it lies curled up close to the wall. Subsequently the fibre stretches itself, and changes the cell into an obtuse cylindrical enclosure, which finally bursts in the anterior and posterior part, to enable the spermatozoon to make its exit. The remains of the cell of developement continue for a long time adhering to the body of the spermatozoa, generally in the centre, exhibiting the appear- ance of a comb-hke appendix of a variable shape and size. The formation of the spermatozoa in the interior of independent cells of developement likewise takes place in a similar manner in the Lacerta crocea. We have but rarely seen that the same cells are enveloped by larger cysts at the period of the production of the spermatozoa, which is commonly the case in former stages of the developement. The num- ber of cells contained in one common cyst is generally only very small, seldom exceeding eight. The same is found, according to the Fig. 343. Cells of developement of Testudo grceca with Sperma- tozoa and external ci/sts. CAfter KdlUker.) observations of Kolliker, in Testudo grseca ; but the external cyst in this instance is said generally to persist for a longer period. Tiie persistency of this enclosure is very general among the Batrachians, which distinguish themselves by the spermatozoa being asso- ciated in fasciculate groups. The number of the enclosed cells of developement here is generally a larger one (from ten to twenty). The developement of the spermatozoa in other respects does not, however, exhibit anything peculiar. They are formed as usual, separately in the enclosed cells of de- velopement (/g. 344.). It is only afterwards, Fig. 344. Developing cell of the Frog, with a Spermatozoon in its interior. (After Kolliker.^ when these cells have been dissolved, that the spermatozoa get into the interior of the mother cyst, in which they congregate in fasciculate groups. By their so doing the cyst loses its original round shape, and as- sumes the form of a pear, until it bursts at the pointed extremity, and the tail-ends of the spermatozoa immediately project. The re- mains of the cyst continue recognisable for some time at the anterior end of each bundle. This is the case in the frog at any rate. In Pelobates, on the other hand, the filiform tails of the spermatozoa do not project from that part of the cylindrical enclosure which is burst, but the anterior vibrating bodv does so (/g. 345.). The external cyst of the bundles of sperma- tozoa of the Salamander constantly retain its original globular shape, as the sperma-