516 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. it is almost impossible to observe both these different layers m situ, from the transparency and flatness of the objects just named causing them to be effectually shrouded and lost in the outline of the granular polygonal layer; but, from various reasons, I have Httle doubt that the preceding description may be re- garded as tolerably correct. It is especially countenanced by these facts, that In looking directly upon the free surface, 1 have never seen cells referrible to either of the two ex- tremes, but always such as from their shape, their size, and the mutual distances of their nuclei, would be included in the varieties (c, d, f) ; while, nevertheless, a careful tearing up of the same specimen often afforded the cytoblasts and scales. The latter were in much greater quantity than the former, but whether they existed over the whole surface of the bursa, or on particular parts only, I am unprepared to state. And whether the cyto- blasts chiefly underlie the oval or the poly- gonal forms, is a question equally impossible to answer satisfactorily, yet by no means so insignificant an inquiry as it may seem at first sight. On the whole, their usual appearance in conjunction with the younger forms, and their comparative absence from the polygonal- celled serous membranes, somewhat tend to associate them more with the oval than with the polygonal epithelia. The subtendinous bursce. — It frequently happens that, where tendons in passing to their insertion lie upon a bone, the action of the muscle with which they are continuous gives rise to considerable friction of the two surfaces against each other: and, in some cases, the projecting surface of the bone is even made the pulley by means of which the direction of the muscle's action is altered, through a similar change in the course of the tendon ; a condition which necessarily implies a yet greater amount of resistance and fric- tion. In these circumstances, bursae are found interposed between the osseous and tendinous surfaces. These bursae have* hitherto been regarded as in all respects similar to the subcutaneous sacs just de- scribed, and the possession of an epithelial lining has been denied them equally with these. But while they apparently present the same form, that of a shut sac, continuous with itself in every part, and are, in the majority of in- stances, indistinguishable from them by the naked eye, they are yet separated from them by important differences. They present, it is true, a cell-growth analogous to that de- scribed in the preceding structures; but they * Since writing the above, I have been informed that a description of these structures, somewhat re- sembling that given by the writer, has appeared in a provincial German periodical of a few months' earlier date. I have been unable to meet with it however. So also, the account which I have given of Synovial Membranes must not be understood as claiming any priority. I believe that priority (and probably something more) belongs to Mr. Rainey; a report of whose paper has appeared in the " Pro- ceedings of the Royal Society," a publication which 'I have found difficult of access. differ from these in the extent of surfac eon which that growth obtains, in the nature of the tissues which are substituted where it is absent, and, in a lesser degree, in the general characters of the membrane where it is pre- sent : the general effect of these differences being greatly to liken the anatomy of these structures to that of the joints. On laying open one of the least complicated of these bursae, such as they are generally seen in the dog and cat, we gain entrance to a simple cavity, which everywhere possesses a smooth and shining interior. Above is the tendon, below the periosteum of the bone ; on either side, a delicate continuous membrane separates it from the neighbouring areolar tissue. It might be expected that this mem- brane covered the neighbouring opposed sur- faces of tendon and periosteum ; and, indeed, the description usually given by authors afiirms the existence of such a covering, to which it attributes the smoothness of their surfaces. But this is not the case : a careful examination of these structures with the microscope dis- tinctly shows that their surfaces of friction are quite devoid of this membrane, and have assumed more or less of the structure of cartilage. The membrane, then, may be described as preserving the continuity of the inner surface of the bursas in the interval between the two rubbing surfaces. It is attached to the ten- don and periosteum by a mingling of its areolar tissue with these structures. Like its neighbouring areolar tissue, it is extremely elastic and delicate ; so that its tenuity often equals that of the serous membranes. It is plentifully supplied with blood-vessels; and, generally, there is a considerable aniount or adipose tissue on its attached surface, the capillaries of which are arranged in the same manner as those in the bursae previously men- tioned, or those which supply the fat cells of the so-called " Haversian glands " in the joints : — viz. the same capillary plexus, which immediately underlies the epithelium, gives off occasional loops to surround the adipose vesicles. The epithelium itself resembles that of the subcutaneous bursas in the intimacy of its adhesion to the subjacent tissue, as well as in the comparatively slight connection which subsists between the cells themselves: but it appears to differ from it in the greater quantity of the oval cells and cytoblasts, of the former especially : and in the immediate neighbourhood of the fat vesicles this shape seems to predominate to the comparative ex- clusion of polygonal forms. In the human subject, the surface of bone on which the tendon plays often presents a covering of what has all the appearances of fibrous tissue mingled with cartilage, or " fibro-cartilage ;" and even in smaller animals (as the cat), in whom the tissue offers no visible difference from the neighbouring peri- osteum, its intimate structure exhibits a simi- lar transition. The bursa beneath the tendon of the obturator internus, where this turns over the border of the ischium in its pro-