637 SKELETON. yields the mammal spine as it is, normally or abnormally. Prop. XXVII. The numerical length of the lumbar sjnnal region dej)ends upon the num- ber of archetypes subjected to metamorphosis. —The first lumbar vertebra, that which succeeds 19, A, fig. 458., counts twentieth from the occiput, and thirteenth after the last cervical vertebra, when this latter counts seventh from the occiput ; and it is ac- cording to the character of the costal ap- pendages of this first lumbar segment of tlie spinal series, that we are inclined to regard it as belonging to the category of thoracic or of lumbar spinal segments. When it produces articular costae, it stands in true thoracic character, and adds to the number of thoracic segments, at the same time that it subtracts from the number of lumbar vertebrae. In this respect, namely, that of influencing the numerical series of the spinal regions ac- cording as the ribs are standing plus upon it or otherwise, this first lumbar vertebra is similar to the seventh cervical vertebra. As the numerical length of the cervix depends upon the presence or absence of cervical ribs, produced from the seventh cervical vertebra, and as this very condition influences also the length of the thoracic series, so does the numerical length of the lumbar region de- [)end upon the presence of lumbar ribs pro- duced in plus or minus dimensions from the first lumbar vertebra ; and this is the very fact which also influences the length of the thoracic series. The inference to be drawn from these facts is obvious enough. The abnormal as well as the normal conditions of the lumbar spine, in regard to the ribs, prove that lumbar vertebrae, as well as cervical ver- tebrae, are proportional figures degraded from the costo-vertebral thoracic archetype quan- tities such as I have drawn them in fig. 455., from 1 to 24. Prop. XXVIII. The numerical length of the sacral and coccygeal series is not fixed, and this is owing to the same fact of archetypes un- dergoing metamorphosis.— Though the human anatomist speaks of a spinal figure under the name of first sacral and first coccygeal vertebra, it is not hence to be inferred that this form pre- sents, in all human spinal axes of a fixed and invariable character, either as to osseous quan- tity or numerical position. In order to prove that such is the changeable character of the form named sacral and coccygeal vertebrae, we have only to fix attention upon its nume- rical situation in several spinal axes of even human species ; and we shall find that the first sacral vertebra of one spine is the last lumbar vertebra of another spine. In like manner we shall see that the first coccygeal the idea I wish to create as contradistinguished from the ideas promulgated in " The Homologies of the Vertebrated Skeleton," where I find that the author, in his figures of the archetype of mammalian, avian, and reptilian forms, leaves their cervical regions standing in their class proportions, as though these were "archetypal," " the general," " the fundamental type." vertebra of one spine is the fifth sacral of another spine. In the *' normal " condition of the human spine, the first sacral vertebra {fig. 455./) counts as the twenty-fifth reckon- ing from the occiput ; but if we will compare and examine a large number of human ske- letal axes, we shall see that the twenty-fifth spinal segment or vertebra is not always standing in sacral condition. I have found that this twenty-fifth spinal vertebra is some- times in lumbar and sometimes in sacral form, a circumstance which proves that sacral character is mainly owing to the juxta- position of the iliac bones. Upon which- ever vertebra of the lumbar spine, whether it be /, or the one before or behind f fig. 455., the iliac bones abut, this determines its sacral character. This sacro-iiiac junction does not always occur between the twenty- fifth vertebra of the human spinal series and the iliac bone. 1 have occasionally seen it at the twenty-fourth and at the twenty-sixth numerical vertebra of spinal series. When the sacro-iliac junction happens between the twenty-fourth vertebra and the iliac bone, the human lumbar spine reckons only four ver- tebra), provided the last thoracic be the nineteenth. When, again, this junction takes place between the twenty-sixth vertebra and the iliac bone, then the lumbar spine reckons six vertebrae provided always the last thoracic costo-vertebral segment be the nineteenth. These variations in the numerical length of the lumbar spine, occur according to the spinal position of the iliac spinal junction ; and it will hence appear that the sacro-coccy- geal series of spinal forms must also be in- fluenced by the same facts. Prop. XXIX. A comparison of the same numeincal vertebra in all human spinal axes will prove the truth of the jJi'esent interpre- tation of the law ivhich governs the develop- ment of all vertebral forms^ not only iii the same spine, but all other s])i)ies. — When I say that the seventh cervical vertebra of fg.^bo. is a proportional metamorphosed from its own costo-vertebral archetype or whole quantity, and which archetype is the equal of that which stands as the first thoracic costo-vertebral form, viz. that marked 8 in fig.4^55., have I not a certain proofof the truth of this interpretation, when upon comparing this seventh cervical vertebra offig. 455. with the seventh cervical vertebra of b,J%. 457., or that of ^g. 458., I find that the very same numerical seventh cervical vertebra is, in the one skeleton (/^^ 455.), of cervical, and in the other skeleton (fig. 458.), of thoracic cha- racter. For it is the presence or persist- ence of the cervical ribs which determines its character in this case as thoracic, and it is the absence or rudimentary condition of the ribs which in the other case stamps it as cer- vical. Again, when I say that the twentieth spinal vertebra of /g.455.'', reckoning after the occiput, and which twentieth vertel)ra is the first lumbar vertebra, must be considered as a proportional or lesser form metamorphosed from such another whole archetype as the