611 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. E R 2 sembles much the specimen alluded to by Mr. Key. The newly formed socket reached from Fig. 438. Dishcation forwards and downwards. (Original, from tlie museum of the College of Surgeons, Dublin.) the edge of the glenoid cavity, to about one- third across the subscapular fossa; a deep cup was formed lor the reception of the dislocated head of the humerus; the inner margin of this cup was fully half an inch above the level of the subscapular fossa; the glenoid cavity had lost all cartilaginous investment ; it was rough on its surface from bony deposition, and its inner margin was elevated somewhat into a sharp ridge, so as to form part of the margin of the new articular cavity for the head of the humerus. 3. Dislocation backwards of the head of the humerus on the dorsum of the scapula^ the result of accident. — In this dislocation the arm is Fig. 439. Dislocation on the dorsum of the scapida. directed from above downwards, inwards, and forwards. The deformity of the joint is well seen by viewing it in front, where a deficiency is noted of the normal roundness of the articu- lation. When w^e look at the shoulder side- ways, the head of the humerus may be seen to form a remarkahle saliency behind the posterior angle of the acromion. In this dislocation the head of the bone is thrown on the posterior surface of the scapula inmiediately below the spine of this bone, and there forms a very re- markable protuberance, and when the elbow is rotated as far as practicable this protuberance moves also. The dislocated head of the bone may be easily grasped between the fingers, and distinctly felt resting below the spine of the scapula; the motions of the arm are impaired, but not to the same extent as in the other luxations of the shoulder, and the longitudinal axis of the humerus may be observed to run upwards, backwards, and to a point, evidently behind the situation of the glenoid cavity. In Guy's Hospital Reports* Sir A. Cooper has published a case of this species of dislocation, from which we abstract the following. Case. — " Mr. Key has given me the par- ticulars of the following case. Mr. Comphn was 52 years of age, and had been the sub- ject of epileptic fits; one of them, which was particularly severe, occurred one morning while he was in bed, and in his violent con- vulsive strugglings his shoulder became dis- located on the dorsum of the scapula, present- ing the ordinary symptoms of this accident in which dislocation had never been reduced." The circumstance most peculiar in this case was, that the head of the bone could by ex- tension be drawn into its natural situation in the glenoid cavity; but so soon as the force ceased to be applied it slipped back again in the dorsum of the scapula, and all the appear- ances of dislocation were renewed. The se- cond peculiarity consisted in a sensation of crepitus as the bone escaped from its socket, so as to lead to a belief that the edge of the glenoid cavity had been broken off. The patient was unable to use or even to move the arm to any extent, nor could he by his own efforts elevate it from his side, and although he lived seven years after the occurrence of the epileptic fit, he never recovered the use of the limb, Mr. Key sent the following note of the dissection of the dislocated shoulder in this case to Sir A. Cooper : —" The dislocation of Mr. Complin's shoulder arose from muscu- lar action alone in a paroxysm of epilepsy, and during his life it was thought probable that a portion of the glenoid cavity had been broken off, or a piece of the head of the os humeri, or perhaps the smaller tubercle, and that either of these injuries would account for the head of the bone not remaining in its na- tural cavity when reduced. But the inspec- tion, post-mortevi, proved that the cause of this symptom was the laceration of the tendon of the subscapulam muscle, which was found to iadhere to the edge of the glenoid cavity, and was much thickened and altered in its cha- racter from its laceration, and from its very * Astley Cooper on Dislocations, &c., page 384., edition 1842, by Mr. B. Cooper.