254. REN. scopical examination. In a part thus pre- pared, I have sometimes seen the cilia in rapid action throughout the whole length of every tube in the field of the microscope, and a more wonderful or beautiful sight can scarcely be imagined. The motion commences within the Malpighian capsule; the little par- ticles floating in the liquid of the capsule are darted into the orifice of the tube with mar- vellous precision, and thence they are directed onwards through the windings of the tube in a current of liquid, which is propelled with great regularity and speed. Much violence in tearing up the specimen for examination ap- pears to arrest the motion; and when water is added to the preparation, the epithelial particles swell and fill up the cavity of the tube, and so the motion is "retarded. When the cilia are in slow motion, their form and the direction of their movement may easily be seen ; but when the motion has entirely ceased, I have never been able to see them distinctly, even with the best object glasses. The motionless cilia appear to collapse and fall upon the surface of the epithelium, and so become in- visible. Since my attention was first directed to the phenomenon in question, I have had but little time to search for it in other ani- mals ; but there appears reason to believe that it exists in most of the higher animals, and pro- bably even in man. The result of my own observations may be thus briefly stated : — In the newt I have searched for ciliary motion in the tubes many times, and have never failed to find it in any kidney which I have examined. I have searched for it in the frog twice (L e. in two individuals), and found the ciliary motion very distinct in a considerable portion of one tube. I have exaniined one snake, and observed the motion very distinctly throughout a large extent of several of the tubes, as well as in the Malpighian capsules. I have searched for the phenomenon in the kidneys of some of the smaller Mammalia, as, for instance, in the mouse and the rabbit, but hitherto without success. I am not aware that any other observations with reference to this subject have been published, but possibly there may be some with which I am not acquainted. , Epithelium of the pelvis and ureter. — The epithelium of the pelvis and ureter requires only a brief mention ; it belongs to the lamel- liform or scaly variety, and consists of flat- tened, delicate, transparent scales, having an angular outline caused by their lateral appo- sition, and a nucleus which is generally ec- centric. Function of the Malpighian bodies and urini- ferous tubes. — Before concluding this part of our subject, it appears desirable to make some allusion to the probable office of the several parts of the kidney, whose structure has passed under review. Mr. Bowman, in the paper to which reference has so often been made, has propounded a theory as to the office of the Malpighian bodies which I believe will soon be admitted as a true and well-established doctrine, based as it is u})on accurate observation, and confirmed by sound reasoning and analogy. The theory in ques- tion, and the facts and arguments in support of it, are thus clearly stated by Mr. Bow- man : — " Reflecting on this remarkable structure of the Malpighian bodies, and on their singular connection with the tubes, I was led to specu late on their use. It occurred to me that, as the tubes and their plexus of capillaries were probably, for reasons presently to be stated, the parts concerned in the secretion of that portion of the urine to which its characteristic properties are due (the urea, lithic acid, &:c.), the Malpighian bodies might be an apparatus destined to separate from the blood the watery portion. This view, on further consideration, appears so consonant with facts, and with analogy, that I shall in a few words state the reasons that have induced me to adopt it. I am not unaware how obscure are the regions of hypothesis in physiology, and shall be most ready to renounce my opinion, if it be show n to be inconsistent with truth. " In extent of surface, internal structure, and the nature of its vascular network, the membrane of the uriniferous tubes corresponds with that forming the secreting surface of other glands. Hence it seems certain that this 'membrane is the part speciall}' concerned in eliminating from the blood the peculiar prin- ciples found in the urine. To establish this analogy, and the conclusion deduced from it, a few words will suffice. 1. The extent of surface obtained by the involutions of this membrane wall by most be regarded as itself sufficient proof. But, 2. Its internal surface is conclusive. Since epithelium has been found by Purkinje and Henle in such enor- mous quantities on the secreting surface of all true glands, its use cannot be considered doubtful. It never forms less than ^fths of the thickness of the secreting membrane, and in the liver it even seems to compose it en- tirely, for there I have searched in vain for a basement tissue, like that which supports the epithelium in other glands. The epithelium, thus chiefly forming the substance of secreting membrane, diflfers in its general characters from other forms of this structure. Its nu- cleated particles are more bulky, and appear from their refractive properties to contain more substance, their internal tissue being very finely mottled, when seen by transmitted light. In these particulars the epithelium of the kidney-tubes is eminently allied to the best-marked examples of glandular epithelium. 3. The capillary network surrounding the uriniferous tubes is the counterpart of that investing the tubes of the testis, allowance being made for the diflTerence in the capacity of these canals in the two glands. It corre- sponds with that of all true glands in h ing on the deep surface of the secreting membrane, and in its numerous vessels everywhere ana- stomosing freely with one another. " These several points of identity may seem too obvious to be dwelt upon, but I have detailed them in order to show that in all