164 PROTEIN. when dried, is hard, semitransparent,and nearly colourless. This substance is sometimes called chloroproteic acid, since it is found to combine without decomposition with several metallic oxides. When treated with ammonia,however, it is decomposed, nitrogen gas is given off, and tritoxide of protein is formed, together with hydrochloric acid, which combines with the excess of ammonia. This is the most conve- nient way of preparing the tritoxide, as it is easily separated from the muriate of ammonia by washing with alcohol, in which it is in- soluble. Protein and nitric acid. — By the action of nitric acid on protein compounds, oxaHc acid, ammonia, nitrogen, nitric oxide, together with a new compound called Xanthoproteic acid, are obtained; which latter, being insoluble, is readily purified by washing with water. Xan- thoproteic acid is of a bright yellow colour, from which circumstance it derives its name: it reddens litmus, is uncrystallizable, tasteless, and, when strongly heated, does not melt, but is decomposed, giving off the smell of burnt feathers. It is soluble in strong acids, and when water is added to the solution, a precipi- tate, containing both the acids in a loose state of combination, is thrown down. It forms with metalhc oxides true salts, most of which are of a deep orange-colour, and insoluble in water; the alkaline xanthoproteates, however, are soluble. It is bibasic, and consists of Cg^ O 12 + 2 HO. The troublesome and indelible stain which nitric acid causes when dropped on the skin is owing to the formation of this substance. Protein and sulphuric acid. — When protein is treated with strong sulphuric acid it forms a white insoluble compound, called by Mulder snlphoproteic acid, containing C^q, Hg^, N^, 0,2,+ S03. To purify it, it should be washed with cold water as long as the wash- ings give a precipitate with baryta water: when dry, it is hard, tough, semitransparent, and nearly colourless ; it forms with alkalies, so- luble, and with the other oxides, insoluble, sulphoproteates. There is another compound of protein and sulphuric acid, called by Wxi^Aox mlphohijnoteic acid, which is formed when dilute sulphuric acid is gradually added to a solution of protein in acetic acid: it appears to consist of two equivalents of protein, two of water, and one of sulphuric acid, and is represented by the formula H,, N,^ O 2 HO + SO3. If a protein compound be heated with sul- phuric acid it becomes purple, but the colour disappears on dilution with water. Protein and hydrochloric acid. — Concen- trated hydrochloric acid slowly dissolves pro- tein even at common temperatures, and still more readily when gently warmed : the solu- tion is at first yellowish, but if the air is not excluded, the colour soon changes to a deep blue or purple. The appearance of this blue colour is one of the most striking tests for protein and its modifications, fibrin, albumen, and casein, as it is produced in them all by hydrochloric acid. When allowed to boil, if the acid is strong, a black substance similar to ulmic acid is formed, together with muriate of ammonia. Protein and potash. — The action of potash on protein possesses considerable interest. When treated with a dilute solution of the alkalij in the cold, it readily dissolves, and, ac- cording to Mulder, a little ammonia is always given off, however dilute the alkaline solution may be. When boiled in a strong solution of potash it is completely decomposed ; ammonia, carbonic, and formic acids are formed, together with three new compounds, which have been called leucin, protid, erythroprotid.' To obtain these substances in a state of purit}', the fol- lowing process may be adopted. The protein compound is boiled with solution of potash as long as any ammonia is given off, and then neutralized with sulphuric acid, which disen- gages the carbonic acid and combines with the excess of potash: the solution is then eva- porated to dryness on a water-bath, by which means the greater part of the formic acid is volatilized. The organic compounds are then separated from the sulphate of potash by re- peated boiling in alcohol, in which they are all more or less soluble. On cooling, the alco- holic solution deposits the erythroprotid, which is of a reddish-brown colour, and nearly in- soluble in cold alcohol. When left for a short time to spontaneous evaporation, the leucin crystallizes out, and the liquid then contains only protid, with a trace of erythroprotid, and a little formiate of potash. Erythroprotid, when pure, is of a fine red colour; it is soluble in boiling alcohol and in water, and is precipitated from its solutions, of a rose red colour, by many of the metallic salts, as those of silver, mercury, and lead: it is thrown down also by tannic acid. When a current of sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through its aqueous solution, it gradually be- comes colourless ; but if the solution, thus treated, be kept in vacuo a short time, the colour returns. The formula of erythroprotid isC,3 H, NO,. Protid (C^^ Hg NO4) may be separated from the impure alcoholic solution by diluting with water, and precipitating with subacetate of lead, which throws down protid, but not erythroprotid, which latter is also present in small quantity. The precipitate is washed with water, and decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen ; the solution is filtered and evapo- rated, after which the protid is left in a state of purity. It is of a pale yellow colour, amor- phous, and, when dry, very brittle. It differs from erythroprotid in not being precipitated from its solutions by any of the metallic salts except basic acetate of lead; while erythro- protitl is not affected by that reagent: conse- quently if the two exist together in solution, the erythroprotid may be thrown down by the neutral acetate, and the protid by the basic salt. Leucin, which gradually separates when the alcohoHc solution is concentrated, is a crystal- line substance closely resembling chloresteriiie in appearance : it consists of 11^2 NO4.