129 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. modified by the presence of cell-pigment within them. (7.) "Melanotic tumours" are rarely solitary, it is urged by Cruveilhier; but this simply depends on the fact of ence- phaloid cancer being the growth most fre- quently impregnated with black pigment. The stromata above referred to are the only kinds which we have ourselves seen or known of as elements of black coloured tumours in the human subject. But in the horse a species of melanic mass of different constitution is frequently met with ; and may, for aught we know to the contrary, occur (if so, probably only in rare instances,) in the human subject. These masses are of lobulated form, per-, fectly and deeply black in colour, sometimes attain great bulk, and feel remarkably elastic and spongy. Of the numerous specimens of the kind in University College Museum, an attemj)t has been made to inject one with a white material; a few spots of v/hite colour in the substance of the tumour alone give evi- dence of the attempt ; no trace of vascular arrangement is perceptible. A portion of the mass having been allowed to macerate in chlorine water for four days, the colour was rendered sufficiently faint for observation of the stroma. It consisted of deUcate fibrils (gelatinizing with acetic acid) arranged parallel to each other, without the least appearance of meshes. The pigment-granules, which were not contained within cells, (at least, no cells wei"e visible), lay upon the surface of the fibres in some' places, so as on first sight to give an appearance of cross lines ; in others they lay between the fibres. The conviction arises that this tumour may have been a haematoma; absolute proof is, we admit, yet wanting: if we are right, it would follow that the only doubtful kind of black tumour we have seen, possesses in reality, like all others, a stroma of ascertained nature,, with black pigment added. And the observation lends indirect support to the view (still unesta- blibhed) of those who presume black pigment to be, under all circumstances, formed from the colouring matter of the blood.. Of Fat-Basis.. Growths of fat-basis agree in not being properly encysted, though they may occasion- ally acquire a secondary capsule from con- densation of adjacent cellular membrane. The chief species are Lipoma, Steatoma, and Cholesteatoma.. § 1. LIPOMA^ Lipoma is a growth of softish consistence, somewhat elastic in form, generally dis[)osed to be globular, though occasionally distmctly flattened ; frequently lobulated, and furrowed on the surface; varying in size from very minute to vast dimensions, weighing from a few grains to ten, twenty, or (if records be true) forty pounds; ordinarily single, espe- cially when of notable bulk : — iwo or three of the size of the clenched hand may, however, not unoften be seen together; and occasion- VOL. IV. ally, when of very small size, considerable numbers coexist in the same individual. Lipoma most commonly forms in the sub- cutaneous adipose texture (where it partakes of the characters of hypertrophy)> but appears to be producible wherever cellular tissue exists. MUUer has seen a lipoma between the corpora albicantia and optic nerve ; Albers {Palhologie, b. ii. s. 189),, found a lipoma of the size of a mushroom betw een the arachnoid and dura mater,, on the level of the fourth lumbar vertebra ; Andral {A7iat. Path. ii. 412) describes one as large as a walnut, seated in the walls of the vena porta?. Growing between the peritoneum and abdominal wall, lipoma sometimes escapes by the abdominal rings, and constitutes the so-called " fatty hernia." In a fatal case of infiltrated cancer of the right lung, which lately occurred in our wards (Univ. Coll. Hosp.) a lipomatous mass had formed in the pleura of the affected side. Lipoma on section, and even externally, presents the appearance and possesses the physico-chemical properties of common adi- pose tissue. The fatty elements, (margarin and olein) are removable with boiling aether. Microscopically the fat is found to be con- tained in cells, of the natural size, aggregated in parcels amid and upon the fibres of a"deli- cate cellular tissue ; the dimensions of the mass have no influence on its intimate con- stitution. The cells commonly of rounded shape, become much more rarely polyedrai from lateral pressure, and are for the most part non-nucleated. Their contained fat is fluid at the tempera- ture of the body : when cool, separation of the olein and margarin takes place (as shown by Messrs. Todd and Bowman in the case of natural fat) and star-hke groups of crystals of the latter form in the interior of the cell. We have occasionally seen free oil globules in lipoma, but whether arising from accidental rupture^f containing cells or not, we cannot determine. The vessels of lipoma are of small size, and ramify in its stroma. A delicate laminar cellular membrane in- vests the majority of lippmata; infiltration of texture is never effected, by these growths. Their cellular investment may become fibrous, giving them a pseudo-encysted character. Pedunculation (single or multiple) is not un- common ; the peduncle sometimes stretching away to some distance from the main part of the growth; from the front of the sternum, for instance, deeply into the mediaotinum. The natural course of lipomata is to increase almost indefinitely in bulk, without giving rise to any other inconvenience than that arising from their size, weight, and position. The surrounding skin bears without ill results an extraordinary amount of distension ; though eventually attenuation, low inflammation and gangrene have sometimes ensued. Lipomata are susceptible of inflanunalory softening, (a rare occurrence however) leading to break- ing down of their substance ; the physical, and probably chemical qualities, of the fat change materially. Growths thus altered have K