598 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. partially downwards, enlarging the axillary margin of the scapula, so as to form a new glenoid cavity ; and lastly, that the infra-spi- natus fossa of the dorsum of the scapula may become the new situation, to which the head of the humerus may be transferred from the effects of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder. The writer has after much investigation seen but two examples of this last displace- ment, and, curious to observe, these were in the rii>ht and left shoulder joint of the same indivitlual. Partial dulocation of the head of the humerus hiwards.— In the museum of the College of Surgeons, Dublin, we find a specimen pre- sented by Professor Hargrave, which he con- siders one of ])artial luxation inwards from accident. The accidental origin of the af- fection, however, cannot be proved, as the history of the case is unknown ; and the spe- cimen presents so many of the features of the chronic rheumatic disease combined with the partial luxation, that we are of opinion that Professor Hargrave's specimen cannot be considered the result of accident; but that all the appearances it presents are the conse- quence of long established chronic rheu- matic arthritis. We shall here give an ab- stract of Dr. Hargrave's case, referring for a fuller account to the Edinburgh Medical Journal. The capsular ligament presented a perfect state of integrity along the superior and pos- terior part of the joint. It was very dense and strong, extending from the acromion process downwards and forwards towards the humerus. When the capsule was opened on its internal aspect, the head of the humerus was seen to be in part external to the joint, and was di- vided into two unequal portions by a deep groove extending for the entire length of its head in a perpendicular direction. Of these two portions the internal and larger one passed a small distance beyond the corre- sponding edge of the glenoi(i cavity into the subscapular fossa, while the posterior and smaller one remained in the glenoid cavity, occupying its internal surface. The groove now mentioned fitted on the inner edge of the glenoid cavity, which did not present its usual well defined border, but was rounded off", so as to present a thick lip, from the constant pressure and frequent mo- tion of the humerus upon it. The head of the humerus in its superior aspect was in close a[)position with the coracoid process, and had altered in a remarkable degree its form, which in place of being beaked and point- ed, was much expanded^flattened and slightly hollovved. When the articulation was first opened, the tendon of the long head of the biceps could not he seen ; but on more particular examina- tion it was found to have been rujHured, the portion connected with the muscle being in- timately attached to the bicipital groove of the humerus, while the portion belonging to the glenoid cavity was much diminished in size. and presented a mere rudimental character in the capsular cavity.* When we carefully observe this specimen, we notice that it presents many of the general anatomical characters of the chronic rheumatic arthritis, these appearances being of course modified, as to the external shape of the sur- faces, by the special peculiarity of the partial displacement which had in this case occurred. The head of the humerus was much en- larged and mis-shapen. It was found that a large portion of the new articular cavity for the head of the humerus lay on the sub- scapular fossa, but that a portion of the old glenoitl cavity remained, and that the head of the humerus, divided into two surfaces, arti- culated with both the new and old glenoid cavity. The effects of friction during the movements which took place between the bifid head of the humerus and the double articular cavity, which corresponded to it, were such that perfect and complete ebur- nisation of parts of the contiguous surfaces took place. This last circumstance could not be said to amount to proof, that chronic disease rather than accident had caused the partial luxation. In addition to the ivory-like enamel, we find also that bony vegetations, or granular nodules of new bone, surround the out- line of the new articular surface formed for the head of the humerus; and that small foreign bodies, like sesamoid bones, are seen bordering the edge of the articular cavity posteriorly. All these minor circumstances remind us of the anatomical characters we have found in examining cases of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder. Tiie coracoid process, we are informed, had altered in a remarkable degree its form, which had become expanded, flattened, and slightly hollowed; in a word, it became articular, as we have often before found it to be, as the result of chronic rheu- matic arthritis. The glenoid ligament (Pro- fessor Hargrave's case) was absent; and the following description, which we may be ex- cused for recopying, may well be applied, we think, to the ordinary condition of the tendon of the biceps in most of the cases of chro- nic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder. " When the articulation was first opened, the long tendon of the biceps could not be seen, but on more particular examination it was found to have been ruptured, the portion con- nected with the muscle being intimately at- tached to the bicipital groove of the humerus, while the portion belonging to the glenoid cavity was much diminished in size, and pre- sented a mere rudiment." We have already made the remark, that when the shoulder joint is the seat of chro- nic rheumatic arthritis, the neighbouring acromio-clavicular articulation is frequently affected with this same disease. Now, in care- fully examining Professor Hargrave's specimen, we shall find that not only do the anatomical characters which belong to chronic rheumatic * See Catalogue of the Museum of the R. C. of Surgeons, Dublin, vol. ii. p. 397, Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, for October, 1837.