592 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. racters of the chronic rheumatic arthritis, with partial displacement upwards of the head of the humerus. Sandifort also, we feel sure, has fallen into the error of concluding with- out proof, that this specimen of the bones of the shoulder constituted an example of par- tial luxation from accident (" liixatio ossis humeri ab injuria externa'"). The subject of this case, he says, was a robust man: the head of the humerus having been driven upwards between the coracoid process and the acromion, a new articular surface was produced, partly on the upper narrow part of the glenoid cavity, and partly on the root of the coracoid process. This new articular surface, in its centre porous, was as to its circumference hard, pohshed, and ivory-like (" partim porosa sed caetera valde polita ac quasi eburnea"), and had been in habitual contact with the head of the humerus. The latter was much enlarged, and its circumference near the corona of the head was much increased by the addition of a hard rounded margin (" margine revoluto calloso"). The wearing away of the upper part of the great tuberosity, the eburnisa- tion of the summit of the humerus where it came in contact with the concavity of the coraco-acromial vault, the preternatural con- tact of the head of the humerus with the under surface of the acromial extremity of the clavicle, are also noticed. " Caput ossis humeri amplitudine auctum, margine revoluto calloso, in superficie articular! affert eandem prasternaturalem glabritiem et duritiem, dum in vertici, ubi tuberculum majus occurrit, superficiem exhibet partim glaberriraam, par- tim inequabilem, rugosam, quae juxta sum- mum humerum movebatur trituratione, etiam locum habuisse inter marginem inferiorem claviculse, et verticem capitis humeri mani- feste a[)paret ; subluxatio in superiora ergo hie locum habuit."* Here we find the description of the bones unaccompanied with any account of anatomi- cal characters of the other structures of the joints ; nor is there any proof adduced that any accident had occurred to produce the appearance noticed ; we may therefore, we think, conclude, that the history of the case was unknown. When we compare Sandifort's description of the above case, accompanied as it is with an engraving, with the account given by us in the preceding pages of the dissection of other cases of the chronic rheumatic ar- thritis as it affects the structures of the shoulder joint, we think we may safely con- clude that this case, adduced by Sandifort as an example of partial luxation of the head of the humerus upwards from external injury, must be considered as presenting in the bones described the anatomical characters of chro- nic rheumatic disease, as it very commonly affects the bone of the shoulder joint. In the anatomical examination of advanced cases of this disease of the shoulder joint, which we have witnessed, in which there * INIuseura Anatomicum Sandifort, tab. c\lfgs. 1, 2, 3. vol. iv. had been jiarlial luxation of the head of the humerus upwards — when the deltoid mus- cle has been cut through, the head of the humerus has been usually found exposed, and in absolute contact with the under surface of this muscle, having passed through the upper part of the capsular ligament. In such cases, the head of the humerus has been found to present the usual characteristic appearances of this chronic rheumatic disease ; that is to say, the cartilage has been absorbed, and its place supplied by an ivory-like enamel. The arti- cular portion of the tendon of the biceps has also been removed, as well as all those parts which in the normal state intervene between the summit of the head of the humerus and the under surface of the coraco-acromial arch. The superior portion of the capsular ligament itself has been found perforated ; and the under surface of the coraco-acromial vault excavated, and has become a new and sup- plementary socket for the head of the hu- merus {fig. 429.). The explanation of the circumstance why the su])erior and external part of the capsular liga- ment has been found perforated by a large cir- cular opening, through which the head of the humerus can pass,appears to be, that the effects of the loss of the tendon of the biceps are such, that the head of the humerus is at once elevated by the deltoid, and kept habitually pressed up against the under surface of the acromion. The coraco-acromial vault now becomes the articular socket for the head of the humerus, more than the original glenoid cavity. The head of the humerus assumes altogether a new form ; its summit is ex- panded, and at the same time smoothed by the constant effects of use and friction ; the anatomical neck is encroached upon, and gradually the whole summit, including the great and lesser tuberosities, becomes articu' lar, these latter eminences being, as it were, ground down and covered with a porcelainous deposit (^fig. 428.). As the upper portion of the circular groove, called the anatomical neck of the humerus, which normally gives attachment to the capsular ligament of the joint, has been removed, this attachment of the capsule must be destroyed, and a large opening will be found in it. This occurrence is well illustrated by a case of chronic rheu- matic arthritis of the shoulder joint, described by Mr. Hamilton Labatt, who entitles the case, *' An excellent specimen of that chronic disease of the shoulder joint which old people are liable to; as also an example of partial luxation upwards, the result of slow disease." * The history of this case, as of almost all of the same kind published, was unknown. The subject was a female aged GO, brought into the College of Surgeons for dissection ; the muscular system well developed. The com- mon integuments had been removed when Mr. Labatt was called to witness the dissec- * Vide London Medical Gazette, 1838, vol. xxii. p. 22.; also Catalogue, Coll. Surgeons, Ireland, vol. ii. p. 396.