245 REN. R 3 With the inconsiderahle exceptions above mentioned, the terminal twigs of the artery correspond in number with the Malpighian bodies. Arrived here, the twig, which is usually of considerable length, although occasionally very short, perforates the capsule, and, dilating suddenly, breaks up into two, three, four, or even eight branches, which diverge in all directions like petals from the stalk of a flower, and usually run in a more or less tortuous manner, subdividing again once or twice as they advance over the surface of the ball they are about to form. {Fig. 153.) Fig. 153. 1. Malpighian tuft.—Horse. The injection has penetrated only to the capillaries, a, the artery; f, one of its terminal twigs (or the afferent vessel of the Malpighian body) ; d, the dilatation and mode of breaking xip of the terminal twig after entering the capsule; the division of the tuft into lobes, /, /, /, /, is well seen ; i, i, intervals hetAveen the lobes. Mag- nified about eighty diameters. 2. Malpighian tuft. — Horse. The injection has penetrated through the tuft, and has filled the aflfer- ent vessel. /, the aflferent vessel; d, its dilatation and mode of division ; m, m, Malpighian capillaries ; e, efferent vessel springing from them, and leaving the capsule between two priman,' branches of the afiferent vessel. Magnified about eighty diameters. 3. Malpighian body. — Horse. The injection, after filHng the primary- branches of the afterent vessel, has burst into the capsule, and passed off along the tube. It has not filled the tuft of capillaries, which consequently are not seen, nor has it spread within the capsule over the whole surface of the tuft. /, the afferent vessel; d, its dilatation and mode of subdi\-ision; c, c, the outline of the distended capside ; t, the tube passing from it; m, situation of the un- injected Malpighian tuft. Magnified about seventy diameters. (^After Bowman.^ The vessels resulting from these subdivisions are capillary in size, and consist of a simple, homogeneous, and transparent membrane. They dip into its interior at different points, and, after further twisting, reunite into a single small vessel (fg. 154. I.), which varies in its size, being generally smaller, but in some situations larger, than the terminal twig of the artery. This vessel emerges between two of the primary divisions of the terminal twig of the artery, perforating the capsule close to the vessel, and, like it, adhering to the membrane as it passes through. It then enters the capillary plexus, wiiich surrounds the tortuous uriniferous tubes. {Fig. 154. 2. and 155.) The Fig. 15k 1. Malpighian body, &c., from the hoRe. Mal- pighian tiift, from near the base of one of the medul- lary cones, injected without extravasation, and showing the etierent vein branching like an artery, as it runs into the medullary- cone, a, arterial branch; e, the afferent vessel; m, the Malpighian tuft;/, the efferent vessel; b, its branches enter- ing the medullar}' cone. Stagnified about seventy diameters. {After Bowman.^ 2. Malpighian bodies, &c., from the horse. The injection has passed, as in Jig. 155., but without rup- ture of the Malpighian tiift. a, branch of the artery; f,f, afferent vessels; w, m, Malpighian tufts'; e, e, efferent vessels; p, plexus surround- ing the tubes; s t, straight tube in cortical substance; c t, convoluted tube in ditto. Magnified about thirty diameters. tuft of vessels thus formed is a compact ball, the several parts of which are held together solely by their mutual interlacement, for there is no other tissue admitted into the capsule besides blood-vessels. It is subdivided into as many lobes as there are primary branches of the terminal twig or efferent vessel, and these lobes do not communicate, except at the