SEMEN. 505 the most striking proof of this. The sperma- tozoa, when enclosed in these, frequently re- tain their full vitality for months. Among the mammalia, likewise, the motions of the spermatozoa remain unimpaired in the vagina, or in the uterus, for some days after copulation. The mucous coat which covers these or- gans has no prejudicial effect on the motion and vigour of the spermatozoa*, and equally as little so the addition of other animal fluids, as the secretion of the prostate, the serum, milk, &c. Common saliva, and even bile or pus, does not exercise any impeding influence upon the motions of the spermatozoa. The addition of urine, especially when hav- ing an acid reaction, seems to have a rather more injurious influence upon them, for their motion ceases soon afterwards, although for some hours slight traces of it may still be per- ceived. We have already treated of the influence of common water upon the spermatozoa. Diluted saline solutions or sugar and water, on the other hand, either do not produce these inju- rious effects at all, or, at least, only in a very slight degree. The chemical agents are the only ones which have a positively injurious effect on the spermatozoa, changing and destroying their structure and composition; as for instance alcohol, acids, metallic salts, &c. Diluted aqueous solutions of narcotic vegetable substances, of strychnia, morphia, &:c., have the same effect as common water. The electric spark destroys the motion of the spermatozoa instantaneously, unques- tionably because it changes their structure. Galvanism, on the other hand, remarkable to say, has no effect upon them, as Prevost states. A high or low temperature hkewise causes the motions to cease, or at least to slacken, although the motions of the sperma- tozoa of frogs and fishes continue when the surrounding medium sinks below zero. The same has been observed in the spermatozoa of Limngeus and Planorbis on treating them with hot water of 70^—80° (Centigrade). Chemical composition of the semen. — The semen in most animals is a tough, thick, white, yellow, or darkish grey fluid, heavier than water, falling to the bottom when shaken with it. Its taste is sharp and astringent. The peculiar smell, which is usually attributed to it, is comparable with the smell of bone filings, and has its origin, perhaps, in the secre- tions mixed with it. Pure semen in man and animals does not seem to give forth any de- cidedly striking smell. The chemical analyses of semen are dated from a period when our knowledge of organic combinations was still very imperfect, and far from having attained that elevation, by which it has become equally important to physiology as the study of morphology. The works of * For numerous researches on the influence of reagents on the movements of the spermatozoa, vid. Donne's Nouvelles Experiences sur les Ani- malcules Spermat., Paris, 1837; as well as Krte- mer, p. 17. In some cases, however, our owti re- searches have furnished a different result. Fourcroy^ Vauquelin^ Jordan, John^ and l^as" saigne, are still the sources from which we derive our knowledge of the chemical nature of the semen. Vauquelin, whose analysis is the most elaborate, found in the human semen ninety parts of water, one part of soda, three of phos- phate of lime and chloride of calcium, and six parts of a peculiar substance (spermatine). These statements were afterwards confirmed by John and Lassaigne. Spermatine, however, the more intimate knowledge of which would have possessed the princi[)al interest, was no further investigated than it had been pre- viously by Vauquelin. Under such circumstances it appeared desirable to undertake a new chemical analy- sis of the semen, especially as the former researches had embraced the whole mass, without paying regard to the morphological constituents, or to the admixture of the prostatic secretion. To remove this defect, a series of researches has been instituted by Dr. Frerichs at our request, in the new chemical laboratory of the physiological in- stitute of Gottingen, respecting which the fol- lowing has been communicated to us for publication. The most careful of these analyses was made on the semen of the carp, it being a fish which is perhaps best calculated for an inves- tigation of this nature. The testicles were cut into pieces, and crushed, in order to press out the semen. Thus obtained, it presented a whitish, glutinous, or viscid mass, from which the membranous fragments were carefully removed. The residue of pure semen con- sisted of the spermatozoa, suspended in a fluid, and a few epithelial cells. It was perfectly neutral. The corpuscular parts of the mass of semen were now separated from the fluid by filtra- tion, and both were separately examined. The Jluid was colourless and clear, of a neutral reaction. The fluid at first filtered ex- hibited no coagulation when boiled, nor was it precipitated by nitric acid. Albumen, there- fore, was not present. The liquid which sub- sequently passed through, however, on wash- ing the mass, precipitated a small quantity of albumen on being subjected to a boiling heat, as also on being treated with nitric acid. Acetic acid, tannic acid, alum, and acetate of lead likewise precipitated albumen. On being evaporated, the fluid left a yel- lowisb, gum-like mass with a strong fishy smell. It re-dissolved partially in water, but was precipitated from it by tincture of galls. The insoluble residue was easily dissolved by diluted solution of potash, and precipitated by acetic acid, without being again dissolved by an excess of it. A part of the evaporated semen was burnt: there remained an ash, consisting of chloride of sodium, as also of slight quantifies of phos- phates and sulphates of the alkahes. The spermatic fluid therefore resembles a thin solution of mucus. The spermatozoa which were left after