635 SKELETON. contains seven. The human cervix (b, jig. wherein the cervix counted only five or six ; 457.) occasionally develops only five or six. I and I have no doubt, that if we dissected have seen some species of the monkey tribe other mammalian bodies as frequently as we Fig. 456. A, the neck of the sloth {Bradijpiis didactylus), representing the costo-sternal quantities lost to the seven cervical vertebrae; b, the neck of another species of sloth {B. tridactylus), exhibiting the loss of costo-sternal quantity, from nine cervit^al vertebrae. In both figures it is shown how the numerical difference of vertebrae of the cervix depends upon the number of metamorphosed archetypes. do the human subject, we should find also in like the thoracic figures, contain costal ap- them many exceptions to the rule which we pendages, although in rudimental propor- now call general. tions. In the cervical vertebrae the costal But these exceptions will be called " ano- pieces are liable to a plus condition (a b, of n, malies " by the special anatomist. To this I fig. 457.). In the thoracic vertebrae the costae answer, that if we understood fairly the true interpretation of the universal law, we should forthwith blot out the word anomaly from anatomical nomenclature ; for there can be no anomalies any more than there can be exceptions to the universal law. Anomalies, such as they appear upon the bodies of one species, as, for instance, the cervical ribs {a, b) of the cervical vertebras (6, 7 of b, fig. 457.), are, in reality, not more remarkable to the normal condition of that species than the figure and proportions of one species (a, fig. 456.) are to those of another and different species (B,fig. 456.). The same law presides over aii conditions of formation. * Prop. XXIV. The number of cervical vertehrcB in the mammal cervix depends upon the number of archetypal costo-vertebral figures ivhich have suffered metamorphosis. —Even if it were true that the mammal cervix invariably contains the fixed number of seven vertebrae, still there would appear no reason why we should not interpret the fact in the following mode, namely, that the seven cervical vertebrae of fig. 455. are those pro- portional osseous quantities left standing after the metamorphosis of the ribs (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7) of seven costo-vertebral archetypes. For it is evident that cervical vertebrae do, * " Tout phenomena dans la nature est lie a Ten-. semble; et, quoique nos observations nous semblent isolees, quoique les experiences ne soient pour nous que des faits individuels, il n'en resiilte pas qu'elles le soient reellement ; il s'agit seulement de savoir comment nous trouverons le lien qui unit ces faits ou ces evenements entre eux." Goethe,(Euv. d'Hist. Nat. lutrod. p. xi. traduits par Martins. are fully produced. Fig. 457. A, the human cer\dx, numbering only five cervical vertebrae of normal quantity, oAving to the pre- sence of a, b, the cerv^ical ribs persistent on the 6th and 7th vertebrae; b, the cervix of the sloth (J5. tridactylus), which numbers as many as nine cervical vertebrae, in consequence of the metamor- phosis of nine costo-sternal quantities. If it were possible to raise a rational objec- tion to the above mentioned interpretation of the cervical spinal region, I would then re- mark that "cervical ribs" do still further prove the truth of what I advance concerning this region of the spinal axis. For is it not true that when the sixth or seventh cervical