655 SKELETON. hyoid forms, whether these be cartilaginous or osseous, as being the continuation of the sternal median line in the mammal neck. The history of the ossific process teaches us that every part of the skeleton which presents now in osseous structure, has passed through the prior stages of cartilage and of fibrous or cellular primordium. The general median line in front of the mammal form presents, in regional divisions, the one differ- enced from the other only in respect to these three stages of the ossific process. The thoracic sternal median division presents in the tertiary or osseous stage. The cervical sternal median division of this same line pre- sents in cartilaginous or secondary stage. The ventral sternal median division of this same continuous fine presents in the fibrous or primary stage. But whether the several divisions of this one sternal median line be, in the mammal body, of fibrous, or cartilaginous, or osseous tissue, it must still be regarded as the same unbroken sternal series from maxilla to pubis. The only difference which marks one class or species of skeletal form as dis- tinct from another throughout the animal kingdom, is simply the same as that which marks one region of the sternal line in one form diverse, or special, to another region of the same line in the same form. What the ventral or the cervical sternal median fine is to the thoracic of the same animal, namely phasially different; just so is the ventral and the cervical median line of the several classes and species of animals diverse to the thoracic of all animals by a simple arrest of develop- ment in one or other of the three phases of the ossific process. The venter of a mammal is intersected with fibrous traces of the ster- num and ribs. This sternum and these ribs are of osseous growth in the saurian venter {k, k, Jig. 480.). The cervix of a mammal is intersected with the cartilaginous and osseous traces of original sternum and ribs, and these traces of the sternum and ribs are now called hyoid apparatus. The homologue of this hyoid apparatus, which is fashioned by the metamorphosis of sternum and ribs, is pre- sented in the osseous fish (g,Jig. 480.) as a sternum and ribs, to which we give the name hyoid apparatus. When I compare the foregoing anatomical facts together, I conclude that the abstract or archetypal skeletal fabric (Jig. 480.) to which comparison gives creation in my mind, is a form whose median sternal line is continuous from maxilla to pubis, from g to /, and in this archetype the ribs {a b) are holding continu- ous series. The vertebrae (a b, c d, e f) hold serial order in the same archetype also. The ribs succeed the hyoid apparatus, the pubic and ischiatic bones (c*c*) succeed the ribs, and the chevron bones (/j*Z>*) succeed the pubic bones. This serial order demon- strates the homological cast of all these parts, and therefore 1 have numbered them alike. When these serial parts are taken in connec- tion with the vertebrae behind, they constitute the archetypal series of whole quantities. Prop. XXXVIII. Evoy fossil skeletal species of extinct animals, as well as every recent existing species of skeleton, are forms created of the archetypal skeleton.— While we under- stand clearly, that it is the graduated meta- morphosis of certain parts from one or many of the serial sterno-costo vertebral archetypes which yields all spinal axes, variable as to the numerical lengths of a cervical, or a lumbar, a sacral or a caudal region, and while we know, even to a demonstration, that the tho- racic region results simply by the persistence of some of those archetypes, then we can readily understand that the persistence of idl the archetypal quantities would leave the form devoid of any such regional spinal variety as a neck, a loins or a caudex. And when I add to this remark this other, namely, that all the archetypes undergoing cervical metamorphosis would render all the spinal length in cervical character, or, if undergoing lumber metamor- phosis, would strike the whole spinal length in lumbar character, or if submitted to sacral or caudal metamorphosis would leave the whole spinal length of sacral or caudal stamp, then 1 see no reason why anatouiical science should marvel at the length of a plesiosaure neck as an extraordinary fact " dugout of the bowels of the harmless earth," however bizarre a creation this skeletal form may seem to the wonder-working geological speculator. Forms, as they are at present existing, and congeneric, seem to me to manifest, under contrast, no less a cause for wonder while I view them comparatively, than these same existing species of form can give rise to when I regard them comparatively with those of the lost or extinct species of a foregone time. But I believe that the only hope which science can ever entertain of solving the problem of formation in the past, must depend upon the demonstration of the process of the creative force, which rules formation in the present And when we shall have clearly demonstrated the creative law which at present strikes out the form of an ostrich in presence of the form of a whale, then we will cease to regard with doubtful interrogative the form of the Plesiosaure laid side by side with the Ichtliyo- saure, or any other figure the vestige of fore- gone creation. When science shall arm herself cap-a-pie with the knowledge of a law, then will she be enabled to contemj)late the past, the present, and the future, holding her statuesque gravity still unmoved, how- ever or by whatever show of seeming bizarre facts short-sighted ignorance may strive to startle her. Upon the proof of the truth of the reading here advanced, viz. that the cervical the lum- bar, sacral, and caudal spinal regions consist of spinal segments metamorphosed or de- graded from such archetypal segments as we find standing for the thoracic spinal region of all skeletons, depends the full and just inter- pretation of all varieties of spinal axes of animals, whether now existing or now extinct. Prop. XXXIX. The crania-facial appara- tus consists, like the thoranc apparatus, of