179 PTEROPODA. N 2 on each side, so that the lateral fissures of the shell have apparently the function of admitting the surrounding element to the branchial organs. These latter are composed of little laminae, resembling those of patellae, phyllidia, &c., which surround the body so as to form a sort of elliptical belt, not placed transversely, but parallel to the course of the dorsal surface {fig. 114. 5, 6. p, r, s). The Fig. 114 (1 to 9). Anatomy of Hyalea. (^After CuvierJ) 1. The animal entire, with its shell, viewed from the side of the inflated valve. 2. The same seen from the side of the flat valve. 3. The Hyalea deprived of its shell, the lobes of the mantle drawn aside and expanded, from the in- flated side. 4. The same from the flat side, in which part of the viscera maybe obsers^ed through the membrane of the mantle, as also the muscular fibre of the latter. 5. The animal slightly magnified, -svith the mantle opened from the flat side, showing the retractor muscle and the viscera in situ. 6. The same, with the viscera displayed. 7. The same, seen from the opposite aspect: the integument of the neck has been divided as far as the mouth, showing the respective positions of the brain, of the oesophagus, of the penis, and the tongue; like terminations of the retractor muscle. 8. The penis detached. The crop and gizzard laid open. The same references apply to all the figures. a, b, c, prominent points of shell; d, inflated valve; e,f, lateral margins of the shell; g, h, i, k, margins of mantle: /, m, cervical fins; n, mouth ; o, neck; p, q, r, s, branchiae; t, position of the heart; u, re- tractor muscle; v, v, oesophagus; w, crop; x, giz- zard ; y, intestine; z, liver; «, ovary; /3, testicle; y, supra-oesophageal ganglion. Other viscera occupy the arched and rounded portion of the shell, or the interior of the cervical region, and are enveloped in a kind of peritoneum of a blackish colour. On plac- ing the animal upon its flat valve, or ventral surface, the heart is seen to be situated on the right side, at the inner border of that portion of the branchial band marked t in fig. 114. 5. A cylindrical muscle (ii, fig. 114. 5 and 7) is attached to the intermediate point of the shell, and traverses the visceral mass to be inserted into the neck by four tongue-like processes. The action of this muscle will be to retract the creature within its shell. In front of the four branchiae is situated the penis, upon which lies the oesophagus, and this in turn is surmounted by the brain— these organs filling up the thickness of the neck. The oesophagus (v, v,fig. 114. 5 and 6) is long and slender, and the mouth, according to Cuvier, is a simple anterior opening, in the interior of which a few wrinkles only are perceptible, representing the tongue. The oesophagus dilates into a kind of membranous crop {iv, w,fig. 114. 7 and 9), which is suc- ceeded by a muscular gizzard (jc,x,fig. 114. 7 and 9) of a cylindrical shape, the walls of which are of tolerable thickness. Both these cavities are furnished internally with longitudinal folds, and these are thicker and more numerous in the crop than in the gizzard (fig. 114. 9). The intestine is slender, and of the same diameter throughout its whole length, which is considerable. It makes two convolutions in the interval between the lobes of the liver (z z,fig. 114. 7). The anus is situ-