126 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. ing, gives it this character. A haematoma is rarely encysted; for though nothing is more common than the formation of a cyst round effused blood (apoplectic cyst) as a general fact, yet this process is rarely wit- nessed, where the progress of absorption has been of the kind to produce a haematoma. Hasmatomata may probably form wherever blood, thrown out from the vessels, is re- tained. Thus (1) they are seen in the serous cavities,—as the peritonaeum and pleura, where they have more than once been found in the stages of transition ; and in synovial cavities, where, as John Hunter long since maintained, they frequently form the so-called " loose car- tila<:es" of joints. (2) Amid membranous structures,—as for instance, under the choroid coat, where they have been frequently mis- taken for carcinoma ; into the great cavity of the arachnoid (Univ. Coll. Mus.)—a not un- conunon seat; between the arachnoid and dura mater of the skull, where, we feel posi- tive, they have occasionally been the origin of minute fibrous tumours; under the mucous lining of the uterus, wdiere a similar destiny sometimes awaits them; under the periosteum, either when the blood has flown through the influence of external injury, or through the influence of causes, partly traumatic, partly spontaneous, as in that singular affection of new-born infants —cephalhgematoma. — (3) In parenchymatous organs, as the brain, the spleen, the kidneys, the lung (in all of which we have repeatedly seen them), and more rarely in the mamma, where they have often, clin- ically, played the part of cancers.—(4) In the cellulo-muscular structures of the limbs, as the result of contusions or spontaneous haemorrhage.—(5) In the proper substance of certain new products, especially encephaloid cancers.—(6) In cavities accidentally formed in the tissues, as in tuberculous cavities in the lung. (Univ. Coll. Mus.) Various changes of deep interest may occur within the substance of a haematoma. Unsup- plied with vessels, as it commonly is, it cannot be the seat of interstitial haemorrhage ; but blood may nevertheless infiltrate its substance derived from the ruptured vessels of surround- ing textures, — just as extra-vascular tissues may become infiltrated with exudation-matter produced by inflammation, not in them, but be- side them* Saline precipitation is a common occurrence; such is often the origin of ossiform particles or masses in the brain; of similar masses in advanced cephalhaematomaf ; and such (as elsewhere shown by us) is almost in- variably the source of free calcareous and ossi- form products in cancer: the changes con- cerned in the production of a phlebolith are one by one gone through. That melanic pigment may form in haematomata appears extremely probable, from certain observations which we made several years ago on some specimens of melanic tumour; full reference to these will be * A remarkable example of haemorrhage into a haematoma of the brain lately occm'red. in our wards in University College Hospital. f See this word, Cyclopaedia of Surgery, vol. i. found in the section on Melanoma. We have in a previous section spoken of the doubt still hanging over the question of the possible evo- lution of simple effused blood into Forma- tions of definite structural characters. The question appears to be all but absolutely decided in the affirmative by a tumour now before us (Univ. Coll. Mus.), in the substance of which the transition from the characters of haematoma to those of fibrous tumour, is per- fectly traceable in point of colour, consistence, and textural arrangement. Bone-formation may take place from blood effused in localities where a tendency to such formation naturally exists, and where formative life is active. Thus, in the instance of sub-pericranial ce- phalhaematoma, the smooth gelatinous-looking membrane, which invests the blood, may be- come so perfectly ossified, that it has, in this state, been evidently mistaken by some ob- servers for the outer table of the bone, and a figment, in the shape of interstitial or diploic cephalhaematoma, invented to meet the dif- ficulty. Even in the centre of the fibrinous residue of this effused blood actual bone has sometimes been seen. Concerning the vascularization of blood in substance we have already given our opinion. Haematomata in the brain have been found dis- tinctly vascularized in cases where there was no evidence that plastic hmph had been added to the extravasated blood ; and M. Louis' description, already referred to, of a vascu- larized coagulum in a tuberculous excavation of the lung is peculiarly satisfactory. Blood retained in its proper canals may coagulate and undergo various changes. In the arteries, cellulo-fibrous evolution and cal- cification occur in stagnating blood without the intervention of an inflammator}' process : in the veins we have seen vascularized coagula injected; and the formation of phlebohths and arteroliths illustrates saline precipitation. Vascularized coagula in the heart have been described by Rigacci, Burns, Bouillaud, and others. § 2. SARCOMA. Simple sarcoma (jrapl, flesh), or cellulo- vascular growth, presents itself as a mass of variable dimensions, — those of a hazel-nut and of a cocoa-nut are the extremes we have seen. Of oval or, less commonly, spherical outline, its surface may be even and tole- rably smooth, or nodulated (U. C. Mus.). Sarcoma is particularly elastic ; varies much in consistence and density ; breaks sharply under the nail, in the direction of its fibres ; is rather crisp than tough, unless in the site of its cellulo-fibrous locular walls ; exhibits on section a tolerably smooth, glossy, semi- transparent surface, such inequalities as exist depending upon the unequal elasticity of its containing and contained elements; is free from greasiness, either to the look or feel ; is usually of pale yellowish or buff colour in the main, presenting here and there reddish or more rarely lilac-tinted spots, or striae, or