PROSTATE GLAND. 150 can be seen ; the cellular structure is rendered perceptible by inflation from the ducts. Mr. John Quekett has injected with coloured size, and examined the tubes and follicles of the prostate with the microscope, and represents the latter as varying in size in different parts of the gland ; he thinks that one-hundredth of an inch is their average diameter, and has de- lineated them as is shown in Jig. 104, Henle Fig. 104. has found them to be lined by a delicate pave- ment epithelium, and at the commencement of the duct he has seen a cylindrical epithe- lium. Mr. Quekett has traced an intermediate cellular or fibrous tissue, filling up the spaces between the follicles or lobules, and connect- ing them together. According to Dr. C. H. Jones, " this principally consists of the white fibrous element, but also contains numerous bands, resembling closely those of organic muscle."* The latter anatomist thinks that the enlargement of the gland in hypertrophy of the prostate, is due to an increase in this tissue: he regards the prostate as an assem- blage of secerning follicles rather than as a really conglomerate gland. The arteries of the prostate are usually derived from the vesical and hiemorrhoidal branches of the internal pudic, and from the middle haemorrhoidal of the internal iliac, which, entering the gland on either side be- neath its capsule, are distributed in the form of a network on the parietes of its tubes and follicles^ the veins terminate in the vesical and hsemorrhoidal veins : its nerves, which are ex- tremely small, are branches of the hypogastric plexus of the great sympathetic. The lym- phatics consist of a superficial and deep set, and pass into the hypogastric ganglia. It happens occasionally that an artery of consi- derable magnitude runs on either side of the prostate, from the internal iliac, and becomes the artery of the bulb of the urethra. This variety has been seen by Haller, Burns, and Barclay. I have witnessed a similar distri- bution myself. Dr. Monro met with a case, in which an irregular vessel came from the internal iliac, passed along the lateral and in- ferior surface of the bladder, pierced the ilio- vesical fascia, ran along the lateral lobe of the prostate, and divided into three branches, one to the dorsum, one to the crus penis, and another to the bulb. Other varieties in the course and distribution of the branches of the internal iliac, involving the prostate, have been occasionally met with, and I allude to * Medical Gazette, Aug. 20. 1847. them here as points of great interest in respect to the surgical anatomy of this body. Liquor Prostaticus. — It is the office of the prostate to eliminate from the blood sent into its arteries a fluid called the liquor prostati- cus. This has been examined microscopically; but in consequence of the difficulty in obtain- ing it in any large quantity, it has not hitherto been made the subject of chemical analysis. This fluid can be obtained after death by squeezing the gland, when it oozes through the orifices of the ducts around the veru montanum. It usually presents a turbid ap- pearance, is of a thin milky aspect, and is somewhat unctuous to the feel. Haller found it in many cases coagulable by the addition of alcohol : it contains, according to Krause, muddy flakes, or globules, filled with minute granules, varying from to -3^0 of a line in diameter. Prevost and Dumas examined the liquor prostaticus of the dog, cat, hedgehog, and rabbit: they found it to contain globules like milk-globules. Cuvier remarked in the fluid of the hedgehog, numerous ovoid and spherical vesicles, others oblong and conical in shape : many of the vesicles presented a stellate aspect, and contained a central nu- cleus. I have carefully examined, in many cases, the prostatic secretion of the human subject, in as fi-esh a state as I could possibly procure it. I have found it of a milky aspect, like a very weak mixture of milk with water. In some cases, I have seen it of a consistence more resembling cream. I consider the for- mer state to represent the healthy fluid. Examined with the microscope, it was found to contain numerous molecules, epithelial cells, both pavement and cylindrical, in va- rious stages of formation, and granular nuclei of about 0'0036 of a line in diameter. In by far the greater number of instances in which I have examined it, I have been rather surprised to find it give feeble but distinct signs of acidity when tested by litmus paper. I thought it not unlikely that the apparent acidity of the prostatic secretion was due to the cadaveric infiltration of urine through the tissue of the gland ; but I adopted every pre- caution, by carefully and repeatedly washing the surface of the bladder and urethra, to ob- viate this source of fallacy, and the result was still the same. I have found a similar reaction in the prostatic secretion of an old man, in whom the gland was greatly h} pertrophied ; and where the ducts and follicles were dis- tended with an opaque creamy-looking fluid, such as is often seen after death. The ap- pearance of the liquor prostaticus may be, and probably is, very diflTerent after death to what it is during life. There is every reason to believe that it is secreted more clear and transparent, and it most likel}' owes much of its turbid appearance to the admixture of a large number of minute epithelial cells. I regret that I have nothing to ofl^er as to its chemical constituents, as it is not possible to collect more than two or three drops at a time, a quantity too small to submit to che- mical investigation. That the acidity of the