527 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. excision ; while in other situations of the same kind, but in which they are not usually present, the application of long-continued pressure and friction gives rise to their pro- duction. If we add to these phenomena the development of diarthrodial false joints, it will appear that a certain amount of pressure is capable of determining the formation of a cavity, and the growth of a cell-covered membrane, which secretes a synovial fluid ; and that, exerted in a higher degree upon the more resisting bones, it clothes their extremities with a substance which presents all the appearances of cartilage. The presence of blood plasma is no doubt a necessary con- dition of both processes, but in neither are the subsequent minute changes known. In the case of the areolar tissue which is con- verted into a bursa, we may indeed infer, that mechanical violence exerted upon it would produce an increase of vascularity or an active congestion ; but we can scarcely conjecture how this alone should result in an increased vital activit}-, in the removal of some of the partitions of its net-work, the com- pression of others, the formation of a cavity, and the regular cell-covering of its inner surface. But while the production of this structure in answer to pressure is exceedingly inte- resting, and offers a remarkable analogy to its general develo()ment in the fcetus and animal kingdom, there is perhaps a danger of our exaggerating the resemblance, and becoming too mechanical in our views. On closer consideration, their ordinary and extraor- dinary formation will be found to exhibit a difference, which may teach us caution in our conclusions as to the method in which me- chanical force acts. It is this : that while, in the latter case, their development appears to provide for a want already experienced ; in the former instance,—in the young embryo,— we may observe a very similar development oc- curring, which is a provision for a necessity that has never yet existed, and cannot there- fore be the immediate cause. Physiology of the serous and synovial mem- branes.— At present, the physiological import of the preceding minute structural details is so little recognised or understood, as to leave scarcely anything to be said under this divi- sion of the subject. But, in this respect, these textures present so close a parallel to many others in the human body, that to con- sider this imperfect knowledge as demanding a complete silence, would be to interpose an insuperable barrier to almost all conclusions on any physiological subject. In truth, the question of the abstract truth or falsity of physiological conjectures by no means involves the question of their usefulness ; and the difficulty of retaining mere details, the danger of considering them as essentially knowledge, the possibility of allowing a philosophic sus- pension of judgment to merge into sloth- fulness,— all these circumstances taken to- gether perhaps claim that such anatomical minutiae should at least be considered with a view to their explanation; even while they demand that the various shades of probability possessed by these conjectural explanations should, as far as possible, receive their due estimation ; and that their adoption should never interrupt the collection of fresh facts. Some attempt has already been made to discriminate between the physical and vital properties of these membranes ; and the mechanical advantages conferred by some of the former were enumerated as constituting their most prominent use. Their secretory function has next to be considered, together with any relations which this process may possibly bear to the organism generally, as the further use of these structures. A most important feature, and one which belongs to all these membranes, is their pe- culiar arrangement. The general statement, that they are so disposed as to form shut sacs, has been already alluded to, and was at no late period considered their characteristic definition. But as mere form could scarcely be thought of such essential importance, various attempts have been made to explain this morphological character, by referring it to some other term, which should either ex- press a real cause, or should approximate to this by enunciating some physiological purpose itself implying the fact. Many of these, however, such as its being the result of the universal presence of epithelium, &c., are httle more than re-statements of the fact in another form. But to the exception of the female peritoneum, long known, must now be added (unless the definition of these structures be arbitrarily extended so as to include many varieties of cartilage) all the articular synovial membranes, and many of the bursae ; in which the interruption to the continuity of the membrane constitutes the phrase " shut sac," an inaccurate expression as applied to them. In short, all that the term really implies is, that there is no visible outlet by which the cavities these tissues form, or assist to form, can communicate with the exterior of the body. And even in the case of the apparent exception at the extremity of the Fallopian tube, it is exceedingly probable that the small size of the aperture of communication, the cihated lining which it possesses, and the direction in which the current of ciliary motion sets, constitute it, in effect, a closure. The internal position of the serous membranes is followed by this important physiological consequence, that the contents of their cavities are never directly eliminated from the body ; but that such portions of the substance of the membranes, or of its sepa- rated products, as may become effete in the course of the vital changes, can only be dis- charged from the system after a previous rece[)tion into the general mass of the circu- lating fluid. This fact at once establishes a broad line of distinction between these tissues and the mucous membranes, or true elands ; while at the same time it tends to prove that their secretion, whatever it may be, possesses little of the deleterious quality, or excretory