32 i REPTILIA. with recurved spines (Jig. 233, Jc). Essentially, these organs are merely a derivation from or a modification of the skin, which is here lined with erectile tissue. When in a state of re- pose, these organs are inverted and retracted beneath the skin of the tail, immediately behind the anus. Each penis is provided with a special mus- cle derived from beneath the first caudal vertebra ; this muscle is inserted into the bottom of the pouch when the organ is re- tracted, and serves to retain it in this posi- tion. The contraction of the muscles of the tail contributes with the state of erection to make them protrude from the opening of the cloaca. It seems to be an axiom universally ap- plicable, that in those genera of reptiles having the external opening of the cloaca placed transversely, a double penis exists, constructed upon the principle above de- scribed. Each lateral penis has a longitudinal groove that extends from its base to its extremity, the extremity of which, when the organ is in a state of erection, is continuous with a groove in the cloaca. In those reptiles that have the extremity of the penis bifurcated, as, for example, rattle- snakes (Jig. 233, k), the urethral groove, like- wise bifurcates, sending a branch along each division as far as its extremity. The armature of the glans* varies in dif- ferent genera; sometimes it is smooth or simply covered by papillae, or it may be covered with finely pointed spines or cartilaginous plates. Female Generative Organs. — The reproduc- Female Generative Organs of Lizard. a, ovaria; h, meso-oviduct; c, opening of fal- lopian tube; d, oviduct; e, ova contained in oxi- duct; /, termination of oviduct; g, rectum; h, cloaca. tive organs in the female reptilia are con- structed upon a plan of great simplicity, consisting merely of the ovaria and oviducts, through which the eggs are conducted out of the body. The ovaria are two in number, and are found situated upon the sides of the spine in the thoracico-abdominal cavity, where they are suspended by a fold of peritoneum, by which they are invested; they are situated VOL.IV. further backward or forwards in the diflTerent orders, according to circumstances. In the Chelonians they are symmetrical upon the two sides, and their shape is flattened, broad, and short; but in the elongated bodies of many lizards, and more particularly in the Oj)hidians, these organs are long and narrow, and their right ovary is situated considerably in advance of the left. The ovaria of reptiles are constructed in accordance with two different types, each of which will require notice. In the Chelonians the structure of the ovaria resembles that of the birds, and has. a racemose appearance ; the ova, as their development proceeds, be- coming pedunculated, so that they hang like a bunch of grapes, by pedicles formed from their calyx ; this capsule, when the egg is mature, becomes lacerated along a line that divides the globular ovum, like an equator, into two hemispheres, exactly as in birds, and the ovum escapes into the abdominal cavity, there to be taken up by the oviduct. In the second type of structure, the ovary forms an elongated sac or tube, in the delicate walls of which the ova are developed. As the ovules become matured, they project more or less into the cavity of the ovary ; and when they break loose it is into that cavity they escape, and ultimately make their exit through an opening that is formed at its anterior ex- tremity for that purpose at the proper period. In the former of these kinds of ovary the ovules, in order to escape, have to rupture not only the proligerous membrane or calyx, but also the peritoneal tunic, with which they are enveloped. In the second form, which is com- mon to the Ophidians, the ovules have only to tear through the proligerous membrane, in order to escape into the cavity of the ovary, the peritoneal covering of which gives way at the proper season to allow them a passage out. The oviducts are invariably two in number, and at their commencement are, as in all other vertebrata, completely detached from the ovary. Each oviduct is a membranous tube which is connected by means of a broad me senteric fold of peritoneum to the side of the vertebral column ; it commences by a wide aperture, by which the ovule is taken up ; its walls are at first extremely thin and deli- cate, but subsequently become thicker and present a glandular appearance. The ovi- ducts of reptiles are proportionally longer than in birds, but they are much puckered and folded up when in the unimpregnated state. Each oviduct is retained in situ by a broad peritoneal fold, which performs the functions of a mesentery. The two oviducts in all reptiles open sepa- rately into the cloaca, which thus represents the vulva of mammiferous animals, giving passage to the ova, and likewise receiving the seminal fluid of the male during copulation. During the passage of the ovule through the oviduct, it progressively becomes fur- nished with additions to its structure, the formation of which is due to the oviduct itself; a circumstance which will account for the ex- Y