SEMEN. 497 in the Branchiobdella. In the latter, these windings are, however, confined to the anterior half; but they are so close and numerous that they formerly gave rise to the erroneous opinion of one of us*, namely, that the fibres of this part were jointed or articulated. These fibres are in all cases produced separately from small cells, containing nuclei (generally of ^^o'^^—soo^^0> which lie together in round masses ; being generally situated on the circumference of a large central ball among the bristled worms and Hirudines, as among Fiff. 387. Developement of the spermatozoa in Lumhricus. the Helicinae {Jig. 387. a,). According to analogy with the higher animals the sperma- tozoa are also unquestionably produced in an endogenous way, and, as is shown by the ob- servations KoUiker\ on the developement of the spermatozoa in Lumbricus and Distoma, in the interior of the nuclei. We cannot, however, trace the process of formation with decisive certainty owing to the smallness of the elements in question. The external ap- pearance (b) leads us, however, to infer that the cellular formations grow out into a long fibre. The cells gradually assume a fusi- form shape, but still remain united toge- ther in one group. It is the peripheric end which seems to get extended in forming the spermatozoa. Wherever a central ball oc- curs, for instance, in Lumbricus and Hirudo, the group of cells at this stage of the deve- lopement presents a very pretty appearance. The spermatic fibres radiate towards all directions from the central ball, into which their thickened extremity is inserted; they have then made their exit in a still imperfect state (c). They soon, however, get grouped together into bundles, the points of the fibres gradually converging towards one common point (d) ; the central ball in the mean time gradually dissolves. Similar fasciculated groups are likewise seen in the spermatozoa of Annelids in most cases even where the central ball is wanting — in the Trematoda, &c. for in- stance. The same facts we have already noticed when speaking of the Gasteropoda. We then proved that the separate elements in the groups of cells originate through the continued en- * Wagner in Miiller's Archiv. 1835, S. 222. t Kolliker, Die Bildung der Samenfaden, u. s. w. S. 37. VOL. IV. dogenous formation from one single, and at first simple, cell. It is easily traceable that the same takes place in the Annelida, when we compare the different constituents of the semen, for instance, in Lumbricus. Here, as in the Gasteropoda, we meet with nu- merous formations, which in one continued series of transitional developement lead to the form of groups of cells, taking their origin from one single nucleated cell containing some brownish granules. In tlie interior of this cell numerous daughter cells are produced, the number of which continually increases. Finally the wall of the mother cell bursts, the enclosed cells become free, and deposit them- selves around the remainder of the cellular contents, which latter have not participated in the formation of the daughter cells. Whenever the central ball is wanting in the group of cells, the mother cell generally gets destroyed at an earlier period. This view is supported by an observation of Kolliker, from which it appears that the groups in Spio con- sist at first only of few and large cells, which subsequently increase in number whilst their size decreases. It is impossible, however, to draw a very strict boundary here. Even in the former case the increase of the daughter cells frequently seems to take place after the membrane of the mother cell has been destroyed, which may also be seen in the Helicinae. In other cases the mother cell not only survives the endogenous formation of daughter cells, but also the process of the developement of the spermatozoa. We are at least led to this inference by the observations which we had the opportunity of making in some small species of Terebellaria from the North Sea, namely, that the bundles of spermatozoa are sometimes still enclosed by one common oval cyst. Bryozoa.—A similar series of phenomena we Fig. 388. Spermatic cells of Flustra carnosa; (a) still con- tained in the mother cyst; (b) partially free. find in some Bryozoa (which would be perhaps Fis. 389. Developement of the spermatozoa of Flustra carnosa. (^After Kolliker.) most correctly classed among the Annelida), for instance, in Laguncula and Alcyonella*, * Yid. Von Beneden in the M^rn. de I'Acad. de Bmxelles, torn. xv. and xviii. K K