QUADRUMAXA. 205 calcaneura is very strong, and the hinder thumb is, like the hallux of man, the thickest of all the toes. In the other monkeys of the Old World, the hinder hand loses entirely its analogy with the foot of the human subject. The tarsus is long and narrow, and the hallux acquires more and more the form of a small thumb, removed from the other toes, and giving to the foot some resemblance with the hand ; from which the name of four-handed Mammalia or Quadrumana is derived. Myology.— If the osteology of the Mon- keys of the Old World affords us the oppor- tunity of making some interesting remarks, their myology will certainly seem not less important. But it will be almost impossible to give an accurate description of their muscles in the small space allowed to me. I therefore think it proper to confine myself to those statements, by which the same gradual inferiority as in the bony framework may be confirmed, and I beg leave to refer to my Jteck. d'Anat. comp. siir le Chimpanse for a more minute description. One of the very striking peculiarities of the myology of the monkeys is the existence of a distinct pla- tysma myoides, which I found in all those I had the opportunity to dissect. It is an im- portant conformity with the structure ofman, in whom this muscle represents the larger subcutaneous muscles of the other mammalia. The sterna cleido-mastoidem offers an in- cipient indication of a lower station, by the cla\-icular fascicle being wanting in the Imd and the Cynocephali. In the digastricus maxillcB inferioris there is, especially in the Inui and Cynocephali, a reunion between the two anterior fascicles or ventres^ by which the power of the muscle for the abduction of the lower jaw must be strongly augmented. The other muscles si- tuated between the hyoid and the chin re- semble in the Chimpanzee^ those of man, but in the other monkeys they show marks of a lower organisation. According to the ob- servations of E. Burdach and myself, the hyo-thyreoidewt and hyo-glossus are united in one, in the Inui and the Cynocephali. In the infra-hyoidian muscles, the only dif- ference from man is, that the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoideuSy which exists in the Chimpanzee as in man, disappears in the Imd and in the Cynocephali, and that in these monkeys the inferior portions of the stemo-hyoidei and sterno-thyroidei are united together. In the latissimus dorsi, an interesting transition to the form of the other mammalia is observed, even in the Chimpanzee, by a pro- longation attached to the olecranon. It seems connected with the power that must be per- formed by this muscle, in the action of clin)b- ing. According to my observations in various animals, the insertion of this prolongation differs according to the variety of movements, performed by the anterior extremities. The rhomhoideus of the Chimpanzee has the same form and situation as in man, but in the Inui and the Cynocephali it goes to the oc- ciput, in which its insertion serves to sustain the head, in the quadruped progressive motion of these animals. In the Inui and in the Cynocephali, but not in the Chimpanzee, there is a conformity with the form of the large Carnivora, in the existence of the acromio-trachelien (Cuv.), acroinio-basilaire (Vicq d'Azyr), coming from the transverse processes of the first cervical vertebrae, and inserted into the spine of the scapula. Its function seems to be to bring the scapula more strongly forwards. The pectoralis magnm, p. brevis, suhclavius, and serratus anticus magnus of the Chimpanzee^ the Orang-cetan, and the G/'6(6o«.s, resemble those of man. The only difference is that, accord- ing to the obser\'ations of Sandifort, the pec- toralis magnus is divided in the adult Orang- aetan into a large number of fascicles, in the intervals of which are situated the digitiform prolongations of the enornxjus laryngeal pouch. But in the Mandrill the pectoralis magnus acquires more analogy with the large quadrupeds, by its greater extension, and its separation into three great fascicles, of which one comes from the posterior part of the thorax. In the muscles of the anterior ex- tremities the general distribution and form are the same as in man. An interesting de- viation is given by the Hylobates leuciscuSy in which the caput breve m. bicipitis takes origin, from the insertion of the pectoralis magnus. Can this peculiarity be connected with the velocity of their movements, when they swing themselves from one branch to another ? Du- VAUCEL affirms that they will on these occa- sions leap, with comparative ease, to the surprising distance of forty or fifty feet. About the extensores of the fingers, a lower form may be observed in the extensor digiti indicis, or m. indicator., which is not a separate muscle, but only a portion of the extensor communis. Consequently the fore-finger, or index, must want the so characteristic separate move- ments, by which we are accustomed to call the attention upon a subject. The imper- fection of this muscle is certainly in relation with the lower psychical condition of the animal. In the Inui and the Mandrill the extensores are still more imperfect, by the division of the extensor digiti minimi, which gives a tendinous insertion to the annular or fourth finger. It is, as I showed in my work upon the Chimpanzee, a transition to the form of the Carnivora. The eight muscles of the thumb exist in the Chimpanzee and in the Hylobates leuciscus; but in the Orang-cetan and in the Mandrill the abductor longus and the extensor brevis poUicis are united in their mus- cular portions, while the tendons remain se- parate, and in the Inui there is but one muscle, giving two tendons, which are united at their extremities. This is a distinct transi- tion to the form of the Carnivora. I have found this single muscle in all those which possess a thumb. The small muscles of the thumb, viz. the abductor brevis, the flexor brevis, the adductor, and the opponens, exist in all the monkeys of the Old World, but on a smaller scale than in man. They have also