23 POLYPIFERA. c 4 tentacles, as he considers that when fully ex- up like a fan. The observations of the same tended the tentacle is by their action folded writer lead him to consider that there is no Fig. 26. Hydra fusca. {After Corda.^ a, natural size; b, magnified, extended; c, magnified, contracted, viewed vertically, so that the mouth is seen; d, magnified^ contracted; e, foot. communication whatever between the interior of the tentacula and the cavity of the body, for the tentacle is filled up with the albuminous material in which are dispersed brown co- loured granules, apparently of an oily nature. In the wart-like nodosities which wind in a spiral course round the tentacula, Corda finds what he considers to be organs of touch (7%. 27, (/, and Jg. 28, 1, 2). Each of these consists of a delicate sacculus implanted in the wart-like excrescence (/%. 28, ;;), which encloses another (q), provided with thicker walls and containing m its interior a minute cavity (r). Every one of the singular bodies thus organized supports an almost impercep- tible filament (s), completing the supposed tactile apparatus. In the midst of every group of these filament-supporting vesicles was found an instrument adapted to seize prey, which its discoverer names a dart {hasta). This apparatus consists of a transparent oval sac (fig. 28, /), imbedded in the substance of the tentacle (A), and furnished above with a small orifice (Ji). At the bottom of the sac is situated a saucer-shaped body (m), upon which is placed a solid oval corpuscle {n), and this again supports a long and sharp spiculum (sagitfa), composed of calcareous matter (o), capable of protrusion and retraction through the aperture h, apparently by the eversion and retroversion of the saucer-shaped bladder to which the oval basis of the dart, n (ho.s- tifer), is appended. Whenever the Hydra would seize any animal, the darts of the tentacle become extruded, and its whole sur- face is thus rendered tenacious. Yet this does not seem to be all ; it would appear that