285 REPTILIA. substance of that organ. The flexibility of the tongue seems to depend entirely upon the different muscular fasciculi of which these muscles are composed, having the power oi contracting separately, some being longer or shorter than others, accordingly as they ter- minate successively in the proper membrane of the tongue to which they are attached ; for there seem to be no transverse or oblique fibres constituting intrinsic lingual muscles. The mechanism by which the Cobra de Capello, when irritated and ready to seize its prey, expands the skin of the neck, giving it the appearance from which the snake takes its name, consists entirely of muscles, acting upon the ribs and external skin of the animal. From the rounded form of the hood, the skin has the appearance of being inflated ; but the most careful examination does not discover any communication between the trachea or the lungs, and the cellular membrane under the skin. In this snake, the ribs nearest the head, to the number of twenty on each side, have a different shape from the rest ; instead of bend- ing equally with the other ribs towards the belly, they go out in a lateral direction, having only a slight curvature, and when depressed, lie upon the side of the spine, on one another. In the extended state of the ribs, the skin of the back is brought over them, forming the hood ; and in their depressed state the hood disappears. The ribs are raised by four sets of muscles : one set from the spine to the upper edge of each rib ; a second set from the ribs above, passing over two ribs to the third rib below ; another set have their origins from the rib above, pass over one rib, and are inserted into the second below ; and a fourth set pass from rib to rib. The combined effect of these four sets of muscles raises and extends the ribs. The skin of the back is brought forwards on the neck, by a set of very large mus- cles, going off from each of the first twenty ribs on each side, a quarter of an inch from their head, by a tendinous origin, which soon becomes fleshy; the longest of these muscles are two inches long. They are inserted into the skin, and, when the ribs have been first extended, have the power of bringing the skin forwards to a great extent. Myology of Salamander {Salamandra tev restris). In-order to complete our survey of the myology of the reptilia, it has been deemed advisable to introduce in this place a brief sketch of the muscular system of the amphibia, which is obviously arranged upon the same plan as that of the quadruped reptiles pro- perly so called, and from its comparatively em- bryo condition is a subject of much interest.* Muscles of the Head. — The movements of the eye are effected in the usual manner by means of the four recti and two oblique mus- cles, the disposition of which is similar to what exists in reptilia generally. The movements of the jaw subservient to mastication, are performed by the agency of * See the article Amphibia. five muscles. Of these the first is a long muscular slip (fig. 207, 1.) that takes, its origin from the arch and spine of the first vertebra of the neck, and which, together with a broad triangular muscle(2),corresponding to the tem- poralis, that arises from the lateral region of the os-frontis and the parietal bones, is in- serted in front of the os quadratum into the upper margin of the lower jaw. A third muscle (3J, analogous to the masseter, arises at the upper extremity of the os quad- ratum towards its anterior part, and extends to the external surface. The three preced- ing muscles serve to close the jaws ; they are antagonised by a short muscle (4) de- rived from the quadrate and temporal bones ; whose attachment to the lower jaw is placed behind the centre of motion of the articulation of the jaw, and consequently its effect will be to open the lower jaw. Lastly, there is an external pterygoid mus- cle, provided for the lateral movements of the inferior maxilla. Muscles of the Trunk. — Running along the whole length of the back ihere is the broad lateral nmscle (fig. 207, .5), which like- wise forms the principal part of the lateral walls of the abdomen. This muscle forcibly reminds us of the great lateral masses of muscle which form the principal part of the body of fishes, and, in like manner, it is divided by tendinous intersections into as many por- tions as there are vertebr£e in the spine. Its commencement may be traced as far forwards as the occipital quadrate and temporal bones: it likewise has points of origin from the spinous and transverse processes of the whole vertebral column. These two lateral masses are separated above by a deep furrow (o a), which is filled up with a series of cutaneous glands peculiar to these animals. The dorsal portion is with difficulty separated into an upper and lower stratum, of which the upper and more external may be compared to the sacro-lumbalis, while the lower and broader one seems to represent the longiasimus dorsi. The cephalic extremity, having numerous points of attachment in the neck, and likewise the occipital region of the skull, forms several muscular bundles, more or less distinct from each other, which represent the muscles of the neck. The representative of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen (6), is here evi- dently merely a continuation of the great lateral muscle above described. In this re- gion, however, it attaches itself more particu- larly to the rudiments of the ribs and to the contiguous transverse process of the vertebra, extending from the second vertebra of the neck as far back as the pelvis ; inferiorly, it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a tendinous interlacement, represent- ing the linea alba. The internal oblique muscle of the abdomen is represented by the inner layer of the pre- ceding. By the partial separation of these two muscular layers, a sheath is formed w hich partially encloses the Pubo-hyoideus.