SKELETON. 630 traction of quantity from whole or archetype originals. If nature arrested the develop- ment of, or, what amounts to the same result, if she subtracted different elemental parts from different regions of these se- veral thoracic costo-vertebral archetypes ; if she subtracted the spinous process (1) of one, the sternal element (6) of another, the rib (4) of another, or the spinous process, sternal piece, and ribs of another, then the remainders of those once uniform whole plus quantities would represent specific distinc- tiveness to each other. The remainders of the phis or whole quantities would then be the variable proportionals of such plus figures ; and, being proportionals, would therefore be proporiionally, that is to say specifically, various to them and to each other. Therefore I conclude that such species results not by the positing of new and unknown quantity, but by the annihilation or degradation of already known and posited quantity. In the plus figures (such as450.) we therefore discern not only the already create and positive entity of uniform quantity, but even every condition of possible variety or species which can result by a subtraction of their elemental parts.* Prop. XII. The Jive asternal costo-verte- hral forms are proportionals metamorphosed * This whole or plus segment of the mammalian spinal axis, to which I give the simple name costo- vertebral quantity, may appear at first sight to be the same as the " typical vertebra" of Carus, Owen, and others ; but it is not so in fact, nor are the ideas which I entertain of the plus form, compared with other vertebrae of the same spine or different spinal axes, the same as theirs. I do not, for example, think it necessary to see in the tj'pical form so many elements and parts as those which Professor Owen names, in order to render it inclusive or archetypal of all varieties of vertebrae, which, in addition to the centrum, the neural arch and spine, and the costal haemal arch and spine, seem to produce such other elements as he calls zygapophysis, diapophysis, pa- rapophysis, distinct. If I can prove that the ventral costo-sternal pieces, under a process of metamor- phosis or degradation, suffer for the creation of such variety as we find ventrad of all vertebrae what- ever, then must it be evident that the simple costo- vertebral quantity, as I have drawn it, is all-suffi- cient as the archet}'pal whole composed (dorsad) of a neural arch and spine, and (ventrad) of a ha;mal arch and spine, together with their point of union — the vertebral centrum. If I can show that the lumbar " transverse process" and the anterior piece of the cervical transverse process (both of which are named " parapophysis " by Mr. Owen) are actually of costal growth, — the remains of the degraded plus ribs of a thorax, then there will be no need of them as distinct elements from ribs in my archetj-i^e or plus figure. Neither \n\\ it be required for my t}"pi- cal spinal figure that I should introduce into its proportions the parts called haemal arch and spine (the chevi'on bones) as things distinct from the ventral costal circles (the pleurapophyses),while I see good reason to believe the former to be the ribs them- selves somewhat degraded. In short, while I see it possible to interpret many of those elements which have been gathered together by the philosophic anatomist, as being necessary to the sixm of his ty- pical form, to be in i-eality but varjang propor- tionals of the same whole quantity, so shall I be enabled to divest my typical form of all needless complexity, and set up simplicity in its stead. from Jive steryial costo-vertehral plus quanti- ties.— The thoracic region of the human spinal axis consists for the most part of twelve costo-vertebral spinal segments. Seven of these enclosing space completely, arch for- ward and join at the sternal median line {Jig' 450. 6). Five of these (such as Jig. 451.) Fig. 451. do not enclose thoracic space completely, but fall short of this sternal median line (6) more or less (as at point 7,^g. 451.); and in this respect the five asternal costo-vertebral seg- ments are specifically distinct from the seven sterno-costo-vertebral plus forms. This dis- tinction or species is evidently owing to the subtraction of costo-sternal quantity (7 to 6) from the asternal five forms (such as Jig. 451.), which costo-sternal quantity is persistent for the seven sternal forms (such as Jig. 450.). The loss or subtraction of the sternal piece (from 7 to 6, 451.) becomes the advent or presence of the specific difference be- tween 450. and 451.; and hence it be- comes clearly apparent that the law which exercises in creation of such difference be- tween the sternal and asternal spinal seg- ment is one of subtracting quantity from whole or plus forms, from which it is self- evident, that as the quantity of a sternal ele- ment and sternal costal pieces is that which is subtracted from the now asternal costo-verte- bral segment {Jig. 450.), so the original or plus quantity of this latter figure is of sternal costo-vertebral integrity or entirety, as I have drawn it in dotted outline for^o-. 451. Prop. XIII. The five lumbar vcrtehrcB are proportionals metamorphosed from Jive sternal costo-vertehral archetypes. — The se- ven sternal costo-vertebral circles are suc- ceeded by the five asternal costo-vertebral proportionals, and these latter by the five lumbar vertebrae. In this series of spinal segments it is easy to distinguish a descending scale of proportional quantities, whose only difference is one of quantity. This quanti- tative difference is exercised upon the costal elements only. In all other respects the lumbar and thoracic segments are similar; for in both orders of structures we find the same elements, such as spinous processes, transverse processes (the tubercle being the transverse process of the lumbar vertebra), centra, and neural arches. In both w e also find the costal appendages, but these are not of equal growth or quantity. It is quite true, however, that the sternal costa is serially succeeded by the asternal costa, and this by