SKELETON. 660 The Jifth or anterior sphenoid costo-verte- bral quantity consists of (b) the centrum and the part V\ as the neural spine. The costo- sternal quantity of this vertebra is represented by {h) the palate bone. The sixth or ethmoidal costo-vertebral quantity of the head consists of (a) the cen- trum, with the part 1' as the neural arch. The costo-sternal quantity is represented by the nasal bones (o). Now, consitlering^o-. 481. as a Avhole, I find it to be characterised in certain ways, which still further prove the nature of the fact, that the human head consists of six* costo- vertebral archetypes, as numbered above ; and though I by no means would have it under- stood that I consider each of those cranial archetypes to be equal in quantity either to one another or to the first sterno-costo-ver- tebral quantity of the thorax, still I find that there are certain sutural marks in the human head and facial apparatus, which seem to define, with sufficient clearness, those natural groups of bones which form the archetypal quantities. The spaces called intervertebral, amongst the spinal vertebrse, viz. those spaces w hich occur between the neural arches of two adjacent vertebrae, such as g and H,are repre- sented by all the transverse sutures of the cranium. Those sutural intervertebral inter- vals I have marked thus : Between the axis h and the atlas g, the intervertebral space is ^///////. between the atlas g and the occipital form, the sj)ace is o''"" ; between the latter and petrous form is the lambdoidal suture o''^'\ and so on. The intercostal spaces are marked ^, q. Sec. When we seek to determine the nature of the sutures of the cranial structures by com- parison with the serial vertebrae of spinal order, we should bear in mind the fact that one order of the cranial sutures mu-t cor- respond to the intervertebral spaces of spinal vertebrae, while another order of cranial sutures must answer to those points where the elements constituting each vertebra join. Thus, whilst such sutures as the coronal (/ig. 481. o\) and lambdoidal answer to the intervertebral spaces (o'""''), the sutural temporo-parietal point of union between T"' and 2 answers to the point of junction be- tween the elements 1, 2 of the atlas vertebra G, or of the axis h. The frontal suture is that line of union which the symmetrical laminae of one vertebra ot the spine would, when meeting each other at the median line of neural space, represent. The sagittal suture is a biclevage of the spinous process (viz. the symmetrical parietal bones) of that vertebra of the head to which they belong. As the nerves passing from the spinal cord bear a somewhat fixed relation to spinal ver- * Professor Owen eniuiierates four cranial verte- brae, viz. tlie occipital, parietal, frontal, and nasal, lie regards the ethmoid to be a sense capsule, like the petrosal bone, neither of which he considers to be parts of vertebras. Oken held the same opinion. Spix, Bojanus, and Geoffroy left these bones unde- termined as to their homological signification. tebrae, so might we expect that the nerves of the encephalon should bear the like relation- ship to the cranial vertebral quantities. A spinal nerve passes between two adjacent ver- tebrae, and thus to six spinal vertebrae there correspond five nerves. I have enumerated six cranial vertebrae, each one with the costal quantity, and hence the nerves passing between these six should number five, like those of the spine. These cranial nerves I consider to form five natural groups, as follow : — The first or olfactory nerve, being one of special sense, is distributed upon the ethmoid vertebra (Jig. 481. a). The second is a group of motor and sensory branches, consisting of the optic, the third, and the fourth nerves, which pass through the optic and lacerate foramina or cleft, which occurs between the ethmoid and anterior sphenoid vertebrae. The t/tird group of nerves is motor and sen- sory, consisting of branches of the fifth, which pass through the foramen ovale (fg.A'S2. e). The fourth group of nerves is motor and sen- sory, consisting of the portio mollis and portio dura ; one of these nerves is distributed to the organ of hearing, and the other makes exit at the stylo-mastoid foramen (^/ig. 482. r i'), being destined for the side of the face. The Jifth group is also motor and sensory, and consists of the eighth and ninth nerves pass- ing out through the foramina (/, t), viz. the anterior condyloid and foramen lacerum pos- terius. The groups of foramina, which I consider as answering to the intervertebral foramina of the spinal series, are indicated in Jig. 482., each group being surrounded by a dotted line, as at the point e, the place s, m, r, and the place /, /. The other two intervertebral foramina are not seen in this view of the cranial base. It is a singular fact that the external meatus occurs like a true intervertebral foramen between the petrosal and temporal vertebrae, w hich in the early foetal condition are naturally separated. When I view the serial order of the inter- vertebral foramina of the cervical spine, I find that the external meatus exacth coincides with the series. There are many facts of interest which re- cur to me regarding Jig. 4:82. as a form com- parable to vertebrae; but since to record these in full would exceed the space allotted to this article, 1 must forego the task, and only remark in brief, that afl the other fora- mina of the cranial base give passage to arterial and venous vessels like the vertebral foramina (gg) of the atlas and {h k) of the axis. The cranial base (Jig. 482.) gives evidence of a certain fact of special modification of so large an interest, that I cannot but advert to it: the fact is this—the body of the axis (8, 8) passes through the body of the atlas (7, 7), and carries part of this latter (q, q) before it as its odontoid process. The body of the oc- cipital vertebra (6, 6), passing forward to the body of the post sphenoid vertebra (3, 3), sunders the body of* the petrosal vertebra (5, o), while the bcdy of the parietal vertebra