290 REPTILIA. in which the superior maxillary teeth increase in size towards the posterior part of the bone, the large terminal teeth of the series are tra- versed along their anterior and convex side by a longitudinal groove. In the Bucephalus capensis the two or three posterior max- illary teeth present this structure, and are much larger than the anterior teeth, or those of the palatine or premandibular series ; they add materially to the power of retaining their prey, and may conduct into the wounds which they inflict an acrid saliva, but they are not in connexion with the duct of an express poison gland. The long grooved fangs are either firmly fixed to the maxillary bones, or are slightly moveable, according to their period of growth : they are concealed by a sheath of thick and soft gum, and their points are directed backwards. The sheath always contains loose recumbent grooved teeth, ready to succeed those in place. In most of the Cokibri each maxillary and premandibular bone includes from twenty to twenty-five teeth; they are less numerous in the genera Tortrix and Homalopsis, and are reduced to a still smaller number in the poisonous serpents, in the typical genera of which the short maxillary bone supports only a single perforated fang. In the poisonous serpents the superior Fh. 209. Ifi \U\ , ' Roof of the moutli of t/w li<iiiiv:<ii(ihe, showing the Series of palatine Teeth. The sheath of the poison fang (11), opened to show the poison fang (12). On the opposite side the sheath (10) is represented entire ; h h, external ptery goid muscles; v v, anterior adductor muscle of the rami of the lower jaw. maxillary bone diminishes in length with the decreasing number of teeth which it supports. The transverse or external pterygoid bone elongates in the same ratio, so as to retain its position as an abutment against the shortened maxillary, and the muscles implanted into this external pterygoid style communicate, through it, to the maxillary bone the hinge- like movements backwards and forwards upon the ginglynioid articulations connecting that bone with the anterior frontal, and palatine bones. As the fully-developed poison fangs are attached by the same firm basal anchylo- sis to shallow maxillary sockets, which forms the characteristic mode of attachment of the simple or solid teeth, they necessarily follow all the movements of the superior maxillary bone. When the external ptery- goid is retracted, the superior maxillary rotates backwards, and the poison fang is concealed in the lax mucous gum, with its point turned backwards. When the muscles draw forward the external pterygoid, the superior maxillary bone is pushed forwards, and the recumbent fang withdrawn from its concealment and erected. The peculiar structure of the poison fang was first described by Fontana as it exists in the viper, and subsequently received ad- ditional elucidation by Mr. Smith's careful examination of the fangs of the Hydrus, Naja, and Crotalus, and by Mr. Clift's illus- trative drawings appended to Mr. Smith's Paper. A true idea of the structure of a poison-fang will be formed by supposing the crown of a simple tooth, as that of a Boa, to be pressed flat, and its edges to be then bent towards each other, and soldered together, so as to form a hollow c}Hnder open at both ends. The flattening of the fang, and its inflection around the poison-duct, commences imme- diately above the base, and the suture of the inflected margins runs along the anterior and convex side of the recurved fang; the poison canal is thus in front of the pulp cavity. The basal aperture of the poison canal is oblique, and its opposite outlet is still more so, presenting the form of a narrow elliptical longitudinal fissure, terminating at a short dis- tance from the apex of the fang. The rela- tive position of the two apertures of the poison canal is shown in the figure of the F.g. 210. Structure of the poison-teeth of the Serpent. a, longitudinal section of poison fang; b, shows a hair Inserted into the poison canal; c, trans- verse section of fang.