SEMEN. 479 the developement of the spermatozoa of this bird.* The vesicles of developement, in this instance, have a size of 2oo^^^~ lio'^^' They are as clear as glass when in a fresh state, and the spermatozoon in the interior can very readily be observed. At the commencement they are globular. Subsequently the shape becomes more irregular; sometimes it assumes that of a pear, until finally the enclosure bursts (which generally takes place at the sharp extremity), when the spermatozoon makes if s exit with the tail end first {Jig- 330.). Fig. 330. Spermatozoa of the Cock parti?/ enclosed hy the Cell of Developement. For some time afterwards, the remainder of the vesicle of developement may be seen adhering to the separate spermatozoa. All the cells of developement, however, are not free. We often find large cystiform globules, enclosing a number of three, four, eight, twelve, or sixteen cells of developement, much more frequently than among the mam- maha; these generally have a diameter of T*o'' —iV'—sV'''- But the persistency of these mother cells does not hinder the de- velopement of the spermatozoa in any way. The enclosed cells of developement are equally as capable of producing these forma- tions as the free ones, as one may readily convince oneself by observation through the microscope {fg. 33].). On the destruction Fig. 331. A Mother Cell from the Coch, with three Spermatozoa still enclosed in their Cells of Developement. of the membrane of the cells of develope- ment, the spermatozoa get into the in- terior of the cysts (fig. 332.), where they lie together often in a great number, but never * Lehrbuch der Physiol. 3d edit. § 18. S. 27. in regular fascicular groups. Finally, this cyst also gets dissolved, without, however, Fig. 332. A 3Iother Cell from the Cock, with Spermatozoa free in its interior. having changed its shape in any remarkable way previously. The spermatozoa common to each cyst, however, remain together for a time, being connected by means of the tough albuminous contents of the mother cell. Thus, at least, we feel inclined to explain the occurrence of irregular groups of sperma- tozoa, which, kept together by one common cement, not unfrequently occur in the semen of the cock. According to our observation, the develope- ment of the spermatozoa of the woodpecker and of the pigeon takes place in precisely the same manner; and this may be said likewise of singing birds.* The cells of developement of the latter are however still more rarely to be met with free, and are perhaps always en- closed by mother cells. The number of the enclosed cells is generally very considerable (/g.333.). Fig. 333. Ci/st of the House Sparrow, with enclosed Cells of of Developement. The formation of the spermatozoa in the interior of the individual vesicles of develope- ment is Hkewise very difficult to be traced, principally because the contents of the latter coagulate very readily, thus covering the spermatozoa, and rendering them indistinct. We have, however, succeeded several times in observing the spermatozoa in the house sparrow in the interior of their cells of form- ation (^g. 334.). It certainly requires some practice to discover the windings of the body between the granules of the contents, the * Vide R. "Wagner's figures in Miiller's Ar- chiv. 1836, S. 225., in Fragm. ziir Physiol, der Zeiigung; in Lehrbuch der Physiolog. § 17. S. 25.; as also in the Icon. Phys. tab. I. fg. 5. (copied in the article, Entozoa," Vol. 11. p. 112.), wl;;ch however, in consequence of our recent researches, require some correction.