IIEPTILIA. 317 arteries of the kidneys penetrate these organs by their inner margin, whilst the trunks of the eraulgent veins occupy the opposite border. These latter are two in number, one Fig. 233. Generative and Urinary Apparatus of the Rattlesnake (^Crotalus Durissus). a, the intestines cut otf just below the pylorus; b, the gall-bladder: c, the biliary duct, that passes through the middle of the spleen,— or, as called by Carus, the pancreas,— and enters the large gut; d, the spleen, or pancreas; e, the intestines, which were very large and winding, but short; ff, the rectum; h h, the testes; i i i, the vasa deferentia; h k, the penis on each side, which first at the root are conjoined, and are thick beset with bristles; I, the muscles that serve for drawing in the penis; m, the scent-bags; ttt, secretory vessels. of which unites with its fellow from the op- posite kidney to form the commencement of the posterior cava. The other communicates with the veins returning the blood from the posterior extremities and the tail; it is this latter vessel which Mr. Jacobson regards as forming the portal vein of the kidneys.* The ureters are longer or shorter in pro- portion as the kidneys are more or less ad- vanced forwards ; they terminate in the cavity of the cloaca, their openings being in the * Vide the article Ren. vicinity of the allantoid sac, if that viscus is present. The allantoid sac, generally called by authors the urivary bladder, in no case immediately receives the terminations of the ureters, and its presence is by no means constant. In the Chelonian order it is very large, and is divided at its fundus into two portions ; but its walls are very thin and membranous. It is likewise met with in the following genera of Saurians ; namely, the Iguana, the Tupinambis, Chameleori, Draco, and Stellio; while it is wanting in the Crocodiles, Lizards, Agame, Gecko, and other genera of the same order: it is likewise de- ficient in all the Ophidians. The fluid con- tained in this reservoir, when it is present, yields, upon analysis, but very slight traces of urea or uric acid ; so that its claims to be considered as being the real urinary secretion have been doubted, although its urinary character has been admitted by Vauquelin and others. In the Chelonian reptiles the urine is a limpid or slightly-coloured fluid ; but in the generality of Saurian reptiles (with the excep- tion of the crocodiles), and likewise in all serpents, it is a white soft substance, which hardens on exposure to the atmosphere into a mass resembling chalk. This solid urine is found on analysis to consist almost entirely of uric acid: it contains besides a very small propor- tion of ammonia of potash and soda in com- bination with uric acid, and also traces of phosphate of lime and animal matter. The Emydes among the Chelonian reptiles are furnished with two very remarkable ac- cessory bladders, the size of which exceeds that of the urinary bladder itself; but what is very remarkable, these are met with neither in the land-tortoises nor in the turtles. They are likewise deficient in the genus Trionyx. These accessory bladders are of an oval or cylindrical shape, and are so situated, that they can be compressed by the abdominal muscles. Their walls are extremely delicate, and seem to consist only of an external peri- toneal coat lined with mucous membrane ; no muscular fibres being recognisable in their structure. They are extremely vascular ; the blood-vessels forming a rich net-work over their outer surface. Their use is not yet accurately determined, but it seems probable that the tortoises which exhibit this structure are able to fill the accessory bladders with water and perhaps with air, so as to diminish the specific gravity of their bodies. Should this be the case, it will explain why these organs are deficient in the land tortoises, which never enter the water, and also in turtles, which, from their organisation, are well able to swim without such auxiliaries, more especially as the specific gravity of sea- water is much greater than that of fresh. In the Trionyx, also, the extremities form such powerful oars, that additional means of swim- ming are not required. Male Organs of Generation. — In all the three orders of reptiles the general arrangement of the generative system of the males is similar