305 REPTILIA. branches to the oe55ophagus and neighbouring muscles, until it reaches the head, to which it is distributed without previously dividing into two principal branches, representing the two carotids of mammalia. This difference doubtless depends upon the small size of the encephalon in these reptiles, and it may be remarked that the comparative smallness of the internal carotid, which is here only a subordinate branch of the ex- ternal carotid, is not compensated by the size of the vertebral artery, which in the Chelonians does not exist. This last cir- cumstance will not be surprising when it is remembered, that in birds the vertebral artery only supphes the muscles of the neck, the cervical vertebrae, and the spinal chord ; fur- nishing in the cranium only a single small branch, which is entirely expended upon the medulla oblongata. As in birds, the internal carotid of the Chelonians supplies all the parts of the en- cephalon. There is a posterior communicating branch, which forms, in conjunction with its fellow, a basilar artery ; which, as it is prolonged backwards beneath the spinal chord, forms an inferior median spinal artery. This last azygos artery gives off near its origin a re- current branch, which is the superior lateral spinal. The external carotid, which is the principal carotid trunk, resembles in its distribution very closely the external carotid of mammalia; it may, however, be remarked, that after giving off the lingual branch this artery pene- trates into the temporal fossa through the external carotid canal, and that it there divides into two principal branches, one an- terior, the other posterior ; the former is appropriated exclusively to the head, and supplies the place both of the internal maxillary and of the temporal of mammalia. The posterior branch of the carotid repre- sents an occipital arterj^, of which the cervical branch is very greatly developed, so that this occipital seems to be transformed into a re- current cervical artery, which runs backwards over all the dorsal region of the neck, giving branches to the muscles, to the vertebrae, and to the medulla spinaUs, and ultimately anas- tomoses with the superior ascending cervical artery, derived from the subclavian. The quantity of blood which is thus furnished to the spinal chord of the neck by the recurrent and ascending cervical arteries is very re- markable. Branches of the right posterior Aorta.—The two posterior aortae, in the first instance, run upwards and outwards towards their respective sides, and then turning backwards approach each other so as ultimately to unite nearly opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra by a com- municating branch which the left aorta fur- nishes to the right. Before, however, receiving this artery, the right aorta gives off several branches corresponding with the anterior intercostals. After receiving the communicating artery, VOL. IV. the right aorta runs backwards beneath the vertebral column as far as the pelvis, giving off in its course the following branches ; — 1st, five arteries on each side analogous to the intercostals ; 2d, the spermatic; 3d, several renal branches to the kidneys on each side; 4th, several small lumbar branches ; 5th, a small artery analogous to the posterior mesenteric, which is distributed to the cloaca; ultimately, the right posterior aorta terminates by four branches, namely, 1st, the left ex- ternal iliac ; 2d, the left internal iliac ; and 3d, the common iliac of the right side. Between the two latter trunks arises the caudal artery analogous to the middle sacral. In the green turtle {Chelonia Mydas) the six last inter- costals are given off immediately from the right aorta : but in the Emys europea their origin is very different, the five last inter- costals being derived from a common anterior intercostal, which arises from the ascending branch of the subclavian. This vessel runs along the spine from before backwards, as is the case in many birds, and ultimately termi- nates by uniting with a posterior con)mon in- tercostal : this latter is a branch derived from the iliac artery. The divisions of the internal arteries re- semble very closely what is found in mammalia. These vessels first separate into two branches, one of which gives off vessels to the bladder and to the cloaca ; the other plunges into the pelvis, and apparently represents the ischiadic and posterior iliac arteries : the external iliac runs forward along the edge of the pelvis, giving off the analogue of the epigastric, from which arises the anterior iliac. Leaving the pelvis, the external iliac takes the name of crural, and after giving off' the circumflex arteries, and the profunda femoris, continues its course, in all respects comparable in the remainder of its distribution to what is found in manunalia and birds. The left {Visceral) Aorta. — The left aorta furnishes large arteries to the principal viscera of the abdomen, to which it is almost entirely distributed. As soon as it has passed the cardia it divides into three branches ; of these the first, which is the smallest, furnishes a twig to the oesophagus, and is then distributed to the stomach, representing the coronary artery of mammalia. The second, which is almost as large as the trunk from which it arises, supphes the intestines, the spleen, the pancreas, and the liver. The third branch, intermediate in size be- tween the two others, is the communicating artery, given off to join the right aorta, and from which no branches are furnished. In the Saurian reptiles the distribution of the arterial trunks differs but little from thai above described. In Lizards the two aortae advance forwards out of the thorax ; that of the right side after dividing into three branches, that of the left without any such division. The left aorta v^inds backward upon the side of the neck, and afterwards runs along the vertebral X