REPTILIA. 286 The last named muscle {Shamziingenhein- muskcl) (Jig. 208, 7) arises partly from the os- Fig. 207. Muscles of Salamander tei-restris. pubis and partly from the outer border of the Y-shaped pelvic cartilage, whence it runs forward along the whole length of the abdo- men, enclosed in a sheath, formed between the internal and external oblique muscles of the abdomen as far as the throat, wdiere it is inserted into the middle cornea of the os- hyoides. The rectus abdominis (fg. 208, 8) takes its origin entirely from the Y-shaped pelvic car- tilage, and, first attaching itself to the trian- gular lower rudiment of the sternum, over which it passes, it becomes again connected with the upper transverse piece of the ster- num, from whence it sends a slip forwards to be inserted into the centre of the lower jaw : this last portion represents the genio-h3oi- deus. In its course, this muscle is divided by several tendinous intersections. It is, more- over, attached wnth some firmness to the pericardium, in the neighbourhood of which it gives off two additional slips of muscle, one of which passes obliquel}' outwards to join the pubo-hyoid ; the other (10) runs to be inserted into the scapula, becoming like- wise connected w^ith the scapulo-humeral articulation. The mylo-hyoideus {Jig. 208,11) fills up the entire space betwen the arches of the lower jaw, from the angle of which, likewise, arise two cutaneous muscles {Jig. 207, 12) and {Jig. 208, 13), one of which extends into the skin of the inferior and anterior region of the neck, whilst the other mounts backwards and out- wards to be similarly inserted into the skin upon the sides of the cervical region. A muscle (^g. 208,14) passes from the lower jaw near its symphasis, to be inserted into the extremity of the anterior cornu of the os- hyoides ; whilst a second slip (15) passes from the anterior to the central cornu of the latter bone. Muscles of the Extremities. — The pectoralis major {Jig. 208, 16) consists of two portions, one of which, 16 c, represents the clavicular portion in the human subject; it entirely covers the lower surface of the shovel-shaped clavicle, so that it seems to form a distinct muscle. The following muscles are immediately re- cognisable from their position : The latissi- mus-dorsi(jfg.207,11) ; the levatores-scapulas {fg. 207, 18 and 19); a muscle (20), the office of which is to draw the shoulder forwards. This muscle is derived from the sides of the occiput and anterior cervical vertebra, and extends to be inserted into the shoulder-blade near its articulation. The serratus magnus anticus {Jig. 208, 21) consists of only two small slips derived from the transverse processes of the second and third vertebras of the neck, and connected with the great lateral muscle of the trunk. The shoulder likewise possesses a muscle (22) that represents both the supra and infra spinatus, and a subscapularis occupying its usual position. The muscles of the humeral region are the representative of the biceps, and brachialis