RODENTIA. 382 and a supernumerary flattened bone situated along the inner margin of the tarsus. The same disposition of these bones exists in the genera spahix and capromys, in the marmot, squirrels, and porcupines ; but in the four latter genera the supernumerary bone is of smaller size. The rats and the paca have their os sca- phoides divided, but are without any super- numerary bone. Among ^those genera which have only four toes, such as the helamys, or Cape jerboa, which has its foot exceedingly elongated, the inferior tubercle of the scaphoid, which is observable in the sole of the foot of all rodents, is very long and prominent. Upon the internal margin of the tarsus there are in this animal some elongated flat bones, which are the rudiments of the great toe. In the jerboas, properly so called, both the internal and external metatarsal bones are ex- tremely small, and the three others are con- solidated into one bone, upon the distal ex- tremity of which are three articulating surfaces which support the phalanges of the toes. In the rabbit and the hare, animals which resemble the jerboa in the great size of the tubercle of the scaphoid, the rudiments of the great toe become consolidated at an early age with the metatarsal bone of the second toe. In the capybara, the Guinea-pig, the mara, and agouti, which have only three toes, the internal portion of the scaphoid supports a single bone, representing the cuneiform and a rudiment of the inner toe ; the cuboid like- wise supports a small bone, which is a ru- diment of the outer toe. The disposition of the toes varies considerably in the difi^erent genera of Rodents; in the beaver, the inner toe is nearly of equal length with the others ; in the marmot, the porcupine, and the rats, it is considerably shorter ; in the paca it is nearly obliterated ; and in the Cape jerboa it is a mere rudiment, consisting of but a single bone; in the hares not even this rudiment is perceptible. In the capybara, the agouti, and the Guinea-pig both the inner and outer toes are reduced to a single bone. The jerboa (Mus Jaculm) and the alactaga (AIus sagitta) have their three middle meta- tarsal bones consolidated into one piece. The two lateral toes are distinct in the jerboa, but of comparatively small size; in the alac- taga they are quite wanting. Teeth. — The distinguishing character of the order of quadrupeds under consideration is the remarkable arrangement of their dental system, by which they are enabled to erode the hardest vegetable substances. The chief food of many genera, indeed, consists of the bark, wood, and even the hard fruits of trees, to devour which necessarily requires great strength of jaw, and such a disposition of their incisor teeth as to convert them into strong chisel-like cutting weapons, the edges of which never become blunted even to the latest period of life. These incisor teeth, called also de7ites scalprarii, are situated in the front of the mouth,' and are generally two in number in each jaw, except in the genus Lepus, em- bracing the hares and rabbits, which possess two small additional incisors, situated behind each of the large ones contained in the upper jaw. Between the incisors and the molar teeth there is a considerable vacant space, by which arrangement the play of the anterior chisels is much facilitated, their action being like- wise materially assisted by the mode of arti- culation of the lower jaw, which allows of considerable movement from behind forwards, and by the great power of the pterygoid and masseter muscles. The molar teeth are like- wise exceedingly strong, and vary considerably in their mode of implantation in the jaw s of different genera. The incisors* are always regularly curved, the upper ones describing a larger segment of a smaller circle, the lower ones a smaller segment of a larger circle; these are the longest incisors, and usually have their alveoli ex- tended below or on the inner side of those of the molars to the back part of the lower jaw. Like the molars of the Me- gatherium, and other teeth of unlimited growth, the implanted part of the long and large incisors retains the form and size of the exposed part or crown to the widely open base, which contains a long, conical, persistent dentinal pulp, and is surrounded by the cap- sule in a progressive state of ossification as it approaches the crown, an enamel pulp being attached to the inner side of that part of the capsule which covers the convex surface of the curved incisor. The matrix is here no- ticed in connection with the tooth, because it is always found in full development and activity to the time of the Rodent's death. The calcification of the dentinal pulp, the de- position of the earthy salts in the cells of the enamel pulp, and the ossification of the capsule proceed contemporaneously; fresh materials being added to the base of the vas- cular matrix as its several constituents are progressively converted into the dental tissues in the more advanced part of the socket. The tooth thence projecting consistof a body of compact dentine, sometimes with a few short medullary canals continued into it from the persistent pulp cavity, with a plate of enamel laid upon its anterior surface, and a general investment of cement, which is very thin upon the enamel, but less thin in some Rodents, upon the posterior and lateral parts of the incisor. The substance of the incisor diminishes in hardness from the front to the back part of the tooth ; the enamel consisting of two layers, of which the anterior and ex- ternal is denser than the posterior layer, and the posterior half of the dentine being by a modified number and arrangement of the calcigerous tubes less dense than the anterior half. The abrasion resulting from the reciprocal action of the upper and lower incisors pro- * Owen, Odontograpliy, p. 398.