666 SKELETON. G*, H*), while the pisiform bone {q) of the hand corresponds in position to the os calcis (ry) of the foot. While it appears, therefore, an undeniable truth that that aspect of the fore-limb (b, c,d), which we commonly call the front, is in reality structural!}' identical with the back of the lower member (f*, g*, h*), whereas the front of the latter organ (f, g, h) is the structural homologiie of the back of the upper limb (b*, c*, d*), let us examine closely into the cause of this singular d fference between both organs. Anatomists have long since remarked upon the singular twisted form of the hu- merus. Cruveilhier speaks of the "groove of torsion directed obliquely downwards and for- wards " on the humerus. This fact of torsion in the shaft of the humerus I consider as fully explaining the above mentioned pecu- liarities which distinguish the upper from the lower member. In primitive construction both members are identical; but this secondary modification, viz. the torsion of the humerus, is that circumstance which distinguishes them one from the other. While, in idea, I untwist the humerus by bringing its back to the front, I at the same time unravel the gorJian knot of that problem which has so long existed as a mystery for the homologist. The back of the humerus (b*) presents a smooth and rounded form, hke the front of the femur (f). If, in idea, I twist the femur (f) in its long axis, so as to bring its back to the front, then f* makes its linea aspera (/) per- form a spiral curve forward, just as the spiral rough line (/) on the shaft of the humerus (b) manifests its own contorted character ; and at the same time I bring the points (g,^;0, usually on the back of the lower end of the femur, forward, like the corresponding points (g,k,l) of the humerus (b). If, again, in idea, I untwist the humerus (b) in its long axis, so as to bring its back to the front, then b* uncoils its rou-h spinal line, and gives this line its primitive vertical direction, similar to what the linea aspera of the femur normally presents, at the same time that the points (/, h, i, k) usually at the back of the humerus "(b*) are brought forwards like the points (/, /?, i, k) of the femur (f). In jig. 485. I have drawn both limbs, each in its front and back aspect, on either side of the common median line. When the reader will compare b, c, d with f, g, h, in reference to this line, he will find that though the ulna (c) approaches this median line like the tibia (h), yet that this position does not render both these bones structurally homologous; for, from the foregoing remarks in reference to the twisted condition of the limb (b, c, d), he must have leamed that it is owing to this fact of torsion that the bone (c) (ulna) holds, in reference to the median line, the position of (h) the tibia, with which latter the ulna is not homologous. When we, in idea, untwist B, and bring it into the position of b*, then the radius (d*) comes into sidelong position with the median line, like the tibia (h) ; and now both these bones manifest their homolo- gous character, as well in position as in general form. The hand and the foot are, also, by these movements made to corre- spond. Is it not a fact of singular interest, so far as it explains the law of nature in exer- cising these special modifications on the struc- turally identical fore and hind limbs, that when, in reference to the common median hne, we untwist b,d,c to the position b*, d*, c*, we then render this latter of the same aspect, compared with the ideal twisted con- dition of F*,G*,H*, as the figure f,g,h com- monly manifests compared w ith b, d, c '? While we bear in mind the foregoing ex- planation of the presential characters of the upper and lower extremities, we are enabled fully to recognise the homological relations of these two members, as well when viewing their several constituent parts as when con- sidering them as whole or entire organs. The coracoid process a of the scapula a answers to the anterior inferior spinous pro- cess a of the ihac bone e ; the acromion pro- cess b of A to the obliterated process 6 of e ; the head of the humerus c of b, and both its tuberosities e d, to the head c and trochanters ed oi the femur f; the rough spiral Hne /of b to the linea aspera /of f ; the outer condyle ^• of b to the inner condyle / of f ; for it is owing to the twist of the humerus b that the con- dyle k lies outermost; the olecranon process h of b" to the patella h of f, the twist of the humerus explaining why the former part is at the back and the latter in front ; the radius D on the outer aspect of the foramen to h, the tibia on the inner side of the leg, the twist in the arm-bone explaining this differ- ence as to their position, and also why the ulna (c) lies at the inner side of the arm, while its homologue (g) the fibula appears at the outer side of the leg. I shall here leave the reader to pursue the thread of this subject as fiu* as he feels inclined ; for the first and radical difficult}' being removed allows the subject to be easily followed through its se- condary stages.* The fore-limbs of all species of animals are similar to one another in all respects save that of quantity, and this quantitative differ- ence is manifested chiefly upon the distal extremities. The obliteration of one or more piirts of the distal organ renders it in the varying conditions of those forms to w hich we give the names of hands, paws, winirs, palms, talons, hoofs. Sec ; the same law of degrada- tion is exercising on the distal extreme of the * Vicq d'AzvT believed that the tdna represented the tibia, and the radius the fibula. M. de Bliiia- ville, on the contrary-, regarded the tibia and the radius as homologous. Cruveilhier considered that neither of the bones of the fore-arm resembled, by itself, one of the bones of the leg, and therefore in- clines to the belief that it is the upper end of the tibia which represents the upper half of the ulna, ■while the lower half of the tibia represents the lower half of the raditis; moreover, that the fibula is represented by the upper half of the radius and the lower half of the ulua. See " Anatomic Descrip- tive,*" t. i. p. 31-3.