REPTILIA. 315 outwards over the eye-ball, while at the same time it rotates the eye-ball inwards beneath the membrane, the muscle being attached to move- Fig. 229. An external View of the Eye, Eyelids, Muscles, of a Crocodile. (^After John Hunter.') a, the external siirface of the upper eyelid; h, the external siirface of the luider eyelid; c, points to the edge of both eyelids; d, the inner angle or canthus of both eyelidf; e e, the internal surface of the eye- lids covered by the tunica conjunctiva; /, point, to the two puncta lachrymalia on the inside of the under eyeUd; g, the external surface of tlie third eyeUd, or membrana nictitans; h, the loose or free edge of the same; k, the opening of the duct of the hachrynial gland (glandula Harderii) upon the inner surface of the nictitating membrane ; this surface has been raised from the cornea, to which it naturally lies contiguous; /, the muscle which expands tlie membrana nictitans, and di'aws it over the ball of the eye This is the only muscle which is subseiwient to the movements of the nictitating membrane; it is analogous to the pyra- midalis of birds, the quadratus muscles and*^ its sheath being -wanting in reptiles ; m, the levator muscle of the upper eyelid; m, the portion of the above muscle lost in the tunica conjunctiva; o, the depressor muscle of the under eyelid; p, the rectus superior, or attollens ocidi; q, the rectus in- ferior, or deprimens oculi; r, the rectus externus, or abducens oculi: s, the obliquus inferior: only a small portion of it is here seen ; t, the cornea ; u u, the globe of the eye behind the cornea ; v, the optic nerve; x, insertion of the choroid muscle, which consists of four distinct portions siuTounding the optic nen-e. able points at both extremities. The quadratus muscle, which in birds forms a loop for the passage of the tendon of the nictitator, does not exist in the reptilia. There is a gland especially appropriated to facilitate the move- ments of the nictitating membrane by its secre- tion, which escapes through a duct opening upon its inner surface. This gland is ana- logous to the Harderian gland of quad- rupeds. The lachrymal gland is generally of large size, and consists of a thick broad conglo- merate mass, which surrounds the upper and outer portion of the eye-ball: its duct is short and wide, and terminates just above the external canthus of the eye. In the annexed drawing, copied from one in the Hunterian collection, the eye, eyelids, and muscles of the eye-ball of the crocodile are represented. Fig. 230. Eye-ball of Tortmsc : sJn u-ing the lachrymal Gland in situ. {After Bojayius.) The common Lizards have, for eyelids, a kind of circular veil, extended before the Fig. 231. Eyelids of Tortoise. {After Bojanus.) orbit, and perforated by a horizontal fissure, which is capable of being closed by a sphinc- ter muscle, and opened by a levator and de- pressor : its inferior part has a smooth round cartilaginous disc, as in birds. There is, be- sides, a small internal eyelid, but it has no proper muscle; it is entirely wanting in the chameleon, in which animal, also, the slit of the eyelids is so small that the pupil can scarcely be observed through it. The Gecko has no moveable eyelid : its eye is protected by a slight margin of the skin, as in serpents. A similar disposition appears in the Scink. The horizontal eyelids of the reptilia close exactly; they are generally slightly enlarged at their margins, but are never furnished with cilias. The eye of Serpents is protected by an eyelid of a very remarkable character ; for that it is an eyelid, and not, as is very gene- rally supposed, the cornea, its anatomical relations abundantly prove. It consists of a transparent membranous expansion, w hich is immoveably fixed in a kind of frame formed for its reception by a circle of scales, usually seven or eight in number, disposed around the margin of the orbit. This eyelid is formed of three superposed layers* : viz., 1st, An epidermic layer, which is elastic and pretty thick where it covers the middle of the eye, but towards the circumference of the eyelid it becomes thinner, and is manifestly continuous with the epidermis that invests the scales in the vicinity of the orbit. This corneous la- mella by its solidity is well adapted to defend the eye, and it is this which becomes de- tached and cast off with the slough of the snake when it moults its skin. '2dly. Be- neath this epidermic layer is situated a second * Tide Cloquet (Jules), Me'moire sur I'Existenee et la Disposition des Voies lacrjTnaux dans les Serpens. 4to, Paris, 1821. /