POLYPIFERA. 33 Madreporid.^: : Madrephyllid.e.— The next group of Polypiferous zoophytes may very properly be called Madrepori/genous, seeing that it is by their agency that vast masses of calcareous matter are constantly in process of deposition, which by their immense accumulation not only form coral reefs and islands in tropical seas, but have powerfully contributed to modify the face of our planet. The manner in which these huge territories of newly formed land are constructed by the silent labours of these humble beings is now tolerably well understood.* In climates where the heat is intense, in enclosed and tranquil bays, the saxigenous corals are found to grow upon submarine rocks, which they encrust to a considerable depth. It is upon gentle declivities and where the sea is shal- low, that the largest masses of madrepores are met with. In quiet water they spread extensively, otherwise they only construct small masses formed by species which suffer least from the agitation of the waves. It is asserted that some reefs rise from immense depths like perpendicular walls, but, although it is true that such reefs exist, they are not formed exclusively of madreporic rock, for the madreporygenous polypes can only exist at depths where they enjoy the influences of light and air, and consequently could not possibly grow at 1000 or 1200 feet below the surface. The sea, which breaks furiously upon such reefs, would inevitably destroy them, if they alone composed the cliffs; but the fact is, that sheltered from the waves in the hollows of pre-existing rocks, they con- tribute to increase their bulk. Corals found upon elevated tracts of the South Sea islands and Australia have no doubt been thrown up by volcanic agency, which raised the bottom of the sea where they were formed. When, under the shelter of submarine rocks, polypes have raised their abodes to the surface, they remain uncoveyed for a little time during the lowest tide. Storms turn up from the bot- toms of the shallow waterssand and mud, which become entangled and fixed in the interstices of the madrepores, so that the summit of this new island comics to remain continually above the surface, and the waves can no more de- stroy what they have contributed to construct; its circumference gradually enlarges, and its edges grow higher by the addition of fresh sand. According to the direction of the winds or currents it may remain long bar- ren, but if by the action of these two causes, the germs of vegetation are brought to it from neighbouring coasts, it becomes covered with verdure, by the gradual decay of which vegetable soil accumulates, until at length it becomes fitted for the abode even of man himself. To describe all the various forms of the madreporygenous zoophytes would be useless, even were it possible within the limits per- mitted to us; we shall therefore content our- * Qiioy et Gaimard, Voyage de I'Uranie. vol,. IV. selves with selecting those genera w hich have been most attentively examined, and from their history the reader will have little- diffi- culty in obtaining a clear insight into the economy of the rest. Throughout the entire series the vital agent will be found to present itself in the form of a soft, gelatinous crust wherewith the exterior of the polypary, w hat- ever may be its shape, is closely invested, or more correctly speaking, the calcareous par- ticles are gradually deposited in its cellular interstices, and thus moulded into form. Ex- ternally this living cortex is generally studded with polypes lodged in cells excavated in the polypary, the forms of w hich are indicative of the species. The FungicB, although their calcareous skeletons are to be met with in every cabinet, have never, as far as we are aware, been brought to our shores in their recent state; and accordingly their living condition has been very erroneously described by several modern writers. The dried framework of the Fuug'ia agaric'iformis owes its name to its si- militude to a mushroom, which it closely re- sembles. In shape it is a circular disc, the inferior surface of which is flat, and rough, and granular, w hile superiorly it is convex, its upper surface being arranged in broad cal- careous lamellse, which radiate from the centre to the circumference of the mass (fg. 38). According to Forskal*, when in a living state, the whole superficies of the Fungia is covered over with a thin gelatinous layer, which dipping in between the radiating l?*- niellae coat every part of the calcareous sur- face, but without any polype or appearance of tentacula. The gelatinous coat, indeed, seems exactly to represent the living crust of the sponges, being entirely destitute of anything like a stomachal cavity, and apparently nou- rished altogether by its general surface, which must appropriate nutriment from the sur- rounding water. The living film which thus encrusts the Fungia is the only agent em- ployed in the construction of the beautiful calcareous basis that supports it, each particle of which, as it is derived from the circumam- bient element, is added, by interstitial deposit^ to the growing fabric, which is thus built up in the regular form belonging to the species. The upper surface of the living animal has been observed to be provided with bubbles of air, apparently secreted by the living film in which it is imprisoned. These bubbles seera to have no regularity of arrangement, but nevertheless play an important part in pre- serving the Fungia from destruction ; for the mass being in its adult state unattached to any foreign body, is of course quite at the mercy of every passing wave, which, taking it up, might capsize it, and thus bury its upper surface in the sand; but the air bubbles placed there, as it were in anticipation of such an accident, acting the part of floats, always by their buoyancy keep the living side uppermost, and allow the creature to * Flora Oilg^'ptiaco-Arabica; Haxini*, 1775. D