REN. 256 Another fact confirmatory of Mr. Bow- man's theory has been observed by myself.* In examining the kidneys of persons wiio had died jaundiced, and in whose urine there had been a large quantity of bile, I observed tbat the tubes were stained of a deep yellow colour by the bile in their epithelical cells, and that this yellow colour ceased abruptly at the neck of the Malpighian capsule, and in no instance did it affect any part of the tissue of the Malpighian bodies. There are certain other pathological phenomena, which Mr. Bowman's theory very much assists to explain, and which in their turn afford important evi- dence in support of the doctrine in question. The office of secreting the solids of the urine is limited to the convoluted portions of the tubes. The straight tubes of the pyra- mids probably have no secreting power, but act merely as excretory ducts to convey the secreted products from the cortical portion of the gland. The different function of these two portions of the tubes is sufficiently mani- fested by two facts : — 1st. By the difference in the character of their epithehal lining; 2dly. By the fact, that when the cortical por- tion of the kidney is the seat of a morbid deposit in consequence of the attempted ex- cretion of abnormal products by the epithe- lial cells in the convoluted tubes, the niedul- lary portion of the gland is very commonly free from all trace of the same morbid deposit. This is very frequently observed in instances of fatty degeneration, as well as in the earlier stages of the inflammatory diseases of the kidney. PART III. PATHOLOGY OF THE KIDNEY. It will not be possible within the limits of this article to give more than an outline of the pa- thology of the kidney. The subject is one of such great interest and importance that it re- quires a much more extended consideration than can here be assigned to it. The diseases of the kidney may be arranged in two distinct classes: the first class including those which are the result of some cause acting locally, such as retention of the urine in con- sequence of stricture, the mechanical irritation of a stone impacted in the kidney, or a blow on the loins; while in the second class are in- cluded those diseases which are the result of a constitutional cause which acts upon the kidney by inducing an abnormal condition of the blood. We shall allude very briefly to the first class of diseases, and then proceed to the con- sideration of those diseases to which the kid- ney is liable in consequence of a deteriorated condition of the blood. Dheane of the Iddney from retention of urine. —Fig. 165. represents a condition of the kid- ney which commonly results from an im- peded escape of the urine. The ureter pelvis and infundibula become much dilated, and the cortical substance expanded and lobular on the surface, the depressions between the * Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxx. lobules resulting from the binding down of the tissue by the interlobular septa, in the Fig. 165. Section of the kidney fi-om a patient who had stricture. The pelvis and infundibula are much tli- lated, the cortical portion is expanded, and its suiface lobular. The parts are reduced about one third in the di-aAving. . intervals of which the glandular structure is protruded by the distending force from within. The mucous membrane fretjuently becomes ulcerated, inflammatory deposits occur in the substance of the kidney, and so the gland is destroyed by a slow atrophy, or more rapidly by suppurative inflammation. Both kidneys are usually affected, but in diflferent degrees. On a microscopical examination of the kid- ney thus diseased, pus and other inflammatory deposits are found. The deposits are not confined to the tubes, but they occur irregu- larly throughout the gland, so as in many instances to obliterate all appearance of tubu- lar structure. Disease of the Iddney from renal calcidi. — When a calculus forms in the kidney, it may lead to very different results according to its size and position. If of small size, it may pass down the ureter and so get into the bladder; or if it be too large to pass through the ureter, it may, by becoming impacted in the canal, and so obstructing the flow of urine, give rise to a rapidly destructive sup-, purative inflammation, or it may lead to com- plete atrophy of the gland. It sometimes happens that several calculi become impacted in the pelvis of one or both kidneys, causing ulceration of the surrounding tissue, and leading in some instances to a complete dis- organisation of the gland.