SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 514 exerted its ordinary effect; defining their outline, and deepening their colour. But although the existence of a stratum of nuclei was sufficiently distinct, the contour of the cells themselves he does not seem to have determined. The resemblance of these bursae to the membranes which form the especial subject of this article is thus rendered so complete as to deserve a brief notice of their structure in this place ; and the more so, perhaps, that the writer is enabled to add a few details which place this similarity in a still more striking light. The subcutaneous burses are the simplest form of these structures, and are very nume- rous in the human subject, but seem much less frequent in other animals. The areolar tissue which immediately in- vests these sacs is, for the most part, very lax, and contains an unusual quantity of the yellow fibrous element, the fibres of which are here of large size. On removing this from the outer surface of the bursa, it is seen to be composed of a more compact and whiter tissue, which is tough and much less extensible than the looser tex- ture which surrounds it. The microscope shows this to consist of the white and yellow fibrous tissues. The latter is generally in much less considerable proportion than in the ordinary areolar tissue, while at the same time its constituent fibres are of a smaller size : they possess their ordinary arrangement, and branch and unite sparingly with each other. The white fibrous element is disposed in wavy bands of varying size. These take a course parallel with the surface of the bursa, and, apparently, with few interstices or reti- culations ; thus forming a dense laminated structure, which cannot be broken up without much difficulty. In this structure, at a little distance from the interior, are arranged the blood-vessels, the capillary meshes of which are of tolerably large size, and generally take a more or less quadrangular shape. It is by no means unusual to find one, two, or more fat cells lying comparatively isolated in this mass of tissue, with a loop or curve of capil- lary thrown around them in the ordinary m mner. Of the nerves of these membranes I am not qualified to speak. As the white fibrous tissue approaches the internal or free surface which limits the cavit}', the bands ap- pear somewhat to differ from this descrip- tion, and become more refractile, acquiring a yellowish colour, and seeming more solid. The interior of the bursa forms a cavity ■which is very rarely a solitary and regidar one, being almost always comjilicated by the possession of membranes and threads, which run across its interior, and thus shut off" in- complete secondary cavities. The number and situation of these is quite irregular in dif- ferent subjects ; and, of the two complications, the first is the most common, giving rise to the production of folds, which project into the general cavity in a manner which maybe com- pared to those processes of dura mater, which form the tentorium and falx cerebri. The surface itself is hard and smooth, and the blade of a knife removes little or nothing from it by scraping with any ordinary force. It deserves to be stated that in examining different specimens differences are seen, both in the amount of the yellow or elastic tissue, and in the degree of condensation of the white element, which ought to be called con- siderable, i. e. that they seem to range, from tough, inextensible, white sacs, of compara- tively simple form and composed of little but white fibrous tissue, to a highly elastic mem- brane, containing a tolerable quantity of the yellow fibrous tissue, and a cavity much com- plicated by numerous threads and processes. How far these diversities are associated with differences of age or habit, it is impossible to state. The whole of this internal surface is covered by a cell-growth, but the exact shape and ar- rangement of the constituent particles are rendered difficult of observation by one or two physical peculiarities not devoid of interest. On examining the free aspect of a thin hori- zontal section, made just below the surface, the dark mass of fibrous tissue upon which the cells are placed, obscured and intersected by the numerous lines which mark its fibres, very seldom allows more than a layer of nu- clei to be observed. And the application of acetic acid, which swells up this tissue, and renders it transparent, at the same time dis- solves the cell-wall, and leaves the dark nu- cleus alone occup\'ing its place. On the other hand, scraping the surface, instead of obtaining a layer of cells, mutually adherent by the adapted sides of their polygonal mar- gin, and easily separated from the subjacent tissue, as is the case with the serous mem- branes, — instead of this, little or nothing is stripped off", save a few scattered cells with much debris and many oil-globules. If greater violence be used, a portion of the sub- jacent structure is torn off", and offers the same optical difficulties as the thin section alluded to. The careful and repeated examination of different portions and fragments, both with and without the application of dilute acetic acid, leads to the following results. I have been unable to verify the existence of a basement membrane, although, on analo- gical grounds, it might perhaps have been ex- pected that such a structure was present. On getting a favourable view of a vertical section, the siu'face immediately beneath the epithe- lium appears to be smooth and defined ; hut there is nothing which resembles the other surface of a membrane intervening between the cell-growth and the fibrous tissue. The latter appears to be immediately subjacent to the cells, and is continued outwards without any interruption to the surrounding areolar tissue, in w^hich course it is subject to the modifications already described. In one instance only many elongated nu- clei were observed, which were of extreme delicacy, and were seated upon or in a mem-