50 POLYPIFERA. ramifications may be extended. As the growth of the tegumentary layer thus proceeds in one direction only, except when the development of polype-cells calls for its lateral expansion, the nutritive layer within continues to grow pari passu, and from it the polypes are pro- duced as the cells become ready to receive them. Bryozoa (Ehrenberg), Ciliobrachiate Polypi (Farre). — The Bryozoa, although closely resembling some of the simpler Poly- pifera, described in the preceding pages, with which, indeed, until a very recent period, they were confounded by zoological writers, differ from them in so many essential points of their structure, that, but for the convenience of description, we should have preferred to re- gard them as a distinct class, exhibiting a much higher phase of organisation than any of the nudibrachiate races. In all the fami- lies of Polypifera we have as yet had occasion to examine, it will have been noticed that the tentacular apparatus around the mouth, al- though very generally pinnated, are quite devoid of cilia; but in the Bryozoa one of the most obvious circumstances observ- able in their organisation is, that all the circumoral arras are crowded with \abratile organs, the play of which, when in action, is exceedingly energetic, producing rapid cur- rents in the surrounding water, and thus hurrying towards the mouth of the animal whatever substances may come into the neigh- bourhood of the vortex so produced, and in this way secm'ing an abundant supply of food, almost without exertion on the part of the creature itself From this most conspicuous character, common to the entire group. Dr. Arthur Farre was induced to propose for them the name of CUiobrach'mta. It is in their internal economy, however, that their chief points of distinction are to be sought. Like the ordinary polypes, most of these little animals inhabit cells of different shapes and various degrees of density. These cells are sometimes calcareous and opaque, but in very many genera so thin and diaphanous that nothing is more easy than to examine, by means of the microscope, the anatomy of the animal within. When thus examined, the differences between a Bryozoon and an ordi- dinary polype become immediately manifest, and may be briefly stated as follows. In the nudibrachiate polypes the stomach is a simple sacculus unprovided with any intestinal tube or anal orifice, so that after taking food the egesta are necessarily ex- pelled through the oral opening; but in the Ciliobrachiata, not only is the stomach found to be floating loosely in a visceral cavity, and of very complete structure w^hen compared with the digestive sacculus common to the pre- ceding tribes, but it terminates in a complete intestinal canal, provided with a distinct anal orifice, through which the faeces are discharged. Accompanying this advanced condition of the alimentary apparatus all the other systems assume a more elevated type of structure, as will be immediately apparent from the details of their anatomy, upon the consideration of which w^e are about to enter. Much, doubt- less, yet remains to be made out in the eco- nomy of these animals ; still the researches of Ehrenberg*, Milne Edwards, Audouin|, Thompson j, Farre §, and Van Beneden |1, have already put us in possession of most important inforniation concerning them, which promises to open a yet wider field for discovery. The cell of Bowerbankia {fig. 56), as de- Fig. 56. Bowerbankia densa, magnified 80 diameters. a, one of the animals fully expanded; 1, pharjTix; 2, cardia ; 3, manducatory organ, or gizzard; 4, sto- macli, its parietes studded with the hepatic follicles; 5, pvlorus; 6, intestine, containing pellets of feculent matter; 7, anus. The gastric (8) and tentacular (9) retractors are seen -within the caAity of the body. The flexible portion of the cell, or the operculum, is seen expanded and surroimding the upper part of the body. b, a similar animal completely retracted. The stomach drawn to the bottom of the cell. The upper portion of the alimentary canal flexed. The tentacula somewhat distorted by the pressure of the operculum. Their retractor filaments (1) relaxed. The upper part of the cell is occupied by the oper- culimi folded up in its axis, and from it the upper (2) and lower (3) sets of opercular retractors are * Spnbolfe Physicae. t Annales des Sciences Xaturelles, for Sept. 1828, and July 1836. X Zoological Researches, Mem. V., Cork, 1830. § Phil. Trans, for 1837, part 2. Jl Recherches sur I'Anatomie, la Physiologic et rEmbryogenie des Bryozaires. 4to. Brussels, 1845.