247 REN. tween the capsule and the vascular tuft, is filled by fluid, in which the vessels are hathed, and which is continually being impelled Irom the capsule into the tube by the lashing move- ment of the ciHa. Fig. 157. This specimen has been chosen because it exhi- bits the termination of a considerable arterial branch wholly in Malpighian tufts, and because the several Malpighiau bodies injected show different appear- ances of a very instru^ctive kind, a, arterial branch with its terminal twigs; at a the injection has only partially filled the tuft, at /3 it has entirely filled it, and has also passed out along the efferent vessel, 6; without any extravasation, at y it has burst into the capsule and escaped along the tube t, but has also filled the efferent vessel e, at S and e it has been extravasated and passed along the tube, at m and m, the injection on escaping into the capsule has not spread over the whole tuft. Magnified about forty-five diameters. From the human sub- ject. (^After Bowman.) This very interesting phenomenon of ciliary motion in the neck of the tube and in the Malpighian capsule was discovered by Mr. Bowman in the frog ; and at the time when his paper was published he had not observed it in any other animal. Mr. Simon* after- wards observed it, as he says, *' at the origin of each uriniferous tubule in the kidneys of various other reptiles, and also with perfect distinctness in the skate." Bidderf has since observed the same phenomenon in the triton ; Kolliker| has described it in the embryo liz- ard ; and I have seen it in the common snake. * A Physiological Essay on the Thj-mus Gland, b}' John Simon, F.R.S. t Muller's Archiv. 1845. X Miiller's Archiv. 1845. Fig. 158. From the fi'Og; viewed by transmitted light. Shows the continuity of the Malpighian capsule with the tube, the change in the character of the epi- thelium, and the vascular tuft, c, basement mem- brane of the tube; b, epithelium of the tube; a, cavity of the tube; / /, basement membrane of the capsule ; d, epithelium of the neck of the tube and of the neighbouring part of the capsule, this epithelium is covered -watli cilia, which were seen in active motion eight hours after death; g, detached epithelial particle, more highly magnified, showing the relative length of the cilia, as they appeared in this specimen. The capillaries, m, lie bare in the cavity of the capsule, having entered it near t, where the view is obscured by another tube. Magnified about 320 diameters. {After Bowman.') Fig. 159. Malpighian body from the newt (Ti-iton). Tliis R 4