SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. 552 gencies of the case. In man, the nerve at- tains the maximum of general development. Experiment also confirms the testimony afforded by the human and comparative ana- tomy of the facial nerve: indeed, the results afforded by this method of enquiry first led Sir Charles Bell* to the discovery of its function. On cutting across the trunk of the nerve, he found that the whole side of the face on which it was divided had com- pletely lost the power of movement, while its sensibility remained unimpaired. His experi- ments have since been frequently repeated, and invariably with the same results. The over-excitement of the nerve affords evidence of its motor function, equally with the destruction of its continuity. Thus, gal- vanism of the distal extremity of the cut nerve at once sets up convulsive movements in the nuiscles to which it is distributed. The paralysis produced by section includes all those muscles which the facial has been previously described to supply ; but the muscles of the jaw, which are furnished with nerves from the inferior maxillary division of the fifth, are still free to execute their con- tractions, and hence the movements of the jaw continue. But although these are still carried on, yet the act of mastication as a whole is rendered very imperfect ; since this not only requires the apposition and trituration of the teeth upon each other, but also demands accessory though subordinate movements of the neighbouring lips and cheek, and the section of the facial nerve distributed to these parts render these adjuvant movements im- possible. In such cases an imperfect masti- cation may indeed be seen to take place ; but the cheek and lips, having lost their contrac- tility, instead of pressing in the food towards the teeth, and submitting it again and again to their action, allow it constantly and gra- dually to accumulate in this flaccid and yielding pouch; or permit it to fall out of the anterior opening in the mouth. In this instance, experiment throws a reflected light upon descriptive anatomy. The buccinator muscle, which forms the greater part of the fleshy parietes of the cheek, was previously mentioned as receiving branches from both the facial and inferior maxillary nerves; and were we to confide altogether in the appear- ances seen in dissecting these nerves in the human subject f, we might perhaps justifiably regard them as sharing between them the supplying of the muscle. But the {)aralysis of the buccinator, which is always present in those instances where the facial nerve has suffered division, points distinctly enough to the latter as at least taking the more consi- derable and important part of the two; while * Exposition of the ^^atural System of the Nerves of the Human Body. London, 1824. f The lesser development of the facial muscles of the lower animals allows the distribution of the small buccal nerve to be more easily traced. Thus, in the dog, the two small filaments which form it pass, as is evident on dissection, almost exclusively to the mucous membrane and buccal glands. the failure of the galvanic stimulus to affect the muscle through the buccal nerve, indicates that the filaments of the facial are in all j)robability the only motor nerves which are distributed to it. Many of those cases of paralysed facial nerve, which occur in the human subject as the effect of disease involving their structure, approximate closely to the results obtained by an artificial division of the nerve in animals ; but in consequence of the much more ex- pressive character of the human countenance in the normal state, the deviations produced are even of a more striking appearance. One half of the face forms a perfect blank, its muscles hanging passively from the subjacent structures; while the movements of the opposite side are distorted by the absence of their proper antagonist motions, and are ex- aggerated in appearance by the contrast. In the experiments above mentioned. Sir Charles Bell found that immediately on di- viding the nerve the muscular aperture of the nostril, which had previously been subject to an alternate dilatation and contraction during the periods of inspiration and expiration respectively, suddenly lost this movement. He has termed the portio dura the respiratory nerve of the face; since it presides over these and other motions of the facial muscles, which are developed independently of the will, and in answer to the necessities of res- piration. The section of the facial nerve indirectly affects the sense of smell. This fact was also first pointed out by Sir Charles Bell, and has since been confirmed by many other observers. Under these circumstances, the power of discerning strong odors, as tobacco and ammonia, appears to be much diminished on the affected side, although scarcely abso- lutely lost. This loss of smell has been ascribed to the absence of two causes greatly conducive to the exercise of this faculty in health. The muscular contraction of the nostril which accompanied the effort of snuffing effects a considerable narrowing of the aperture ; and in the deep inspiration which accompanies the act, the rapidity of the entering current of air is thus greatly augmented, and in this greater velocity is implied an increased contact of the odorous vapour with the sensitive surface. Besides this, the direction of the current of air seems to be somewhat altered ; the muscles, tending much more to constrict the posterior than the anterior parts of the orifice, appear to direct the current more upwards or anteriorly than in the ordinary inspiration. The me- chanical nature of the action has been illus- trated by Diday *, who has shown that dila- tation of the nostrils by a glass tube, through which the air may be respired, equally pre- vents the perfect exercise of the olfactory sense; and Longet confirms his experiments. The effect of division of the portio dura on * Gazette Medicale, 1838. Memoire sur les appa- reils musculaires annexe's aux organes des sens.