175 PTEROPODA. either the tentacle { fig. 110. 10 and 11,/.), or the orifice (^g.UO. 12, /), through which it is protruded : tiie two flat surfaces are separated from each other when the cowls are closed by a longitudinal fissure ), the margins of which form two prominent lips (o o). The lateral tentacles {k) are cylindrical, smooth, and terminated by rounded extremi- ties. They are hollow, and in their interior, three longitudinal bands of muscle and a nerve of considerable size are distinguishable, so that they can be retracted in the same manner as the horns of a snail, nothing re- maining externally to indicate their position, except the hole through which they are pro- truded. When thus inverted the tentacles are found lodged in the cavity of the head, with their apices directed inwards. The two smaller spheres of the hood or cowl are separated from each other by the longitudinal fissure {fig. 110.11), which Fabri- cius, very inappropriately, called the mouth, although, at the same time, he was acquainted with the real mouth, and recognised it as such. This vertical fissure occupies the entire top of the head, and is continued for some distance both on its upper and under surface, or, more properl}' speaking, the real head is buried deeply in the interspace be- tween the two cowls, and when these are sepa- rated from each other, the following parts are seen situated between them : in the centre of the floor of the fissure is the vertical opening of the mouth {fig. 110. 13, u), between which and the borders of the hood {q), are the cres- centic spaces (r), in which are situated the conical appendages to the head already men- tioned, and which are represented protruding from between the margins of the hood in fig. 110. 10 {s). Conical Appendages to the Head. — The co- nical append^iges to the head (Kopfkegel, Eschricht), when fully expanded, form a kind of star round the mouth {fig. 108. 3, s), and were erroneously styled by Fabricius " soft teeth" (" suntque dentes hi molles subcrus- tacei"). It is to Eschricht we are indebted for a knowledge of the real nature of these wonderful organs, the structure of wdiich is unparalleled in the animal creation. It has been already noticed that these conical bodies are of a red colour in the recent animal, and, when they are protruded, it is easily discover- able with a lens that this colour depends on the presence of numerous separate coloured points distributed over their surface. When still further magnified, these points show themselves as closely aggregated spots, ar- ranged with great regularity upon the exterior of the cone. Upon a rough calculation there may be about three thousand of these spots upon each conical appendage, each of which, when closely examined, under favourable cir- cumstances, assumes very much the appear- ance of the polype-cell of one of the Sertularian polypes, and exhibits a structure which is truly admirable. Each little spot consists, in fact, of a transparent sheath, enclosing a cen- tral body, composed of a stem terminated by a kind of tuft, which last can be protruded at times beyond the margin of the sheath. When viewed laterally {fig. 111.14) it is appa- rent that this central body consists of several filaments or tubes, every one of which ex- pands at its extremity into a dilated portion, terminated by a little disc {fig. 111. 15), and about twenty of these are enclosed in each sheath. The conical appendages to the head of a single Clio are, therefore, furnished with (20X3000X6) about three hundred and sixty thousand of the stem-supported discs in question. F^. Ill (14 to 21). Clio Borealis. 14. One of the 3000 prehensile organs with which each of the six conical appendages to the head is furnished. Magnified 300 diameters. 15. An isohited sucking disc from the above. Magnified 900 diameters. 16. The head and neck laid open by a longitudinal section, shoAving two of the conical appendages and the penis, in situ. Magnified 5 diameters. 17. Longitudinal section of the head along the mesial line. 18. to 21. Pharynx and oral apparatus. Magni- fied 7 diameters. {After Eschricht.) As relates to the internal structure of these conical organs, Eschricht ascertained that they