PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 128 presumed to be anatomically so, and con- founded with Growths composed of true erec- tile tissue. Allied, at least in its functional characters, to angeiectoma, is the growth composed of true erectile (or cavernous) tissue. Soft, doughy, pseudo-fluctuating, pulsatile, erectile, the occasional seat of tactile fremitus and blowing murmur, occurring generally in a single, but sometimes in many spots, com- monly cutaneous or sub-cutaneous, but liable to grow in deep-seated parts, congenital or accidental, rarely exceeding a Seville orange in size, and often very small, traceable in rare cases to the influence of pressure or other external injury; sometimes of rapid, oftener of very slow progress; the true erectile tu- mour has a structure perfectly assimilable to that of cavernous tissue, and, like this, a structure not yet thoroughly unravelled. On section these growths {fig. 94) exhibit Fig. 94. Section of a true erectile growth, (t' C. JIus.) on a coarse scale the interlaced columnar appearance of erectile tissue: the trabeculae vary in thickness and density, and are pro- vided with minute vessels ; the hollow spaces between these are shallow or deep, narrow or broad, quadrangular or triangular, and com- municate with each other. Microscopically the trabeculte are found to be composed of fasciculated, cellular or fibrous (in very rare instances of intermingled elastic) fibrils, coated with tesselated epithelium, which conse- quently also lines the hollow interspaces. When these trabeculse are in process of growth they contain fusiform cells. Such Growths are never encysted, but they sometimes acquire a secondary capsule of condensed cellulo-fibrous membrane. It is said they are sometimes lobulated, a condition in which we have never seen them. They are rapidly regenerated if imperfectly removed. Particularly when connected with the skin, erectile structures may become the seat of cancerous formation. Erectile Grow ths generally appear in super- ficial parts, the skin and subjacent cellular membrane; the mucous membrane of the anus (as a rare variety of pile) ; the gingival membrane (?) ; the tongue (Brown, in Lancet, 1833). Mr. Listen (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvi.) describes an erectile tumour (Univ. Coll. Mus.) seated in the substance of the semi-tendinosus muscle; Andral (An. Path. i. p. 463) speaks as if the structure were not uncommon in the intestines,— but we have never seen it here; Lobstein describes it in the liver (?); Rayer (Maladies des Reins, t. iii. p. 612) in the kidney. § 5. 31ELAX0MA. .Melanic cell-pigment, as described in a pre- vious page (p. 116), may be deposited in the substance of various Adventitious Formations, — of Deposits (e. g. Tubercle), of Growths (e. g. Cancer), and of Pseudo-Tissues (e.g. Os- siform structure). Grow ths, more or less deeply tinged by its presence, have been distinguished as a special class of products under the titla of jNIelanotic Tumours or Melanomata. Whe- ther they have any real claim to such distinc- tion will be best argued, when we have, in as few words as possible, glanced at the struc- tural characters of Tumours of black colour. These tumours are, in some instances, sar- comatous, in others composed mainly of en- larged vessels, in others cystomatous, in others fibrous, — the pigment being deposited be- tween or within the convoluted fibres or ves- sels of the mass. But no growth contains melanic pigment so frequently as cancer. Studded in points through the cancerous masses, accumulated in lumps or equably in- filtrated through their substance, the cell- pigment gives them a peculiar dark colour. This discolouration is by far the most common in the encephaloid species, and occurs most frequently in cancer of the eye, skin, and liver, but is not peculiar to any locality.* Misled by the frequency of this discoloura- tion of cancerous tumours, various writers have endeavoured to rank "Melanosis" generally as a cancerous disease. Lorinser, Laennec, Dupuytren, Alibert, Meckel, vonWalther, and Cruveilhier, for instance, take this view of its nature ; and more recently Miiller has de- scribed " carcmoma melanodes" as one of his six species of cancer, holding as distinct and individualized a place in the class as Ence- phaloid or Scirrhus. The following reasons lead us to dissent altogether from these doc- trines. (1.) That melanic pigment should in itself constitute cancer is an impossibility ; it never even forms a stroma, as the cells con- tinue permanently free. (2.) The stroma of many melanic tumours (as of those above referred to, fibrous. Sec.) is perfectly distinct in its physical and chemical characters from all cancerous stromata. (3.) The microsco- pical characters of the pigment-cells and gra- nules are the same in tumours of cancerous nature and in non-cancerous growths. (4.) Melanic tumours, when free from acknow- ledged cancerous elements, cause no special, local, or general symptoms. (5.) When me- lanic tumours give rise to the symptoms of cancerous disease, their solid stroma is found to be composed in whole or in part of ence- phaloid, scirrhus, or colloid. (6.) Neither the local nor general symptoms of cancers are * The Univ. Coll. Museum contains a model of melanotic encephaloid of the vertebrae and spinal meninges.