SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 521 referred to it for a statement of the arguments on both sides of this interesting question up to that date. (See Articulation.) The rapid progress of histological anatomy, and the use of the microscope, have since thrown much Hghton the subject, yet perhaps with a less immediate effect than might have been anticipated. Fig. 401. Villus-shaped process from the free Margin of the Alar Ligament. From the Cat. (^Magnified 300 diameters.) From the impossibility of injecting the vessels of the synovial membrane beyond the margin of the cartilage, it had long been known that they did not extend over this articular surflice ; and one might almost imagine that a looped termination of the vessels in this situation must have been sus- pected. And the researches of Mr. Toynbee* concerning the vascular arrangements of the deep or osseous surface of the cartilaginous lamina, showed a similar disposition of the vessels in this situation. Everywhere a thin plate of bone, impermeated by vessels, sepa- rates them from actual contact with the car- tilage ; and the capillaries themselves, as they approach this osseous lamella, appear some- what dilated, and finally, taking an arched course, they return upon themselves into the neighbouring extremity of the bone. The truth of this description as a whole is readily tested and confirmed by examining any part of the substance of a diarthrodial cartilage. Such a fragment, torn up in any manner, and submitted to a sufficiently high magnifying * Philosophical Transactions, 1841. power, evinces no trace whatever of vessels, or of their easily recognisable contents. But although the absence of vessels is thus proved, the absence of the synovial membrane by no means necessarily follows. The less so, indeed, that modern physiological research exhibits almost all structures as essentially extra-vascular: i.e. it shows that in almost all, the characteristic substance of their tissue is separated from their vessels by an interval ; an interval which, though always minute, is nevertheless an appreciable, and often a measurable one, and which the pabulum de- rived from the blood has to traverse in order to effect their nutrition. The continuity of the synovial membrane, or the reverse, can only be settled in one way ; to wit, by an appeal to observation : and since the naked eye fails to give sufficient information, it remains to the microscope to decide its presence on, or absence from the articular surface. Henle* affirms the continuity of the mem- brane over the cartilage, as a tesselated epi- thelial covering of nucleated cells, resembling those which line the serous membranes and the other parts of the joint. Professors Todd and Bowman in their more recent workf, state that they have been unable to detect such a covering in the adult, but that, on the contrary, they have usually observed an irregular surface, presenting no cells beyond the ordinary scattered corpuscles of the cartilage. In the foetus, however, they have found it readily visible. A comparative examination of those car- tilages in different genera of animals, or in the same animal at different stages of life, partly confirms, partly modifies, each of these state- ments. In a specimen of diarthrodial cartilage, taken from an adult mammal, if we make a thin section parallel to the articular surface, and look directly upon this part of the interior of the joint, we see ap[)earances similar to those represented in Jig. 402. A number of cartilage corpuscles, at irregular distances from each other, and separated by the intercellular sub- stance of this tissue, constitute the only cell-formation visible, and the existence of similar corpuscles at varying depths in the substance of the cartilage may easily be verified. The chief difference noticeable between the deeper and more superficial of these cells is, that those in the latter situation contain in their interior many yellow and highly refractile granules, which are of com- paratively uniform size, and occupy their cavity about midway between their tolerably central nucleus and the inner surface of the cell-membrane. This appearance becomes still more manifest as the corpuscles approach the articular surface. A thin vertical section of the cartilage shows that the cells are in greater numbers near this surface, and the edge which borders the joint exhibits an irre- * Allgemeine Anatomie, S. 226, et seq. t The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, vol, i. p. 90.