400 ROTIFERA. Ehrenberg on the subject of animalcales are en- titled to great respect, we think that he has not investigated this subject with the candour that would entitle his conclusions to confidence. There is no a jpriori evidence why a perfect desiccation and suspension of the functions of life should not take place. This is the natu- ral condition of the embryo of the seeds of many plants, which, after hundreds of years, when placed in proper circumstances, will exhibit all the functions of vegetable life. Amongst the highest forms of animals we often witness a suspension of the functions under special external circumstances, which, although not amounting to the extent found amongst the Infusoria, would yet prepare us to admit a far more intense degree of the same phenomenon amongst those beings in which animality was less decided, and the vegetative functions more predominant. There is no necessity to regard the condition of desicca- tion in which those animals may be placed as one of death. The conditions of the exist- ence of the vitality of the animal, whatever they may be, are undoubtedly secured in this state, and the conditions of the activity of this vitality are alone withdrawn. Although many of the species of Polygas- tria are as large as the Rotifera, the structure of the latter is much more easily discernible, on account of the transparency of the lorica, or shield, in which they are enclosed, and the distinctness of their individual organs. The external coverins, though always clear like some instances forming a homy kind of case, insusceptible of movement, and, in others, a skin susceptible of transverse corrugations. Into this dense external membrane the animal is capable of drawing in its tail and rotatory organs; hence this ^class of animals has been called Systolides. In none of the species does there' appear to be a deposit of earthy salts, either in the skin or other parts of the body.* This will account for the fact, that few or none of the Rotifera have been found in a fossilised state. Those forms alone of the Polygastria have been dis- covered in the chalk and subsequent forma- tions, which, in their living state, possess a si- hceous or calcareous skeleton. In the classification of the Rotifera we shall follow Ehrenberg, as no separate ar- rangement of these creatures existed previous to his profound investigation of their struc- ture ; and although other attempts have been made, since the appearance of his work, on the Infusoria, none of them seem better adapted for the purposes of further inquiry. At the same time we would, with the utmost diffi- dence, express our doubts as to the correct- ness of much of the terminology employed by Ehrenberg, implying, as it frequently does, views of the structure and functions' of the parts of these animals which the facts them- selves, so remarkably correctly observed, do not always seem to warrant. ' The following is a table of the eight families of Rotifera according to Ehrenberg : — crystal, has varying degrees of density, in fMargins of the wheek CMoLOTRO-j ^^^^ loricated. entire. CHA.) Margins of the wheelsi -nt i ^ crenated. (ScHizo- f ^^^^I , TROCHA.) jLoncated. . , T -1 1 fManv-parted -wheels, "i Naked. A compound, or divided, [ (PoLyxROCHA.) } Loricated. A single, continuous, ci- liated wheel. (MOXO- TROCHA.) (SO- ciliated wheel EOTROCHA.) t GOTROCHA.) It will at once be seen that this is an exceed- ingly artificial arrangement; for although the rotatory organs are the most striking external character of the Rotifera, the function they per- form does not seem to be of that fundamental importance in the economy of the animal, so that a change in their form would be attended with corresponding changes in their general structure. In fact, in this arrangement, forms are separated which are nearly related by the affinities of more important organs. In the next place, the families are arranged accord- ing as they are naked (panzerlose), or loricated (gepanzerte). The condition of the integu- ment here employed as a means of classifica- tion, cannot be regarded as absolute; and there are species which it w^ould be difficult to refer to either group. Some of the species secrete around them an external tube, in which they dwell, as Stephanoceros ( 'fg. 292.) and others, which is an entirely different thing from the hardened integument called by Ehrenberg the lorica, or shield, and yet these are classed as a loricated family. It is, however, but due to Ehrenberg to state that Icthydina. (Ecistina. Megalotrochcea. Flosctdaria. HydatincBa. Euchlanidota. PhilodiruEa. BrachioTUBa. I Two-parted wheels. (Zt-1 Naked. L GOTROCHA.^ J Loricated. he is not unaware of the defects of this ar- rangement, and that he has pointed out that both the structure of the alimentary canal, and even the teeth and jaws, would afford characters by which the species might be arranged. Dujardin, in a recent work on the Inftisoria, proposes the four following fami- lies : — 1. Rotifers having the posterior part of their bodies Jixed. Examples : Flosctdaria^ Stephanoceros. 2. Rotifers having but one means of loco- motion, that of the vibratile ciha, and which are consequently always sivimmers. Exam- ples : Plygina, Lacitmolaria, Ale/icej-ta. 3. Rotifers which have two modes of loco- motion : one creeping like the leech, the other swimming as the last. This family includes the largest number of genera, as Brackionus, Dinochdi'is, Pterodina, Salpina, Lejjadel/a, Euchlanis, &c. * Ehrenberg states that the remains of some Rotifera having been chemically examined; they were found to contain phosphate'of lime, which he supposes was deposited in their jaws and teeth.