SHELL. the wider will be the interval between the lines. When the section passes for any dis- tance in the plane of a lamina, no lines will present themselves on that space. And thus the appearance of a section of nacre is such as to have been aptly compared by Sir J. Herschel* to the surface of a smoothed deal board, in which the woody layers are cut per- pendicularly to their surface in one part, and nearly in their plane in another. Sir D. Brewster appears to suppose f that nacre con- sists of a nuiltitude of layers of carbonate of lime alternating with animal membrane; and that the presence of the grooved lines on the most highly-polished surface is due to the wearing away of the edges of the animal la- minae, whilst those of the hard calcareous la- minae stand out. If each line upon the na- creous surface, however, indicate a distinct layer of shell-substance, a very thin section of mother-of-pearl ought to contain many thou- sand laminae, in accordance with the number of lines upon its surface; these being frequently no more than 1-7500th of an inch apart. But when the nacre is treated with dilute acid, so as to dissolve its calcareous portion, no such re- petition of membranous layers is to be found : on the contrary, if the piece of nacre be the product of one act of shell-formation, there is but a single layer of membrane. The mem- brane is usually found to present a more or less folded or plaited arrangement ; but this has generally been obviously disturbed by the disengagement of carbonic acid in the act of decalcification, which tends to unfold the plaits. There is one shell, however, — the well-known Haliotis sj^lendens,—which affords us the opportunity of examining the plaits in situ^ and thus presents a clear demonstra- tion of the real structure of nacre. This shell is for the most part made up of a series of plates of animal matter, resembling tortoise- shell in its aspect, alternating with thin layers of nacre ; and if a piece of it be submitted to the action of dilute acid, the calcareous portion of the nacreous layers being dissolved away, the plates of animal matter fall apart, each one carrying with it the membranous residuum of the layer of nacre that was applied to its inner surface. It will usually be found that the nacre- membrane covering some of these horny plates will remain in an undisturbed condition ; and their surfaces then exhibit their iridescent Instre^ although all the calcareous matter has been re- moved from their strzictnre. On looking at the surface with reflected light under a magnifying power of 75 diameters, it is seen to present a series of folds or plaits more or less regular; and the iridescent hues which these exhibit are often of the most gorgeous description. But if the membrane be extended with a pair of needles, these plaits are unfolded, and it covers a much larger surface than before; and the iridescence is then completely de- stroyed. This experiment, then, demonstrates that the peculiar lineation of the surface of nacre (on which the iridescence undoubtedly * Edinb. Philos. Journ. vol. ii. t Loc. cit. VOL. IV. depends, as first shown by Sir D. Brewster), is due, not to the outcropping of alternate layers of membranous and calcareous matter, but to the disposition of a single membranous layer in folds or plaits, which lie more or less obliquely to the general surface. There are several bivalve shells which pre- sent what may be termed a sub-nacrcot(s struc- ture, their polished surfaces being covered with lines indicative of folds in the basement membrane ; but these folds are destitute of that regularity of arrangement which is neces- sary to produce the iridescent lustre. This is the case, for example, with most of the Pecti- nidce, also with some of the Mylilacecc, and with the common Oijstcr. Where there is no indication of a regular corrugation of the shell-membrane, there is not the least approach to the nacreous aspect; and this is the case with the internal layer of by far the greater number of shells, the presence of nacre being exceptional, save in a small number of families. The membranous shell-substance, some form of which constitutes the internal layer of most bivalve shells, is occasionally traversed by tubes, which seem to commence from the inner surface of the shell, and to pass towards the exterior. These tubes vary in size from about the l-"20,000th of an inch, or even less, to about the l-2000th ; but their general diameter, in the shells in which they most abound, is about l-4000th of an inch. The direction and distribution of these tubes are extremely various in different genera. Thus, in Anomia Ephippimn they are scantily dis- tributed in the internal nacreous lamina ; but in the yellow outer layer they are very abundant (fg. 415.), forming an irregular net- work, which spreads out in a plane parallel to the surface. In Cleidothcerus chanwides, on the other hand, the tubes are abundant in the internal layer of the nacreous lining, where they form an intricate but irregular net-work parallel to the internal surface of the shell; and from this arise a series of straight tubes, which pass nearly at right angles with the surface, at a considerable distance from each other, through the external portion of the nacreous layer, towards the cellular structure which constitutes the exterior of the shell. This, however, they do not penetrate; stopping short as they approach it, just as the tubes of dentine cease at its plane of junction with the enamel. The diameter of the tubes is toler- ably uniform, even when they divaricate ; the trunk not being much larger than either of the branches. In other instances, however, no such net-work is formed, l>ut the tubes run at a distance from each other, traversing the shelly layers obliquely, and are then usually of comparatively large size : this is the case, for example, with some species of A7'ca and Pectunculus. That these tubes are not mere channels or excavations in the shell- substance, is proved by the fact that they may be frequently seen very distinctly in the decalcified shell-membrane. They oflen pre- sent, in their beaded aspect, indications of a cellular origin, as if they had been formed o o