REN. 246 root of the tuft. There are, therefore, deep clefts between them, which open when the lobes are not greatly distended with injection or blood. {Fig. 153, 1.) The surface of Fig. 155. Malpighian body, tube, &c., from the horse. The injection has penetrated from the artery through the Malpighian tuft into the plexus surrounding the tubes. It has then ruptured the yessels of the tuft, filled the capsule, and passed off along the tube, a, arterial branch; e, afferent yessel; c, capsule dis- tended; t, tube; /, efferent yessel; p, plexus of capillaries, surrounding other tubes not injected. Magnified about thirty diameters. {After Bowman.) the tuft is everywhere unattached and free, and continuous with the opposed surfaces of the lobes. The whole circumference of every vessel composing the tuft is also free, and lies loose in the cavity of the capsule. These circumstances cannot be seen in specimens gorged with injection, but only by careful examination of recent specimens with a power of 200 or 600 diameters. The vessels are so jierfectlif bare, that in no other situation in the body do the capillaiies admit of being so satisfactorily studied. It is only where the tuft is large, as in man and in the horse, that its lobulated character can be always discerned. Where the number of pri- mary subdivisions of the afferent vessel is smaller, the detection of lobes is less easy ; they may often be seen, however, in the frog. In Birds and Reptiles the afferent vessel seldom divides; but dilates instead into a pouch-like cavity, which, after taking two or three coils, contracts again, and becomes the efferent vessel. There are of course no lobes; but the surface of the whole dilated part is free. The basement membrane of the uriniferous tube, expanded over the Malpighian tuft to form its capsule, is a simple homogeneous and transparent membrane, in which no structure can be discovered. It is 'perforatedy as before stated, by the afferent and efferent vessels, and is certainly not rejected over them. They are united to it at their point of transit, but in what precise manner Mr. Bowman has not been able to determine. It appears probable that the membrane is reflected to a slight ex- tent upon the afferent and efferent vessels, and that thus the union is effected. The appearance of bulging presented by the dis- tended capsule round the entrance of the afferent vessels in Jig. 156. seems to indicate that the membrane is slightly reflected' in- wards upon the trunks of the vessels, if this term can be correctly applied to such minute Fig. 156. Two Malpighian bodies injected from the human subject. The tvifts are burst and the fluid has es- caped into the capsule. In one case it has passed also along the tube, the extreme tortuosity of which at its commencement is well seen. a, arterial branch; /, terminal twigs; c, c, Malpighian cap- sules distended; e, the depression often seen in such cases, at the point where the afferent and effe- rent yessels pass: the latter are not here injected; t, the tube. Magnified about ninety diameters. {After Bowman.) vessels as the afferent and efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies. Opposite to the point where the vessels perforate the capsule, is the orifice of the tube, the cavity of which is con- tinuous with that of the capsule, generally by a constricted neck. Mr. Bowman has speci- mens prepared with the double injection, showing this continuity in Mammalia, Birds, Reptiles, and Fish. (7%. 157.) A more satisfactory proof of the direct continuity of the cavity of the tube with that of the Malpighian capsule is afforded by a clear view of the whole of the textures mag- nified 200 or 300 diameters. The capsule may thus be seen to pass off into the basement membrane of the tube as the body of a Flo- rence flask into its neck (fgs. 158. and 159.), The basement membrane of the tube is lined by a nucleated epithelium of a finely granular opaque aspect, w^iile the neck of the tube and the contiguous portion of the cap- sule are covered by a layer of cells much more transparent, and clothed with vibratile cilia. The epithelium appears to be continued in many cases over the whole inner surface of the capsule, while in other instances it is impossible to detect the slightest appearance of it over more than a third of the capsule. When fairl}' within the capsule the cilia cease, and the epithelium beyond is of excessive delicacy and translucence. Its particles are seldom nucleated, and appear liable to swell by the application of water to the specimen. The cavity existing in the natural state be-