PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 72 But we have not pushed the use of micro- scopical characters to extremes, persuaded as we are that more has been done to lower than to raise micrology in general estimation by the attempt to make it (in its present unformed state) the essential and sole groundwork of distinction of organized products. Adventitious products present themselves in the solid, the liquid, and the gaseous states ; and this difference of molecular condition co- incides with so many pathological distinctions, that (although some objections may on " tran- scendental " grounds be raised to the pro- cedure,) we shall found upon it a division of the whole into three corresponding groups. A complete description of the Morbid Anatomy of the more complex of the species composing these groups should, we conceive,* comprise that of their material or physico-chemical characters ; of their origin, progress, and de- cay ; of their intrinsic morbid changes, (for their lives, as the lives of the organism they inhabit, are liable to variations of health and disease, — they are microcosms within a ma- crocosm ;) of the textural alterations they produce in contiguous parts ; and of the modifications their existence entails on the solids and fluids of the economy at large. It is clear, however, that a plan so extensive as this could not be ventured on in the present work ; but, as far as is reasonable, we shall pursue it. GROUP I, SOLID ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS. The group. Solid Adventitious Products, resolves itself naturally into two great classes Class I.—Non-Plastic Products or PRECIPITATES. Scb-Class I. (Saline.) Produced by pre- cipitation from secreted fluids. Sub-Class II. {Anintalized.) Produced by exudation from the vessels. § I. Particles, § n. Masses. Calculi. . Concretions. I. Protein-Compounds. |_§ III. Sugar. (certain forms of the). II. Fat. Class II. —Plastic Products or FORMATIONS. SrB Class I. Products possessed of a dependent ex- istence and derived from a Blastema. Blastemal Forrnaiio7is. Sub-Class II. Products possrssed of independent ex- istence and derived from a Germ. Germ-For maUons or Parasites. Order I. Derived from a blastema which generates cells defi- cient in vegetative faculty ana in per- manency. Deposits. Order II. Derived from a blastema winch generates cells pos- / sessed of vegetative faculty, but defi- cient m permanency. Growths. § I- § 11. § III. § IV. 5 V. Typhous Deposit. Tuberculous ,, Purulent Melanic ,, Diptheritic ,, Order III. Derived from a blastema which generates cells defi- cient in vegetative faculty, but pos- sessed of per- manency. , Pstudo- Tissues. Order I. Animal. Order IT. Vegetable. Sub-Order I. Deficient in the power of destroying by infiltration the natural tissues amid which they are evolved. Non-Infiltrating Growths. Sub-Order II. Possessed of the above power. Infiltrating Growths. Sub-Order I. Sui generis. Sub-Order II. Simulating the natural tissues of the adult. rEntozoi. \ Epizoa. r Entophyta. X Kpiphyta. Of Protein-basis. Of Fat-basis. Of Gelatin-basis Of undetermined basis. Of Protein-basis. Induration-matter. Extra-Vascular. Simple-Vascular. rHaematoma. 1 Sarcoma. <{ Cystoma. Arigeiectoma. ^Melanoma ? ? r Lipoma. ■J Steatoma. L Cholesteatoma, r Fibroma. -J Enchondroma. C Osteoma. ^ CoUoma. Carcinoma. r Epithelium. < Nail; Hair. C Cartilage. r Cellular; Serous. J Fibrous ; Elastic, i Osseous. C Nervous. Bloodvessel; Erectile tissue. Lymph.vessel.. Fibro and Spon-gy Cartilage. Compound-Vascular<i Bone; Tooth. Cutaneous ; Mucous. I Glandular. LMuscular. * Vide Introductory Lecture, Lancet, 1842.