198 QUADRUMANA. towards the anterior part, which is, as it were, truncated. The cerebral portion, or the cra- Flg. 116. Skull of Simla troglodytes. (^After Owen.') nium, is smooth, and convex on its superior or coronal aspect, being devoid of the inter- muscular frontal and sagittal crests, which give so strong a carnivorous character to the skull of the Orang-cetnn, For the insertion of the temporal muscle there is, however, a long boundary continued from the outer part of the supra-orbital ridge, at first as a well- marked crest, but soon becoming a slightly elevated Hue, which is lost in the lambdoidal and supra-auditory ridges. The coronal su- ture has a transverse direction ; the occipital foramen is further from the posterior plane of the cranium, and its position is less oblique than in the Orang-cetan, Consequently there is a greater proportion of brain behind the meatus auditoriiis externus in the Chimimnzee than in the Orang-cetan. Behind the condyle of the lower jaw there is, in the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, a process, of which the rudiment exists also in man, affording a sup- port for the jaw to guard against a backward dislocation. The frontal bone is single as in man, but distinguished by large projecting supra-orbital ridges, which form a sort of line of demarcation between the cranium and the face. The squamous portion of the occipital bone is of considerable extent, more convex than in the Or«?/g, and consequently more like that of the human subject. • The squamous portions of the temporal bone extend over a smaller portion of the sides of the cranium than in man, and their superior margin, instead of forming a convex curve, is almost a straight line. The mastoid processes are represented on either side by a mere ridge of bone, and the styloid processes by small tubercles. The condyloid processes of the occipital bone are proportionally smaller than in the human sub- ject. The foramen magnum is situated in the middle of the posterior third of the basis cranii^ and its plane is inclined upwards from the anterior margin at an angle of 5° from the plane of the basilar process; there are no posterior condyloid foramina but the anterior condyloid foramina, the foramina jugularia, stylo-mastoidea, carotica, spinosa, and ovalia, are in nearly the same relative position as in man ; the principal difference is in the greater distance between the foramen caroticiim and the foramen ovale, in consequence of the greater antero-posterior extent of the petrous bone. In consequence of the proximity of the foramen magnum to the posterior margin of the skull, a considerable extent intervenes between it and the posterior margin of the bony palate ; this is occupied by the large development of the petrous bones, and a corresponding extent of the basilar element of the occipital. The antero-posterior diameter of the bony palate, in like manner, greatly exceeds that of the corresponding part of the human skull. The zygomatic arches are op- posite the middle third of the skull, as seen from below, while in the human cranium they are included in the anterior moiety. The form of the basis cranii differs generally from the bimanoiis, and manifests the qiiadru- manous type, in its greater length, in its flat- ness, in the small extent of the receptacle for the brain behind the foramen magnum, in its contraction between the zygomata, and in the large size, and especially the anterior develop- ment, of the bony palate. A character, by which the Chimpanzee ap- proximates more closely than the Orang to the human subject, is presented by the nasal bone, which projects, in a slightly arched form, beyond the interorbital plane, while a trace of its original separation into two lateral elements remains at the lower margin of the consolidated and single bone. The ascending or nasal portion of the su- perior maxillary bone, which is of greater proportionate size than in the human subject, does not ascend vertically to the orbits, as in man and some of the lower Quadrumana, but slopes backwards, as in the Ct/nocephali and in the carnivorous mammalia, but in a less degree. The contour of the upper jaw, from the nasal aperture to the incisor teeth, is almost straight, while in the Orang it is rendered concave by the greater development of the intermaxillary bones in the anterior direction. These bones are anch}'losed to the maxillary bones in the adults of both the Chimpanzee and Orang; but in the Chimjoanzee the anchylosis takes place at a much earlier period. In the same manner as in man the original separation remains visible, in the palate external to the foramina incisiva. The lower jaw, like the upper, is equally characterised by its strength and size in relation to the entire skull ; the symphysis or chin recedes; but the depth of the jaw in front is less than in the Orang-cetan. The ramus of the jaw forms a more open angle with the body than in the Orang-cetan, and thus more nearly resembles the human struc- ture. The dental formula of the Chimpanzee is as I stated before. The teeth approximate in their proportionate size much more nearly than those of the Orang-cetan to the human teeth, but they differ by the absence of un- broken proximity. A well-marked interval separates the upper laniaries from the con- tiguous incisors, and the lower laniaries are removed by a smaller interval from the con- tiguous bicuspides; these intervals admit the