PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 103 H 4 viscid, and free from solid particles of any kind. And the evolution of all kinds of blas- tema proceeds in the same manner, as far as hitherto ascertained, until the formation of cells is effected. The successive steps may in general terms be stated to be increase of viscidity, formation of granules, of nuclei, and of cells.* And these various steps cannot be accomplished except in blastema in contact with living animal structure, — a blastema loses its potentiality either by the death of the textures amid which it is evolved, or by its removal from among them. We place no confidence in the experiments upon which a statement of certain exceptions to this law has been founded, f No matter what be the ultimate destiny of the blastema, the process of its evolution is conducted, then, on the same principle; but the development of cells sets a limit to this identity of process. The vital qualities of the cells differ, and affect the function and end of these, in three principal modes ; and, accord- ing as each of these prevails in any given blastema, will the product generated (solid or semi-soHd) present peculiar characters. These three modes of cell may be described as fol- lows. First, the cells once developed may be alto- gether inapt for life, incapable either of under- going such changes in physical, chemical, and vital constitution as shall qualify them for sus- taining a permanent existence, or of generating the elements of new cells previous to their own destruction. They are consequently acted upon physically and chemically by the sur- rounding materials : they are either dissolved by the fluid with which they are associated ; or, disintegrated and broken down into non- productive granular matter, Ihey lose all trace of the attributes of organization. Cells of this kind may be termed evanescent and retro- grading. Secondly/, the cells may be deficient in the faculty of permanency requisite for the forma- tion of tissue ; while, on the other hand, they possess the power of generating the elements of new cells (or of causing indirectly the generation of those elements) previously to their own disappearance, — cells endowed in turn with a similar generative force. These cells consequently present the characters of the formative stages of evolution, never those of perfectly evolved structure. To this kind of cells the title non-permanent and vegetative may be applied. Thirdly^ the cells may possess an inherent force, qualifying them to pass through the necessary steps towards the formation of structure more or less closely resembling the natural tissues, and in this evolved condition they are destined permanently to remain. These cells appear likewise to be destitute of * The production of fibres without the interven- tion of a cell-stage (an exceptional phenomenon, if the entire system be taken in view) will find its place elsewhere. t Helbert, de exanthematibus arte factis. Gott. 1844. the power either of generating or of indirectly causing the generation of the elements of new cells similar to themselves; they may there- foi'e be termed permanent and non-vegetative cells. From cells of one or other of these three kinds all blastemal formations are produced. Formations produced from the evanescent cell are non-stromal, and may be termed deposits; those from the vegetative cell are stroma/, and may be termed growths; those from the permanent cell nve stromal, and may be termed pseudo-tissues. Order I. — Deposits. Deposits are deficient in the characters of texture; they possess neither permanent fibre, nor definite arrangement of parts, se|)ta, nor loculi ; and are insusceptible of vascularization. They tend to produce eliininatory action and ulceration in the seats they occupy ; and are prone to appear, mainly through the influence of so-called " diathesis," in several parts of the frame simultaneously or consecutively. The substance of all deposits is per se non-inocu- lable ; we say all, because, though the point has not been, to our knowledge, experimentally tested in regard of the typhous and diphtheritic species, there can be little doubt that the proposition applies to them as to the others. But certain varieties of one genus of deposit (pus) are, on the contrary, readily inoculable through the agency of certain associated principles called viruses (see Pus). In such cases, be it observed, the propagation of the disease in no wise depends on the cell of the fluid. In the order Deposits (constituting transi- tion products from the non-plastic protein- precipitates to formations of higher attributes) we place the following genera : typhous, tuber- culous, purulent, melanic^ and diphtheritic pro- ducts. § I. TYPHOUS DEPOSll^^ ; \ In the form of continued fever ana^ontcally characterized by alteration-^£-sti:^^r^n the glandular textures of the^-Sj:£iaS^-*flfestine, a peculiar substance of new formation (as first accurately described by M. Louis*) is dis- covered in the cellular membrane between the mucous and muscular coats of the patches of agminated glands of Peyer. The propor- tion of cases of continued fever of intestinal type in which this deposit occurs, has been differently estimated from less than one third of the cases to nearly the entire number. We have found this matter homogeneous in aspect, of pinkish or yellowish hue (the former acci- dental), and from a sixth to a quarter of an inch thick ; we have always seen it more or less firm and tenacious, and never succeeded in catching it in its earlier stage of fluid blastema. Examined under the microscope by Bcihmf it appeared utterly destitute of * Eoederer and "Wagler (De morbo mucoso, p. 332.) first noticed this substance thus: "ue semel tamen elevatos [folliculos coagmentatos] et materia mucosa obscure cinerea repertos vidimus." t Brit, and For. Med. Rev. vol. i. p. 524.