POLYGASTRIA. 9 Oti closer inspection it is seen that all the jVlonads, which are placed at regular distances, communicate with each other by delicate threads, which form a kind of reticulation in the com- mon gelatinous skin-like integument of the compound body, or polypary, as it might be aptly called, out of which the contained ani- malcules only protrude their proboscides either in search of food or to row the general mass along. It is easy to prove by flattening the Volvox between two plates of glass that its interior is only filled with water, in which sometimes there may be observed smaller volvoces swim- ming about, the products of the propagation of some of the constituent animalcules. These are not solitary young ones, but may already be seen to be composed of numerous individuals, formed by the continual division of the original from which they sprang. Another mode of reproduction is by the laceration or division of the globe itself. When this takes place, either for the escape of the included Volvoces generated within, or from any other cause, the component Monads im- mediately prepare to leave their domiciles, and tlie individual animalcules become separated by the dissolution of the inter-communicating threads; they then, by little and little, extri- cate themselves from the common gelatinous envelope, and creep out to commence an inde- pendent existence. The gelatinous polypary of the original Volvox in consequence speedily loses all its green spots; and as every little point is active, moving its proboscis freely when it leaves the common globe, it may fairly be concluded that they have a power of indepen- dent existence, and that each is able to begin the construction of another compound Volvox as wonderful as that we have been considering. The developement of the embryo of the Volvox is represented in 11, 12, 13, Jig. 1. In ll,j^^. 1, is represented the simplest con- dition of a granular mass containing a clear central spot, which in the course of a lew hours assumes the condition represented in 12, Jig. 1, by undergoing an imperfect spontaneous division. By a continued repetition of this division it becomes at last broken up, until it has the appearance shewn in 13, Jig. 1. The component vesicles still go on subdividing, until it assumes the appearance of a single perfect Monadine possessed of two proboscides, eye-spots, &c. By a further developement it constructs for itself an external envelope, which has the appearance of a white ring surrounding the central nucleus. Wonderful as is the organisation of the last family, it would probably not be more so than that of the Vibrionidae, was it in our power to display their internal economy in an equally satisfactory manner; but such is the extreme minuteness of all the members of the family, that even to Ehrenberg this seemed a hopeless wish. The Vibrionidae present themselves under the microscope as thread-like bodies of in- describable tenuity, worming their way in countless thousands through the drop of water in which they live, and presenting themselves in different shapes, which have been classified as belonging to five distinct genera, named as follows:—The first, Bacterium, contains those forms which exhibit the appearance of stiff- jointed filaments. In the second, Vibrioy the Fig. 5. 1, 2, 3. Vibrio subtilis. 4. Vibrio riigula. 5. Vibrio rugula more highly magnijied. 6. Closterium monili' ferum. 7. Closterium turgidum. a, a, a, three large aggregations of living cor- puscles ; X, X, the locomotive papillae; o, o, open- ings in the shell. creatures resemble minute chains, which seem to be as soft and flexible as the body of a serpent, although so exceedingly minute that some species have been calculated to be not more than the 300th of a line long, and the 3000th of a line in thickness. The animalcules in some genera assume the appearance of tortuous chains or flexible spiral threads. In Spirillum the body seems rolled into a stiff spiral cylinder, and in Spirodiscus it is arranged in a kind of disc. On examining these little beings while alive, little doubt can be entertained that they belong to the animal series of creation : the manner in which they obviously direct their course at will, and the facility with which all their movements are performed, have caused them to be recog- nised as animals by all observers. It is, how- ever, to Ehrenberg that we are indebted for the discovery of their real nature. From his ob- servations we learn that these living filaments, minute as they are, are not single animals, but chains composed of numerous associated individuals produced from each other by spon- taneous fissure. There even seems to be reason to suspect that their internal structure is in some degree allied to that of the Monadines ; at least in one species. Bacterium triloculare, Ehrenberg perceived a proboscidiform mouth similar to that possessed by the Monadines of Volvox. The peculiar forms assumed by the different genera of Vibrionidae seem to depend upon the character of the fissiparous division by which the whole chain is produced, the compound body remaining straight or becoming thrown into spiral folds as the division is equably or unequably carried on. The snake-like movements of the true Vibrios during their progress in the water, Ehrenberg conceived to be produced by a power of con- tracting forcibly, that resides in the individual