519 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. L L 4 In the following sketch, such details as are more or less common to the synovial mem- branes in general will chiefly be treated of. For a description of their more salient pecu- liarities in the different joints, the reader is referred to the articles headed with the names of the several articulations. The epithelium of these structures presents characters which afford some grounds for distinguishing it both from that of the bursal and serous membranes. It forms, for the most part, but one layer, the forms of the constituent cells of which vary to the same extent as those witnessed in the bursae. But the broad, squamous, polygonal epithelia are comparatively rare ; and in by far the larger extent of its surface, the predominant shape is that of a slightly flattened spheroidal, or oval, or somewhat angular cell, such as the majority of those represented in fig. 399, in Fig. 399. Epithelium of Synovial Membranes, a, free sm-face seen in situ; h, separated cells. (^Magnified 200 diameters.^ some of which are seen decussations of two convex outlines, caused by the margin of one cell slightly overlapping that of its neighbour. Acetic acid exerts an unusual effect upon the cell-membrane, swelling up its outline very much before dissolving or rupturing it; an appearance which obtains in the more flat- *tened and polygonal epithelia of the serous membranes, but, so far as I have seen, in a much smaller deiiree. Like those of the bursae, they are firmly attached to the sub- jacent tissue, and possess little mutual ad- hesion ; though here and there a cluster of two or three more polygonal than usual may be found. Cytoblasts are rare, the cells ap- pearing to be completed by the addition of the outer membrane when yet extremely small, (fig. 399. b.) All these peculiarities might perhaps be generalized in the statement, that the cells which cover the general surface of these membranes are in a younger and more active stage of cell-life than those of the bursae. And a slight yet perceptible difference in the same respect has been already indicated as existing between the subcutaneous and sub- tendinous members of this class of structures. Immediately beneath these cells lies a stratum of looser areolar tissue, which connects the membrane with the inner aspect of the liga- ments of the joint. It includes little of the yellow fibrous tissue, and its meshes are comparatively few and close : exteriorly, they unite, by a gradation of structure, with the dense white fibrous tissue of which the liga- ments are composed. The vessels of the membrane are exceedingly numerous, and its capillaries form a horizontal plexus, which ramifies immediately beneath the epithelium in the areolar tissue just men- tioned. The great vascularity of the tissue has long been known, but the capillaries are not only very numerous, but offer a nuich more remarkable peculiarity.* They are greatly increased in their length, so as to be everywhere extren)ely tortuous, and some- times this tortuosity almost amounts to a spiral disposition. On looking at the broad surface of well-injected specimens, an exag- geration of this disposition here and there, gives rise to small patches of tortuous capil- laries ; but the arrangement is clearly a general one, and extends, in some degree, to every in- dividual capillary of the net-work. But though the length of these vessels in a given space is thus greatly augmented, the frequency of their Fig. 400. Capillaries of the Synovial 3Iembrane, projecting by their convex border over the articular cartilage. From the humayi finger. a, artery; v, vein. {Magnified 40 diameters.} inosculations does not seem to experience a corresponding increase. Their tortuous form is represented in fig. 400. The preceding description of the vascular, fib rous, and areolar constituents of synovial membrane applies only to the simplest form of that tissue, which consists of a plain flat expanse of raemhrane. In special joints, as well as in special parts of every joint, each of them experiences modifications deserving of notice. Over the cartilage of the articulation, for instance, all of these cease ; and deferring for the present a consideration of the ana- logous structure which here sup[jlies the place of epithelium, we come to consider the anatomy of the synovial membrane where it reaches the border of articular cartilage. The fibrous tissue exterior to the mem- * I have here to express great obligations to Mr. Quekett, of the Royal College of Sui-geons, since his kindness supplied me both with specimens, and with many further details of this arrangement, till then unknoA\Ti to me. The joint from Avhich fig. 400. was sketched, was taken from a hand admirably in- jected by him.