43 POLYPIFEIIA. The growth of the horny polypary exactly keeps pace with the development of the soft substance, and even goes beyond it. Bdow the tentacLila the body soon becomes con- stricted, marking the boundary between it and the stem; and soon the polype, becoming too large to be contained in its sheath, issues forth, and expanding its tentacula becomes |)erfectly unfolded. The oviferous pedicles, hereafter to be described, are developed sub- sequently. F/>. 48. Tuhularia coronata, magnified. . a, stalk; h, walls of the polypaiy; c, substance common to all the indi\iduals, whereby they are brought into mutual organic communication; d, limit between the individual and the community; g, the long tentacles ; h, the short tentacles ; k, col- lar formed by the tentacles ; o, ova ; n, a bud ; p, a bud fiu-ther'developed; q, a bud still further ad- vanced, showing intlications of the two rows of tentacles {g, h). {After Van Beneden.) Second mode of propagation^ hy free gemmce. —The free gemmae are produced upon dis- tinct pedicles, which in the genus Tubularia are developed within the lower circle of ten- tacula. They resemble numerous appendages disposed in a circle and forming a crown around the body of the polype, (i^/^. 48, o.) These pedicles grow in the same manner as the buds and the tentacula described above, that is to say, a hollow tubercle first makes its appearance, which seems to be merely an extension of the external covering of the polype. Each tubercle slowly expands, and soon divides into one or more branches, which are all hollow, and the same fluid which circulates in the general substance of the polype may be observed to pass into their interior. At the free extremity of each of the pedicles thus formed a distinct cell is soon perceptible, situated im- mediately beneath the surface, which cell is the rudiment of a new in- dividual, (i^/g. 49, No nucleus has been remarked in its interior. This primitive cell, which might also be regarded as an egg or as an ovule, sometimes becomes organised internally, in which case the repro- ductive process assumes the third or the fourth form, subsequently to be noticed, or else it serves for the point of departure, or it might almost be said the mould for the formation of a free gemma, which becomes organised around it at the expense of the pedicle itself. It is in effect a part of the reproductive appendage that will subsequently become detached ; but at this period of its development it is impossible to determine after which of the four modes of reproduction the embryo will be formed. The vesicle («) now increases rapidly in size, and beneath it another membrane is soon perceptible, which by its inner surface is in contact with the cir- culating fluid. This membrane is the origin of the new individual, or, in other words, a blastoderm, formed by the internal skin, and not by the vitellus. Soon there is seen, projecting from its centre,a little cone (^g. 49. 3, 4), which, compressing the vesicle («), forms a depression upon its inner surface, and the vesicle now begins to assume the appearance of a serous membrane, yielding to the pressure of the organs over which it spreads, and ultimately covers, much in the same way as the pleura covers the lungs. The tubercle (b) will afterwards form the walls of the digestive cavity, and may be seen to have the circulating fluid derived from the body of the polype moving in its substance. Around the base of the cone (b) may now be seen four other tubercles (r, 4, et seq.), which become de- ■ veloped like the preceding; but, instead of compressing the vesicle (a;, they surround it, and ultimately completely enclose it. They carry the skin with them, so as to have the appearance of a transparent vase, having four