SECRETION. 459 ceration of the intestinal glanduloe, which is so frequent a complication of fevers and of other diseases induced by the presence of a morbid poison in the blood, results from the continued operation, upon their own structure, of the noxious matterwhich these glandulae are endeavouring to eliminate from the system. This view has derived important confirma- tion from experiments recently made by Prof. Liebig ; these having indicated that the sub- stances to which the faeces owe their peculiar foetor may be artificially produced by the im- perfect oxidation of albuminous compounds.* The immense relief frequently given by an attack of diarrhoea, which spontaneously eli- minates morbific matters that were operating prejudicially on the system, and the corre- sponding effects of mild purgatives, which excite the secreting action of these glandulae, furnish additional evidence, if such be re- quired, to the same effect. It is obviously important in a therapeutic point of view, that definite ideas should be entertained on this subject; and although it may be difficult to obtain positive proof of the position here ad- vanced, — that it is the special function of the glandulge of the lower part of the small intes- tines, and at the upper part of the large, to eliminate from the blood the putrescent matterwhich results from the disintegration of the tissues,—it v/ill scarely be denied that a strong probability has been established by the foregoing evidence, in favour of such a view. The interruption of any of these excreting processes, by causing an accumulation of effete matters in the blood, occasions speedy death (see Excretion); and Dr. Marshall Hall was perfectly correct in affirming f, that the functions oi^ egestion are more immediately necessary to the maintenance of life than those o^■ i?igestion. For whilst most animals may live for a considerable time without food, and many without oxygen, there are none which are not speedily killed (unless pre- viously reduced to a state of torpidity) by the complete suspension of the excretory operations. In all the cases hitherto considered, the necessity for the secreting function arises out of the changes which are continually taking place in the system at large, and which tend to produce an injurious effect upon the cha- racter of the blood. We have seen, however, that even the act of liberation of effete or superfluous matters is frequently made to answer some ulterior purpose in the economy ; and we are thus led to notice the other class of secretions, in which this ulterior purpose appears to be the principal, if not the sole, ob- ject of their separation. The variety of these, however, is so great, and their uses are so different, that no general statement can be made regarding them. It must suffice to re- fer to a few examples, such as will show their importance in the economy of the difierent animals which form them. The secretion of tears for the cleansing and lubrication of the * Animal Chemistry, 3d ed. p. 154. t Gulstonian Lectures, 1842. ^urface of the eye ; the salivary, gastric, and pancreatic secretions for the reduction and solution of the food ; the mammary se- cretion for the nutrition of the offspring; the sebaceous secretions for the lubrication of the skin ; the mucous secretions for the protection of the mucous membranes ; the poisonous secretions of certain serpents, insects, &c.; the glutinous secretion with which the silkworm weaves its cocoon and the spider its web ; the pigmentary secretion of the cuttle-fish ; the colouring matter se- creted by the mantle of many of the mollusca for imparting various hues to their shells ; the strongly odorous secretions of many ani- mals, which seem generally attractive to those of their own kind, but repulsive to others; together with many others that might be cited, are sufficient to indicate that the form- ation of even a very small amount of some peculiar product may be essential to the well- being of the animal which furnishes it ; by contributing to the due performance of one or more of its vital functions, or by the protec- tion it affords to some important organ. Existence of the elements of secretions in the blood. — The chemical proofs which have been recently obtained of the presence of the characteristic elements of certain secreted fluids in healthy blood, have afforded the most complete evidence of that which was previously highly probable, namely, that the office of the secreting organs is more that of selection and separation than that of conver- sion. The proof is most complete and satis- factory in regard to the chief elements of the urinary secretion ; but inferential evidence scarcely less conclusive exists with regard to several other substances. The presence of urea in the blood was first clearly shown by Prevost and Dumas*, who found that when the functions of the kidneys were destroyed, either by the extirpation of those organs, or by ligature of the renal ar- teries, urea could be detected in the circula- ting fluids after a short period. Similar re- sults have been obtained by other experi- menters ; and pathological observation, in cases where the normal secretion has been suspended or greatly diminished (as in the ad- vanced stages of Bright's disease), has equally shown that under such circumstances the presence of urea manifests itself in the blood when duly analysed.f An interesting case has lately been [)ut on record by Dr. Shear- man, in which the secretion of true urine being temporarily suspended, in consequence of accident (a watery fluid, containing neither urea, uric acid, nor the urates, being all that was passed for some days), urea was ob- tained in considerable quantity from the se- rum of blood drawn from the arm. J It would be difficult to explain such facts in any other way, than by supposing that urea is con- stantly being generated in the system, and * Annales de Chimie, torn, xxiii. t See Christison in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1829. X Edinb. Monthly Journal, March, 1848.