92 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. independently of red corpuscles, in a case of purpura. In the worst forms of malig- nant haemorrhagic fever, however, no trace of albumen may be discoverable,— a fact recently exemplified in our wards at Uni- versity College Hospital. — The notion that purulent deposits may be carried off through the kidneys is one of long-established popu- larity among surgeons ; Ambroise Pare, De- sault, and others held the doctrine : the fact is, however, far from being established. M. Rayer has for some years sought in vain for pus in the urine of individuals, in whom the absorption of purulent depositions of various kinds was effected under his own immediate observation. An abundant precipitation of phosphates with mucus and epithelium will, as we have ourselves witnessed, sometimes produce an appearance most strangely like that of pus, — the microscope and the addition of a little acid readily settle the nature of the de- posit. Pus may, however, actually appear in the urine in cases of secondary abscess from purulent impregnation of the blood ; but it is then produced, we believe, in the renal struc- tures themselves, and is not composed of the originally formed fluid translated (with its pro- perties unaltereJ) through the circulating sys- tem into the renal passages. It is for this reason that the narratives of cases of " ab- sorbed empyema" (with elimination of pus, in substance, through the kidneys,) are, without the test of actual examination of the kidneys, altogether unsatisfactory. — Cotunnius* en- deavoured to explain the presence of albumen in the urine of a dropsical patient, whose anasarca was rapidly diminishing under the use of diuretics, by supposing it due to the direct passage of the serous fluid through the kidneys. But he had not established the ab- sence of albumen from the urine, before diuresis set in ; M. Rayer (as also we our- selves), avoiding this source of error, has failed in detecting albumen in urine, passed concomitantly with the disappearance of drop- sical effusion, whenever the fluid had pre- viously been free from that principle. Secondly : Albuminuria from morbid states of the genito-urinary organs. (1. Functional.) On the presence of albumen in cases of simple hfematuria it is only necessary to observe, that the albuminuria rarely persists for more than a few xlays after the discharge of blood-disks has ceased ; concerning its appearance in dia- betic urine, we shall presently have occasion to speak. (See Sugar.)—The urine of healthy individuals may become albuminous for a short while (for instance, four-and-twenty hours,) after direct or indirect excitement of the urinary passages. We are not quite sure of being right in ascribing the action of certain articles of food and medicinal agents to such intermediate irritation of the kidneys; it is perhaps equally tenable that an altered con- dition of the blood is, in these cases, the direct cause of the excretion of albumen with the * De Ischiade Xervosa Comment. Yiennie, 1770, p. 30. urine. Dr. Christison* "has occasionally known a temporary albuminous impregnation produced in healthy individuals by eating freely cheese, pastr}-, and such other indigestible articles as are known to have in general the effect of increasing the usual solid ingredients of the urine, and occasioning a large deposit of lithic acid and lithate of ammonia." We agree with M. Martin-Solon-|- that when such consequences follow, individual predisposition must be admitted to exist. Dr. Christison has repeatedly seen the same condition of the urine induced for a time (and we have ourselves had cognisance of the same fact) by the action oF a cantharides blister, when it excited symptoms of renal irritation, — That hyperaemia of the kidney of the simple kind may produce albu- minuria, was very strongly maintained by M. Martin-Solon, on the evidence of cases which wanted but the test of post-mortem examina- tion to render them conclusive : the valuable experiments of jNIr. Robinson give full war- ranty to the opinion. (2. Organic.)—It may be considered as yet undetermined clinically, whether the urine becomes albuminous in cases of simple nephritis unattended with any of the anatomical changes peculiar to "Bright's disease ;" if it does so, the impregnation is not constant, and is slight in amount. J — The connection of albuminuria with the disease cf the kidney described by Dr. Bright is, on the contrary, after much disputation, thoroughly established. While the error of supposing mere albuminous impregnation pathognomonic of that affection is, on the one hand, perfectly understood ; on the other, the great import- ance of permanent albuminous impregnation, as a sign of the disease, is recognised. We have never ourselves seen a case of Bright's disease in which the urine was permanently free from albumen § ; but the amount to which it is present is, of course, extremely variable; we have frequently treated cases in which the coagulation was so complete, that not a single drop of fluid escaped, when the test-tube was turned upside down after ebullition. — On the various affections of the urinary passages causing impregnation subsequently to the act of secretion {e.g. pyelitis), it is unnecessary to dwell ; of albuminuria depending on ence- phaloid disease of the urinary organs, we have spoken in another work.|| Thirdly : Albuminuria from accidental admix- ture of genital products. The urine becomes impregnated with semen under a variety of circumstances. The secretion of the testes * On ccraniilar Degeneration of the Kidnevs, p. 36, 183"9. t De FAlbuininurie, 1838. j Becquerel (Seme'iologie des Urines) found a little albumen in the urine in one of five cases of simple nephritis. § Dr. Graves (Dublin Journal of ^Medical Science, No. Ix.) maintains that the renal alteration may, however, exist without albumen appearing in the urine, — an idea to be explained probably, by the occasional temporary disappearance of that principle (as we have more than once seen) even in cases pretty rapidly tending to a fatal issue. II the Nature and Treatment of Cancer, p. 386.