SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 539 few weeks' or months' standing, they may vary somewhat from this description by the possession of a rough surfiice on one side, which indicates the seat of their previous attachment to one of the bones of the leg. The observations of Cruveilhier * have furnished us with a knowledge of the stage which, at least in some instances, immediately precedes this condition. He has shown that, in some cases, the development of these bodies occurs in the subserous or rather subsynovial tissue ; that their enlargement carries forward the synovial membrane; and that a peduncle is thus formed, the rupture of which sets them free, in the articular cavity. There are other cases which possibly re- present a different class, and which are dis- tinguished from these by the characteristics of the greater number, lesser size, and, for the most part, much softer consistence of these bodies. Their general features have long been known to anatomists, and recently the minute descriptions of Bidder-)- and HyrtlJ have added important, though appa- rently conflicting, details concerning them. In the case which Bidder has narrated, the morbid product was removed from the knee-joint during the life of the patient, so that the appearances of the synovial mem- brane are necessarily wanting. The mass consisted of granules, the shape of which was always a flattened oval ; and their size oflfered a similar uniformity, the length of the oval being about one-eighth of an inch, and this about double and treble its width and depth respectively. Their surface was smooth and shining, their colour yellowish-white, and a viscid fluid in sparing quantity (probably synovia) united them into small clumps or masses. In consistence, they were softish, yet highly elastic, resuming their original size and shape immediately after the removal of a flattening pressure. A microscopic exami- nation showed them to consist of an uniform substance, and to be entirely devoid of all traces of organization. Their chemical re- action was that of an albuminous solid ; — viz. they were unchanged by water or ether, were shrunken by the application of alcohol, and were swelled out into a transparent mass by acetic acid. The substances described by Hyrtl differed in many important respects from the preceding granules. The synovial sheath of the flexor tendons was distended, so as to form a protuberance above and below the annular ligament of the wrist. Pressure on either of these swellings alternately gave rise to a predominance of the other one, and was attended by a kind of crepitating sound. On laying open the sheath, its interior was found to be occupied by upwards of a hundred * Patholog. Anat. ii. 2. p. 211. t Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeitschrift, 1845, Band iii. Ueber Entstehung fester Korper in den von Sy- novialhaliten gebildeten Hohlen. X Oesterreiche Medizinisclie Jahrbucher, Bd. xxxix. S. 261. Anatomische Untersuchung einer so- genannter Hydatiden Geschwulst des Schleunbeutels der Beugesehuen am Carpus. small bodies, which in their colour and general appearance seem to have greatly resembled those described above ; but their consistence appears to have been softer, their size less uniform, varying from that of a hempseed to a lemon-pip, and their flattened shape was, in most instances, altered by the possession of an elongated extremity, although others were more globular. The sac itself exhibited very interesting appearances. The tendons, where they passed through it, were greatly diminished in bulk. The parietal portion of the sac appeared to consist of two layers, a serous and a fibrous, the latter of which was dense. (Probably this appearance was partly due to a condensation of the neighbourino; areolar tissue by pressure mto a membranous form, similar to that seen in the sac of an aneurism.) The synovial membrane, where it covered the tendons, was looser than natural, and had lost its smoothness and polish, while in many places it had acquired a villous appearance. In the subserous areolar tissue, httle knots were seen, many of which projected into the sac, carrying before them a covering of the serous membrane ; others of them had rather a constricted neck; and, finally, in others this constriction had increased so as to form a peduncle of little more than the thickness of a hair. The severance of this connection brings these bodies to the same condition as the granules which were found free in the cavity ; but the bulk of many of these was larger, while those yet in connection with the sac were uniforrhly of small size. This larger size of the un- attached bodies was also noticed by Mor- gagni. The minute anatomy of both the free and attached substances was the same. Their surface was clothed with an epithelium of angular flattened cells, and their interior contained areolar tissue and fat, with a grumous coagulated substance. These two normal tissues, however, were not in a healthy state; the fat cells were wrinkled, their con- tents half solidified, almost opaque, and of a sordid yellow colour ; the areolar tissue was alike destitute of regular arrangement and of its ordinary wavy lines ; while with all this was mingled much amorphous debris. Concerning the mode of formation of these substances considerable differences of opinion have prevailed, which may justify a slight notice in this place. The descriptions of Cruveilhier, Hyrtl, and others, leave no doubt as to what is the pro- cess of their development in at least a large proportion of instances. These exhibit them as aff^ections of the subserous, or rather sub- synovial areolar tissue; while the circum- stances under which they are found, such as the arrangement of the deposit in small masses, which are plentifully scattered over a large surface, the aged and debilitated constitutions in which they are chiefly present, &c., indicate with tolerable clearness that they are the result of disease, as contradistinguished from external violence. But it may be doubted whether this expla-