101 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. H 3 or extravasated from the vessels, ever act as a blastema for cell-evolution ? John Hunter, as is well known, held that extravasated blood was capable of organization (by which term he meant vascularization); but his statements do not by any means prove that the masses, as- sumed by him to be simple coagula, were not in point of fact more or less extensively mixed with coagulable lymph, or inflammation-exuda- tion. Others have, however, endeavoured to give support and greater precision to the views of Hunter. Mr. Dairympie*, some time since examining a coagulum (injected by Mr. Busk) seated between the tibia and its periosteum in a scorbutic patient, found its substance per- meated by vessels, which he judged to be of new formation. The form, mode of arrange- ment, and general characters of these vessels, (as we have ourselves seen,) seem to justify the idea that they are really new formations ; but no proof that exudation-blastema may not have been present amid the extravasated blood is adduced by their describer. More recently, Mr. Dalrymplef, not content with ascertaining the fact of vascularization of scorbutic coagula, has succeeded in tracing the progress of cell- development in the substance of such coagula. But if vascularization existed, the humbler grade of organization, signified by cell-production, was to be expected ; and the new observations of Mr. Dalrymple do not remove the objection which in this point of view may be made to the old. Still these observations show very satis- factorily that the presence of blood in sub- stance will not prevent the occurrence of cell- evolution and of vascularization, when the other conditions of its accomplishment exist. J In describing H-Ematomata, further on, we shall have occasion to return to this question ; the reader may refer also to our observations on Softened Fibrin in the article on Pus. Secondly^ the blood-elements comprised un- der the title of liquor sanguinis, sUg'htli/ modi- fied in their relations of quantity and in their vital tendencies, are capable of constituting morbid blastema. By changes, such as these, is educed from the blood the fluid called coagulable lymph, the nature of which v.ill hereafter be more fully considered. Thirdly^ certain elements of the blood, more or less deepli/ modified in essential properties, form the most common species of blastema. And what is the nature of the modification referred to ? Is it physical, chemical, or simply potential ? («.) As far as observation goes, the modifi- cation is not of i^hysical character. Formations the most various (just as natural textures the most various) spring from blastemata having the same physical qualities. (6.) Of the chemical constitution of blaste- mata at the moment of production, nothing is known from actual experiment ; but that it is (setting aside its saline ingredients) albumino- fibrinous maybe admitted as matter of inference from the source and mode of its production. * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxiii. p. 205. 1840. t Med. Chir, Trans, vol. xxvii. p. 70. 1844. X See the author's work on Cancer, p. 51. Scarcely, however, have these blastemata be- come the seat of cell-evolution than, as is fully established, their chemical composition varies very materially ; while the resulting mass is in some instances essentially composed of albu- mino-fibrinous elements, in others it is of fatty nature; in yet others it yields gelatin. The question then arises whether the chemical dif- ference detected in any two given morbid for- mations has existed in their blastemal fluid ab origine, or been eflfected in connection with the process of cell-germination. In the ab- sence of direct information on the point, it is natural to apply for its elucidation to the phe- nomena of healthy nutrition. Now, in the evolution of the Jiatiirnl tissues^ compounds of various chemical constitutions spring into ex- istence in close juxtaposition from the same blastemal fluid. And this diversity of che- mical combination is certainly connected in some way or other with the presence of cells : for one of these vesicles (while the walls of all are, as far as is known, of prottin-basis) may be shown to have fat for its conteiitSy another pigment, another a protein-compound, &c.; whereas, previously to the occurrence of cell-evolution, no such chemical distinctions could be established within the blastema. Chemical changes and cell-evolution are then connected ; but in what manner ? Conceiv- ably in one or other of two wa} s : the development of cells may be (])a mere coin- cidence with the generation of new chemical compounds, or (2) it may be its cause. 1. That it is a mere coincidence; in other words, that the cells are passive, and the blas- tema itself alone active in the chemical changes, cannot be admitted ; all analogy is against it. Thus the importance of yeast-cells in the phe- nomena of fermentation is too obvious to be denied even by those, who refuse to accept the view of Schwann that those phenomena cannot occur at all in fermentable matters, unless through the influence of cells. 2. Cell- action then must have some influence as the cause of the chemical changes, and may by possibility be their (a) sole or (;3) their partial cause. (a) Supposing the cells the sole agents, we must admit that their solid constituents (wall and nucleus) in virtue of an inherent faculty (the so-called metabolic force) form new compounds out of the homogeneous matter surrounding them, this matter being chemically passive in the changes occurring. This was Schwann's view, and he grounded it on the analogy of the alleged necessity for the presence of cells as a condition sinJ qua jion of fermentation in fermentable matters. But, as Henle has urged, the influence of cells is here exaggerated ; cases are not wanting in which organic matters undergo chemical change through the sole agencyof heat or acids, independently of the evolution of cells. And, it may be added, that in the progress of some fermentations, yeast-cells not only do not germinate, but actually disappear, as in the instance of a fermenting solution of pure sugar. (6) It would appear probable, then,