SCAPULAR REGION. 437 F F clavian, external to the scaleni muscles, — an irregularity which is by no means uncommon. When derived from its more usual source^ this branch runs transversely across the scalenus anticus muscle and the phrenic nerve, covered by the clavicular portion of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle: it then traverses the apex of the supra-clavicular triangle, lying above the level of the curve of the subclavian artery, and placed before or between the for- mative roots of the brachial plexus ; passing still further outwards it gets under the trapezius muscle, and here gives off its ascending cer- vical branch ; at the posterior superior angle of the scapula, the artery bends backwards, under cover of the levator anguli scapulas; here it changes its direction, and inclining downwards, runs along the vertebral edge of the scapula. Its course may, therefore, be divided into two stages ; the first extends from the origin of the artery to the superior angle of the scapula, and so far its direction is nearly horizontal, and it is properly desig- nated the "arteria transversalis colli." In its second stage, the artery runs vertically, parallel to, and about an inch distant from, the vertebral margin of the bone. This portion of the artery, which alone should be termed " posterior scapular," is covered by the great- er and the lesser rhomboid muscles, and by the trapezius. To these, and to the other muscles attached to the scapula, it furnishes numerous branches, and at the inferior angle of that bone, it anastomoses very freely with the posterior branch of the sub-scapular artery. The structures which occupy the infra- spinal fossa may here be briefly recapitulated: first the integument and the sub-cutaneous layer of areolar tissue ; secondly, the fleshy edges of the deltoid and the latissimus dorsi muscles, and the triangular tendinous expansion of the trapezius, covered by their respective portions of fascia: in the interval between these muscles, and partly covered by them, lie, thirdly, the infra-spinatus, the teres major, and the teres minor, muscles ; these are con- tained in distinct sheaths, formed by their investing fascia, and the aponeurotic septa detached from its deep surface ; fourthly, the anastomoses of branches from all the scapular arteries; fifthly, the bone (fossa infra-spinata). Around the margins of the scapula there exists, as has thus been shown, a chain of large blood-vessels, which, by numerous branches, anastomose freely at the angles, and on the different aspects of the bone, forming a vascular circle of great interest to the surgeon ; for by means of it the upper extremity is mainly supplied with blood, when the current through the subclavian is inter- rupted, at the distal side of the branches which spring from its first stage. At the acromial end of the scapula two series of anastomoses may be observed; the first, su- perficial to the acromion process, is formed by the union of the superior acromial branches of the supra-scapular artery with the ascending (inferior acromial) branches of the circum- flex, and with the acromial thoracic divisions of the axillary artery. Secondly; an anastomosis occurs beneath the acromion process and behind the glenoid cavity, bet ween the supra- and the sub-scapular arteries. Thirdly; at the posterior angle of the scapula, the supra- and the posterior scapular arteries anastomose, in the posterior part of the supra- spinous fossa. Lastly ; at the inferior angle, a free commu- nication exists under cover of the infra-spina- tus muscle, between the supra-, the posterior, and the sub-scapular branches, aided by the posterior circumflex. Through all these channels the sub-clavian and the axillary trunks communicate with each other, and experience has shown that full reliance may be placed on the capability of this anastomosis to maintain the circula- tion in the upper extremity after a ligature has been placed on the subclavian artery in the second or third stage. The veins of the scapular region merit no particular description ; they are very numer- ous, and communicate freely with each other. They accurately follow the course of the arteries. Those which lie above the spine of the scapula form one or tu o trunks of con- siderable size, which accompany the supra- scapular artery, and unite with the subclavian vein, external to the scalenus muscle; those of the infra-spinal fossa constitute a very large trunk, the sub-scapular vein, which enters the axilla and joins the axillary vein, as it lies on the posterior wall of the axilla; the sub-scapu- lar vein here forms an important anterior relation to its accompanying artery. The lymjihatics of the scapular region are arranged in two sets ; the superficial which pass to the ganglia of the axilla, and a deep set which closely correspond to the course of the bloodvessels, and terminate, as do the venous trunks, in the supra-clavicular and in the axillary regions. The scapular region participates in the remarkable mobility of the bone which sup- ports it, but as its motions cannot be regarded independently of those of the shoulder joint, we refer to the article on that subject for their elucidation. The uses of the scapula may be briefly stated as follows : — In the first place it con- nects the upper extremity to the trunk, and participates in, and is subservient to, many of the movements enjo} ed by the upper extremity. Secondly, it furnishes, by its flat surface, a lateral protection to that portion of the thorax against which it is applied. Thirdly, it is concerned in the mechanism of respiration, furnishing processes and surfaces for the attachment of numerous muscles, which are capable of altering the capacity of the thorax. This latter function of the scapula is well illustrated by cases where the upper extre- mities are totally wanting, in which the mus- cles, passing from the scapula to the thorax are well-developed, and act with vigour in effecting the full expansion of the thorax.