POLYPIFERA. 19 tile tentacular cirrhi; without traces of viscera, and reproduced by external gemmae. Hydra (;?g. 25). Sub-class 2. Anthozoa. Mouth of polype flower-like, surrounded by contractile tentacula, the margins of which are Fig. 20. Polypes of Cydonium protruded, magnified. {After MuUer.y , a, with the tentacles expanded; b, tentacles closed. fringed, but destitute ofvibratile cilia ; stomach forming a distinct bag, without any intestinal canal; ovaria conspicuous, lodged in the inte- rior of the body, beneath the stomachal cavity. Family 1. — Alcyonid.^:. Polypes distri- buted over the surface of a common mass, which is polymorphous, irregular, fleshy, ad- herent, and composed of a suberiform sub- stance supported by calcareous aciculi. Alcyonium, Lobularia, Cydonium. Fig. 21. Cydonium MuUeri. (After Midler.') * Family 2. — Corallid.e. Polypes irregu- larly scattered, and more or less prominent upon the surface of a polype tree or common stem, which is arborescent, fixed by a base- ment, and composed of a solid, horny or cal- careous axis enveloped by a sort of gelatino- calcareous living cortex. Corallium, Isis, Gorgonia, Antipathes. Family 3. — Madreporid.e. Polypes in- habiting cells distributed over the surface of a stony polypary, which is fixed, and generally arborescent. The cells are small, sub-lamel- lated, and constantly porous in the intervals and in their walls (^g. 22). * Zool. Dan. tab. Ixxxi./^s. 3 & 4. Dentipora, Astraeopora, Sideropora, Stylo- pora, Coscinopora, Gemmipora, Monti- pora. Palmipora, Heliopora, Alveopora, Goniopora, Porites, Seriatopora, Pocillo- pora, &c. Fig. 22. A B A, " Madi-epore abrotanoide; " B, a portion magni- fied. (After Quoy et Gaimard.) Family 4. — MADREPHYLLiDiE. Animals simple or aggregated (in the latter case more or less deformed by their connection with those around them), and containing in their substance a great quantity of calcareous mat- ter, forming a stony polypary, which is either free or fixed, and having a laminated surface, or provided with laminated cells. Cyclolites, Montlivaltia, Fungia (Jigs. 38, 39), Polyphyllia, AnthophyUium, Turbi- nolia {jfig. il), Turbinolopsis, Caryo- phyllia {Jig. 42), Sarcinula, Columnaria, Stylina, Catenopora, Seringopora, Den- drophyllia, Lobophyllia (fig. 23), Mean- drina (fig. 40), Dictuophyllia, Agaricia, Tridacophyllia, Monticularis, Pavonia, Astraea (fig. 43), Echinastraea, Oculina, Branchastraea, &c. Fig. 23. Lobophyllia angulosa. (After Quoy et GaimardS) Family 5. — ZoanthidjE. Polypes more or less approximated, sometimes soldered to- gether, encrusted, or solidified by foreign c 2