SALIVA. 4J8 The properties and physiological uses of the saliva have been examined into by a great number of observers, and we find much valu- able and curious matter for consideration in their general results. General Properties. — Boerhaave and Hoff- man ascribed a peculiar fermentative power to saliva, a subject which was subsequently more fully entered upon by Sir John Pringle and Dr. "Macbride. The former observer experimented on certam anti-putrescent qua- lities of the secretion, and found that raw meat putrefied slower after admixture with saliva. Another experiment of Sir John's deserves description in detail. He took two drachms of fresh meat, and the same quantity of bread, and to these added as much saliva as he supposed might be necessary for digestion. He beat up this mixture in a mortar, then enclosed it in a phial, and set it in a warm atmosphere for about two days. No signs of fermentation could be detected at the end of that time, but during the third day the bread and flesh rose in the water, a sediment formed, and bubbles were observed mounting in the liquor. The mixture now possessed a vinous smell. This action was observed to continue about twice as long as in a similarly conducted experiment made without saliva. In the former case the fermentation was more gradual, and when complete the mixture possessed a pure acid flavour, and had no disagreeable smell. Notwithstanding that the subject has been laboriously investigated by some of the most ingenious experimenters of the day, the uses of the saliva in the economy are evidently still but imperfectly ascertained. Spallanzani was inclined to believe in a solvent action which this fluid was capable of exerting on animal matters, and thought that food, when inclosed in a tube perforated with numerous small holes, and placed in saliva, was more ra- pidly broken up and dissolved than when water only was used. The further observations of Berzelius and Miiller tended, how ever, to im- pugn the correctness of this opinion, pure water acting, according to their experiments, quite as efficiently as saliva. Some experiments have been made by Hiinefield, by which he thinks he has shown saliva to possess a peculiar action on fibrin : this, however, requires confirmation. In the year 1831 Leuchs made a most important discovery in connection with the history of saliva, viz., that when boiled starch is added to it, and the mixture is kept at a temperature of 98°, the starch becomes converted into sugar. This action has been since investi- gated by Mialhe, who attributes the pheno- menon to the presence of a peculiar proximate principle existing in saliva, to which he has given the name of animal diastase, in con- sequence of its possessing the qualities of that principle as it exists in the vegetable kingdom, in germinating seeds. In order to obtain this substance the saliva is to be fil- tered, and then precipitated by the addition of absolute alcohol, of which generally from five to six times the weight of the saliva are re- quired to effect the purpose. The animal diastase falls in the form of a flocculent pre- cipitate, which may be collected and dried on a filter. It forms about 0"2 of the whole saliva. It is a white substance, insoluble in alcohol. A series of experiments have been lately made by M. Bernard, with a view of deter- mining what the action of saliva may be in the digestive process. He first satisfied himself that the saliva of the horse and the dog, as well as that from the human subject, possessed the property of de- composing starch into sugar, under the con- ditions of temperature above described. The saliva of the dog, however, effected the con- version but slowly, that of the horse more quickly, but neither nearly with the rapidity of human saliva. The dog's saliva required nearly eight times as long as that from man, and that of the horse nearly four times as long. Care was taken in these experiments to employ the same quantities of saliva and of starch. Pure saliva, obtained from the parotid and submaxillary glands of the dog, were found by Bernard" quite incompetent to effect the transformation of starch. This agrees with the observation of Lassaigne, who found that pure saliva from the parotid of horses pos- sessed no transforming power of the kind, though mixed sahva taken from the oesophagus acted well on starch. According to Ber- nard's experiments, the explanation of this rests on the fact that the power of trans- formation is a property of the secretion from the mucous membrane lining the mouth, for on placing layers of that membrane in contact either with starch or sugar he obtained de- composition, and lactic acid was produced. He thus reduces the importance of saliva, as an adjunct in digestion, to little more than that of a lubricating fluid. Saliva of Animals. — The saliva of animals has not been much experimented upon. Berzelius remarks as follows on the saliva of the dog * : — " As obtained from the pa- rotid, it is a pale yellow fluid of mucila- ginous consistence, resembling white of egg in its physical characters. It leaves 2*58 per cent, of solid matters on evaporation. These solids form a transparent paie yellow varnish on the surface of the evaporating dish, which becomes moist by exposure to air. Alcohol extracts principally chlo- ride of sodium from this mass, and, by eva- porating the alcoholic solution, crystals of the chloride can be obtained nearly in a pure state, being, however, mixed with a small proportion of a yellowish substance, com- posed principally of lactate of soda and os- mazome. Sulphocyanogen cannot be de- tected with certainty in the alcoholic extract, and but a trace only of its reaction with the salts of iron can be observed. The portion of solid matter which is in- * Traite de Chimie, voL viL