SKELETON. G25 the human cervix, thorax, or loins, or sacrum, or caudex, the vertebras of each region mani- fest those quantitative differences. For we find in the human neck that b, or in the loins F, occasionally develops a sur{)lus rib (^5'.444. B and f, 4); which circumstance gives rise to a serious objection to the rule, that " the mammal cervix is constant to the num- ber of seven vertebrae," or that the thorax of even the human skeleton develops twelve vertebrae constantly, or that the human lum- bar region is confined to the number of five vertebrae constantly. It is evident, therefore, that the bodies named vertebrae are quantita- tively different bodies, as seen not only in all spinal axes comparatively estimated, but even in the one animal spine of human type. Prop. II. Evoi the one vertebra is not of equal quantity in all individuals of the same species.— Comparative research proves that all vertebrae are quantitatively unequal entities ; but this is not all, for even when I fix attention upon the single isolated vertebral segment of the spine, I find that it manifests a fluctuating character as to proportions and elementary quantity. The seventh cervical vertebra (a. Jig. 444.) of the mammal spinal axis occasion- ally produces a costal appendage (4 of b). The first lumbar vertebra (e,j%. 444.) of the human spine likewise develops now and then the costal appendages (4 of f, fig. 444.) ; and hence it is that anatomists are still unde- cided whether to name them thoracic vertebrae or not. I do not here intend to discuss those several interpretations which anatomists have advanced concerning the cervical and lumbar ribs, for we should find ourselves in the end as little enlightened about the true nature of the anatomical fact as when we first set out, suffice it here that we fully own to the fact; that the body which we name vertebra is not always equal to itself at all times even in the one fixed locality of the spinal series. Prop. III. All vertebrce contain a greater or lesser amount of certain knoivn elemental pieces. —If we will consider why it is that we de- signate vertebral bodies under one generalising appellation, we will find that it is on account of vertebrae (whatever be their special variety) containing few or more of those elemental nuclei from which vertebrae are fashioned. Thus as we find vertebrae to be constituted from a whole sum of elementary pieces proper alone to vertebral form, we therefore consent to give the name vertebra to every spinal figure which shall produce any one element proper to the ideal vertebral type. But then we must not understand by this name vertebrated, a con- dition of absolute quantitative uniformity* * Tl>e uniformity of a serial line of bodies im- plies that all units of the line of serial order are quantitatively equal and homologous. A series of circles would constitute such an unifortnity, because all such circles would be similar. L^ni- formity, taken in this sense of equality among the units of the series, does not characterise the verte- bral spinal series; but while we see that vertebrae, though not uniform as quantities, are still various only as proportionals of a greater ens or archetype, then the question arises as to how these propor- VOL. IV, throughout the bodies so named ; for to do so would be as directly opposed to natural evi- dence as to understand by the name cndo- skeleton, that all figures so named were abso- lutely uniform with each other in quantity. The truth is that vertebrae are as much varied to each other as skeletons ; but the truth also is that vertebrae are only quantitatively differ- ent, just as skeletons are. A coccygeal vertebra (i,/g.444.) is only different from a lumbar (f,e) or cervical vertel)ra (a, b) by quantity ; and a skeleton of a frog is different to that of a whale by the condition of variable quantity also. But a coccygeal vertebra {i,^/ig- 444 ) is in reality a vertebral centrum (o) unattended with the presence of those other elementary pieces, such as laminae marked 2, 2, spinous (1), and transverse processes (3), which else- where constitute the completer vertebral form ; and hence it is to be inferred that a coccygeal vertebra is a minus quantity, and as such dif- fers in this respect only from a lumbar or cervical vertebra ; these latter being pins in those very same elements which the coccygeal vertebra wants. It is sufficient for us at pre- sent to know clearly that all vertebrae have some elements in common, and that the only difference which appears between them is occurring by a simple omission of elementary parts from some vertebrae, which parts are present and persistent in other vertebrae. The coccygeal bone (i, 444,), being as a vertebral centrum (a) identical with the centra marked 5 in all other vertebra, is different from all other vertebrae simply by the loss ot parts ; and those parts which it has lost are evidently such parts as I find in a vertebra elsewhere posited, viz. the parts marked 1, 2, 3, 4. Prop. IV. The dorsal vertebra of human anatomy is an artificial figure. — The hunian anatomist separates the dorsal vertebra (c, fig. 444.) from its costal appendages marked 4 in D, fig. 444., and by so doing he discon- nects forms which nature has created inse- parable from each other. In nature there is no such ens as the dorsal vertebra (c, fig. 444.) developed without the ribs (4 of d.) ; nor can we conceive the idea of a dorsal ver- tionals have had creation ? It is evident that the solution of this question is attainable only by a rule of equation, which, Avhile it acknowledges the con- dition of the proportional, or the a—b, must fill up or supply mentally (without deference to the doctrine of functional fitness) the ditferential quantity which is to equate it Avith a+b; and this is the mode which I adopt, in order to re-establish the original typical uniformity of skeleton bodies, for 1 shall p'rove that the known quantitative dili'crence be- tween two unequal fonns renders them equal in idea. The typical skeleton of Carus and Owen is an ideal creation, sprung from a rule of comparison which rejects (as I mean to do) the teleological doc- trine of Cuvier, and undertakes to compare form as form, regardless of the difference as to function. The paramount necessity of this ^ill at once occur to the reader, and he will recognise in the truly philosophical researches of the Hiuiterian professor an advance towards the truthful interpretation of the law of formation, equal in degree to the measui'e of this mode of comparison adopted by him. S S