SALIVARY GLANDS. 424 the muscular tunic of the bladder, runs for the extent of an inch between it and the mucous membrane. The parotid duct is from two and a half to three inches in length, and is covered over by a prolongation of the areolar tissue which forms the investment of the body of the gland. This can be distinctly traced as far as the point at which it perforates the buccinator, and here it is surrounded by an aponeurotic expansion derived from the tendon of that muscle, and by a series of glands continuous with the genial glands, the ducts of which open partly into it and partly into the mouth. Having removed the external cellular covering of the duct, its true middle or fibrous coat is observed, giving it a distinct opaque white appearance. It is strong, dense, and elastic. Its thinnest portion is over the oblique part of the duct that glides between the muscular and mucous lining of the buccal cavity, its thickest that covering that part of it between the buccinator and the masseter, the remainder of the duct having this coat developed to an intermediate extent. Beneath the middle coat is the mucous lining, the cylindrical epithelium of which commences, according to Henle, suddenl^y at the excretory orifice, and con- tinues as far as the delicate divisions of the duct in the substance of the gland. The cells of this epithelium in the main duct range from the y^Vo to the -g-i^- part of an inch in their long diameter. The parotid derives its arterial supply from the main trunk of the external carotid, the supeificial temporal, transverse facial, anterior ami posterior auricular : its venous, from ves- sels of the same name. The lymphatics ter- minate in the superficial and deep facial and cervical glands. The nerves are derived from the facial, the anterior auricular, and the ex- ternul carotid plexus. The Submaxillary gland, much smaller than the parotid and larger than the sublingual, is situated in the anterior portion of the digas- tric space. It is irregularly oblong in form, and is enclosed in a loose investment of areolar tissue more delicate than that cover- ing the parotid. Its long axis is directed from before backwards, and is about an inch and a half in extent. Its external or maxil- lary surface is slightly concave, is lodged in a groove in the bone, and is in immediate contact with the mylo-hyoid nerve. The inferior or platysmal surface is in relation with the platysma-myoides and superficial cervical fascia, constituting, in fact, that part of the gland which is seen on reflecting that muscle. The internal surface, which looks slightly upwards, is in relation with the pos- terior third of the mylo-hyoid muscle, the tendon of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid and stylo-glossus. The anterior extremity, which is smaller than the posterior, impinges on the anterior belly of the digastric. The posterior border is deeply grooved by the facial artery and vein, which are occasionally sur- rounded entirely by the structure of the gland. From the narrowest portion of the gland, which would be represented by the confluence of the inner and outer surfaces above, gene- rally proceeds a process, longer than the gland itself, and passing along the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle in company with the excretory duct, but above it, as far as the sublmgual gland in front, with which it is oc- casionally incorporated. This process may be regarded as analogous to the accessory gland of the parotid, and like it varies con- siderably in size and relation to the body of the gland. In a subject recently examined, we found it represented by two accessory glands, the upper or larger being about the size of a horse-bean, embracing the poste- rior half of the lower border of the sublin- gual gland, and grooved behind by the trunk of the gustatory nerve. It opened by a dis- tinct duct, more than half an inch in length, into the main canal about the middle of its upper border : the other accessory gland, very small, situate half an inch further back, and also communicating with the lower border of the main duct by a canal one-sixth of an inch long. The primary lobes of the submaxillary gland are much larger than those of the paro- tid, and the lobules have an irregularly trian- gular arrangement. A quarter of an inch below the part at which the accessory process is ordinarih- given off, appears the commencement of the excre- tory canal, or Wharton's duct, winding behind the'posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It first lies below the gustatory nerve l)etween it and the lingual, and after a course of a quarter of an inch, crosses the former at an acute angle, and again gets below it, resting on the hyo-glo3sus muscle. It accompanies the gustatory towards the tip of the tongue be- tween the sublingual gland and the genio- hyo-glossus muscle to the side of the frasnum lingua, N\here it terminates. In the terminal part of its course it is directed forward, lies immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and opens by a very narrow orifice into the mouth, in the centre of a papilla of mucous membrane. This papilla forms an obvious prominence by the side of the freenum linguae, and is situated above the eminence formed by the anterior part of the upper edge of the sublingual gland, behind the incisor teeth. The duct is about two inches in length, its coats much more delicate, and consequently more extensible, than those of the parotid. Its calibre exceeds that of the parotid duct, and, like it, its narrowest portion is that im- mediately beneath the mucous membrane, and this gradually contracts more and more, so that the terminal orifice becomes so small as scarcely to be visible by the naked eye. The arteries and veins that supply the submaxillary gland, are derived from the facial and lingual. The nerves are from the mylo-hyoid branch of the dental, and the gustatory, but chiefly from the submaxillary ganglion. The lymphatics communicate with the deep cervical glands. The Sublingual gland forms a distinct eminence underneath the anterior part of the tongue by the side of the fraenum. It