511 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. appello cujus contractus animoe representatur; et in animalibus brutis, de quorum anima non perinde liquet, eas partes sentientes dico, quibus irritatis animal doloris et incommodi signa ostendit; insensilem contra partem quae usta, scissa, puncta, ad destructionem usque caesa, nullum doloris signum, convulsionem nullam, nullam in totius corporis situ muta- tionem excitat." * The sensibility of any part must be judged of by the readiness with which changes in it are perceived by the mind. In general, highly sentient parts, when stimulated, are capable of exciting movements in the muscles of neigh- bouring parts ; thus, stimulation of the sole of the foot excites motions in the whole lower extremity ; the stimulation of any other part of the leg, whilst it might excite movements, would not produce them to the same extent. The difference is due to the greater; sensi- bility of the sole of the foot than of any other part of the integument of the lower extremity, and also to the peculiar connection of its sen- tient nerves with the papillary texture of the skin. The anatomical condition necessary for the developement of the greater or less sensibility in an organ or tissue, is the distribution in it of a greater or less number of sensitive nerves. Thus the anatomist can determine the degree to which this property is enjoyed by any tissue or organ by the amount of nervous supply which his research discloses ; and physiological experiments and surgical opera- tions furnish us with abundant evidence in confirmation of the, as it were, a jiriori sug- gestions of the anatomist. The sensibility of tissues is modified by disturbances of their nutrition, and thence in- flammatory affections tend to increased sensi- bility, and will even make parts sensitive which before were but slightly so. Thus the periosteum, which in health is but slightly sensitive, becomes, under the influence of in- flammation, exquisitely sensible. It is necessary to add that the word sensi- bihty is also used, as applied to nerves, to signify their power of evolving the nervous force. Excitability is a better word for this purpose, and ought to be generally used, to ensure a greater exactness in the applica- tion of physiological terms than has hitherto prevailed. (R. B. Todd.) SEROUS and SYNOVIAL MEM- BRANES.—{Membranes sereuseSy Fr.; Serose Haute, Serose Ueherzuge, Wasserhaute, Germ. Membranes synoviales, Fr. ; Synovial-KapselUy Synovial Haute,Germ.) —The names by which these structures are designated seem to have been originally derived from the appearances presented by fluids which are frequently found after death in the so-called cavities formed by their continuous interior surface. Thus, for instance, rejecting those cases * Haller, De Partibus corp humani seutientibus ct irritabilibus. — Op. Minora, t.i. p. 407. where marked symptoms of disease of these tissues precede death, the structures first named, where they offer any contents at all, present a fluid the colour and composition of which greatly approximate to that of the serum of the blood ; and thence the fluid so found names the tissues yielding it as the " serous" membranes : while the interior of the joints constantly affords a small quantity of a fluid, the viscid consistence of which, resembling that of the white of an egg, gives rise to the application of the name " synovial" membrane {(tw wov) to the tissue which immediately lines the articulation, and is presumed to yield it. But neither do these circumstances, nor that of their membranous form, by which the terms at the head of this article are completed, sufficiently express their most important characteristics. A serous membrane essen- tially consists of an endogenous cell-growth, covering a thin expansion of areolar tissue. The compound structure which results from this arrangement of these two tissues is thrown around the more moveable organs of the body, and also lines the cavities which they fill. By thus affording to these two opposed surfaces uniformity of texture and smoothness of surface, it greatly diminishes their mutual friction: or, in other words, facilitates their movements upon each other. It will, I think, be advantageous to defer for the present all consideration of the pos- sible or probable function of these membranes, as implying by that word an immediate organic operancy in virtue of their intimate structure; and to fix our attention chiefly on their mechanical use in reference to motion. In the living man, there are many processes which necessitate changes in the relations to space of the different parts of the body. The actions of locomotion, digestion, circu- lation, and respiration, for instance, all imply some degree of movement in the organs which are their immediate agents, often in the more important parts to which they immediately minister; and, in many cases the protection of delicate organs appears to be partly ac- complished by an increase of their mobility upon neighbouring structures. The neces"^- sity of movement thus comes to be more or less participated in by almost all the tissues, organs, and segments of the body ; and as- suming, what is above stated, that it is the most obvious want for which serous mem- branes are destined to provide, we might naturally imagine, either that these structures would pervade as universally as this require- ment, or that those of similar import which should be substituted for them would suffi- ciently approximate in their nature and com- position to be referrible to the same class of tissues: a class, in which the degrees of re- semblance afforded by the different members should somewhat accord with the varying mechanical requirements of those difl^erent parts of the body, to the movements of which they were subservient. An appeal to facts abundantly confirms