447 SECRETION. viewed by the naked eye, as in the flesh-fly, Musca carnaria {fig. 311. a, 6) ; and generally F^. 311. Biliary Organs of Musca carnaria. a, portion of a trunk and two branches of one of the bihary tubes of the flesh -fly, xaewed by re- flected light, and magnified eight diameters; h, portion of a biliary tube of the flesh-fly highly magnified, exhibiting the arrangement of the se- creting cells, and the mode of distribution of the tracheas; c, a secreting cell from the liver of the flesh-fly, very highly magnified. {After Leidi/.) towards the free extremities the sides of the tubes are so irregular, that they appear as if merely folded upon the secreting cells to keep them together. The secreting cells are round, oval, or nearly cylindrical from elongation. Their average measurement is about '09 millhn. The contents are white, yellowish, or brownish, and consist of a finely granular matter, numerous fine oil globules, a granular nucleus, and a transparent nucleolus. The cells in the extremity of the tubes are not more than half the size of those a little further on (or nearer the termination), and contain less granular matter and no oil globules, so that they are more distinct, and the nucleus more apparent. Upon advancing a very little, the cells are found to be of an increased size, and full of granular matter, so as considerably to obscure the nucleus from view. A little further, we find the addition of fine oil globules, readily distinguishable by their thick, black outUne when viewed in a certain focus. Sometimes the cells become so filled with oil, as to be distended with it, rendering the granular matter and nucleus so transparent as totally to destroy all appearance of the for- mer, and the latter only is to be perceived in faint outline. Such a state I have frequently observed in Dermestes, Ateuchus, &c. The nucleus (fig. 311, c) is generally central, glo- bular, and pretty uniform in size in the same species, averaging in measurement about *025 millim. The nucleolus is always transparent, and measures about '006 millim. The cen- tral passage of the tubes, or separation of the cells in the middle line, is usually found filled with fine granules, and a great amount of oil globules. The biliary tubes of insects are bathed in blood, or the nutritive fluid, and the respiratory tracheae are distributed to them with extreme minuteness, but are separated from the secreting cells by the intervention of the basement membrane."* According to Dr. T. WilUams (op. cit.), some at least of the large cells which give the sacculated ap- pearance to a biliary tubulus are really parent cells, filled with a second generation of hepa- tic cells ; they are, therefore, analogous to fol- licles, save that they have no proper outlet, for we shall hereafter see that the follicle in its earliest condition is probably nothing else than a parent cell. From the above descrip- tion, it would appear that the hepatic cells originate towards the upper or caecal end of the tubulus, that they are gradually being pushed onwards towards the outlet by the growth of new generations behind them ; and that, as they thus advance, they acquire an increase in size by their own inherent powers of development, at the same time drawing into themselves the peculiar matters which they are destined to eliminate from the circu- lating fluids. The ceils, having attained their full growth, and completed their term of life, give up their contents by the rupture or deli- quescence of their walls, and these pass down the central cavity of the tube, to be discharged into the alimentary canal. In the higher Crustacea we find a condition of biliary structure much more closely allied to that of MoUusca than to that of Insects; the Hver being a pair of massive lobulated bodies, each of them made up by the aggre- gation of numerous caecal follicles, from every one of which passes off a narrow duct, to join a trunk that is common to all the vesicles on one side. " In structure," says Dr. Leidy (loc. cit.), ** the caeca resemble the tubes of insects, being composed of a sac of basement membrane, within which, originating from the inner surface, are numerous secreting cells {fig. 312. a). The cells are more or less polygonal in form, from mutual pressure. At the bottom of the caeca the cells are small, with an average diameter of 02 millim., and contain a finely granular matter of yellowish hue, with a granular nucleus, and a trans- parent nucleolus. As we proceed from the bottom upwards, the cells {f,e,d,c, i) are found to increase in size, and to obtain a gra- dual addition of oil globules, until beyond the middle of the tube, where they are found filled with oil, so as to have the appearance of ordinary fat cells, and have a diameter avera- ging '06 millim. From this arrangement of the cells, when a caecum is viewed beneath the microscope, its lower half appears filled * Leidy, in American Journal of the Medical Sciences for Jan. 1848.