REPTILIA. 316 membrane, which is the middle tunic of the eyelid. This is very dehcate and soft, and perfectly transparent in the centre, but to- Diagram of the Conjunctiva of a Serpent, (^^fter Cloquet.) a, eye-ball; b, optic nerve ; c, eyelid; d, skin ; e e, /, conjunctiva. wards its circumference it encloses some opaque whitish fibres, supposed by Cloquet to be muscular. This layer, at the margin of the orbit, is manifestly continuous with the dermis: internally it is lined by the third layer, which is mucous, being in fact the membrana con- junctiva, which is reflected on to it from the surface of the eye-ball. All around the circumference of the eyelid there is a whitish, granular, transparent sub- stance, the nature of which is apparently glandular. The lachrymal apparatus in serpents consists of a lachrymal gland ; of a mucous sac formed by the conjunctiva, into which the secretion of the lachrymal gland is poured ; of an excretory duct, or lachrymal canal ; and moreover of a large and tortuous cavity, which receives the tears and transmits them into the mouth. The lachrymal gland is proportionally of very great size, and is situated behind the eye and the post-orbital ligament. By its an- terior surface, which is concave, it adheres to the conjunctiva by means of its numerous small excretory ducts. This gland is enclosed in a very delicate cellular capsule. It is made up of rounded whitish granules united together by numerous vessels and nerves. The conjunctiva hnes not only the internal surface of the eyelid, but also a large portion of the cavity of the orbit, from which it is re- flected on to the front of the eye-ball, thus forming a complete sac without any opening externally (fig. 232, f). On the anterior part of the floor of this sac there is a single pore, large enough to admit a hog's bristle. This is the puncliim lachri/male, which is single like the eyelid, behind and beneath which it is situated : the punctum leads into a very deli- cate membranous tube, which constitutes the lachrymal canal. This latter passes down- wards and forwards, enters an infundibular channel in the lachrymal bone, and passing through this, arrives at the external wall of the nasal fossa, with which, however, it does not communicate, but passes on to open into a wide tortuous cavity, named by Cloquet the intermaxillary sac. Urinary Apparatus. — The arrangement of the urinary apparatus is very similar through- out all the oviparous vertebrata. The kidneys are invariably situated very far back in the abdominal cavit}^ where they are suspended beneath the spine. They are distinguished from the same glands in mammalia by the circumstance of their presenting no division into cortical and medullary portions, and by the total absence internally of any pelvis or infundibulum, their whole substance seeming to be made up of convoluted caecal tubes. They vary slightly in the different orders in their form and relative size, the principal differences worthy of notice. In Chelonian order they are short, oval masses, of a some- what prismatic shape, or else, as in the turtle {Testudo caretta), they are flat and triangu- lar. Examined superficially, they have the appearance of being divided into numerous lobules, so that their surface has a convoluted appearance, somewhat like that of the human brain ; but towards the centre of the organ, this lobulated structure is not distinguishable. They are situated very far back, occupying a very considerable space in the pelvic region. In the Saurians likewise, the kidneys seem externally to be more or less divided into lobules; they are generally almost entirely contained in the cavity of the pelvis, where they are placed side by side beneath the arch of the sacrum, extending backwards even to beneath the tail, so that they are situated immediately above the cloaca. Their shape is also more elongated than in the preceding order. In the Ophidian reptiles the kidneys are much elongated, so as to adapt them to the slender shape of the body of the animals ; and they are composed of distinct lobes j)laced one before the other, and connected loosely together, so as not to interfere with the flexibility of the body. For the san)e reason the two kidneys are not placed upon the same level, but the right is situated con- siderably farther forward than the left; they are, moreover, only loosely connected with the spine by broad processes of peritoneum, in which they are enveloped; an arrangement which leaves the movements of the spinal column perfectly free. The kidneys of the reptilia seem to be en- tirely made up of convoluted uriniferous tubes, which as they issue I'rom the different lobes unite successively to form a conimon duct, which runs along the external border of the organ, and constitutes the ureter. The common trunks of these urinary canals occu- py the fissures between the different lobes of the kidneys, in each of which they divide very regularly as they diverge, so that their rami- fications have a pyriform appearance (fig. 233, tt). In the embryo and in very young reptiles the kidneys seem to be made up of [)yriform vesicles which are arranged transversely, their pedicles terminating at right angles in the ureter; or else they are made of simple tubes disposed in a similar manner. The