RESPIRATION. 3(51 conditions of tlie red corpuscles can be changed by the action of various agents, such as pure water, and solutions of certain neutral salts. By the action of the former, the corpuscles swell, become more globular, and reflect less light ; by the action of the latter, they become smaller, thinner, somewhat bent and notched, and reflect more light. These changes are apparently dependent upon endosmotic and exosinotic currents, between the fluid contents of the red corpuscles and the surrounding fluid. It has been maintained that the red cor- puscles of venous and arterial blood differ in their external form, — the former approaching in their shape those acted upon by water, the latter those subjected to the action of solutions of the neutral salts ; and this change in the form of the corpuscles has been adduced as the cause of the difference; in colour between arterial and venous blood. Kaltenbrunner *, Schultzf, H. Nasse |, Scherer^, Renter ||, Mr. Gulliver If, and Harless **, have de- scribed various differences in the external form of the red corpuscles of the two kinds of blood, as observed by them under the microscope, from which some of them infer an increase in their power of reflect- ing light ft; while BurdachtJ, Miiller Bruch IIII, and Marchand tlf, have failed in de- tecting by the micoscopeany difi^erence in their external form in the two kinds of blood.*** Those observers who have described differ- ences in the shape of the red corpuscles in arterial and venous blood do not quite agree in their account of these. They agree, how- ever, in this, that the red corpuscles are * Experimenta circa Statum Sanguinis et Vaso- rum in Inflammatione, p. 71. 1826. t Das System der Circulation, S. 27. 1836. X Handworterbuch der Physiologie, von Wagner, Band i. S. 97. 1842. § Zeitschrift Fiir Eationelle Medizin. Herausge- geben von Henle und Pfeufer, Band i. heft ii. S. 288. 1843. II Idem opus, Band iii. heft ii. S. 165. 1845. ^ Work of Hewson, printed for the Sydenham Society, note at p. 9. 1846. * * Monographic iiber den Einfluss der Gase auf die Form der Blutkorperchen, von Rana temporaria. Erlangen, 1846. tt ^^^e have not included, for obvious reasons, among these authorities in favour of there being a difference in the shape of the red corpuscles in the tAvo kinds of blood, those authors who, like Henle and Mulder, have adopted this view without stating that they had personally investigated by the micro- scope the point at issue. XX Traite de Physiologie, &c. traduit par Jourdan, torn. vi. p. 135, 136. 1837. §§ Elements of Physiology, translated by Baly, vol. i. p. 346. 1840. III Zeitschrift, &c. Von Henle und Pfeufer, Band i. heft iii. S. 440. 1844; Band v. heft iii. S. 440. 1847. Journal fur praktische Chemie, Band xxx^dii. S. 279. 1846. *** Dr. G. O. Bees (INIed. Gazette, Session 1844-5, p. 840) maintains that the structure of the red par- ticles prevents the possibility of their assuming any other form than the biconcave in a fluid of the specific gravity of serum, whether exposed to air or not; but this statement appears to be founded upon the presumed efiects of the endosmotic and exosmo- tic conditions of the red corpuscles, and not upon any examination by the microscope of the effects of gases upon these bodies. more turgid and less clear in venous than in arterial blood. Scherer describes the red corpuscles in arterial blood as biconcave, and those in venous blood as biconvex and de- cidedly swollen. Mr. Gulliver states that in all his experiments " the red corpuscles were reduced in size, both in breadth and thickness, by neutral salts, and in a less degree by sugar and oxygen ; while the first effect of water and of carbonic acid was to swell the cor- puscles and make them more globular." Nasse says that the red corpuscles of the arterial blood in the mammaliii, on the contact of car- bonic acid gas, become muddy in the middle, the ring formed by the colouring matter be- comes broader, they become darker and some- what thicker, at least on one side, and they adhere closer together. Harlass gives measure- ments of the corpuscles of the blood of the frog, when brought into contact with oxygen and carbonic acid, to show that they become somewhat broader and thicker when exposed to the action of the latter gas. He also states that while the corpuscles in the former are finely granulated on the external surface, those in the latter are smooth. Theory of resj)iraf.ion. — The actions be- tween the blood and the atmospheric air in the performance of the function of resj)iration are regulated entirely by chemico-physical laws. No doubt the blood and air are con- veyed to and from the lungs through the in- strumentality of the vital properties of the nervous and muscular tissues, but the changes they there undergo do not appear to be in- fluenced by vitality. When venous blood and atmospheric air are brought into contact out of the body, the same actions apparently occur as in the lungs during life, viz., the atmospheric air loses part of its oxygen, acquires in its place a quantity of carbonic acid gas, and the blood assumes the arterial hue. The distri- bution of the blood in innumerable minute streamlets upon the surface of the air-cells, filled with atmospheric air, affords much more advantageous means than can be obtained in experiments out of the body, for facilitating the mutual actions of the blood and atmo- spheric air. From the known rapidity with which gases permeate both living and dead animal membranes, the moist delicate mem- branes that intervene between the blood con- tained in the capillaries of the lungs, and the atmospheric air in the air-cells, will readily permit the endosmose of a portion of the at- mospheric air, and the exosmose of a portion of the gases held in solution in the blood. The rest of our remarks on the theory of respiration maybe arranged under three heads : viz. 1st, the manner in which the air in the upper and in the lower parts of the respiratory apparatus is intermixed ; 2dly, the nature of the immediate actions betw^een the blood and atmospheric air in the lungs, in which a quan- tity of carbonic acid gas appears in the expired, and a quantity of oxygen disap()ears from the inspired air ; 3dly, the nature of the changes the blood undergoes in passing from the venous to the arterial condition.