148 PROSTATE GLAND. minent body, the base of which adhered to the coats of the bladder. It was imbedded not only between the vasa deferentia and the blad- der, but also in some measure between the lateral portions of the prostate gland and the bladder, since they were in part spread over it, so as to prevent its circumference from being seen, and they adhered so closely as to require dissection to remove them ; nor could this be done beyond a certain extent, after which the same substance was continued from the one to the other. This proved to be a lobe of the prostate gland ; its middle had a rounded form, united to the gland at the base next the bladder, but rendered a separate lobe by two fissures on its opposite surface. Its ducts passed directly through the coats of the bladder on which it lay, and opened immedi- ately behind the veru montanuni." Fig. 102. A posterior view of the Madder and prostate, with third lohe ; the vasa ejaculatoria and vesiculce are throwyi forwards. (From Sir E. Home.) a, ureter ; h, bladder ; c, third lobe of prostate ; d, vas ejaculatorium, turned forwards ; e, vesicula semiualis ; /, vas deferens. It is well known that Hunter was aware of the existence of this lobe as a natural consti- tuent of the prostate, for he says, " A small portion of it (the prostate) which lies behind the very beginning of the urethra, swells for- ward like a point, as it were, into the blad- der ; acting like a valve to the mouth of the urethra, which can be seen even when the sweUing is not considerable, by looking on the mouth of the urethra, from the cavity of the bladder in the dead body. It sometimes in- creases so much, as to form a tumor project- ing into the cavity of the bladder some inches." Hunter has given an accurate draw- ing of the middle lobe of the prostate. In the normal state it represents a simple elevation of glandular structure beneath the uvula vesicae, between the two lateral lobes at the back part, and connected laterally with them ; but it varies materially in size and consistence in different subjects. 1 have no doubt that in some cases it is wanting altogether, in others it is of small size; and in many, where it is well developed, it is as firm and consistent as the other parts of the prostate. In one ex- ample which I examined, it was much firmer than the lateral lobes, and of a much lighter colour; indeed, so distinct did it appear that I really doubted whether it belonged to the prostate. I applied a microscopical test, and found its ducts charged with similar concre- tions to what have been so frequently found in other parts of the gland ; this proved to me that it was a part of the gland itself. The best method of viewing the third lobe is to make a vertical section from before backwards through it, and to carry the incision directly through the veru montanuni, sinus pocularis, urethra, and inferior part or isthmus of the prostate, the divided third lobe is thus brought into view, as well as the ejaculatory duct of one side, passing between it and the lateral lobe. The sinus pocularis runs beneath it (see %. lOJ). The urethra traverses the prostate from be- hind forwards, and is completely surrounded by it. Amussat doubted this fact, and thought that only three fourths of the canal were en- circled by the prostate, and that the remain- ing fourth (the anterior) was covered by a cellular or muscular medium, extending from one lobe to the other. This is undoubtedly incorrect as a general rule, for 1 have examined with the microscope that portion of the gland placed over the upper surface of the urethra, and found it identical in structure with the remainder of the organ. The urethra in pass- ing through the prostate is dilated into a con- siderable sinus, and presents in front a trian- gular opening if a transverse section be made. It is not exactly in the centre, being nearer the anterior than the posterior surface ; it is generally said to be about two lines distant from the former, and four from the latter, and seven from the lateral surface of the gland. It varies frequently in this respect in a marked degree. When the third lobe is small and flat it is much nearer the posterior surface than the anterior ; and this is the case where the isthmus ormedium of connection beneath, is thin, a condition not very uncommon. The prostatic portion of the urethra is about fifteen lines in length, and is wider in the middle than at either extremity; it con- tains within it the veru montanuni or caput gallinaginis, which runs along it, forming a conical elevation, and dividing it into two equal portions. Over the urethral surface of the third or middle lobe of the prostate, the mucous membrane is raised up so as in some subjects to form a remarkable elevation, lying trans- versely at the beginning of the urethra ; this