POLYGASTRIA. 10 segments of the compound body, which enables them to change their situation relative to each other. In the next family, Closterium, (6, 7, Jig. 5,) the locomotive organs present themselves under a very different aspect, as, indeed, do the animalcules themselves. The animalcules are incased in a thin, transparent, shuttle-shaped shell, or mantle, (urceolus,) which is in many species evidently open at both ends. Enclosed in this shell is the exceedingly soft and trans- parent mucus-like body of the animal, which is frequently entirely full of green-coloured granules and little vesicles. The shell or mantle, when exposed to heat, is reduced to ashes and entirely volatilized, crisping up during the process like horn. The locomotive apparatus is exceedingly sin- gular in its conformation ; it consists of nu- merous very short, delicate, transparent organs, having the form of conical papillae : these are situated in the neighbourhood of the two open- ings in the mantle, lying in the inner space, and can be protruded externally to a short distance. It becomes evident, on mixing a few coloured particles with the fluid in which the animal is contained, that these are instruments of loco- motion. The family Astasia {\, fig. 6) contains nu- merous genera remarkable for the contractile power of their bodies, which causes them con- tinually to change their shape, and consequently they become very puzzling objects to the inexpe- rienced microscopist. Many of them are exceed- ingly beautiful on account of their rich colours; and so enormously do they abound under certain circumstances, that the water in which they are found is changed to red, green, or yellow, in accordance with the tint of the species which multiplies therein. In many species of this family, contractile proboscides have been found to exist, which most probably form the loco- motive apparatus common to the group. Ani- mals very similar to the Astasians, but lori- cated, constitute the family Dinobryina^ (6, fig. 6,) the envelope forming an urceolus, in which the highly contractile body of the ani- malcule is lodged, having much the appearance of a microscopic Sertiduria. In the next family, Aifioeba, locomotion is accomplished in a most extraordinary manner, these animals apparently possessing the power of making foot-like processes for themselves, or dispensing with them altogether, just as cir- cumstances render it convenient. The Amoeba, or Proteus, as it was formerly named on ac- count of the facility with which it changes its form, seems to have its body composed of a greyish mucus-like jelly, the shape of which is perpetually changing, sometimes shrinking into a rounded mass, then extending itself in all directions as though it was entirely fluid, or sliooting out processes of different kinds from any part of the periphery of its body : its movements indeed seem to be rather fluent than progressive, so easily dees it mould itself to any required form. It is, nevertheless, very voracious, and its shape is frequently found to be modified by the contour and dimensions of other animalcules which it may have swal- lowed. ( 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,/^. 6.) Fig. 6. 1. Astasia Jiavicans. 2. Amblyophys viridis. 3. Euglena aais. 4. Chlorogonium euchlorum, 5. Co- lacium stentorum on a portion of the leg of a monoculus. 6. Dinobryon sertularia. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. Amoeba diffluens, exhibiting a few of its changes of form. The genera Difflugia, Arcella, and Cyphidium (1,2, 3, fig. 7) seem to be merely Amoebae endowed with a power of constructing for them- selves a carapax or shelly covering of various forms, from the orifices of which the fluent body of the animalcules can be made to protrude, and thus become convertible into instruments of locomotion. In Cyclidium, Pantotrichujn, and Chato- monas, and their loricated representatives, Chie- toti/pla, Cficetoglena, Feridiiiium, and Glemu dinium, forming the families Cyclididae and Peridinaeadae, we first find a new system of locomotive organs making their appearance in the shape of vibratile cilia. The locomotive cilia are variously disposed in different genera; sometimes they are disse- minated over the entire surface of the animal, either irregularly or arranged in regular rows ; sometimes they are only partially distributed or are confined to the region of the mouth and anterior part of the body ; but, whatever their situation, their action is similar; they are inces- santly in a state of active motion, either pro- pelling the anmialcule through the water, or causing currents to flow in definite directions, by the agency of which food is brought to the oral opening. Fig. 7. 1. Diffltigia ohlonga. 2. Arcella dentata. 3. Cy- phidium uureolum.