PTEROPODA. 180 ated on the right side of the neck beneath the corresponding lateral fin : the liver is of no great bulk, and forms a nearly globular mass. The organs of generation consist of an ovary which occupies the greater portion of the right side; of an oviduct of moderate length ; of a testicle which is almost as large as the ovary, and of a common deferent canal. The penis is here, as in Clio, an organ al- together distinct from the testicle : it is situ- ated, as already said, beneath the oesophagus, where it is folded upon itself; and when pro- truded, issues through an orifice placed in the front of the neck and a little below the mouth. It is represented in situ in fg. 114.7, and detached in 8. The brain {fig. 114. 7, r) is large, flat, and of a square form, slightly narrowed pos- teriorly : the nerves issue principally from its angles, two of them going to join a double ganglion situated beneath the oesophagus. The salivary glands appear to be wanting. PxEuaiODERMA. — Auothcr genus of the Pteropod Mollusca, anatomized by Cuvier, embraces the Pneiimoderma, which presents many peculiarities of structure, more es- pecially as relates to the position of the re- spiratory organs and the tentacula placed at the sides of the mouth and other anatomical details, so that it will require to be described at length. In this genus, the body is without a shell, having two fins situated on the sides of the neck, but is distinguished by having two bunches of tentacula in the vicinity of the mouth, and by carrying its branchial organs at the surface of its body near its posterior ex- tremity. The body of this moUusk is of an oval shape (j'fg. i l5. 1, a), the head (6) is round, i^g. 115. (1 to 9). Anatomy of Pneiimoderma. {After Cuvier.') 1. Pneumoderma, natural size, anterior aspect. 2. The same, posterior aspect. 3. The same placed with the head doTVTiwards, and seen from the right side to show the branchiae. 4. The same enlarged and shoAvn in the position of fg. 1. The skin is di^'ided and tm-ued aside to show the muscular envelope of the viscera and the pericardium in situ. 5. The same, the muscular envelope and perito- neum laid open to show the ^'isce^a in situ. 6. The same, with the viscera developed. 7. The same : the organs of generation are turned aside ; the stomach laid open and the integuments of the head divided to show the mouth and its ap- purtenances. 8. The mass of the mouth detached and opened longitudinally to show its interior. 9. Interior of the head after the removal of the oral organs, showing the penis and the inferior ganglia in situ. The same letters answer to all the figures. a, body ; b, head; c, mouth ; d, lips; e, their fleshy appendage ; /, fins ; g, branchife ; h, branchial vein; i, am-icle of heart; k, pericardium ; / /, mus- cular envelope of viscera; m, liver; n, testicle; o, ovarv; p, stomach laid open; q, rectmn ; r, r, fleshy appendages to oral ca-vity; s, tongue ; t, u, anterior membranous compartment of mouth; t, t, t, oral tubercles; c, c, tentacles ; v, salivary glands; x, their dilated ducts ; y, brain; z, smaller mucous ganglia ; ct, penis ; /s, opening of common generative canal.