302 REPTILIA. gives origin to two thoracic ducts, or rather to several principal trunks, which, as they advance, form two compHcated plexuses, ex- tending as far as the subclavian veins on each side, where they receive the lymphatics of the head, neck, and anterior extremities. On the right side, two branches pass from the plexus to open into the jugular vein, near its junction with the subclavian ; on the left side there is only a single lymphatic trunk, which opens into the jugular near the same point. Among the Saurian reptiles the arrange- ment of the lymphatic system is as follows. In the pike-headed Caiman, there is a sacral plexus formed by the lymphatic vessels de- rived from the tail, and the posterior ex- tremities under the vertebra, which represents the sacrum ; this plexus is continued along the aorta and the vena cava, the former vessel being in some places quite inclosed by it: this forms the principal reservoir of the lym- phatic system. Opposite the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae, this reservoir receives the anterior triuiks derived from the lateral pelvic plexuses, as well as those of the kidneys and of the loins ; it then runs forward and sliuhtly to the left side, above the vena cava, where it receives the lymphatics of the mesenteric plexus. Arrived opposite the conjunction of the two aortae, this reservoir divides into four trunks, which represent the thoracic duct; these trunks unite and separate again several times as they advance forward : at last they form two fasciculi of vessels, which separate to the right and left, and terminate in the corresponding subclavian veins, having first received the lymphatics derived from the head and neck and anterior extremities. In the green Lizards, the central reservoir of the lymphatics commences a little in front of the anus, by a cul-de-sac, which receives the lymphatics of the hinder extremities, of the kidneys, and of the rectum ; it then ad- vances forwards in the abdomen, becoming considerably dilated, and collects the lym- phatics of the small intestines, and partly those of the stomach. A little in front of the latter viscus there is a constriction which seems to indicate the limit between the reser- voir and the thoracic duct. The latter vessel runs between the oesophagus and the vertebral column ; and afterwards between the latter and the left lung. Arrived at the heart, it divides into two diverging branches, which, running outwards, terminate in the anterior vena cava. In the Ophidian reptiles the central lymphatic reservoir commences in front of the anus, and advances forward inclosed between the layers of the mesentery, be- tween the intestines and the vertebral co- lumn ; becoming much enlarged as it ad- vances forwards, and ultimately terminating in a conical cul-de-sac, opposite the commence- ment of the stomach. This reservoir receives the lymphatics from the tail, from the penis, from the kidneys, the testicles, the intestine, the stomach, and the dorsal region of the spine. A little before its termination in the cul-de-sac it gives off several branches, which, united into a single trunk, form the left thoracic duct. This runs forward between the stomach and Hver, and subsequently between the liver and the oesophagus, to arrive at the region of the heart. The in- ferior or anterior right thoracic duct com- mences by a narrow cul-de-sac situated just behind the pancreas, and receives the lym- phatics of the pancreatic plexus, as well as those from the spleen and gall-bladder. It runs forward above the vena porta and the vena cava; between the layers of the epi- ploon it receives three considerable branches from the right thoracic duct, and most of the lymphatics of the stomach ; it then expands very considerably to envelope the stomach, and becoming again contracted beyond that viscus, it runs forward beneath the lung as far as the right side of the heart, near the en- trance of the vena cava, into the pericardium, where it terminates by a cul-de-sac, after re- ceiving sevei'al branches from the lungs. Three other considerable lymphatic trunks, one mesial and inferior, the two others lateral, run along the whole length of the body from the head to the base of the heart, conveying into the cardiac plexus the lymph from all the anterior part of the body. The cardiac plexus, which is situated in front of the bai-eof the heart, is formed by the confluence of all the lymphatic trunks, form- ing as it were a central reservoir, being com- posed, first, of the three anterior lymphatic vessels mentioned above; secondly, by the left thoracic duct ; and, thirdly, by a trunk which combmes the lymphatics of the lung and the right thoracic duct. This reservoir opens into the anterior vena cava. The lymphatic system of reptiles offers one peculiarity of structure which is very remark- able. Besides the usual termination of the principal lymphatic trunks in the venae cavae or in the axillary, subclavian, or jugular veins, it has been discovered that some lymphatic trunks open into small capsules which present alternate movements of contraction and dila- tation, and which propel the lymph that they contain immediately into small contiguous veins : these capsules are therefore lymphatic hearts. Such lymphatic hearts have been found to exist, both in the Saurian, Ophidian, and Batrachian orders of reptiles, the Chelonians only appearing to be without them. They are generally situated near the posterior ex- tremity of the body, and discharge into the venous system the lymph derived from the most remote parts. In the crocodile the lymphatic hearts are found on each side lodged between the upper border of the pelvis and the transverse process of the first caudal vertebra. They resemble elongated transparent bladders, and commu- nicate with the veins of the kidney. In the green lizard they occupy a similar situation, but they open into a vesicle that