11 POLYPIFEKA. tion with each other, or forms in other words the boJy of the community, and from this common body buds are thrown out, from which ramifications are produced in all re- spects resembling those met with in the vegetable kingdom; these constitute the trunk and branches of a tree, which, instead of bearing flowers, produces polypes provided with tentacula, a digestive cavity, and most frequently a reproductive apparatus. Tentacular apjmratus.— In the Tubularidae the tentacula are situated, as in all polypes, around or in the immediate vicinity of the oral opening. Their number is very various, even in the same species, but the variations in their length are more apparent than real, for their contractile powers are such that they are constantly changing in their shape and dimensions, in which respect they resemble the Hydra described above. It is towards the extremity of the tentacle that this con- tractile power is most remarkable ; and when the organ is not fully stretched out, it is enlarged or dilated near the end, insomuch that some authors have erroneously looked upon this part as performing the office of a sucker. The disposition of the tentacula varies in different genera. The genus Eiidendriiim has a single row of tentacula, which are alternately placed a little more internally and externally. The genus Tubularia, properly so called, has a second row of shorter tentacles immediately surrounding the proboscidiform prolongation which constitutes its mouth, and in the genus Stipula (Sars) there is an additional row situated between these two, so that there are genera with one, two, or several rows of ten- tacula ; the lower row is, however, always the longest, and it is these that are persistent when there is only one rank. The tentacula are arranged in whorls in all the Tubularidae, except in the genus Syncoryna^ in which they are distributed without regularity {^fig. 47). No cilia are perceptible, either externally or in the interior of these tentacula, which, when highly magnified, appear to be entirely composed of transparent cells, closely agglo- merated, and no traces of muscular fibre are by any means to be detected ; their move- ments seem to depend entirely upon the con- tractions of their component cellules, which are seen to diminish in size when the tentacle is shortened, and to expand during its elon- gation, preserving nearly the same shape, whence it may be concluded that their pari- ctes are endowed with contractile powers. Professor Van Beneden indeed compares them to so many hearts placed end to end, which, by their dilatation elongate, or by their con- striction shorten or bend, the tentacle of which they constitute the substance. Digestive system. — In the Tubularidae there is seen, situated in the middle of the ten- tacula, a sort of proboscidiform appendage, open in the centre, which is the entrance to the digestive cavity. The name of pro- boscis appears sufficiently applicable to this part, both on account of its situation and of the changes of form which it continually un- dergoes. In its most usual condition it has the appearance of a protuberance provided at its summit with an orifice of very variable shape and size.* Fig. 47. Syncoryna pusiUa. 1. A little group, twice the natural size. 2. A branch much magnilied. a, the stalk ; b, a bud from which a poh^je is about to be developed; b, a bud which is about to give rise to a long stalk; c, body of the Synconna Avith its three rows of tentacula; d, a Syncor\aia having only two rows of tentacula. (^After Van Beneden.^ The cavity of the proboscis leads into that of the stomach, but neither the one nor the other have parietes proper to themselves, but on the contrary seem, as in the Hydra, to be mere excavations in the substance of the polype. In the genus Corync, the cavity of the stomach is circumscribed, so that each polype has a proper digestive cavity ; but in all the other genera belonging to this family, the stomachal receptacles of different indi- viduals communicate mediately one with another, so that what is taken into the sto- mach of one polype may pass into those of all the individuals composing the colony. Thus, what is eaten by a few individuals pro- fits the whole community, seeing that what one swallows may pass into the stomachs of its neighbours. When we examine a young branch that is sufficiently transparent, a fluid containing irregular globules is seen to circulate in its * Ee'eherches siir I'Embrvogenie des Tubulaires, et I'Histoire naturelle des ditferents Genres de cette Famille qui habitent la cote d'Ostende, par P. J. Van Beneden, ]\Iem. de I'Acad. Rovale de Bruxelles, 1844.