QUADRUMANA. 208 3. The existence of two separate corpora viammillaria, which I found also in the Hylo- hates leuciscus, and which Sandifort repre- sented in the Siamang. But they are in these less developed than in the Orang-cetan. 4. The presence of digitations on the cornu Ammonis. 5. More numerous convolutions and deeper anfractuosities. 6. A larger cerebellum. In all these peculiarities, the brain of the Orang-cetan is superior to that of other mon- keys, and still more so to that of the Gibbons, which offer otherwise so much analogy with it. The plate of Sandifort, representing the brain of the Siamang, and my dissection of the Hylohates leuciscus, have proved, that in the Gibbons the convolutions are not so numerous; the anfractuosities not so deep, their symmetry greater ; the cerebral hemi- spheres less developed ; the cerebellum small- er; the jt>0725 Varolii less distinct; the cornu Ammonis without digitations. This greater perfection of the brain of the Orang-cetan is evidently in accordance with the more eminent intellectual faculties of the Orang-cetan, while, according to the observations of Duvaucel and of S. Muller, the Siamang and the other Gibbons are very stupid. But if, on one side, this superiority of the brain of the Orang-cetan, with which the Chimpanzee seems to have a great deal of analogy, cannot be a subject of controversy amongst anatomists, they would however go too far by saying, that the brain of both is in all points similar to that of man. The following differences may be indi- cated : 1. The mass of the brain, in proportion to the volume of the body, is less in these Apes than in Man. 2. The cerebral hemispheres are less deve- loped, and not so much protracted backwards. 3. The nerves are thicker in proportion to the circumference of the brain. 4. The convolutions are not so numerous, and the anfractuosities less deep. 5. The coi-jms calloswn is not so much ex- tended backwards. About the nerves of the Monkeys, T shall but mention one very interesting modifi- cation, which I observed in the no-vus acces- sorius WiLLisii of the Chimpanzee. It is divided into two branches, as in man, but the internal is not united with the vagus, as it penetrates separately into the larynx. This very peculiar ramification seems to confirm the opinion of Bischoff *, that the internal branch of the n. accessorius Willisii forms partly the n. laryngeus superior. About the organs of sense there is not much to say. The eye approaches much to the eye of the human subject, by the existence of the yellow spot on the retina, but it differs by a more thin sclerotica. The ears of the higher order of monkeys resemble much the same organs in the human subject, from which they differ * L. W. T. Bischoff, Nena accessorii Willisii^ Anat. et Physiol. Darmstadii, 1832. only by a less developed lohulus. The tongue is short, broad, and round, as in man, but it becomes long and narrow in the Inui, and still more so in the Cynocephali. Angeiology. — In the distribution of the vessels and the form of the heart, the mon- keys of the Old World offer a great analogy with the disposition of the same parts in the human subject. But few differences can be mentioned. In the trunks arising from the arcus aortcB, the superior order of monkeys, as the Chimpanzee and adult Orang-cetan, offer the same number and distribution as in Man ; but in the Semnojntheci, the Macaci, and Cy- nocephali, there is a commencement of a de- scending scale in the disposition of the A. innominata, which divides into three branches, viz., the right subclavian and the two carotids, in the same manner as in the Marsupials and Carnivora. It is interesting, that I found also this distribution in four young Orangs-oetan, but that Sandifort observed in the adult the human-like division. In the other ramifi- cations, the resemblance to those of man is very great. The plates of descriptive anatomy which I published on the Chimpanzee, will be sufficient to prove the truth of this assertion. Splanchnology. — No parts of the ana- tomy of the monkeys are, perhaps, more inter- esting than the pouches of the larynx. I have published a great number of observations about them, by which is proved : 1. that they exist in the Chimpanzee, the Orang-cetan, the Siamang, the Semnopitheci, Cercopitheci, Inui, and the Cynocephali-, 2. that they are larger in the males than in the females; 3. that they grow with the age of the animal, and are consequently the largest in the most aged ; 4. that they are chiefly a dilatation of the laryngeal ventricles in the Chimpanzee and in the Orang-cetan, but that in the other monkeys they are in direct communication with the cavity of the larynx, by an aperture at the basis of the epiglottis ; o. and that they are wanting in the Gibbons, the Cercopithecus radiatus, the Cercopithecus mona and Cynocephalusporcarius. It is very difficult to derive any physiological conclusion from all these anatomical state- ments. The most probable hypothesis seems to be, that these receptacles of air, which send their prolongations between all the mus- cular fascicles (^fig. 131), seem to diminish the specific gravity of the body, in the action of climbing, and that they are consequently passive organs of movement. I have offered this opinion in greater detail in my work upon the Chimpanzee, and I refuted there the opinion that they were connected with the utterance of voice. The other parts of the laryngeal apparatus do not differ much from those of man, with the exception of the hyoid bone, which has much of the human form in the Chimpanzee, in the Orang-cetan, and in the Gibbons, but the basis of which is changed into a convex and elongated shield in the other monkeys, in which the laryngeal pouch opens below the epiglottis. In the form and structure of the heart and the lungs, there is no difference between the