667 SKELETON. hind limb, and according to the quantitative variety of these organs we characterise them by the hke names. The hand and the foot are radically the same organs, not only in the same body" but in all bodies ; and the law which differences these to an infinitude of special character is one of a phaseal quantita- tive degradation, and just as from the integer 9 may be proportioned the quantities 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. The distal segments of the scapulary and pelvic members are differenced by the ope- ration of two laws, viz. that which subtracts quantity by its annihilation, and that which fuses plural elements into single parts. In Jig. 486, B. the hands of the sloth present, nu- merically, various different stages of develop- ment. In the immature being, the parts 1, 2, 3, 4, correspond to the metacarpo-|)halangeal series of the human fingers; whereas, in the adult animal, fitness requires that the elements 2, 3 should fuse into the bone 2, and thus duality becomes unity. On the contrary, in fg. A. we find the metacarpo-phalangeal series numbering as many as eight distinct elements holding permanently separate; and I may remark, as a curious fact, that this series of eight elemental parts corresponds Fid. 486. A, the fore limb of the whale; b, the paws of the sloth — immatvire and adult. exactly to the number of those nuclei from which the metacarpo-phalangeal series of the fore-finger of b fg. 484. is formed. Prop. XLII. The stemo-costo-vertebral quantity is a proportio7ial of the dorso-ventral quantity.—Every lesser form which manifests an identity with part of a greater form proves this, and nothing completely truthful but this, viz. that the lesser viewed in comparison with the greater, owes its present condition solely to the fact of its having been metamorphosed from such another quantity as the greater form. In the spinal axis of most fishes Nature develops a series of forms like jig. 487., which I call dorso-ventral, the dorsal half (1, 2, 3, 4) being quantitatively equal to the ventral half O, 2, 3, 4) ; and the distal extreme (1, 1) of either half being terminated by fin processes, the palms (6,6). In the spinal axis of terrestrial animals Nature presents a series of proportionally diverse forms, such as sterno-costo vertebral quantities, &c. ; the dorsal sides of which are not quantitatively equal to the ventral sides, and these latter sides being still further struck proportionally diverse to each other. The difference be- tween the spinal series of the terrestrial animal and that of the aquatic animal being a quantitative difference simply, forasmuch as the former are identical with some element- ary parts of the latter, I here affirm that the lesser spinal quantity of the terrestrial animal is a proportional struck by metamorphosis from the greater spinal quantity of the aquatic animal. Let the comparative anatomist follow me in my remarks upon the skeletal axis of the fishes, and he will find that my explana- tion of the natural law of formation shall not outstep the demonstration which Nature her- self offers as self-evidently truthful. I point to a segment {Jig. 487.) of the fish's spinal axis in that region of the series occur- ring immediately posterior to the thorax. This segment consists of a combination of elemental pieces (4, 3, 2, 1), arranged in sym- metrical superposition upon the dorsal and ventral aspects of the part which we name the vertebral body, or centrum 5. An abso- lute identity prevails between the dorsal elements and the ventral elements. Those of the dorsum terminate in the dorsal fin (1, 6), while those of the vcRter terminate in the ventral fin (1, 6) ; such segment of the fishes' spinal series is evidently a whole com- plete archetypal quantity, forasnuich as it proves to be symmetrical whichever way I cleave it, whether horizontally or perpendi- cularly, provided the line of cleavage passes through the vertebral centrum (5). If I cleave this archetypal figure in the same modes as Nature herself does, 1 produce forms identical with Nature's forms, and create of it species like the species of Nature. Nature cleaves the ventral half (4, 3, 2, 1) of