365 RESPIRATION. The presence of a larger quantity of free oxygen gas in the arterial blood than what is sufficient to form the carbonic acid gas evolved at the lungs, amounting in some cases to rather more than 10 per cent, of the vo- lume of the blood in the experiments of Magnus, naturally leads to the conclusion that the greater part, at least, of the absorbed oxygen is not chemically combined in the arterial blood, and is simply held in solution by it. We are not, however, quite prepared to concur in the opinion of Magnus, that the whole of the absorbed oxygen is held in solu- tion in the arterial blood, and that an inter- change between part of the free carbonic acid of the venous blood, and part of the oxygen of the atmospheric air, embraces the entire changes in the blood as it passes from the venous to the arterial condition : for, if the opinion be correct that the elaboration of the materials of the chyle into blood is completed in the lungs, and that certain marked differ- ences in the fibrin of the two kinds of blood, noticed above, really exist, something more than this is probably necessary. Though the experiments of Marchand appear to prove that the absorbed oxygen does not enter into any chemical combination with the consti- tuent parts of the arterial blood in the lungs, by which carbon^"c acid gas is formed ; yet, while the greater part of the absorbed gas is held in solution in the arterial blood, a small portion of it may enter into chemical combi- nation in a manner hitherto not definitely ascertained.* It is almost universally believed that the free carbonic acid gas in the blood is formed by the combination of the absorbed oxygen with carbon in the blood, chiefly if not en- arterial blood to the capillaries is decomposed during the nutritive processes, and carbonic acid is formed and held in solution in the blood. [Dr. G. 0. Rees has lately put forward the following ingenious theory of respiration. He finds by analysis that the corpuscles of venous blood contain fatty matter in combination with phosphonis, which does not exist in arterial blood, or, at most, is found in it only in very small quantity. In respiration the oxy- gen of the inspired air unites with this phosphorus and fatty matter, and a combustion of it takes place, of which the products are water and carbonic acid, from the union of the oxygen with the elements of the fatty matter, and phosphoric acid, from the union of the oxygen with the phosphorus. The carbonic acid and water are exhaled, and appear in the expired air; the phosphoric acid attracts the soda of the liquor sanguinis from its combination with albumen and lactic acid, and thus forms a tribasic phosphate of soda, a salt which possesses in a marked degree the property of giving a bright colour to hsematosine. See Dr. Rees' paper in the Lond. Edin. and DubL Phil. Mag. for July, 1848. —Ed.] * Marchand (Journal fiir praktische Chemie, Band XXXV. S. 385. 1845) in his experiments foimd that oxygen gas does not unite with fibrin to form car- bonic acid until it has been exposed to its action for some days, in fact not until it is passing into a state of putrefaction; and that, on subjecting to a conti- nuous current of oxygen gas, the red corpuscles, and beaten venous blood, after all the free carbonic acid held in solution had been carefully separated by the air-pump and agitation with hydrogen, no carbonic acid gas was evolved. These experiments invaUdate tirely in the course of its circulation through the systemic capillaries ; but this opinion, however plausible it may appear, and though it apparently accounts for the evolution of animal caloric in a satisfactory manner, does not rest upon any direct evidence. There are no facts that militate against the exist- ence of such a combination, and there can be no doubt that in the present state of our knowledge it affords the readiest and most complete interpretation of the phenomena referred to it, but still it is quite possible that the carbonic acid may be formed during the process of nutrition differently from what is generally supposed. Cause of the change of colour in the blood. — The manner in which the changes of colour in the blood is effected as it passes through the pulmonic and systemic capillary vessels, has not yet been satisfactorily determined. It seems now to be pretty generally admitted that the hosmatosine or colouring matter of the blood is enclosed within the enveloping membrane of the red corpuscles ; that this haematosine, though it may be combined with iron, does not derive its colour from the pre- sence of this metal ; and that all attempts to explain the change in the colour of the blood in the lungs by the formation of certain oxides and salts of iron must be abandoned. It is well known that various substances, besides ox3^gen gas, can impart a bright red colour to venous blood when mixed with it, and without being attended with any evo- lution of carbonic acid gas. The best known of these are solutions of the sulphate of soda, nitrate of potass, phosphate of soda, carbon- ate of soda, carbonate of potass, and sugar. The opinion of Stevens *, that the change from the venous to the arterial hue in the blood is to be attributed to the actions of the salts dissolved in the blood upon the haemato- sine, after the removal of the free carbonic acid of the venous blood through the attrac- tive force of the oxygen of the atmospheric air, has not been confirmed by subsequent researches. It has been ascertained that the removal of carbonic acid from venous blood, by means of the air-pump -j-, or by agitation the inferences in favour of the opinion, that the oxygen absorbed at the lungs partly enters into combination with the constituents of the blood in the lungs and forms or bberates carbonic acid gas, drawn fi'om the experiments of Scherer (Annalen der Che- mie und Pharmacie, Band xl. 1841) upon the action of oxvgen gas upon fibrin, and those of Berzehus (Lehrbuch der Chemie, Band iv. S. 94. 1831), and Maack (De Ratione quje Colorem Sanguinis inter, &c., p. 35. KiHfe 1834) upon the greater absorbing power for oxygen of the colouring matter of the blood over the serum. Mulder (Hollandische Beit- rage, &c. Band i. heft i. B. 20. 1846) adduces various arguments to show that the experiments of Magnus, and they apply equally to those of Marchand, by no means prove that a part of the oxygen absorbed at the lungs does not enter into chemical combination with the constituents of the blood before it reaches the capillaries of the systemic circulation. * London Philos. Transact, vol. xlvi. p. 345. 1835. t Dr. J. Davy and others.