612 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. imperfect and irregular union. The muscles of the dorsum scapulae were diminished, by being thrown out of use, and the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle was entire, but glued down by adhesion." Upon further ex- amination of the scapula and os humeri, Sir A. Cooper found the muscles and the situation of the bones to be as follows: — *' The head of the OS humeri was placed behind the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and rested upon the posterior edge of that articular surface, and upon the inferior costa of the scapula, where it joins the articulation. When the scapula was viewed anteriorly, the head of the os hu- meri was placed in a line behind the acromion biit below it, and a wide space intervened be- tween the dislocated head of the bone and the coracoid process, in which the fingers sunk deeply towards the glenoid cavity of the sca- pula. When viewed posteriorly, the head of the OS humeri was found to occupy the space between the inferior costa and spine of the scapula, which is usually covered by the infra- spinatus and teres minor muscles. The tendon of the subscapularis muscle, and the internal portion of the capsular ligament, had been torn at the insertion of that muscle; but the greater part of the posterior portion of the capsular ligament remained, and had been thrust back with the head of the bone, the back part of which it enveloped. The supra- spinatus muscle was put upon the stretch, the subscapularis was diminished by want of ac- tion, and the infra-spinatus,^and teres minor muscles were shortened and relaxed, as the liead of the bone carried their insertions back- wards. The tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle was carried back with the head of the bone, and elongated; but it was not torn. As to the changes in the bones, the head of the os humeri, and the outer edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, were in di- rect contact, the one bone rubbing upon the other when the head of the os humeri was moved; and this accounted for the sensation of crepitus at the early period of the disloca- tion, as there was no fracture. The glenoid cavity was slightly absorbed at its posterior edge, so as to form a cup, in w hich the head of the bone was received, and this latter bone and the articular cartilage had been in some degree absorbed where it was in direct contact with the scapula, as well as changed by attrition during the seven years the patient lived." The surface of the original glenoid cavity, instead of being smooth and cartilaginous, was rough and irre- gular, having elevations at some parts, and depressions at others. The extremity of tiie acromion was sawn off, to look for any little f ragment of bone which might have been broken off, but not the smallest fracture could be per- ceived. ^ Mr. Key, in his account of another case of dislocation of the os humeri backward on the dorsum of the scapula, writes as follows : — " I found a very stout man sitting up in bed in great pain, and complaining more than patients commonly do under dislocation, and 1 concluded it to be some fracture about the cervix, especially as at first view nothing could be seen of a hollow under the deltoid muscle, the joint appearing round as usual. On pass- ing to the man's side to examine the limb, the deformity of the shoulder became visible, the fore[)art appeared flattened, and the back of the joint fuller than natural: the head of the bone could be seen as well as felt, resting on the posterior part of the cervix scapulae. The elbow could be brought to the side, or raised on a level, with the acromion. Rotation out- wards was entirely impeded, in consequence of the subscapularis being stretched, all motions of the liaib giving hira extreme pain, which was referred to the lower part of the deltoid muscle, in the direction of the articular nerves, which were probably injured by the pressure of the head of the bone." The dislocation of the head of the hu- merus backwards on the dorsum of the scapula is said to be very easily recognised, yet the writer has seen two examples of it which had been overlooked at the moment of the accident, and he has heard of two others. When the swelling, the result of the lacera- tion of parts, has subsided, the nature of the injurv becomes very evident indeed. A gentle- man," Mr. A F., aged about So years, called upon the w riter four years ago to examine his shoulder. He stated that he was throw n off a jaunting car about three months previously, and injured his shoulder, and that ever since he had had but very iniperfect use of his arm. The patient had been educated as a medical man, had practised surgery, but did not him- self suspect the nature of" the injury, when, Fig. 440. Case of Mr. A. F.— Dislocation of the head of the humerus backwards on the dorsum of the scapula. about ten weeks after the accident, he called upon the \sriter. Tiie nature of the injury