SALIVA. 421 E E 3 matism. Donne says the saliva becomes acid in many forms of disease. Brugnatelli found oxalic acid in the saliva of a phthisical patient. The following is Simon's analysis of the saliva of mercurial salivation (it contained acetic acid which was volatilised during evaporation) : Water 974-12 Yellow viscid fat - - - 6"94 Ptyalin, extractives, and traces'! ^.^^ of casein - " J Alcoholic extractives, and salts - 7'57 Albumen . - - - 7-77 This saliva, therefore, differed from that of health in containing excess of solid constitu- ents, arising from excess of fatty matter, ex- tractives, albumen, and salts. The ptyalin remains much as in health. L'Heritier gives the following as the mean of three analyses of the saliva in mercurial salivation. Water - - - 970-0 instead of 986-5 health. Organic matters 28-6 „ 12-6 Inorganic matters I'l „ ]-9 L'Heritier, like Simon, found no great va- riation in the amount of ptyalin. Dr. Wright found a great increase in the quantity of mucus contained in the saliva dur- ing mercurial salivation. He could not detect mercury in the secretion. His analysis is as follows :— Water 988'7 Ptyalin ----- 1-9 Fatty acid - - - - 0-4 Albuminate of soda - - - 0*6 Mucus, with a trace of ptyalin - 3"8 Lactates ~| , i Phosphates I P^f^h I Hydrochlorates f f.^^^ f Hydrosulphocyanate J Gmelin found a considerable variety in the saliva of patients who had been salivated by mercurial inunction. In one case a large quantity of fat was detected by him. He obtained mercury from this saliva. Spontaneous Salivation. — The saliva of spontaneous salivation has been examined by Vogel, who found it constituted as follows :— Water - - - - 991-2 Ptyalin, osmazome, fat, and \ albumen - - - J Salts of soda, potash, and lime 4-4 This shows no great variation from the na- tural standard. Mitscherhch and Guibourt, who also ex- amined the saliva of spontaneous salivation, found no increase in the solid constituents, while the sulphocyanogen and ptyalin were deficient. Simon examined the saliva of a patient suf- fering from inflammation of the pancreas (?). It vvas a clear viscid fluid secreted in great abundance. It contained mucus, and was of alkaline reaction. Its specific gravity was 1005. Under the microscope, numerous oil ve- sicles were visible, besides ordinary mucus. globules, and epithelium scales ; 1000 parts of this saliva yielded 10 parts of solid matters. L'Heritier examined the saliva of chlorosis, and found it to suffer from watery degenera- tion, in the same manner as the animal tissues and secretions generally. In dropsy, with albuminous urine, the saliva was found by L'Heritier to contain. Water - - - 985-9 Organic matter - - 13*6 Inorganic matter - - '5 The amount of water contained in saliva appears to diminish in inflammatory affections. The following is a mean result obtained from six analyses made on the saliva of cases of in- flammatorj' fever, pneumonia, and erysipelas : Water - - - 968-9 Organic matters - - 30-0 Inorganic matters - I'l The proportion of ptyalin was found in- creased. Scherer analysed the saliva of a girl suffer- ing from a scorbutic affection of the mouth. There was a large secretion, forty ounces flow- ing in the twenty-four hours. It was fetid and alkaline, and of specific gravity 1004. Analysis yielded the following result :— Water - - - - 988'8 Casein - 6*5 Fat 0-6 Extractive matter and ptyalin 1*8 Carbonate of soda - - 1-2 Chloride of sodium - - O'T Phosphate of lime - - 0'4 Confervoid growths and infusoria were de- tected in this saliva as taken fresh from the patient. A specimen of saliva from a phthisical pa- tient was examined by Landerer*, who found it to contain a great number of small fat glo- bules aggregated into a viscid mass. These globules exhibited the properties of oleic acid. Several kinds of diseased saliva have been analysed by Dr. Wright, and I shall subjoin his analyses. 987-4 -7 3-9 FATTY SALIVA. Water - - - - Ptyalin - Adventitious fatty matter and fatty acid - Albuminate of soda - - - 1*5 Sulphocyanide of potassium - a trace Mucus 2-4 Lactates - f potash "j Hydrochlorates - \ soda - 1*8 Phosphates - \\\me J SWEET SALIVA. Water 986*9 Ptyalin ----- "3 Fatty acid - - - - -2 Muco-saccharine matter - - 5-6 Albuminate of soda - - - -4 Sulphocyanogen - - - a trace * Heller's Archiv. 1846, p. 297.