SEMEN. 495 it lengthwise, until they perforate the exter- nal enclosure at one end, and now gradu- Fis. 383. Developement of the Spermatozoa in Mysis> (^After Frey and Leuckart.^ ally project outwards (b, c). The number of the fibres thus formed is generally Umited to one. We have, however, seen cylinders which contained three or four (c). The formation of the spermatozoa in the radiating cells of the other Decapods, in our opinion, takes place in the same manner. Judging from analogy with Mysis, at least, we cannot share the conjecture of KoUiker, that the rays would simply drop off and change into spermatozoa. It appears to us much more probable that they are pro- duced, as in Mysis, in the interior of the cell, and that the growing out of rays is merely a secondary event, caused by the circumstance that the spermatozoa formed in the interior urge the external membrane forward with one end, and ultimately pene- trate through it. The projection of the semi- nal fibres, in Mysis, from the cylinder, has indeed much the appearance of their growing out into a thin and long appendix. Thus much respecting the remarkable semi- nal corpuscles of the Decapods. We must still, however, mention the circumstance that the radiating cells in the lower division of the testicles, or in the vas deferens, are generally still enclosed by peculiar spermatophora, like capsules, which possess a round or oval shape, and are often attached, by means of a solid peduncle, in great numbers, one behind another, to one common round or flat jelly- Ike mass. The spermatozoa in the other orders of the Malacostraca, the Awpkijwda, and Isopoda, are uniformly filiform. Their developement takes place in the usual way, v»^ithout the intervention of radiated cells. The length of the spermatozoa, in most cases, is very considerable : in Hyperia medu- sarum in Iphimedia obesa in Idotea tricuspidata tV'^ Gammarus Pulex aV^^- The thickness, on the other hand, is compa- ratively only slight, being most considerable in the centre, whence the fibre gets gradu- ally thinner towards both ends. KoUiker describes, in the spermatozoa of Iphimedia and Hyperia, a thicker cylindrical and oval end, like a peculiar corpuscle. V. Siebold does the same with regard to Asellus aqua- ticus. We beUeve, however, that such an Fin. 384. Spermatozoa of Gammarus Pulex. appendix {Jig. 384.), or this so-called corpus- cle, is merely the adhering remainder of the mother cell, from which the spermatozoa pro- ject. Of this we have convinced ourselves in Gammarus Pulex. It is certainly difficult to distinguish the seminal fibre in the interior of it, but it appears to us that our observa- tions are sufficient to render doubtful the interpretation of KoUiker, when we consider that this corpuscle occupies so variable a position with respect to the fibre, now lying in the same line with it, and at other times passing into it at a larger or smaller angle, quite in the same manner that we have ob- served in the cylinder of the seminal corpuscle of Mysis. The variable shape of the body, which KoUiker describes in Hyperia, and which we have also found, although less remarkably so, in Gammarus Pulex, might also speak in favour of our opinion. The formation of the seminal fibres in the Oniscidce, according to our observation, also takes place in the interior of transparent cells*, which reach -^^-'^—^^o''', and fill up by their number the sacs of the testicles. As soon as the developement of the spermatozoa has commenced in the interior, the cells grow to the extent of -^o^'\ and in so doing assume an oval shape. The contents then usually become rather granular, but the windings of the transparent spermatozoa can nevertheless be recognised now and then. The vesicular seminal elements of Gammarus Pulex, on the * The large egg- shaped corpuscles (of -L'') which possess, besides nucleus and nucleolus, dark gra- nular contents, and which form the epithelium of the vas deferens, but Avhich are wanting in the genuine seminal tubes, should not be confounded with these seminal cells. Similar cells, only smaller (of about ^go'")' likcAvise found in the spiders; but, although they occur in the seminal cor- puscles of the palpi, they are not in any way con- nected with the production of the spermatozoa.