628 SKELETON. and the neural arches (-2).—They are " exo- genous." Now the thoracic rib (4 of a) is also the true homologue of the lumbar mis- named and mistaken " transverse" process (4 of b), for both these structures are iden- tical in every respect: 1st, they hold the same serial order ; 2d, they are posited in the same situation with respect to the other ver- tebral elements ; 3d, they are autogenous; 4th, the so called " transverse process " (4) of the lumbar vertebra (b) is that very struc- ture which occasionally presents to us in arti- cular costal form and function as seen in 4 of F, fg. 444., thereby more closely be- coming assimilated to the thoracic rib of the dorsal vertebra ; 5th, by negative evidence it may be shown that the thoracic rib (4 of a) is the true homologue of the so named trans- verse process (4) of the lumbar vertebra (b), for while it stands manifest that the " tuber- cle " (3) * of the latter is counterpart of the transverse process (3) of the dorsal vertebra, then it must follow that the thoracic rib and the lumbar " transverse process " "j" so called are also counterparts. The lumbar vertebra therefore produces the costal appendage.j Prop. VIII. All the lumhar verlehrcr. develop costal appendages. — That which is true of the first lumbar vertebra and the last costo- vertebral thoracic form must be true of the five lumbar vertebrae and the twelve thoracic costo- vertebral forms, for all the lumbar vertebrae are fashioned of an equal number of elementary pieces. The difference which exists between lumbar vertebrae and thoracic costo-vertebral forms is one of quantity, and the costal ap- pendages of both are those which show this quantitative diflference. — The ribs of the thorax are proportionably larger than those of the loins. In the thorax the costae (4 of a, j%.447.) a[)pear articularly connected with the centrum (5). In the loins the costaj (4 of b, Jig. 447.) are fixed or anchylosed to the ver- tebral centrum (5); but this state of anchy- losis is by no means constant ; and when they articulate freely with the centra of the lumbar * The " tubercle" is, in human anatomy, ac- counted as a process specially characterising the lumbar vertebra as distinct from the dorsal vertebra, in which latter the tubercle is supposed to have no counterpart. t Cruveilhier states, as a peculiarity,of the lumbar transverse process, that it sometimes remains arti- cularly separate, and simulates the costal character, becoming the " supenimnerary rib." Meckel alludes to the fact also. X On referring to the " Homologies of the Verte- brate Skeleton," I find the following afiirmation : — " Each of the five succeeding segments is repre- sented by the same elements (centiaim and neural arch) coalesced, that constitute the so called dorsal vertebra; they are called ' lumbar vertebra;' ttiei/ have no ossified pleurapopJiysesy Professor Owen's " pleurapophysis " is the rib or costal appendage of his typical vertebra. While he states, therefore, that the lumbar vertebra has no pleurapophysis, he means that it has no rib or costal piece. This over- sight (which, -with all respect, I believe it to be) has arisen from the evident error of mistaking the lumbar transverse jjrocess as being the counterpart or homologue of the dorsal transverse process, which, if such Avere the case, would leave the lumbar ver- tebra without a rib. vertebrae, then the elements (4) are as ribs seen in F,Jig. 444. Prop. IX. The sacral vertebrce develop costal appendages.—If it can be demonstrated that the first sacral vertebra is developed of nuclei equal in number, and identical in situa- tion, in form, and in mode of growth with those which are proper to lumbar vertebrae, then we may account both lumbar and sacral vertebrae as homologous with the costo-vertebral tho- racic form. And it does appear that the sa- cral vertebra {^,fg. 448.) is actually fashioned Fig. 448. of the same number of elements. For the serial order of nucleary deposition throughout the whole length of the spinal axis proves that the anterior nucleus (4) of the lateral mass (3, 4) of the sacral vertebra (b) is the true homologue of the so called " transverse pro- cess " (4) of the lumbar vertebra (B,fg. 447.), and of the costa (4) of the thoracic form (a, ^g.448.) and of the anterior half of the cervical transverse process (4, Jig. 445.), All these pieces hold serial order ; all are autogenous growths ; all are posited in the same relation with respect to the other vertebral pieces (1, 2, 3, 5) of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar forms. Now, having once determined the proper identity of the anterior nucleus (4) of the lateral mass (3, 4) of the sacral vertebra (B,Jig. 448.), it becomes easy to recognise the homological cast and relation of all the other pieces of the sacral vertebra. The posterior half (3) of the lateral mass of the sacral ver- tebra (b) is the counterpart of the " tubercle " (3) of the lumbar vertebra (b,/'ct.447.), of the transverse process (3) of the dorsal vertebra (A,^g. 448.), and of the posterior half of the transverse process (3) of the cervical vertebra 445.). The spinous process (1), laminae (2, 2), centrum, or body (5) of the sacral vertebra (b. Jig. 448.) are evidently identical with the like-named parts of all the other vertebras correspondingly numbered. It will hence appear that sacral vertebrae do not differ from other vertebree ; and that it is an error as to the identity of the anterior nucleus