ABNORMAL COXDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. of symptoms belonging to a class of cases of fracture of the superior extremity of the hu- merus, which we have no doubt he conjectured to belong to the separation of the superior epiphysis from the shaft of the humerus in the young subject. In the adult, a fracture through the original line of junction of the superior epiphysis with the shaft of the humerus would be attended with nearly similar symptoms. In alluding to the injury in question. Sir A. C. observes, that in children it is the result of falls upon the shoulder. The signs of it are as follow : — The head of the bone remains iu the glenoid cavity of the scapula, so that the shoulder is not sunken as in dislocation; when the shoulder is examined a projection of bone is perceived upon the point of the coracoid process, and when the elbow is raised and brought forward this projection is rendered particularly conspicuous. By drawing down the arm the prominence is removed, but it im- mediately re-appears upon ceasing to make the exten-ion, and the natural contour of the shoulder is lost. All the movements of the shoulder joint are painful, and the patient cannot raise the arm unless b}' the aid of the other hand. The elbow is with difficulty withdrawn from the side, and the arm requires support. Sir A. Cooper adduces a case illustrating the above symptoms in a child £et. 10, who had fallen on the shoulder into a sawpit the depth of which was eight feet. The writer has witnessed many examples of fracture of the humerus in the line of junction of the superior epiphysis with the shaft of the bone, or in the inmiediate vicinity of this line. In these cases the youth of the patient, and the situation of the fracture, led him to con- jecture that a separation ot' the superior epi- physis of the humerus had occurred ; but he had no opportunity of ascertaining anatomi- cally the true nature of the lesion. The principal deformity noticed by the writer in these cases is attempted to be de- lineated in (fg. 433.), the representation of one of the plaster casts which he has preserved of one out of many of these cases. The pro- minence here delineated is found to be owing to a very remarkable projection forwards of the upper extremity of the inferior fragment of the humerus. This was best seen by view- ing the shoulder in profile, or sidewise. The antero-posterior measurement of the shoulder was much increased. Sir A. Cooper, in re- ference to the cases he has seen of this kind, observes, that when the shoulder is examined a projection of bone is perceived "at the front of the coracoid process in four cases which the writer has witnessed, the projection of bone formed by the superior extremity of the lower fragment of the humerus was situated exactly in the centre of a line stretching an- teriorly from the acromio-clavicular articula- tion to the lower margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. This remarkable projection of the bone, formed by the lower fragment, was in two cases engageil in the deeper lasers of the integuments covering the deltoid muscle near to its anterior margin, and hence the deltoid muscle must have been itself per- forated. In these latter cases it was found impossible to disengage the bone from its faulty position, or from the fibres of the deltoid Fig. 433. Case of C. Austin. Fracture of the humerits in or near the line of Junction of the epiphysis. muscle, and deeper layer of the integuments. The following case of the above description has been recently seen by the writer. Case.—Fracture through the humerus imme- diatehj below the tuberosities^ or through the original line of junction of the epiphysis and shaft of this bone. — Charles Austin, aged 14 years, on the morning of the 12th April, 1S46, fell from a height of seven feet otF a ladder, and was thrown on the posterior part of his left shoulder on uneven ground. He was not seen until next morning, when the injured shoulder presented the following appearances * ; — ** There was a great deal of ecchymosis and swelling about the joint: the acromion process appeared pro- minent, and in viewing the shoulder sidewise the measurement of its antero-posterior diame- ter appeared greatly increased. The patient supported the hand and fore-arm of the injured arm with the opposite hand; the elbow was slightly abtiucted, but it could be readily pressed against the side. He couhl not him- self make the least effort to move the arm, and the attempt to raise it from the side, or to deprive it, even for a moment, of the sup- port of the right hand, was productive of much pain. On placing one hand over the joint, and rotating the humerus with the other, * For the notes of this case, the writer is obliged to ^Ir. W. Court, resident surgeon to Steeven's Hos- pital, with whom he examined it.