465 SECRETIOX. When the child is applied to the breast, a sudden turgescence is experienced in the organ, known to nurses as "the draught:" this is probably due to an increased afflux of blood, produced by the mental state, as in ordinary blushing. The "draught" will often take place, and the secretion begin to flow spontaneously from the ducts, at the mere sight of the infanf, or at the thought of him when absent, especially if this be associated with the idea of nursing. Analogous phenom- ena are observed in domesticated Mammalia. Thus a good milch-cow will yield far more at a single milking, than the udder could have contained, so that the secretion must have been rapidly formed during the process. There are certain breeds of cows which will only yield milk when their calves are in sight; and in some instances if a calf should die, its skin is placed over a living calf, the presence of which has the same effect. The most curious instances, however, of the power of irritation of the nipple and of mental emotions to excite the secretion, are those in which its production has long ceased, or has never taken place. Numerous cases are on record in which young women who have not borne children, and even old women past the period of child-bearing, have had such a copious flow of milk, as to be able to act as nurses. In all these instances, the flow appears to have been brought on, in the first instance, by the con- tinued suction of the child, which had been applied to the breast to pacify it; or by the influence of strong mental emotions, or by both causes combined. It has been lately mentioned by Dr. Mc. William*, that the in- habitants of Bona Vista (one of the Cape de Verd islands) are accustomed to provide a wet nurse in cases of emergency, in the person of ally woman who has once borne a child, and is still within the age of child-bearing, by continued fomentation of the mammae with a decoction of the leaves of the jatropha ciircas, and by suction of the nipple. Still more re- markable proofs of the same influence are furnished by the cases, of which several have now been narrated by credible witnesses, in which males have acted as efficient nurses, f The following, related by Dr. DunglisonJ, is one of the most recent and at the same time most satisfactory upon record ; " Pro- fessor Hall, of the University of Maryland, exhibited to his obstetrical class, in the year 1837, a coloured man, fiftv-five years of age, who had large, soft, weil-formed manmiae, rather more conical than those of the female, and projecting fully seven inches from the chest ; with perfect and large nipples. The glandular structure seemed to the touch to be exactly like that of the female. This man had -/ificiated as wet nurse, for several years, * Report of tlie Xiger Expedition, t See tlie case described by tlie Bishop of Cork in Phil. Trans, vol, xli, p. 813.; one mentioned by Capt. Franklin (Narrative of a Journey to the Polar Sea, p. 157,); and one witnessed by Humboldt (Personal Narrative, vol. iii, p. 58.). X Physiology, vol, ii. p. 417. VOL. IV. in the family of his mistress ; and he repre- sented that the secretion of milk was induced by applying the children intrusted to his care to the breasts during the night. When the milk was no longer required, great difficuhy was experienced in arresting the secretion. His genital organs were fully developed." Corresponding facts are also recorded of the male of several of the lower animals. The secretion of milk may be entirely checked by mental emotions, especially those having reference to the offspring. Thus a mother sees her infant in sudden danger, either from illness or accident; the secretion is entirely suspended, and does not return until the child, having been restored to her safe and sound, is applied to the breast. The death of the infant will^ frequently occasion the sudden and complete cessation of the secretion. The same result will sometimes happen from powerful emotions unconnected with the infant: thus Sir A. Cooper mentions two instances in which the secretion, though previously abundant, was suddenly arrested by terror. It has been observed by medical men who practise much among the poor, that the apprehension of the brutal conduct of a drunken husband will put a stop for the time to the secretion of milk ; the breast feels hard and knotted, and flaccid from the ab- sence of the fluid ; and some time elapses before the proper amount returns. It mav be stated, generally, that whilst a tranquil, cheer- ful state of mind has a tendency to increase the secretion, the depressing emotions chminish it. The mere increase or diminution of the secretion, from an influence communicated through the nerves, may possibly be accounted for by the influence they seem to exercise over the cahbre of the smaller arteries, as shown in the act of blushing, to which " the draught" seems to have considerable resem- blance. But no such explanation accounts for the imi)ortant fact, that not only the quan- tity but the quality of the milk is changed by mental emotions. Grief, anxiety, fits of anger, or a continual fretfulness, tend to render the milk thin and serous, and to impart to it qualities that excite intestinal irritation, griping, and fever in the child that ingests it. It might be difficult to detect any noxious elements in it by chemical analysis ; but the effect of the fluid upon the delicate system of the infant is a sure indication of their ex- istence. With this knowledge, derived from almost daily observation, we can have no reasonable ground for refusing to credit ac- counts of still more remarkable results pro- ceeding from the influence of mental emotion on the mammary secretion, such as the fol- lowing:—" A carpenter fell into a quarrel with a soldier billeted in his house, and was set upon by the latter with his drawn sword. The wife of the carpenter at first trembled from fear and terror, and then suddenly threw herself furiously between the com- batants, wrested the sword from the soldier's hand, broke it in pieces, and threw it away. Daring the tumult, some neighbours came in H H