REPTILIA. 324 period the vitelline sac, together with its re- maining contents, is gradually taken into the cavity of the abdomen through the umbilical aperture, and before the egg is hatched has entirely disappeared. In Fig. 246. the condition of these parts is Fig. 245. Vitelline apparatus of the Fetus of a Viper at a more advanced period, showing the Yolk partially entered into the Abdominal Cavity. a, the yolk-bag; b, the amnion; a', portion of the yolk-bag which has passed through the um- bilical canal into the cavity of the abdomen; d, d, ductus vitello-intestinalis running forward to open into the intestine; g, continuation of intestinal tube; k, the kidney. Fig. 246. T%e Embryo of a Viper Just before it is hatched, showing the Condition of the Vitelline System at this Feriod. The letters a, c, g, h, 1, indicate the same parts as in fig. 244.; h, remains of the vitelline sac, taken out of the abdominal ca\aty, in which it had now become completely closed; d, the ductus vitello- intestinalis shrunk into a very short canal; /, /, the stomach; h, i, rudiments of the ovaria; k, the kidney. represented as they appear just before the egg is hatched, the vitelline sac being already completely introduced into the abdominal cavity ; the yolk of the egg, b, now reduced to a very small size, is now seen to commu- nicate with the intestine^ by the extremely short passage, d, to which the long ductus vitello-intestinalis, represented in Fig. 244., is now reduced. Tegument art/ System.— In all reptiles the blood is cold, and the general temperature of the body corresponds with the imperfectly oxygenated state of the circulating fluid; instead, therefore, of being clothed in hair or feathers, their bodies are invested with plates or scales of horny cuticle, better adapted to their manner and mode of life. In lizards the cuticular covering is cast off at intervals in small detached portions; but in serpents, where it forms a thin continuous stratum that envelopes the whole surface of the body, it is cast off in a single piece. Beneath the cuticle, the skin of reptiles presents the usual structure, consisting of the corium, and of an interposed mucous layer, upon which the various colours of the surface of the body depend, which in some species are of great brilliancy. The chameleon and other lizards are remark- able for the changes of colour of which the surface of the body is susceptible, in accord- ance with the intensity of the light to which it is exposed, or the nature of the locality in which it happens to be placed. These changes seem to a considerable extent to be voluntary, and under the control of the animal; and various hypotheses have been framed in order to account for them, but without any very satisfactory result. In the rattlesnakes (Crotalus) the cuticle in the vicinity of the tail presents a very peculiar modification of structure; instead of forming imbricated scales, as in other parts of the body, it is arranged in a series of rings loosely connected together, so as to constitute the remarkable rattle which cha- racterises these dangerous snakes. This singular organ is made up of many pieces, from one to thirty or more, which are per- fectly similar to each other in their form, and are articulated together by a very beautiful mechanism. The piece of the rattle immediately con- nected with the body seems to be moulded on the last vertebra of the tail, which it en- closes, and from which it is only separated by an interposed layer of the dermis or true skin, by which it is secreted. Its surface presents three circular elevations correspond- ing to three protuberances : of these the first, or that nearest to the body of the animal, is the largest; the other two rings are encased in the succeeding piece, which is connected