151 PROSTATE GLAND. L 4 liquor prostaticus is not incompatible with the existence of calculous concretions of the phosphatic species in the follicles of the gland, I have proved by repeated examination. Utriculus prostaticKS. Vesicula spermatica spuria. Vesica prostatica. Sinus pocularis. — At the anterior part of the most elevated por- tion of the veru montanum, we find an open- ing in the mesial line one-third or half a line broad, leading backwards to a small bag re- sembling a bottle in figure, of variable length and breadth: it'is generally known by the name of the sinus pocidaris, but has received Fig. 105. a, bladder ; b, middle lobe of prostate ; c, view of the left side of the utriculus prostaticus ; d, bristle in left vas ejaculatorium. also the designations here mentioned. In most cases in which I have examined it, it forms a canal, terminating in a blind extremitv, and usually is not more than three or four lines long. I have found it an inch in length. The opening, which faces obliquely forwards, will just admit the point of a small catheter or bougie. Some surgical interest is attached to this structure, because it has been stated by writers on urethral diseases that an instru- ment is liable to catch in it when an attempt is made to pass it into the bladder ; but I be- lieve this very rarely happens, as the beak of the catheter is usually kept against the an- terior surface of the urethra, when it is made to traverse the prostatic portion, and it is therefore carried well above this little pouch : if, however, such an accident should be sus- pected to have occurred, a gentle withdrawal of the instrument and depression of the han- dle are quite sufficient to clear the impedi- ment referred to. But much physiological importance attaches to this sinus, for reasons which we shall presently see. Buschke de- scribes it in the following manner; — It com- mences by a narrow portion, resembling a neck, which forms about half its length, be- hind which it swells out into a round mem- branous vesicle or fundus ; between these two portions there is often a constriction. It penetrates the posterior surface of the pros- tate gland, so that the middle lobe is situated in front of its fundus. Its parietes are thinner at the fundus than at the neck, and are usually about one-fourth of a line in thick- ness. On either side a vas ejaculatorium is inclosed within its wall; so that, in point of fact, these ducts do not penetrate the glan- dular substance of the prostate. Its walls are composed of two layers, an external, fibrous and strong ; an internal, of a mucous charac- ter : the latter is covered by small nuicous glands, arranged closely together, with open- ings of about the twenty-fifth of a line in diameter. These glands resemble minute warts, each with a small opening on its apex. They cannot be confounded with the orifices of the prostatic ducts, as these always open external to this pouch, around the veru mon- tanum. About its neck larger glandular open- ings are perceptible. The nature of the se- cretion of these glands is not known. Great physiological interest attaches to the utriculus, from its having been sufjposed by anatomists to be the true representative of the uterus. Its homology with this body is evinced by its shape, and position betw een the two ejaculatory ducts, although the latter do not open into it, as the fallopian tubes do into the uterus ; thus it resembles the latter body by its division into a neck and fundus, by its being surrounded by the prostatic ducts, as the uterus is at its orifice by the follicles there situated, and by the veru montanum forming to its orifice a prolonged inferior labium ; and if, as some anatomists assert, the ejaculatory ducts occasionally open directly into the pouch, or previously unite together, the parallel is infinitely more perfect. Morgagni has g'ven a description and figure of the utriculus as he found it in five subjects which he examined. Ackerman also described it, and termed it uterus cystoides, and mentions instances described by Petit, Sue, and Maret, where it was an inch in extent. In one case mentioned by himself, it was actually larger than the prostate gland. E. H. Weber pointed out its physiological interest as a rudimentary uterus, and Huschke, has found it filled with a yellowish liquid, in which he distinctly re- cognised portions of cylindrical epithelium.* The best description I can find of this struc- ture, is that by Huschke who examined it in the hare. He found it in this animal in the form of a bottle, fifteen lines in lerigth and half an inch in breadth, extending behind the bladder. It commenced by a simple transverse fissure, from a line to a line and a half in breadth, over the veru montanum. It gradually dilated for about half an inch, and becoming contracted, it was again dilated, and terminated in a point rather to the left side. The vasa deferentia were situated by the side of the utriculus, and gradually ap- proximating, they opened within a line of each other in the utriculus, at about a line and a half or two lines from its orifice, by two large papillary openings ; so that when air was injected by one vas deferens, it not only escaped from the opening of the utricu- lus, but filled its cavity, and passed into the other. Huschke supposes that the utriculus in this animal always contains semen, as the existence of spermatozoa, and the appearance of the fluid indicate. In an anatomical point of view, he does not consider it at all analogous * See note to " Huschke, in Encyclope'die Auato- mique^traduit de I'Allemand par A. J. L. Jourdau."