SKELETON. 638 thoracic costo-vertebral figure, have I not a proof of the truth of this reading in the fact, that this twentieth spinal vertebra in one spine presents in lumbar form, and in another spine in thoracic costo-vertebral form. How much closer can we urge the science of com- parison to yield to us the secret of nature's law of formation than by comparing the same numerical vertebra with itself, and discovering that it is proportionally diverse in several individuals of one and the same species ? If, therefore, the same vertebra be in many indi- viduals in all those same conditions of pro- portional variety in which we find all vertebras throughout the serial order of the one spinal axis from atlas to the last coccygeal no- dule,— if this same vertebra (seventh) shall prove, upon a comparison of it in many ani- mal skeletons, of the same variable propor- tions as we find to exist between a cervical, a thoracic, a lumbar, a sacral, and a coccy- geal vertebra in the same spine, it must be evident that the law which governs the pro- portional variety of the same vertebra in many animals is the same as the law which governs the proportional variety of all ver- tebrae in the one animal. So true is this that I hold it to be possible to take the same spinal vertebrae of normal and abnormal con- dition from a plurality of skeletons, and construct with them a spine of the same quantitative variety as it exhibits in the serial line of cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and caudal vertebral regions. Prop. XXX. The anomaly is a link in the chain of form.—False interpretation of the law of form is the source of all those conditions which are spoken of as being anomalous to the law. When anatomists name cervical or lumbar ribs as being anomalous to the human neck or loins, it is a proof that they do not under- stand the law of development which governs the human and all the general connected chain of special variety. The anomaly (6 a offig. 458.) is to the normal form of the same cervical vertebra of fig. 455. just what one normal form (19 6, j^g. 458.) is to the other before or behind it in series. The cervical and lumbar ribs are to the cervical and lum- bar vertebrae just what the thoracic ribs are to the thoracic vertebrae. And the seventh cer- vical and first lumbar vertebrae, whether these produce the rib in plus or in rudimental form, are to each other just what ordinary cervical and lumbar vertebras are to thoracic costo- vertebral archetypes, namely lesser quantities metamorphosed from greater quantities. Hence does it plainly appear that normal as well as abnormal cervical and lumbar vertebrae are alike only proportionally various to tho- racic costo-vertebral archetypes, and hence may it be understood that all variety, whether normal or abnormal, springs by the simple metamorphosis of the archetypes, indicated in dotted lines at the neck and loins of fig. 455. While human anatomists falsely interpret the ordinary cervical and lumbar vertebrae as being whole quantities, then every elemental structure which occurs plus upon a cervical or lumbar vertebra, will by them be named " anomalous."* Cervical and lumbar ribs are thus accounted anomalies. But when we shall regard cervical and lumbar vertebrae through the medium of the idea here enter- tained of them, viz. that they are lesser things degraded, proportioned, or metamorphosed from greater whole quantities, such as costo- vertebral archetypes, then may we reasonably know the origin of cervical and lumbar ribs, and interpret these as being larger propor- tionals of the costo-vertebral archetypes than what we ordinarily find in cervical or lumbar regions.f Prop. XXXI. All the spinal segments of all classes and species of vertebrated animals are only as the variable projjoj'tionals of sterno- costo-vertebral archetypes. — A comparison of those several regions of the spinal axes re- presented in fig. 459. will prove the truth of the assertion, that the law of formation by which all skeletal species are produced, and the law which produces the regional variety of cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral, and caudal in the one skeletal axis, are one and the same in operation. When I take the cervical spine of a bird (a b) (the ostrich), and com- pare it with the lumbar spine (c d) of the same animal, I find that both regions of the same spine present the like proportional cha- racter. The segment (b, a,b,c, d), which is the thoracic sterno-costo-vertebral archetype or whole quantity, is preceded by a series of pro- portional quantities gently graduated and de- clining into the cervical minus figure marked A, a. In like manner (c, a, b, c) the arche- typal sterno-costo vertebral quantity, the last of the thoracic region, is succeeded by a series of proportional quantities, graduated in the same way, and declining into the lumbar minus figure marked d, a. Again, when I compare the human cervical spinal region (e f) which " anomalously " produces cervical ribs, with A B of the bird's cervix, which normally de- velopes the cervical ribs, I only find a mani- festation of the same law. And the bird's lum- bar spine (g h) is only in the same way pro- portionally characterised as the bird's neck (a b), or the mammal neck (ef), or the * " La loi cle la continuite porte que la nature ne laisse point de vide (anomalie) dans I'ordi-e qu'elle suite." Leibnitz, (Euv. Pliilos. Nouv. Essais, liv. iii. p. 267. f The continuity of the chain, not only of an animal kingdom, but even of the serial spinal axis, is so evident a tnith, and so sound a generalisation, that when any fonn shall appear abruptly inter- rupting this continuity, and, as it were separating members of the chain apart and isolated fi-om each other, it may be taken for granted that we are ignorant of its tnie nature, and its general and special relations to all other miits of the series. The true object of science is the discovery of such points of analogy as will relate the anomalous form to the general chain of which it is a unit. The differential character of the thing or things is that which strikes the uninitiated at tirst sight always. " Itaque convertenda plane est opera ad inquirendas et notandas rerum similitudines et analoga, tarn in- tegralibus quam partibus: illas enim sunt, qufe naturam uniunt, et constituere scientias incipiunt." — Bacon, No\Tim Organum, aph. xxvi.