304 REPTILIA. 3. A little artery appropriated to the sub- clavian muscle. The subclavian then bifurcates to form a large ascending branch, and a smaller ex- ternal branch. From the ascending branch arise — 4. The superior cervical (vertebral of Bqjanus) which supplies the muscles of the superior region of the neck, gives off some spinal branches, and at length becomes con- founded with the cervical recurrent. o. Two small spinal branches for the vertebrae of the neck. 6. An intercostal branch, which divides to form the two anterior intercostals. 7. The ascending branch of the subclavian then turns downwards and backwards to form the analogue of the internal mammary, which runs along the external margin of the carapax, receives in succession the intercostal arteries, and ultimately becomes continuous with the epigastric. 8. The external branch, which is the con- tinuation of the subclavian, gives off several arteries to the muscles of the shoulder, and to the great pectoral muscle, and then termi- nates by becoming the axillary arterv, which, after giving off twigs to the muscles of the shoulder, becomes in turn the brachial artery. This latter immediately gives oft^ three branches analogous to the drcinvfJex. and to the profunda humeri. It then runs down, remarkably diminished in size, to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two feeble trunks, the radial and the ulnar, the small size of which is proportionate to the small dimensions of the muscles and other parts of the fore-arm and hand: upon the palmar surface of the latter the ulnar artery forms an arch, as does the radial on its dorsal surface, and from these arches collateral branches are given off in the usual manner to supply the corresponding margins of the fingers. Arteries of the Xech and Head.—The common carotid runs forward upon the side of the neck, hidden by the muscles connected with the os-hyoides, and in its course sends 220. llscera o f the Female Tortoise (Emys Europtpus). A', rentricle of the heart; a, common trunk of the arterial system ; b', right auricle; B , left auricle: B, trunk of the right aorta ; c, common trunk of the pulmonarv arteries ; D. trunk of the left aorta ; e, trachea : E'E", carotid arteries ; 11. right and left lobes of the liver; k, the stomach ; k', commencement of the intestinal canal; m m, terminarions of the right and left oviducts; x, ovarium ; t t, oesophagus ; r, urinary bladder; u'r", right and left supernumerary bladders; x, external opening of the cloaca; v, the rectum; z, the lungs; c, e, g, h, i, truncated vessels arising from the aorta.