SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. jjreat variety in different cases. The follow- ing table is an average of five analyses by Quevenne, Scherer, and Vogel, which is com- pared with the liquor sanguinis of healthy blood, as analysed by Lecanu. This im- portant comparative method of regarding these fluids is due to Vogel, in whose valu- able work these analyses are given at length. Liquor San- Fibrinous Ef- guinis. fusion. Water - - - 90G 934-936 Fibrine - - - 3-4 -984 Albumen - - 77 51-88 Extractive - - 3 ") Fat - - - 3 V 12-2 Salts - - - 8_ J The compositiou of 1000-4 1000- A comparison of the composition of this fluid with that of the serous effusion which was previously described, not only exhibits the addition of a new constituent, fibrine, but it shows the quantit}' of albumen to be in- creased in an important degree; it being, on the average, nearly trebled. Contrasting it with the normal liquor sanguinis, it is seen to possess a considerable proportion of its albu- men and fibrine, although less than this fluid itself contains. And it is important to notice, that the former of these two constituents is not only present in larger quantity than the latter, as might be expected from its very different amount in the parent fluid, but in a much greater proportion of its respective quantity, i. e. that only two-sevenths of the fibrine of the liquor sanguinis appears in the inflammatory exsudation, while five-sevenths of its albumen is present. And in all proba- bility, were the diseased liquor sanguinis of the same subjects the object of comparison, its increased quantity of fibrine would render the disproportionately small transudation of this constituent a still smaller one. Although the number of analyses from which the average is taken will allow little stress to be laid upon these facts, yet they have seemed to deserve especial notice, as having some bearing upon a question which is of the greatest importance to pathology, and which cannot yet be con- sidered as settled, viz. *' What is the relation of fibrine to the process of organization ?" The further progress of the exsudation arranges the plastic or fibrinous constituent as a more complete coagulum, which is in contact with the inner surface of the serous membrane. The colour of this portion of the exsudation is yellowish, or sometimes reddish from mixed blood; its thickness varies from that of a scarcely perceptible deposit to one of half an inch or more in thickness. The uniformity with which it covers the interior of the membrane is also subject to great differences ; sometimes it is arranged as a stratum of tolerably equal thickness over the whole or a greater part of its extent, at others it is limited to the formation of raised points or patches which here and there stud its surface. These conditions apparently indicate a corresponding diffusion or limitation of the inflammation. In hke manner, the state of surface of this stratum is liable to great dif- ferences, being sometimes level and compara- tively smooth, while in other instances it offers every conceivable degree of roughness, from a trifling irregularity of surface to those long, large, and shaggy processes which are so often seen in acute pericarditis, and which have been well compared to the vilii of an ox's tongue. Considerable difference of opinion prevails as to the exact mode in which this curious state is produced: thus some imagine it to be the result of the mutual movements of the visceral and parietal layers of the membrane ; or that, in separating from each other, they draw out a thread of the viscid and coagulating paste, until it breaks, and thus leaves a projecting process attached to each of these surfaces. But the fact, that an elongation very similar to that of those processes is seen in solitary warty deposits on the valves of the heart, in situations where no such physical causes as this can be supposed to obtain, renders this explanation more than doubtful; and, on the whole, the interpretation of Vogel seems much more probable, that they result from a want of uniformity of the effusion in the first instance forming small scattered patches of lymph, on and around which, as around foreign bodies, the subsequent continuous effusion tends to deposit itself. The first layer of fibrine thus deposited on the inner surface of the membrane forms, if it is complete, a kind of sac, in which the more serous part of the exsudation is included. But this liquid part generally contains a con- siderable further portion of the fibrinous element ; and the resulting phenomena appear to depend in some measure on its amount. Thus, if the exsudation be almost wholly of plastic material, large irregular masses of fibrine are found in the cavity of the mem- brane ; the serous fluid being only in sufficient quantity to moisten these loose coagula. If the serum be superabundant, the fibrine may remain almost or entirely dissolved in it ; or may only be visible as a slight disturbance of its transparency', imparting to it a white colour, or forming a few scattered flakes which float hither and thither in the fluid. A medium between these two extremes is perhaps more common, in which the plastic element coa- gulates in a loose irregular kind of net-work, the meshes of which enclose the serum. And with this more general precipitation there is usually a special deposit upon the peripheric or oldest layer before mentioned, which imitates its irregular or shaggy form. But as this process of coagulation is often a very slow one, the extent of lamination is by no means limited to these two layers ; five, ten, or twenty thin strata often appearing to be laid down from the fluid, one after another. In all these cases, the denser and stronger layer, in contact with the surface of the serous membrane, is the original plasma, the first which was deposited, and the earhest to be organized. Rarely the completeness of this coagulation leaves the serous part entirely