PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 122 the fattv (rational enough, chemically con- sidered,) fails pathologically. Growths of very opposite tendencies and attributes are to be found in the same chemical class ; thus the most deleterious forms of cancer are albu- minous, while sarcoma (per se most innocent) is the same in its chemical basis. (a.) In the albuminous growth the other forms of protein are frequently present as essential ingredients ; the term growth of protein-basis appears therefore more strictly applicable, A matter said to be alhed to ptyalin has been found in this class. Con- tinued ebullition scarcely furnishes a trace of gelatin ; and when some such trace does appear, is probably derived from natural gelatinous textures accidentally connected with the morbid mass. (6.) Growths of the gelatinous class are almost completely reduced to jelly by boiling. The gelatin yielded is either of the common species, as in fibroma, or of the variety known as chondrin, and first detected by Muller in enchondroma. (c.) In the fatty class, the fatty matter is chemically the same as that of ordinary adipose tissue (e. g. in lipoma); or it is more or less closely allied to cholesterin (e. g. in cholesteatoma). The fattv particles which exist in almost all Growth's, even of the albuminous kind, and which do not form the essential part of the mass, are not contained in cells, as in true fatty Growths, but exist in the various forms enumerated in a former passage. Carbonates, hydrochlorates, and phosphates of the alkalies and earths are the inorganic salts most commonly and largely associated with the animal constituents of growth. § 6. The Pathology of Growths em- braces the subjects, first, of the morbid changes arising in, or in immediate connection with, thoselformations ; and, secondly, of the va- rious conditions of the system which precede, accompany, and follow their evolution. Their pathologv may, in other words, be regarded as local and general. {a.) Local — Under the head of physiology we have considered briefly the various changes arising in Growths, as essential phenomena of their '^complete development ; and which, however they may be regarded as morbid in respect of the system generally, are, on the part of the adventitious mass in which they take place, evidences of natural progress. But there are numerous changes occasionally occurring in Growths, that are actually morbid in essence in relation to the substance of the new product itself; and others of a similar character which are produced in the sur- roundmg tissues. These two classes of changes (which can only be glanced at here) consfitute the materials of the Local Patho- logv of Growths. 1". The changes observable in the substance of Growths, and which signity a departure from the regular process of evolution, are : — congestion ; infiltration with blood or with serosity; haemorrhage, and in consequence of these states, various forms of discolouration; inflammation ; mortification ; and the deposi- tion within or upon them of some adventitious material foreign to their nature. In fact, the chief morbid changes occurring in the natural structures may arise in these formations. 2. The effects produced by Growths on surrounding tissues are mechanical and vital. The mechanical variety comprises detrusion and various other displacements; condensa- tion ; discolouration ; infiltration ; blocking up of cavities ; interterence with the motion of fluids, Sec. The detrusion produced by Growths may be simple, expansive, or causing peduncu'a- tion, a peculiarity observed when certain Growths, endued with little or no tendency to infiltrate the parts around, originate be- tween a mucous or serous surface, and a hard, resisting tissue. And this for ob\-ious reasons; with the progress of their enlargement the distention they induce does not equably affect all surrounding parts (because the re- sistance of these is unequal), but acts espe- cially upon the least resisting structures. As they enlarge, they carry these structures be- fore them, until themselves eventually pro- trude sufficiently from their precise seat of origin to leave a sort of process of the mem- brane they push before them, acting as a stalk of attachment to the place of their original connection. A growth thus pedunculated is practically known as a Poli/pus, a term extremely injudi- cious, as it leads the observer to neglect the important matter of the nature of the tumour, and to regard a mere accident of shape as an essential feature. The vital effects are rarefaction ; condensa- tion ; atrophy ; hypertrophy ; inflammation, with its results — aahesion, softening, indura- tion, ulceration, mortification, perforation, effusion of blood, enlargement of vessels, &:c.; and, most important of ail, infiltration of the surrounding tissues with matter similar to that composing the new growth. This last effect occurs (as we believe) in connection w ith no growth except cancer, and constituting one of the most evident pathological and nosological distinctions between cancerous and other allied formations, will be presently examined. § 7. The nature of this work will not admit of any extended observations on the general Pathology of Growths, but some prominent facts can scarcely be passed over in silence. The conditions of localization of Growths are curious, and for the most part inexplicable. The following propositions may be laid down concerning them : — {a.) The tendency to become the seat of Growths, as a class, varies greatly in the dif- ferent tissues and organs. Thus, while cel- lular tissue is their peculiarly favourite site, fibrous texture but rarely affords them a nidus. Again, the mamma, the ovary, the uterus, are frequent, the lungs and brain much less common, sufferers. {b.) The tendency to become the seat of