515 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. L L 2 brane of little more than their own breadth ; this membrane was prolonged at their oppo- site poles into ribbon-shaped processes, of excessive tenuity and considerable length. Such a description greatly approximates to that given by Mr. Goodsir *, of the torn-up " germinal membrane " of the serous tissues; but I have not studied these objects sufficiently tc be able to affirm or deny the complete ap- plicability of his description to them. In the instance where I saw it, I rather inclined to consider it a distortion and elongation of the ordinary epithelia, due to accidental mecha- nical violence, inflicted during the examination of the specimen. The characters of the cells. — The different individual cells which may be found floating in the field of the microscope exhibit great diversities of appearance, so as to offer almost every gradation of cell-growth. The first form visible {fig. 396. a) is that of a delicate pale, flat, cytoblast, which is either unaffected by the application of acetic acid, or is even rendered somewhat more transparent by it. The next gradation (6) is still a cytoblast, i.e. uncomplicated by the addition of an outer cell-wall ; but dilute acetic acid renders it yellowish, and much more distinct. In the next variety (the next stage of development, I think it may safely be termed), two outlines Fig. 396. Epithelium of the Subcutaneous Bursae. {3Iagnified 320 diameters.^ are visible (c), one of the nucleus or cyto- blast, another of a cell-wall exterior to this; and the distance between the two gradually increases in different individuals by an in- crease in the size of the cell, which, however, retains its flattened oval shape. Its contents are either transparent, or very faintly gra- nular : and the succeeding modification mainly consists in the increased granularity of the contents of the cell, and in the assumption of a more or less polygonal outline. This is seen in the figures marked d, e,f, g ; and these diagrams also illustrate another detail, viz. that the polygon is anything but a regular one, offering a variety of forms, some of which ap- proximate to a triangle, others to a trapezium or a pentagon. And though sometimes (as in those marked e), they may be seen apposed in groups of two or even three, yet it will be recollected that many of these forms are phy- sically insusceptible of the neat tesselated adaptation which is seen in the hexagonal cells * Anatomical and Pathological Observations, p. 41. of serous membrane. The wall of the cell is still soluble in acetic acid, and the outhne of the nucleus is darkened by its application as usual. The subsequent alterations consist in a gradually increasing flattening and widening, both of the cell and nucleus, but especially of the former, which finally more than doubles the diameter of the polygonal cell, and at the same time reduces its depth to a mere scale. The granular or mottled appearance of the contents before spoken of now reaches its maximum, often forming yellow refractile dots or beads, which appear to be incompletely fluid (h). The nucleus, during this process of flattening, becomes somewhat larger, and much less distinct; and in the larger and more mottled scales, it completely disappears, an effect which might at first be supposed due to the obscuring of its outline by the granular contents, but which is evidently independent of this cause. A further difference is pre- sented by the action of acetic acid, which fails to affect these broad squamous epithelia in any perceptible degree. The arrangement of the cells. — Hitherto we have merely enumerated and distinguished the different forms of cell growth which may be detected after tearing up casual portions of the tissues lining the cavity : we have next to determine the relative quantities of the diflTer- ent varieties, and to specify their arrangement, both with respect to each other and to the surface which they clothe. The forms which appear greatly to pre- dominate in quantity, are those represented in the figure as c, d,f. Some of these are nucleated cells of a flattened oval shape, and others are probably similar cells, in a stage immediately subsequent to the preceding, when the oval vesicle becomes more or less an- gular by the lateral pressure of its neighbours opposing its own inherent expansion ; or, re- garding a number of such bodies, when a si- multaneous expansion obliges their yielding walls to adopt that shape which presents the fewest interstices, and thus allows of the greatest amount of mean area. Were the process conducted with mathematical accu- racy, this shape would obviously be a hexagon, and in the serous membranes it will be seen with how few exceptions the cells ap- proximate to that form ; but in the outline of these bursal epithelia, as has been already seen, the oval or circle glides into the polygon by many gradations. Generally speaking, there is but one layer of cells, and these are usually more or less polygonal ; but not unfrequently a few oval ones are seen in close proximity to each other, and only distinguishable by the smaller dis- tance between their nuclei, and the occasional overlapping of their curved borders. The chief exceptions to the unity of the layer are twofold, one at each extremity of the cell-life, so to speak. For instance, pale flat cytoblasts (a), in sparing quantity, some- times underlie the stratum ; while, on the other hand, it is often covered by the very large polygonal squames (h). In either case,