SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 535 devoid of fibrine, and, in respect of composi- tion, closely resembling some of the dro[)sical fluids previously described. Organization of the effusion. — In some very few instances, in which the exsudation is only in a limited quantity, absorption occurs prior to the deposit of the fibrinous portion ; but after this change has once occurred, and the fluid has been separated into a serous and solid portion, the former only is susceptible of removal, the latter or fibrinous constituent being either absolutely incapable of absorption, or, what is perhaps more probable, being re- moved so slowly as to be replaced by the organization of new tissues long before its withdrawal is completed. When the quantity of fibrine is small, organization is on the whole both less frequent and rapid. Still it may occur; and even where this substance is re- tained in solution, the fluid containing it is susceptible of this change. But although the products of inflammation generally progress towards organization, yet the steps and results of this further develop- ment differ very widely from each other. In the majority of these effusions, one of two processes occurs. In one class of cases, the free surfaces of the membrane are glued together by the coagulable lymph effused upon them ; and this cementing substance is either itself converted into a permanent structure which obliterates the cavity, or it forms a nidus or stroma in which the structure is developed. In another set of cases, the plasma experiences a rapid development into a number of cells, floating in a thin fluid. These are termed the adhesive and suppurative forms of in- flammation respectively; or sometimes, with perhaps less correctness, the " terminations " of this process. In some instances, however, a process similar to the first of these takes place inde- pendently of adhesion. Sometimes, the plastic layer on the inner aspect of a serous mem- brane experiences a transition into a structure which resembles areolar tissue, and presents an iiTegular or shaggy surface, like the fibrine for which it is substituted. In other instances, a thinner layer, with a more regular surface, is formed, and clothes the normal structure with a new serous or fibro-serous membrane, which can readily be peeled off from the subjacent tissue. This layer is rarely of unifoi'm thickness, and when limited to small isolated patches forms the " white spots " which are so frequently seen in the peri- cardium. In these instances, the effusion is evidently in very small amount, and probably consists almost wholly of the plastic materials of the blood, with very little accompanying serum. Another class of cases may be mentioned here which, in respect of the absence of ad- hesion, are somewhat similar to this condition. They differ from it, however, in the fact of their presenting a large quantity of a serous or little fibrinated fluid, and in the very slow organization of their solid matter, which, in some instances, advances so little in a con- siderable lapse of time, that we might almost doubt the occurrence of any further deve- lopement. In these instances, the small amount of plastic material present is irregu- larly deposited here and there in the shape of small granules of fibrine which are scattered over the surface of the serous membrane. This condition frequently occurs in the peri- toneum, and has been called " tubercular peritonitis." It offers, however, such wide distinctions from the really tuberculous in- flammation, that it is difficult to imagine that the term was ever used to express more than the shape of the deposit ; and in order lo avoid the confusion caused by designating two such different diseases with one name, Mr. Simon has suggested that of " granular peritonitis," a term which avoids this ob- jection, but equally indicates the peculiar form which the fibrine exhibits. When the plastic material has been mainly deposited on the walls of the cavity, and has included a considerable quantity of serum in its interior, an absorption of this fluid neces- sarily precedes the contact and adhesion of the opposed surfaces. But in the more diffuse and irregular coagulation previously alluded to, in which the serous portion occupied the meshes or interstices of the fibrinous net-work, the latter may become organized, and may thus form cyst-like cavities, which are perma- nently filled with this fluid. In most instances, the serum having been absorbed, and the walls of the cavity having been united by coagulable lymph, the latter becomes slowly organized into a substance which resembles areolar tissue, but contains comparatively little of the yellow fibrous ele- ment. Cotemporaneously with this change, vessels are developed in the mass by a series of processes, which, in all probability, closely ap[)roximate to those of their formation in the embryo. The resulting structure occu- pying what was previously the cavity of the serous membrane, effectually prevents the re- petition of such an effusion ; although there is no reason to believe that it confers an ab- stract immunity as respects the inflammatory process. The supjnirative injiammaiion of the serous membranes frequently offers, in its symptoms or causes, few differences from the adhesive variety; but the formation of pus is sometimes discoverable at so early a stage of the dis- order, as to render it doubtful how far it may not be considered, not so much a mere form or termination of the disease, but an inflamma- tion sui generis. Where pus has been re- ceived into the bloodvessels, and circulated with their contents, large collections of this fluid are sometimes seen in these tissues: these are, however, to be distinguished from the suppuration which occurs primarily as the result of an inflammatory process. In the latter case, the cavity of the inflamed serous membrane is usually lined by a soft, irregular, and membranitbrm exsudation, resembling the wall of an abscess, to which the altered tissue may, under these circumstances, be fairly com-