SHOULDER JOINT — (Normal Anatomy). 674 than at the circumference; whilst the reverse is true of the glenoid cavity, the cartilage heing there of greater depth at the cii cuiu- ference than at the centre. Theaniitomicaldisposition of (c.) the si/novial v^embrane, can be more conveniently studied after the ligaments have been examined. 3. Comiecting 2Iedici. Capsular I'gament.— This is a fibrous expansion which in itsgenerai character resembles the capsular hgament of other articulations. The capsule of the shoulder joint is remarkable for its capaciousness, and consequent laxity—an arrangement w hich per- mits the great freedom of motion enjoyed by this articulation. It embraces the margin of the glenoid cavit}' above, and is prolonged upon the tuberosities of the humerus interiorly; hence it may be described as a sac having tw o apertures, of which the lower is by fiar the lar;i:er. Viewed externally, its form is that of a hollow cone, the base of which is placed inferiorly. The fibres which compose the capsule are extremely irregular in direction, nor are they of uniform strength or thickness. The capsule is very thin, posteriorly and also internally ; in the latter direction, it is almost aways deficient, so that the cavity of the joint is continuous with that of the synovial bursa, beneath the tendon of the subscapularis muscle ; more rarely, an opening in the cap- sule establishes a communication between the serous cavity of the shoulder joint and a bursa under the infra-spinatns muscle. The capsule possesses considerable strength an- teriorly and above, being there reintbrced by a thick bundle of fibres, sometinies described as a distinct ligament, under the name of coraco-humeral, or accessory/. These fibres are attached superiorly to the under surface of the coracoid process, they thence follow an oblique course downwards and outwards, be- come incorporated with the pro[)er fibres of the capsule, ai:d are traceable inferiorly to the great tuberosity of the humerus, crossing an- terior to its bicipital groove. Infei'iorly, or towards the region of the axilla, the capsule possesses much intrinsic strength, though here totally devoid of any muscular or tendinous coverings. When the arm is nuich abducted, the head of the humerus presses strongly against this part of the ligament, which some- times gives way, and the head of the bone escaping from the glenoid cavity, between the subscapular muscle, and the long head of the triceps, dislocation into the axilla is produced. In this accident, the head of the humerus generally detaches the subscapular muscle Irom the bone, and lies between that muscle and the subscapular fossa. The anatomist will not fail to observe that the subscapular nerve, as it runs from the brachial plexus outwards, to wind round the neck of the humerus, is closely related to this portion of the capsule wdiich may be seen from the axilla, between the triceps and subsca- pularis muscles ; and can, therefore, easily understand why the nerve in question should be sometimes torn or compressed, when the head of the hmuerus has been dislocated downwards and inwards; this complication of the axillary dislocation gives rise to para- lysis of the deltoid muscle, partial or com- plete, temporary or permanent, according to the degree of injury which the nerve may have sustained. The exterior of the capsular ligament is in close relation SKperiorlij w ith thesupra-spinatus, and jwsferior/i/ with the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles ; inferiorly^ it is con- nected w ith the scapulai' origin (long head) of the triceps; whilst a?//6';vor(//, it is covered and partly replaced by the subscapularis. With the intervention of the capsular muscles, it is also related on its external, anterior, and posterior aspects to the deltoid muscle, and above to the coraco-acromial triangle. A large bursa is situated beneath the deltoid, and separates this muscle from the exterior of the capsule; it also gives an extensive in- vestment to the tendons of the capsular muscles, and is evidently designed to favour the very free moti. ns which those parts enjoy. The long tendon of the biceps, placed ex- actly upon the anterior aspect of the bone, escapes from beneath the lower edge of the capsule, which here arches across the bicipital groove, and converts it into a canal ; the capsule is not therefore perforated by the tendon of the biceps, as is stated by many anatomists. A portion of the synovial mem- brane descends with the tendon below the edge of the capsule, is again reflected on the groove, and so re-ascends into the joint, having formed a small " cul-de-sac," without the ar- ticulation. From these relations with the surrounding muscles, the capsule derives nuich of its strength : the tendons of the four capsular muscles are inseparably united to the fibres of the ligament, which are prolonged inferiorly, as far as the lowest portion of the humeral tuberosities; posteriorly, it derives some fibres from the triceps ; and Irom the upper edge of the tendon of the great pectoral nuiscle, (at its insertion into the anterior lip of the bi- cipital groove,) a fibrous fasciculus ascends, and likewise becomes identified with the cap- sule ; this prolongation has been described, under the name of " suspensory frccnum," by Win slow. It must be obvious from this description, that tlie capsular ligament alone cannot maintain the bones of the shoulder joint in opposition: from its great laxity, it permits a considerable separation of the osseous sur- faces, and they are maintained in contact with each other nsainly by the tonic contraction of the surroundmg muscles (w hich are placed in the most favourable position to accomplish this important object). Accordingly, in para- lysis of the ui)per extremity, the limb be- coming elongated, one or two fingers can be pressed into the joint towards the glenoid cavity, now abandoned by the head of the humerus ; and, ow ing probably to a some- what similar condition of parts, spontaneous dislocation of the humerus has been known to occur in the debiUtated state of the sys-