PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 78 insoluble in cold and hot urine and in weak acids, soluble with effervescence (from equal volumes of carbonic acid and nitrogen) in con- centrated nitric acid, the mixture acquiring a purple red hue (from murexide) at the close of evaporation, and very sparingly soluble in concentrated muriatic acid. (See fig. 78, a.) Fig. 78. , Crystals of uric acid. Sometimes (and less rarely than has been sup- posed) the rhomboidal prisms are thick, solid- looking, and cuboid in appearance. We have lately seen a /je'//W6'(non-irridescent) of bloody urine after scarlatina formed of crystals of this kind {fig. 78, b). Sometimes, again, frag- ments of, or entire, crystals unite so as to form lanceolate or stellate figures; this form may be produced (as shown by Rayer, fig. 78, c) by artificial precipitation. 2. The urate of ammonia calculus (of which the existence was denied by Mr.Brande, on the plea that the ammonia evolved from certain calculi is in reality derived from associated triple phosphate, or from urea and the ammo- niacal salts of the urine,) is said by Fourcroy and ProLit to be rare, and more frequent in children than in adults, a statement which has been copied by various writers. The tables collected by Dr. Prout show that of 709 simple calculi 59 were composed of urate of ammonia nearly pure, 159 mainly of this salt mixed with variable proportions of the urate and oxalate of lime and phosphates. The shape of this cal- culus is more irregular than that of uric acid masses, but still inclined to the ovoid ; it does not reach any large size, and has a smooth or granular surface. Internally it is laminated; of clay colour ; its fracture earthy, and its den- sity considerably less than that of lithic acid. Of 163 alternating'calculi grouped in Dr. Front's tables we find that 239 had a nucleus of pure urate of ammonia. In the majority of cases, then, this salt or uric acid forms the ground- work of calculous accumulation ; for they con- stitute either the entire mass, or the nucleus, of 938 among 1473 calculi of ascertained com- position in the following proportions, exclusive of many others in which they were mixed irregularly with other saline matters. Calculus. Nucleus. Uric acid, 230 251 Urate of ammonia"! ^oq pure and impure J 448 490 938, or 1 in 1 '6 Urate of ammonia is the chief constituent of the pulverulent sediments of urine voided by healthy persons : it is insoluble in cold, soluble in hot, urine. It is commonly distinguished microscopically as a pulverulent closely packed matter {fig. 79, a) ; in other instances it wears the form of globules of black colour * {fig. 79, ; when alkahne reaction is established (or sometimes, as we have seen, while the urine is still acid) these globules become stellate from the formation of minute silky needles apparently springing from their circumference {fig. 79, c). Fig. 79. a, h, c, Deposits of lithate of ammonia. {After\Rayer.') Treated by dilute nitric acid, the pulverulent matter is converted into rhomboidal crystals of uric acid,^^, 78. Collected on a filter and washed with rectified alcohol, the residue of the amorphous matter, treated with potassa, disengages ammonia, to be detected by the smell, test paper, and hydrochloric acid. The forms b and c cannot be confounded with any other substance ; the pulverulent form might be mistaken for phosphate of lime, and the modes of distinguishing the two precipitates are explained with the description of the latter. The forms 6 and c (first described by Quevenne) we have repeatedly observed in the sediment of urine containing lithates in abundance. Though mainly composed of urate of ammonia, the acid is apparently in union also with potass, soda, lime, and magnesia. Quevenne considers that they may in some sort be regarded as pro- ducts of putrefaction, as they do not appear until the urine has stood for about three days; but this is decidedly erroneous, as we have re- peatedly seen the simple globular, and some- times the stellate globular, forms in urine which had not stood twenty-four hours. 3. The oxalate of lime calculus is generally more or less accurately spherical in shape ; though commonly of rather small or moderate size, it may acquire very considerable bulk : a model of a mulberry calculus, now before us, (Univ. Coll. Museum) measures 7^ inches in circumference, and some of the prominences on the surface reach five lines in height. Of dark brown, purplish, blackish, or olive colour, this * This form, -n-hich Ave are in the habit of fami- liarly calling the " globular lithate," is not exceed- ingly uncommon. In the numerous instances in Avliich we have met with it, we have, however, failed in ascertaining the particular condition regu - lating its occurrence.