233 REN. with the veins of the testicles or ovaries, and in this manner forms the inferior vena cava. The above is a general description of this peculiar system of veins. With reference to its existence in fishes, it will suffice to add, that in different genera this venous system appears in all its modification^- In Reptiles, the kidneys are generally situ- ated very far back, even within the cavity of the pelvis, where a sacrum exists, as in the Chelonian and Saurian orders; and in these tribes they are very partially covered by the peritoneum being firmly imbedfled in the sacral region. But in serpents, in conse- quence of the elongated form of the body, and the complete flexibihtyof every portion of the spine, the kidneys are pecuUar both in their position and general structure. The kidneys of an Ophidian are not placed upon the same level, but the right is situated much more anteriorly than the left ; a circumstance which much facilitates the packing of the abdominal viscera, and contributes greatly to ensure the free movements of the vertebral column at this place. For the same reason the kidneys of a serpent are divided into numerous lobes of a compressed reniform shape, placed in a longitudinal series upon the external surface of the ureter, and loosely connected to each other and to the spine by cellular tissue and a fold of the pentoneum.* The kidneys of reptiles, like those of fishes, have no distinction of cortical and medullary substance ; and the urinary tubules pass immediately from the substance of the kidney into the ureter. The peculiar venous system described by Prof. Jacobson is found in reptiles under the form of the third modification ; that namely, in which the blood returned by the veins from the back and the posterior part of the body, is divided between the kidneys and the vena portae. The exact distribution of these veins in the substance of the kidney of the Boa has been clearly demonstrated by Mr. Bowman, as will be shown, when we come to speak of the minute anatomy of the kidney. The arterial branches, which are comparatively of small size, are derived from the abdominal aorta. In Birds the kidneys are elongated in form, commencing immediately below the lungs, and extending symmetrically on each side of the spine, as far as the termination of the rectum. The posterior surface is moulded into the cavi- ties formed by the bones on which it rests. The ureter proceeds from the anterior aspect, the secreting tubules passing immediately, as in fishes and reptiles, into the ureter, so that there is no pelvic cavity in the organ, nor any division into cortical and medullary substance. The outward form of the kidney is very various, and the surface is divided in different species into a variable number of lobes. Each kidney is invested by a delicate capsule, which extc nds into the substance of the gland be- tween its lobular divisions. Their texture is nuich more friable than in mammalia, readily * Professor Rymer Jones's Animal Kingdom. yielding under the pressure of the finger, to which they give a granular sensation as their substance is torn asunder.* The peculiar venous system already referred to is described by Jacobson as existing in birds under the form of the third modifica- tion. But the arrangement of the veins differs from that observed in reptiles in this respect, that the crural vein after giving off a superior branch to the superior lobe of the kidney, and an inferior to the ischiatic vein, sends a middle branch direct to the vena cava. All the blood, therefore, which in birds returns from the posterior part of the body, is carried partly to the kidneys, partly to the portal vein, and partly, but in small quantity, is con- veyed in a direct manner to the vena cava. There are no regular emulgent arteries in birds, the kidneys deriving their arterial blood from various branches of the abdominal aorta. The kidneys of MamviaUa ])resent one character which is common to the whole tribe, and by which they are distinguished from the other classes of vertebrata. The cha- racter alluded to consists in a division of the substance of the gland into two portions, a cortical and a medullary, the former being the secreting part and containing, as will be more fully shown hereafter, tubes which are very tortuous, while in the latter the tubes are straight, forming minute excretory ducts, through which the secreted products are con- veyed into the ureter. In many genera the kidneys are composed of a number of separate lobules or renules, {fg. 142, a a a), each lobe consisting of a cor- Fk. 142. Portion of the kidneij of a poi'poise. * Vide article AvES by Professor Owen.