373 RODENTIA. B B 3 bones and the inter-parietal, whicli is large, and of a semi-oval shape, are at an early period consolidated into one piece. The occipital bone extends beyond the occipital crest in the upper region of the skull, but the sides are formed by the temporal. The petrous bone, which is in early age consolidated with the tympanic, is slightly visible by a narrow slip in the occipital region. The tympana are much arched, but the pterygoid processes do not touch them, because the foraynen lacerum anteiius, which is very large, separates them. The superior maxillary bone is articulated posteriorly with the pos- terior sphenoid above the palatine, upon the occipital region of the cranium. In the couia (Mi/opotamus, Commerson) the sutures between the frontal and parietal bones form a complete cross. The inter-parietal is united to the surrounding bones at an early age, but in young individuals it is very large, and divided into two pieces ; in the adult ani- mal the zygomatic processes of the temporal bone formed at their extremities a strong hooked process, which winds down beneath the jugal bone. The posterior sphenoid does not enter into the composition of the orbit ; the OS petrosum is visible externally in the occipital region of the skull, situated between the two mastoid processes, which are both formed by the occipital bone, but are of very unequal length ; the external is pointed, the inferior and internal is of much greater size, running backwards and outwards, compressed, pointed, and recurved. In the agouti, the frontal and nasal bones remain separate, although the parietal and in- ter-parietal are united into one piece; in young subjects the inter-parietal is of great size, and semicircular in its shape. The or- bital plate of the sphenoid enters largely into the composition of the orbit, where it articu- lates by it posteriorly with the temporal. In the preceding genera it is to be remarked, that the posterior sphenoid is joined to the frontal, which is interposed between the temporal and the orbital alae of the sphenoid; the tympana regularly arched. The os petrosum does not appear externally, but in addition there here re-appears a small portion of the ethmoid, in- terposed between the orbital ala of the sphe- noid, the frontal and the lachrymal bones. In the capyhara the hinder portion of the cranium, as well as the occipital bone and the inferior region of the temple, resemble what is met with in the kerodon of Patagonia. The paramastoid apophysis is excessively long, the tympana are small. The petrous bone does not appear at all in the occipital region of the cranium. The parietals and inter-parietals are consolidated into one piece at a very early age, and separate, by a process more acute than in any of the preceding genera, the cra- nial portion of the temporal bone into two branches ; the frontals are likewise united together in very young animals. In the viscache the squamous portion of the temporal bone is likewise deeply indented by a point derived from the parietal. The posterior branch of this bifurcation, which is narrow at its commencement, enlarges as it approaches the occipital ridge. The inter-parietal and the parietals are united into one piece, the frontals are distinct, and the coronal suture is transverse. The zygomatic process of the temporal is directed almost horizontally, and this bone remains widely separate from the maxillary ; the posterior sphenoid unites with this latter bone, external to the palatine, which does not penetrate into the temple or into the orbit : the posterior sphenoid has no temporal ala, so that it reaches neither the frontal nor the parietal bone—a circumstance which has been already remarked in preceding genera. In ihekerodons, the frontal bones remain se- parate after the parietal and inter-parietal are conjoined. The fronto-parietal suture is trans- verse. The superior margin of the occipital is bent upon itself at a right angle, as in the hares, and articulates at the side of the cranium with the temporals, terminating laterally by a long, slender, vertical, paramastoid process. The temporal gives off posteriorly a lamina, or apophysis, which descends more or less in different species between the tympanum and the petrous bone. The latter bone is not visible externally in the occipital region, but is apparent upon the side of the head, above and behind the auditory passage. The con- nections of the bones in the orbit are not less remarkable than in the Guinea-pig. The tem- poral is in like manner developed at the ex- pense of the posterior sphenoid ; but it is the former which becomes united by its apex to the extremity of the maxillary bone, the sphenoid which runs parallel with it only ap- proaching the maxillary, from which it is separated by a slip derived from the os palati. The temporal, as in the preceding genera, is united in the orbit to the anterior wing of the sphenoid in the Guinea-pig, with this differ- ence, however, that the temporal leaves it free externally. The petrous bone occupies a considerable surface in the occipital region of the skull, and likewise furnishes a mastoid tubercle at the base of the paramastoid apophysis, which resembles that of the couia; and which, at first, running outwards and backwards, suddenly bends inwards and for- wards. The petrous bone occupies a large part of the occipital region, where it presents a flattened surface; it also furnishes a mastoid tubercle at the base of the paramastoid apophysis, which resembles that of the couia, and which, at first, directed outwards and backwards, afterwards suddenly bends in- wards and forwards. In the chinchilla the connection of the frontal and of the parietal bones, as well as those of the sphenoid with the maxillary and with the temporal, are the same as in the viscache, but the great development of the ear causes differences in the posterior region. The paramastoid apophysis, which is strongly marked, is closely applied against the tympa- num, and does not project inferiorly. The petrous bone, instead of presenting a flat sur-