509 SENSATION. the mind be unimpaired. But unless the mind is conscious of the' irritation excited we cannot say that a sensation has taken place. The person on whom the injury is inflicted may be comatose, or in a profound sleep, or under the influence of intoxicating or anaesthetic agents, and consequently his perceptive powers are in abeyance. Never- theless, the same physical changes take place, whatever be the state of the mind, and all the physical phenomena, which may flow from or succeed to those which are capable of excit- ing sensation, may ensue upon them, and yet true sensation will not take place, unless the mind perceives and takes cognisance of the physical change induced. It must then be regarded as a cardinal point in reference to the acceptation of the term Sensation in Physiology, that an action of the mind is necessarily involved, that act being of the nature of a recognition or per- ception of the physical changes associated with the sensation. The true organ of sensation is the organ of the mind — the brain, and especially that part of the brain which constitutes the centre of sen- sation, and which extends into the spinal cord, forming the posterior horn of its grey matter. When an impression is made upon a nerve or nerves which communicate directly or indi- rectly with any part of this centre, a sensation is excited, provided the intracranial portion of it be in a normal state, and provided also the connection between the cranial and spinal portions be complete and uninterrupted. Sensations depend, as to their nature, on that of the excitant, and nerves are adapted to receive impressions from various agents, ponderable or imponderable. The mechanical qualities of bodies, heat, cold, electricity, light, sound, &c., are capable of exciting their ap- propriate sensations, which the mind soon learns to appreciate and distinguish. Sensa- tions thus distinguished receive the appella- tion of pleasurable or of painful, according as they are agreeable or the reverse. These sensations are infinitely varied in kind and in degree. It is impossible, d priori^ to deter- mine how a pleasurable or a painful sensation may be excited. Nor will the experience of one person be always a guide for another, in- asmuch as a sensation which may be agree- able to one, may be painful or disagreeable to another. Physiologists distinguish sensation as com- mon and special: the former being that which is excited by ordinary mechanical or chemical stimuli; the latter is excited by special sti- muli, and is exemplified in the special senses of vision, hearing, smell, taste, and touch. The nerve of vision does not, when irritated, communicate simply a feeling of pain or of pleasure ; its chief effect is to excite the sen- sation of a flash of light. When the electric stream passes through the retina, a sensation is caused similar to that which the sudden presentation of a luminous object would pro- duce. In like manner the mechanical or electrical stimulation of the other nerves of pure sense will create, not pain, but a feelmg closely allied to that which would be excited by the application of the stimulus proper to each. This is remarkably illustrated by the effects of mechanical or electrical stimulation of the nerve of hearing and of the nerve of taste. Mechanical impulses against the tym- panum occasion the sense of a dull sound, and the electric current developes a musical note. Galvanic excitation of the gustatory pa[)ill[E of the tongue causes a peculiar sour taste, and, as Dr. Baly has pointed out, the mechanical stimulation of them by a sharp tap with the fingers, occasions a taste some- times acid, sometimes saline. The nerves which minister to specia sensation, differ from the nerves of common sensation in no essential point of their ana- tomy, except in their mode of organisation at the periphery of the body. Each of them has, probably, likewise some peculiarity of connection with the brain : this is obvious as regards the olfactory and the optic nerves ; less so as regards the nerves of taste, touch, and hearing. The physiological peculiarity of these nerves is then, in all probability, due to their central and peripheral organisation ; and especially, perhaps, to the latter, which, doubt- less, renders them peculiarly susceptible of the influence of those delicate physical agencies to which each of them is exposed. The nerves and organs of special sensa- tion, especially those of touch, are so com- prehensive in their objects, that it would almost seem that little was left for the so- called nerves of common sensation. These latter nerves, nevertheless, serve many important objects ; they doubtless ex- cite in the mind many feelings, agreeable or disagreeable, of pain or of pleasure, or even feelings neutral as regards pain and pleasure, which could not be developed through the nerves of special sense. The consciousness of the integrity of our limbs and of the general framework of our bodies, is secured, in a great measure, through the instrumentality of these nerves. Injuries to various parts—disturbances in their nutrition, as inflammations, ulcera- tions, &c. — are made known to the mind by the painful sensation excited through these nerves. The sensibility of organs and textures — i. e. the degree to which affections of these parts are capable of inducing corresponding affections of the mind — depends upon the number of these nerves which are distributed to them — the degree of sensibility being in proportion to the number of the nerves. Hence these nerves of common sensation ex- ercise a conservative influence over the several textures and organs to which they are dis- tributed, and serve to afford warning of the approach or of the existence of danger. What some have called the muscular sense, i.e. the knowledge which we have of the state of our muscles, is generally attributed to these same nerves. As the sensibility of the muscles is doubtless due to these nerves, we may reasonably impute to them the faculty of informing the mind of the state and degree of contraction or relaxation of the muscles, and thus of contributing to that power of adjust-