QUADRUMANA. 219 fius quahior digitoriim pedis, which are united in the same manner as in the monkeys. They both give tendons to the toes, of which each receives consequently two tendons. The plantar surface of the tendon of the flexor magnus qua- tuor digitorum give off four lumbricai muscles. Instead of a flexor hrcvis there are but small tendons, which bifurcate for the passage of the tendons of the flexor magnus hallucis, and Hexor magnus quatuor digitorum pedis. The tibialis j)osticus is very strong. The small mus- cles of the posterior thumb or great toe are the abductor, the flexor brevis, and the adduc- tor. Their strength is connected with the mobility and with the removed position of the posterior thumb, giving a great deal of agility to the Slenojjs in his climbing motions. lutions,the shallow anfractuosities, the scarcely indicated fossa Sylvii, the not prominent Varolii^ the very thick cerebral peduncles (crura cerebri^, the want of corpora candicantia, the short corpus callosuvi. In all these points the brain of the Stenops is inferior to that of the monkeys, from which Stenops differs also by more imperfect intellectual faculties. For the organs of sense, I mention princi- pally the interesting existence in the Stenops, of the tapetum lucidum in the eye, by which the animal acquires the faculty of reflection of the light, improperly called phosphorescence of the eyes. In general the sensibility of the eye to light is very exquisite. Therefore most LemurincB are nocturnal, and see very well in almost profound obscurity, as is proved by the observations of F. Cuvier, in the Lemur muriniis. The ears of Stenops are very large ; the concha deep, the tragus imd anlitragus ele- vated, and instead of anthelix there are two prominent and almost parallel cartilaginous plates. The same development of the ear is observed in the genus Otolicnus. This great development in a nyctalope animal is an inter- esting fact, principally by comparison with the Cheiroptera^ in which the same disposition occurs. The tongue of the Stenops offers a strange structure in the existence of a cartila- ginous plate, by which it is supported, and the anterior margin of which is denticulated. Angeiology.—I only know some peculiari- ties about the heart and the vessels of the Stenops. It has a rounded and pla.ne form ; Neurology.—The encephalon of the Lemu- rincs is only known by the dissection of the Lemur mongos and of the Stenops javanicus and tardigradus. Science is indebted for the first to TiEDEMANN, and for the two last to SciiR(EDER VAN DER KoLK and to mysclf. The encephalon of Lemur mongos seems superior to that of Stenops, by the larger development of the hemispheres, the greater breadth of the anterior lobes, the more numerous convolu- tions and deeper anfractuosities, but otherwise they offer the same type. I have minutely desci'ibed the brain of the Stenops tardigradus in my paper on this animal, and I mentioned there the small development and the asyme- try of the hemispheres (flg. 139), the triangu- lar form of the anterior lobes, the few convo- the right ventricule is scarcely longer than the left, and terminates in a rounded point. The right auricle is much larger than the left. The distribution of the trunks coming from the arcus ao7-tcE is as in the plurality of Mannna- lia, viz. three trunks coming from the a. inno- minata, and a separate left subclavian artery. But the most interesting is the ulterior distri- bution of the arterial and venous vessels in the extremities. Sir A. Carlisle was the first to show, that they form plexuous ramifications, consisting of a large number of narrow cylin- drical vessels anastomosing together. Eighteen years ago, I repeated the observations of this excellent anatomist on various animals, and confirmed their veracity against the objections of Oken and Gaibiard ; and recently I had again the opportunity to show, that these ra- mifications exist in three species of Stenops ; that in the same manner as has been proved for the Bradi/pi, by Sciirceder van der Kolk and Otto, they consist not only of arteries, but also of veins; and that, by dividing in branches, these ramifications become smaller and smaller, and composed of a less number of vessels (flg. 140). Splanchnology. — The stomach hasin-S/e-- nojjs a rounded, almost globular form, in which the cardiais near to the pylorus, and the coecal sac much developed. Consequently the con- cave margin of the stomach is small, the con- vex, on the contrary, large; with these is connected the elongated spleen. This dispo- sition of the stomach, and especially the