163 PROTEIN. M 2 nsoluble form from any of its acid solutions by.the ferrocyanide and ferridcyanide of potas- simn, which are among the most delicate tests for it; also, by absolute alcohol, tannin, many of the metallic salts, and by carefully neutral- izing with an alkali. Tritoxide of protein. — Though protein may be said to be absolutely insoluble in water, it may by prolonged ebullition with ac- cess of air be rendered completely soluble. This is owing to the formation of a soluble oxide of protein, represented by the formula N5 + HO, containing three additional equivalents of oxygen, and which Mulder has called tritoxide of protein. This interesting compound may be more easily prepared from the chlorite of jjrotcin (which I shall presently describe) by the addition of ammonia; the muriate of ammonia which is formed at the same time being afterwards separated by washing with alcohol. Tritoxide of protein has, when dry, very much the same appearance as protein ; it is readily soluble in water, nearly insoluble in alcohol, and completely so in ether. It dis- solves in sulphuric and hydrochloric acids and the alkalies, but is precipitated from its solution in water by dilute sulphuric acid, tannin, and several metallic salts, forming compounds with their oxides, having for the most part the formula (C,, H3, N, O,, + MO) + (C,, Tig J Oj5 + HO). With nitric acid it behaves like protein, becoming yellow, and forming xanthoproteic acid. Water in which meat has been boiled, as broth, soup, &c., owes its nourishing properties mainly to the tritoxide of protein which is formed during ebullition ; and according to Mulder, both this and the binoxide are formed in meat during the process of roasting. Binoxide of protein, — The other compound of protein and oxygen just alluded to, called by Mulder the binoxide, consists of C^q H3 ^ Oj4 or the elements of protein plus two equivalents of oxygen. Both this and the tri- toxide exist ready formed in the buffy coat of the blood, which, according to Mulder, con- sists chiefly of these two oxides. Binoxide of protein may be obtained by boiling fibrin in water for many hours, when the protein gra- dually combines with at first two, and even- tually three equivalents of oxygen, becoming successively binoxide, and (if the ebullition is continued long enough) tritoxide; the latter dissolves as it is formed, and may be separated from the insoluble binoxide by washing with water. This process is, however, tedious, and it is more readily obtained from hair, in the following manner. The hair should be freed from grease by washing with ether, and dis- solved in rather a dilute solution of caustic potash, with the aid of a gentle heat, not ex- ceeding 120° or 130°. A mixed solution of protein and its binoxide is in this way obtained, from which the protein is first separated by neutralizing the solution with acetic acid, and after filtration the binoxide is precipitated by the further addition of a decided excess of acid. It appears as a yellowish flocculent precipitate. and when washed and dried has a dark resin- like appearance, Boucliardat obtained a substance I)y digest- ing moist fibrin in water acidified with one or two-thousandth of its weight of hydrochloric acid, in which it gradually dissolved, which he called albuminose ; it has since been prepared and analysed by Mulder, who considers it to be identical with binoxide of protein; but Liebig, who has recently examined it, says that it cannot be obtained free from sulphur, and consequently that it is not pure binoxide of protein. This oxide is insoluble in water, alcohol, and ether, but dissolves in most of the dilute acids, and in solutions of potash and ammonia; it is precipitated from its acid solu- tions by ferrocyanide and ferridcyanide of po- tassium, and several other metallic salts. Nitric acid decomposes it, forming xanthoproteic acid, but the yellow colour produced by it is less intense than that obtained with protein. These oxides of protein possess considerable physiological interest, from the circumstance that they are contained in the blood, in small quantity during health, but much more abun- dantly in some forms of disease. It is probable that they are formed during every act of respi- ration by the action of the inspired oxygen on the globules or fibrinous matter of the blood ; and Mulder is of opinion that it is through their instrumentality that the atm.ospheric oxygen is conveyed to the capillaries, there to be employed in effecting the necessary changes in the substance of the body. During fever, when respiration goes on with more than ordinary rapidity, these oxides are formed in much larger quantity; hence the buffy coat of diseased blood, which was formerly considered to be merely fibrin, consists almost entirely of oxidized protein ; and pus, false membranes, and other morbid products contain it in con- siderable quantity. Mulder has recently obtained a third oxide of protein, represented by the formula C^^ H3J N5 O20 or protein plus eight equiva- lents of oxygen. As it has not, however, been found to exist naturally in the animal body, it is inferior in point of interest to the other two. Like the tritoxide it is soluble, and is obtained by boiling glutin or yeast for a length of time in water. By the action of chemical reagents on pro- tein a multitude of new compounds are formed, most of which have been only imperfectly examined, and indeed possess but little real interest. I will describe a few of the most important. Protein and chlorine. — When a current of chlorine is passed through a solution of albu- men, or any of the other modifications of pro- tein, a substance is produced, containing C^^ H31 0^5 Clj, which Mulder considers to be a chlorite of protein, (C^^ Hg^ O^^ + CI O3). It appears to be formed at the ex- pense of three equivalents of water ; three equivalents of hydrochloric acid and one of chlorous acid being simultaneously produced, the latter uniting with the protein. It sepa- rates as a snow-white flaky precipitate, and