ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 617 as it then was, and secondly that the state of prostration and debility (he patient was in, at that moment, offered an opportunity which, if once lost, might not again be afforded, of reducing easily the dislocation. Taking the patient, therefore, unawares, the writer placed his knee in the axilla of the dislocated arm, and then slight extension having been made over this fulcrum, the bone at the first trial returned into the glenoid cavity. The pat ent was placed in bed in the hospital, under the care of the late Mr. Wallace, whose day it was for admitting accidents. There was much more superficial ecchymosis about the axillary, and subclavian region, and along the inside of the left arm, than is usually observed after a simple dislocation of the head of the humerus. The deep axillary swelling re- mained stationary for some days; but no pul- sation could be discovered either in it, or in the arteries of the limb. A feeble and fre- quent pulse could be felt in the left subcla- vian, and in all the other arteries, as well as in the heart. After the space of ten days, Mr. Wallace's month of attendance having expired, the case came under the care of Mr. O'Reilly, who having been satisfied that a diffused aneurism existed, and was on the increase, performed the operation, at which the writer was present, of tying the subclavian artery in the third stage of its course. The patient recovered, and was discharged from the hospital about two months afterwards ; he lost the last two fingers by gangrene; but whether from an attack of erysipelas, which succeeded the operation, or from the effects of the ligature of' the main artery of the limb, is not clearly known. The man lived for many years afterwards, in the immediate vici- nity of the Richmond Hospital. Section 3.—Congenital malformation of the shoulder joint. — Although little can be done by medicine or surgery to alleviate, much less to remedy, the evils attending on congenital malformation of the shoulder joint, still it appears to us to be not the less necessary that the abnormal conditions of this articula- tion resulting from congenital defects should be studied. These, like some other congenital malformations of the joints, attract but little notice during the first months of infancy, hut as the child grows the defect becomes more manifest. It very commonly happens in these cases, that after some time the ordinary sur- gical opinions taken on the case, and the mea- sures recommended faihng, as they naturally do, to produce satisfactory results, the ill- fated patient, born with malformation of the shoulder joint, is subjected to ignorant and empirical treatment, the inutility of which too often proves to be the least of the evils attending it.* * About ten years ago the writer met in cousulta- tion surgeon W". Wilde on the case of an only child, a girl of thirteen years of age, who had a congenital malformation of the shoulder joint.presenting exactly the appearance of the joint'(/^r. 441.). The young lady is noAv twenty-three years of age, and the writer has been informed by one of her relatives. The most common form of congenital mal- formation of the parts composing the region of the shoulder joint that we have noticed, has been apparently the result of an arrest of development, and of atrophy affecting the muscles, the bones, and probably also the nerves of this region. Sometimes we find both shoulder joints are malformed in the same individual; generally one only is thus affected. In this last case the atrophied con- dition of the malformed joint is well seen on com[)aring the normal and abnormal shoulder: the latter is smaller than the former; the muscles around the joint are so imperfectly developed, that the coracoid and the acro- mion processes and the head of the humerus become unusually conspicuous. The deltoid and articular muscles are so weak, and the capsule so loose, that the limb seems usually to be drawn down, as it were, by its own weight, and then becomes displaced forwards and inwards beneath the coracoid process, where it habitually remains, the head of the humerus forming a protuberance in front, which yields to the slightest force pressing it backwards towards the usual site of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. When the arm is taken hold of at its lowest extremity, as at the elbow, and drawn back- wards, the head of the humerus advances forwards and passes beneath the coracoid process, and a depression, corresponding to the posterior half of the glenoid cavity, is perceptible. On the contrary, when the elbow is drawn forwards, the head of the humerus recedes towards the normal site of the gle- noid cavity ; when the humerus is raised up perpendicularly towards the acromion, and the influence of the weight of the limb is thus counteracted, the shoulder appears of its natural form, but diminished about half the normal size. The muscles around the joint are so badly developed, that the bony process which surrounds it becomes very conspicuous. The accompanying drawing is designed to pourtray the general aspect of one of these cases of congenital malformation of the shoul- der joint in the displacement inwards of the head of the humerus (^Jig. 44L). Case. — The following is the history of the case from which the drawing has been taken. M. H., aet. 28, is in every respect healthy and well formed, except as to his left shoul- der, which, since his birth, has al ways been noticed to have been smaller than the other. This defect gives a peculiar appearance to his whole figure as he j^tands or walks. As his arm hangs by his side, the longitudinal axis of it is directed downwards and a little back- wards. The head of the humerus is a li;tle advanced as well as depressed beneath the outer margin of the coracoid process ; it is that she is in no respect better as to the condition of her shoulder joint; but that her general health has suflered materially in consequence of the various treatment she had been subjected to in vain. Her parents, ignorant of the nature of the case, and too sanguine in their hopes, had been the easy dupes of charlatanism.