ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 615 In one case detailed by Sir A. Cooper, the tubercles were broken off with the head of the bone, and the fractured extremity of the neck of the os humeri was placed in the glenoid cavity of the scapula. In another case, the fracture was intra-capsular, and the head of the bone was at the same time dis- located forwards, under the pectoral muscle, and placed at the inner side of the coracoid process. Delpech * gives the history of a case of fracture of the anatomical neck of the hu- merus, combined with a dislocation. The case was remarkable, and differed from all the others recorded, in being an example of that rare form of dislocation, where the bone is thrown on the dorsum of the scapula. The history of the case is accompanied with an engraving. With regard to the case of dislocation into the axilla, complicated with fracture. Sir A. Cooper says, " I would observe that in this case the fall and depression of the shoulder is less striking than in the case of simple ax- illary dislocation, as the shaft of the bone fills up the glenoid cavity ; also, that in the case complicated with fracture, the head of the bone can still be distinctly felt in the axilla, and that as it does not move when the os humeri is rotated from the elbow, this be- comes the principal diagnostic mark. " That a grating sensation can generally be felt, and sometimes a very distinct crepitus, especially if the elbow be raised outwards during the rotation of the arm. " That the upper extremity of the shaft of the humerus can be felt advancing to the coracoid process ; but that it is easily re- turned into the glenoid cavity, and that it there rotates with the arm, but easily again slips forward. " That the accident which produces it is much more severe than that by which simple dislocation into the axilla is produced ; and there is, therefore, more contusion, more swelling, and more pain," Muscles. — If in some cases the tuberosities of the humerus are broken off and remain connected with the muscles when the head of the humerus is dislocated, in others, we may be prepared to expect that in the dis- section of cases of dislocation, the capsular and other muscles will be found lacerated. If, as has been stated, the supra-spinatus be the muscle which is most put on the stretch when the head of the humerus is dislocated down- wards, we need not be surprised to learn that this muscle is very frequently found to have been ruptured, or to have torn away a frag- ment of bone from the head of the humerus. In the dislocation on the dorsum of the scapula, the dissection of which is detailed in Sir A. Cooper's work, we find the following observations made by Mr. Key, with reference to a very peculiar phenomenon noticed in that case : namely," that, during the patient's life-time it was thought probable that a portion * Clinique Chirurgicale, Paris, torn. i. p. 234. of the glenoid cavity had been broken off, or a piece of the head of the os humeri, or perhaps the smaller tubercle ; and that any of these injuries would account for the head of the bone not remaining in its natural cavity when reduced; but the inspection post- mortem proved that the cause of this symptom was the laceration of the tendon of the sub' scapularis muscle, which was found to adhere to the edge of the glenoid cavity, and much thickened and altered in its character from its laceration, and very imperfect and irregular union." The tendon of the long head of the biceps is sometimes altered, as to its direction, in cases of complete dislocation, and adhesions between it and the contiguous parts occur ; but there are very few cases recorded, or to be found in museums, which prove that in true dislocation from accident, the tendon was found ruptured. In this respect, the effects of accident and disease on this tendon are strongly contrasted ; for, as the result of disease, the tendon, so far as its articular por- tion is concerned, is very generally removed altogether. Besides lesions affecting the bones, mus- cles, and tendons, injuries of other tissues may be found occasionally to accompany or succeed to dislocations of the shoulder. A dislocation of the head of the humerus may be accompanied with an oedematoiis swelling of the arm and forearm ; with a pa- ralysis of the dislocated extremity, or with a laceration of the axillary artery, and a dif- fused aneurism ; it is said also that occasion- ally an emphysematous swelling of the shoul- der has followed the reduction of the dis- location ; and on other occasions, that the articular structures have been attacked with very severe injlammation. For example, as to this last: Mr. Hunter gives an account of a case of dislocation of the shoulder-joint, which he dissected three weeks after its re- duction, from which, if we could be influenced by one case, we might infer that inflammation, though latent, may sometimes be the conse- quence of a dislocation of the head of the humerus. Mr. Hunter's observation is as follows : " What was very remarkable, and what I did not expect, there was a good deal of pus in the Joint.^^ * Partial or general paralysis of the muscles of the arm has also been observed as a con- sequence of a dislocation of the head of the humerus, particularly when either the circum- flex nerve alone, which is that most usually injured, or all the nerves of the brachial plexus have been violently contused, or greatly stretched ; or even torn across either at the time of the accident, or by the violence of the means used to restore the luxated humerus, when the dislocation has been left long un- reduced. Flaubert, of Rouen, speaks of an emphysema of the chest succeeding his efforts to reduce an old luxation of the humerus ; * Pathological Catalogue of Museum of K. C. Surgeons, England, vol, ii. p. 20. No. 868. R R 4