57 POLYPIFERA. future alimentary canal, the interspace being in communication with the stem of the parent polype, and filled with a fluid that is analogous to the blood of the higher animals; superiorly this cavity likewise penetrates into the ten- tacles, and the fluid which bathes the exterior of the alimentary canal thus finds admission even to the extremities of those organs (/g. 62. 6,7»). F,g. 62. Development by buds of Laguncula repens. 1. A young bud, Avith the cavity of the stalk ex- tending into it, the parietes thickened at one part; it is from this part that the intestinal canal and tentacles are formed. 2. A sac is formed in the interior, having a longi- tudinal fold, which afterwards becomes the tentacles. 3. The rudiments of the tentacles are here appa- rent : the view is taken so that the space which they siu"round is visible. 4. In this figure all the organs of the animal can be distinguished, but the bud is not yet opened. 5. Here the cell is opened, and the animal is ready to expand itself. 6. Section of the adult animal; a, tentacles; b, mouth; c, buccal cavity; d, valve separating this cavity from the oesophagus; e, oesophagus; f, sto- mach; g, pyloric cilia; h, pyloric valve; i, intes- tine ; k, anus; I, peri-intestinal cavity; m, commu- nication of this cavity "with the interior of the ten- tacles ; n, nervous ganglion; o, long retractor muscle; p, retractor of the stomach ; walls of the cell. (^After Van Beneden.) The second cavity, which is the intestinal, has as yet no communication with the ex- ternal world. As the formation of the ten- tacula proceeds, the portion which is situated in front of them will become the sheath, and the other part the proper intestinal canal j the former cavity is, therefore, in all respects comparable to that which exists in the Tuni- cata situated in front of the proper oral orifice and lined with the branchial vessels. The tentacles of these polypes, in fact, if connected by transverse canals and attached to the sheath, would transform the ai»imals in this phasis of their growth into Ascidians. As the tentacula are formed by the pro- longation of the tubercles which were their first rudiments, the cavity of the stomach and the rest of the intestinal tube gradually be- come apparent, and at the same time some globules are visible disposed around the cul- de-sac of the former viscus, which gradually become arranged into fibrillae, and constitute the retractor muscles. At what time the nervous system is formed could not be detected. When the cell has nearly reached it? full development, the tentacular sheath is com- pleted in the same proportion, the parietes of the cell become softened, and an opening is formed which brings the young polype into communication with the surroundmg element. The Bryozoon has now attained its full deve- lopment, and can expand its tentacula, but as yet there are no traces of the reproductive organs, which seem to be formed after all the others. In Halodaciylus reproduction by gemma- tion is effected by the development of young animals and cells amongst the mature ones. The newly formed cells are triangular, and the animal looks like a mere spot in their centre. As they grow they thrust aside the surrounding cells, and the number of their sides increases until they acquire the regular hexagonal form of the adult. The Halodaciylus likewise afforded Dr. Farre an ojypcrtunity of witnessing the second mode of reproduction common to the Bryozoa, namely, by the development of ciliated gem- mules. These are readily seen in Spring as minute whitish points situated just below the surface of the mass (^Jig, 64, a). Sometimes Fig, 63. 77«'n tr-ansverse section of Halodaciylus diaplwnus. Tim centre occupied by cellular tissue and water. The circumference formed by cells in close apposi- tion. The brown bodies scattered through the sub- stance. a, a, position of the gemmules, enclosed in the sac; b, one of the gemmules escaped during the sec- tion into the central tissue. {After Farre.^ they are of a darker colour, and exceedingly numerous, appearing to occupy almost its whole substance. If one of these points be carefully turned out with a needle, it is found