RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. 225 the palm from the forcibly extended thimib might be taken as a more accurate guide to this part of the vessel. Branches of the ulnar artery. — The first branches of the vessel are two, which usually come off by a common trunk, but are nearly as often separate at their origin. They are called the artericc recurrentes ulnares anterior ct posterior, being so named from their taking a recurved course upwards into the arm ; the former in the front of the internal condyle of the humerus, and the latter between it and the olecranon process of the ulna. The an- terior recurrent passes upwards from beneath the flexor muscles which cover the artery where it rises, lying on the brachialis anticus, and corresponding to the elbow joint which it partially supplies; its superior termination inoscidates with the lowest or anastomotic branch of the brachial. The posterior re- current, having at first similar relations, passes more inwards so as to reach the above in- terval, being situated beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and meeting the ulnar nerve de- scending from the arm between the two heads of this muscle. Here it breaks up, anasto- mosing freely with the inferior profunda which has hitherto accompanied the nerve, uniting also by small branches with twigs sent down- wards from the superior profunda in the substance of the triceps, and giving many branches to the articulation and the neigh- bouring muscles. The next considerable branch is the arteria interossea, which diverges from the trunk of the vessel a little below the coronoid pro- cess, and whilst it is covered by the flexor muscles. Directed downwards from its origin, after a course of about an inch in length, it reaches the interosseous mem- brane in the upper part of the interval between the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor profundus digitoruin, and here it bi- furcates into two branches. One of these, the anterior interosseous, continues on the front of this membrane, lying deeply in the interval between the two muscles and con- cealed by them, until, arriving at the pro- nator quadratus which lies transversely across the lower extremities of the radius and ulna, it passes under this muscle. At its inferior border it reappears, though much diminished in size, and now situated on the anterior ligament of the wrist, it divides into many small branches, which supply the articulation and anastomose with the anterior carpal twigs from the radial and ulnar vessels. In this course, the branch now described supplies the muscle on each side of it, and usually it gives off one or two small branches which perforate the interosseous membrane beneath it in their passage backwards to the posterior region of the forearm. One of these, by far the largest and the most constant, is fre- quently named as " the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous;" and it escapes to the back of the forearm, through an aper- ture which exists in the interosseous mem- brane, near its inferior border, and about an VOL, IV. inch and a half above the radio-ulnar articu- lation. The posterior interosseous, the remaining division of the artery, leaves the front of the limb by passing between the radius and ulna above the superior border of the interosseous membrane, and next becomes visible in the back of the forearm, between the inferior border of the supinator brevis and the ex- tensor ossis metacar[)i pollicis. In the re- mainder of its extent it lies on the muscles which arise from the posterior surface of this membrane, and beneath the more superficial layer of extensors and supinators, until it arrives at the wrisr. Here, lying on the pos- terior ligament of the joint, it breaks up into its terminal ramifications, which inosculate freel}' with the posterior carpal arteries of the radial and ulnar, and with the perforating branch of the anterior interosseous division. While this vessel is passing between the two bones above the ligament, it gives off the recurrent interosseous branch, which, usually of considerable size, perforates the lower part of the supinator radii brevis to reach the back of the forearm. Subsequently it is directed upwards, lying on this muscle, and beneath the anconeus, until it attains the lower part of the arm, where it terminates by anastomosing with a large branch or branches which proceed from the superior profunda, as it turns round the humerus, and in the sub- stance of the outer head of the triceps. It supplies the muscles between which it is situated, and sends a branch to the articula- tion of the elbow-joint. iToT^^^"'"^ A very constant branch, thoughrusually ortly of small size, is the twig from the ulnar artery which accompanies the median nerve, con- tinuing along it through the forearm until gradually lost from increasing minuteness. It is the basis of an important variety which will be mentioned hereafter. Low down in the forearm, the ulnar arter}' gives off a branch which runs along the ulnar side of the metacarpus, and supplies this side of the little finger with a dorsal twig. Ac- companied by a branch of the ulnar nerve, it turns backwards from the vessel just above the inferior extremity of the ulna, beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon ; and reaching the inner side of the wrist, continues in a direct line to its termination. It anastomoses with the posterior carpal arch, and, on the metacarpus, with the palmar arch of the ulnar artery. The remaining branches of the ulnar in the forearm are two, the arteria: carpi idnarcs anterior et posterior, which occupy a position closely resembling that of the similar branches from the radial artery on the opposite side of the limb. Each runs transversely outwards on its respective surface of the wrist joint, and unites with the radial branch, and from this union, (which, in the ca«;e of the posterior vessels, is a " carpal arch " in size and re- gularity of arrangement) branches perforate the ligaments to supply the articulations and bones of the caq)us. In addition to the