309 REPTILIA. X 3 shortly after its origin into three branches, of which one is the right or systemic aorta, the second the right subclavian, and the third the common trunk of the carotid and left subclavian arteries. The left or splanchanic aorta, previous to dividing among the vis- cera, gives off a large branch which communi- cates with the right descending or systemic aorta. The three great arteries, viz. the pulmonary, and right and left aorta, are closely connected together immediately after their origin, and dilate into expansions which are collectively larger than the cavities of the heart. In the common state of circulation the blood passes from the right ventricle chiefly into the pulmonary artery, and partly, also, into the branch arising from it, to enter into the left aorta. The blood of the left ventricle, on the other hand, is thrown into the right aorta, right subclavian, and carotid arteries, a small quantity only passing into the left aorta. When the animal is under water, the action of the lungs being inter- rupted, and the circulation of blood through them suspended, a larger proportion of the contents of the right ventricle must pass into the branch of communication with the left aorta, and it is probable that under such cir- cumstances only does it happen that the blood sent to the various organs is an admixture of arterial and venous blood, as in the Chelonia and other Sauria. In the serpent {Pytlion Tigris, Dauel.) the blood of the general system is collected into a large elongated sinus, formed by the union of the inferior with the right superior cava. The left superior cava winds round the back of the left auricle, receives the coronary veins, and terminates in the lower part of the orifice which leads from the above sinus to the right auricle. This orifice is protected by two elongated semilunar valves. The whole of the inner surface of the auricle, with the ex- ception of these valves and the opposite valve of the foramen ovale, is reticulated with delicate muscular fasciculi. The left auricle receives the blood from the lungs by a single pulmonary vein, and has a similar muscular structure : there is no valve at the termination of the vein in this auricle. The blood enters the posterior or aortic division of the ven- tricle by two crescentic apertures, which are each provided with a single semilunar valve, extended from either side of the septum of the auricle. The fleshy septum, which ex- tends from the base of the ventricle to the space between the roots of the pulmonary and systematic arteries is incomplete at its upper and anterior part, and leaves there a free communication between the pulmonary and aortic chambers : these also intercommu- nicate by several round apertures of different sizes near the apex of the ventricle, which serve to thoroughly blend together the two kinds of blood, before they are expelled, thus mixed, along the three arteries which sepa- rately arise from the ventricles. The origins of the pulmonary artery and left aorta are each provided with a pair of semilunar valves. The carotid arteries are given off fiom the right aorta, which afterwards unites with the left aorta at some distance below the heart. Nervous System. — The brain of reptiles, in Fig. 223. Anatomy of the Brain of Turtle. (^After Sivan.) a. 1, corpus striatum and a lesser oblong eminence seen on opening the lateral ventricle; on the left side the choroid plexus is seen passing through an opening in the septum, to communicate with that of the right side; part of the striated body has been removed on the right side ; 2, thalamus of the optic nerve ; 3, optic lobe and ventricle continued forward under the thalami, forming a resemblance of the third ventricle, and then backAvards into the cere- bellum, and to the calamus scriptorius. b. 1, cut surface, from which the striated body has been removed; it is the crus of the brain, and is somewhat connected with the commissure of the optic nerves: the thalamus on this side has been cut off at its connection with the optic tract. 2, Optic lobe, from which more has been removed than in the preceding figure. 3, Cerebellum, from which more has been removed than in a; two longitudinal bands are continued on from the base of the optic lobes, and terminate near the calamus scriptorius, by being iinplanted into the anterior portion of the oblong medulla : on each side of these, others les? distinct may be observed. 4, fourth nerve. the completeness of its structure, occupies a position intermediate between that of birds and fishes ; it resembles the former in the smooth- ness of its surface and the small size of the optic thalami, and the latter in the length of the olfactory lobes, and their continuity with the anterior extremity of the hemisphere ; its proportionate size relative to the dimensions of the body is, however, far inferior to that of birds, although it still completely fills the cranial cavity. The olfactory lobe of the brain is hollow, and its cavity communicates with the ven- tricle contained in the cerebral hemisphere. Each hemisphere, as in birds, consists of a central portion, or corpus striatum, the re- lative size of which varies in different orders, and of a nervous expansion which incloses the ventricle above and on its inner side. The optic thalami are small, and occupy their usual position on each side of the third ventricle. The tubercula quadrigemina are situated as ordinarily above the aqueduct: they are of a rounded form, and, as in birds, contain a ventricular cavity, which is in com- munication with the third ventricle. The anterior and posterior commissures of the