SKELETON. 669 according with the increasing bulk of the viscera of the thorax and abdomen ; and in order to allow space sufficient for the reception of these organs, the ventral ray (3, 2, 1) suffers a cleavage through its whole length, as seen in Jig. 488., where the original ventral ray (7, 8, 9) has widened into the costal circle c, c. Now Jig. 487., in its original azygos con- dition, or in its bicleft symmetrical form in Jig. 488., may be so metamorphosed and pro- portioned as to produce every known form of vertebra in the spinal axes of the four classes of animals. The quantity fig. 487., taken as a whole or archetype, represents the larg- est segment of all spinal axes, that, for ex- ample, which we find standing in the spinal axes of the Pleuronectidae. The obliteration of several parts of the quantity {fig. 487.) will successively represent in the remainders many forms of vertebrae ; for if the dorsal palm (1, 1) be subtracted from it, it will represent any of the pahnless dorsal rays of the osseous fish ; and if the dorsal palm (1, 1), with the interspinous ossicles (2, 2), be subtracted, then the dorsal laminae (3, 3), which enclose the neural s()ace (4), will represent any dorsal ray of the spinal axis of the terrestrial animal. When the dorsal and ventral palms (1, I), to- gether with the dorsal and ventral interspi- nous ossicles, are subtracted from the arche- type (^^.487.), then the quantity composed of (5) the centrum and of (3, 3) the neural and haemal arches equals that vertebra which we find in the tail of cetaceans, viz. that vertebra which possesses the chevron bones. The chevron bones are fashioned of the inferior or haemal laminae (3, 3), and when the neural or the haemal arch produces the neural or the haemal spinous process, this process is a part of the interspinous ossicles left remaining, as ^tg,g{fig. 488.) When the ventral ray (3, 2, 1) of the arche- type {fig. 487.) widens to the costal arch c, c in fig. 488., this arch is left standing at the thorax of some animals, and even at the ven- ter of others. As fig. 488. stands in its pre- sent quantitative character, it may be found in the abdomen of fishes still having the parts 1 and 2 attached and persisting, or obliterated and lost to the original quantity, as the case may require. At the dorsal aspect of the spinal axes of all terrestrial animals it may be understood that the parts 1 and 2 of fig. 488. are lost or subtracted. It is the ventral ray, consisting of the parts 7, 8, 9 {fig. 488), which suffers median cleavage and widens into the costal arches (c, c). As a certain proof of this fact, I may remark, that where the full ventral ray persists as at 7, 8, 9, there we never find the full costal arches {c, c) existing; and where these latter are existing, there we never find the ventral ray. As the one becomes converted into the other, it is hence impossible for the same ens to exhibit both conditions of form at one and the same time. When the ventral ray 7, 8, 9 {fig. 488.) has widened into the costal arches, these arches may and do suffer a metamorphosis of quan- tity to the same degree as when in their ori- ginal azygos condition. Thus the ribs (c, c) become symmetrically proportioned or ol)lite- rated successively at the points /, e, d, by imaginary lines radiating from the sternal centre at 9. When these costal arches {c, c) meet at the central point 9, then we name the ribs sternal; when they fall short of this point 9, either at the point / or e, we nanie these ribs mtcrnal; when they become ob- literated as far back as the point d, then we name them, as in the lumbar s{)ine, the trans- verse processes. As every law in nature is phaseal and gra- duated, so is this the distinguishing character of the law of formation. The ventral ray (7, 8, 9), after undergoing a cleavage into symmetrical halves, wi'iW present, in various classes and species of animals, a phaseal gra- dation in the process of widening, and assume the form of the arc a, b, and c, successively, according to necessity. In the caudex of the saurian or cetacean, we find vertebrae producing at the same time the neural arch and spine, the haemal arch and spine, together with the costal process (c, c), jutting laterally from the centrum (5) as far as the point d; when this is the case, then the haemal arch and spine is fashioned of that quantity of the costae which intervenes between d and f, and which, being severed from c at the point rf, is bent inwards towards the median line 6, 7, thus assuming a second time its azygos position. In some aquatic mammalia (the porpoise, dolphin, &c.) there remains at the dorsal aspect some trace of the dorsal form (1, 2, 3, of fig. 488.). The ceta- cean dorsal fin is thus explained. Prop. XLIII. The scapulary and pelvic pairs of limbs are proportional quantities meta- morphosed from the dorso-ventral archett/j^es.— The scapula disconnected from the clavicle is the quantitative counterpart of the iliac bone separated from the os pubis and ischium. Having in a former place remarked upon the structural homology which relates clavicles, pubic bones, and ischiadic bones to ribs ; and having also pointed out the homological rela- tions between the scapulae and the iliac bones, we shall in this place first consider the struc- tural homology between these latter osseous quantities and the vertebrae, and next the homological relations between the fore and hind limbs, the ribs, and the dorso-ventral rays. The dorsal vertebra, viewed from behind, is represented in A (^£,^489.). u represents the dorsal aspect of the two scapulae conjoined, and c represents the two iliac bones placed base to base. Is there a structural identity apparent between these three figures ? and in what points of character do they correspond? To this question I answer in almost all points; for not only do these forms, viewed in their entirety, correspond, but even their mode of genesis is identical. The vertebra (a) is a symmetrical form, consisting of opposite laminae (c, c), which