68 PORIFERA. rented :—" On moving the watch-^lass, so as to bring one of the apertures on the side of the sponge fully into view, I beheld, for the first time, the s[)lendid spectacle of this living fountain, vomiting forth from a circular cavity an impetuous torrent of liquid matter, and hurling along in rapid succession, opaque masses, which it strewed every where around. The beimty and novelty of such a scene in the animal kingdom, long arrested my atten- tion ; but after twenty-five minutes of constant observation 1 was obliged to withdraw my eye, from fat'gue, without having seen the tor- rent, for one instant, change its direction, or diminish, in the slightest degree, the rapidity of its course; I continued to watch the same orifice, at short intervals, for five hours, some- times observing it for a quarter of an hour at a time, but still the stream rolled on with a constant and equal velocity. About the end of this time, however, I observed the current become perceptibly languid ; the opaque floc- culi of feculent matter, which were thrown out with so much impetuosity at the begin- ning, were now propelled to a shorter dis- tance from the orifice, and fell to the bottom of the fluid within the sphere of vision, and, in one hour more, the current had entirely ceased." Subsequently, two round portions of the Spongia panicea were placed together in a vessel of sea-water, with their orifices opposite to each other, at the distance of two inches; they ap[)eared to the naked eye like two living batteries, and soon covered each other with feculent matter. Dr. Grant then placed one of them in a shallow vessel, and just covered its surface and highest orifice with water. On strewing some powdered chalk on the surface of the water, the currents were visible at a gi eat distance, and on placing some small pieces of cork or of dry paper over the aper- tures, he could perceive them moving by the force of the currents at the distance of ten feet from the table on which the specimen rested. A portion of soft bread pressed be- tween the fingers into a globular form was not moved away in a mass by the stream, but was gradually worn down by the current beating on its sides, and thus propelled to a distance in small flakes. A globule of mercury of equal diameter with the orifice, let fall upon it from a glass tube, was not removed or shaken, and completely stopped the current. In this condition, on piercing the sponge with a needle, a new current was established through the araficial canal thus formed, which con- tinued even afier removing the obstruction from the original orifice. A globule of mercury of any smallness placed over the orifice of a living sponge, is too heavy to be affected by the s^nall column of water which impels against its smooth round surface, flowing at the rate with which it issues from that orifice, and is useful in enabling us to stop up the currents of certain orifices, in order to direct the stream with greater force through a particular aperture which we wish to examine through the mi- croscope. By adopting this plan with some sponges, which have very few and large orifices on the surface, it is distinctly per- ceptible with the naked eye, that the current never enters by the same apertures through which it issues, and we might thus measure the whole strength of the forces employed to produce the currents in any particular speci- men.* Various hypotheses have been suggested to account for the production of these streams of water which constantly percolate the body of the sponge, but all of them have been rejected in turn as unsatisfactory. Ciliary movement might be supposed to be the cause of this phenomenon, were it not that no observer has been able to detect, even with the most powerful n)icroscopes, the presence of cilia in the interior of the aquiferous canals. At certain seasons, indeed, when the ciliated re- productive gemmules described by Dr. Grant are abundantly disseminated through the living cortex of the sponge, it would seem possible that they might have some influence ; but as the currents appear to be equally strong at all periods, even when these gemmules are not developed, this supposition is untenable. Lastly, the laws of endesmosis have been ap- pealed to as capable of explaining the phe- nomenon in question, yet even here there are difficulties not easily got rid of. In speaking of this propulsion of the sea- water through the Halichondria, in which genus it has been principally observed, the crustaceous species being best adapted for the study of its phenomena. Dr. Johnston re- marks-j-, *■ A single observation is sufficient to convince us that this circulation has no- thing in common w^ith that of higher animals, but it has some analogy surely with that imbibition and influx of water into the body of most radiated and molluscous animals which takes place through the skin and through certain canals, which Delia Chiage has de- scribed and figured as their aquiferous system. The canals in both cases are not vascular tubes with membranous parietes, but rather fur- rows, excavated in the flesh or substance of the body, and leading into wider channels equally unlined. They have in common a direct communication with the circumfluent water, which alone ever flows in them, and the en- trance of this water seems to be, in a great measure, or entirely, independent of the will of the animals ; but the polypes and mollusca only have the power of expelling it when they choose by the contraction and compression of the parts which the canals traverse. There is, however, a wider diflerence in the arrangement of the aqueducts, — in the Radiata and Mol- lusca, the pattern is the same in every in- dividual of each species, but in the Sponges it has no constancy, — so that in no two specimens of the same kind do we ever find the arrangement to be exactly alike. This inconstancy seems to prove that the * Edin. Phil. Journal, vol. xiii. p. 104. t Hist, of British Sponges, p. 89.