221 RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. the perforated condition of the clitoris, merit our attention. The clitoris is very prominent, and through it passes the urethra. Conse- quently it has the structure of a penis, of which it is the representative in the female As appendix to my paper on the Quadru- mana I think it necessary to mention the Cheiromys 'psylodactylus or Aye-Aye of Mada- gascar. This singular animal seems interme- diate between the Lemurina: and Rodentia. It has the teeth of the last, but all the other characters of the first. De Blainville has elucidated them in a learned paper, published a second time in his Osteographie, and he has proved, indeed, that by the general form of the skull, by the situation of the foramen occi- pitale magnum^ and of the lacrymal opening, by the existence of an intermediate bone in the carpus, by the length of the calcaneum and scaphoid bone, the Cheiromys is indeed a Le- murine animal. But we want a more per- fect acquaintance with its organization and with the form and number of its teeth in early age, before it will be possible to determine exactly, where this very rare animal ought to be placed. To complete my anatomical description of the Quadrumana it will be necessary to men- tion the fossil specimens discovered recently in Europe, India, and Brazil. The European specimen consists in a lower jaw, discovered near Auch in a soil of tertiary formation. It seems to be of a Cercopithecus. The Indian specimen was found in tertiary formation of the mountainous district of the Himmalaya. It is a fragment of a lower jaw, having some analogy with the lower jaw of the Entellus. The third specimen is American, and consists in different bones of fossil Quadrumana, which seem to be of a Cebiis much larger than the modern species. Bibliography. — Maximilian, Pr. zu Wied., Beitr, z. Naturgeschichte von Brasilien, Weimar, 1826, B. 2. R. P. Lesson, Spec, des Mammiferes bi- manes et quadnimanes, Paris, 1840. J. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Desc. des Mammiferes noiiveaux ou im- parfaitement connus de la Collection du Museum d'Histoire naturelle, in Arch, du Musee d'Histoire naturelle, tom. ii. 4 Liv., Paris, 1841, p. 485. Tem- minck, Monographies de Mammalogie, Leyde, 1835, tom. 2.12e. Monographic sur le Genre Singe, Simia Linn. Blainville, Osteographie, ou Description ico- nographique comparee du Squelette et du Systfeme dentaire des Cinq Classes d'Animaux vertebres recents et fossiles. Ogilhy, The Menageries, in Libr. of Entert. Knowledge, London, 1838, vol. i. Berichte von der koniglichen anatomischen Anstalt zu Konigsberg : Jer Bericht von Heinrich Rathke, mit einem Beitrage zur vergleichenden Anatomie der Alfen, von Ernst Burdach, Konigsberg, 1838. J. A. Wagner, Beitr. zur Kenntniss der warmblutige Wirbelthiere Amerika's, in Abhandl. d. mathem. physik. Class, d. konigl. bayer. Akad. d. Wissensch., Miinchen, 1837, 2 B. p. 419. Natimrkundige Ver- handelingen van P. Camper over den Orang-outang en eenige andere Aapsoorten, Amsterdam, 1782. R. Owen, On the Osteology of the Chimpanzee and Orang-utan: Trans, of the Zool. Soc. of London, vol. i. p. 343, London, 1835. G. Sandifort, Ont- leerkundige Beschryving van een volwassen Orang- oetan (^Simia Satt/rus) in Yerhandelingen over de Natuurlyke Geschiedenis der Nederlandsclic over- seesche Bezittingen, Leiden, 1840. Herman Schlegel en Sal. 3Iuller Bydragen tot de Natuurlyke Historie van den Orang-octan in the same Memoirs. E. Tyson, Orang-outang, sive Homo sylvestris, or the Anatomy of a Pygmie compared Avith that of a Monkey, an Ape, and a Man, London, 1699. T. S. Traill, Observ. on the Anatomy of the Orang-outang in Mem. of the Wernerian Natural History Society, vol. iii., Edinb. 1841, p. 1. C. F. Heusinger, Vier Abbildungen des Schcdels der Simia Satyrus von verschiedeneu Alter., Marburg, 1838. A. Vosmaer, Beschryving van de zoo zeldzame als zonder- linge Aapsoort, genannd Orang-outang van het Eiland Borneo, Amsterdam, 1778. D. L. Osamp, Naauwkeurige Beschryving van den grooten en kleinen Orang-outang, Amsterdam, 1803. W. Vrolik, Reclierches d'Anatomie comparee sur le Chimpans^, Amsterdam, 1841. F. Tiedemann, Icones Cerebri Simiarum et quorundam Animalium rario- rum, Heidelberg, 1821. F. Tiedemann, Hirn des Orang-outang^s mit dem des Menschen verglichen in Zeitschrift f. die Physiologie, Darmstadt, 1827; 2 B. p. 17. a A. Rudolphi, Ueb. d. Embrj^o d. AfFen u. einige andere Saugethiere, Berlin, 1828. T. S. Leuckart, Ueb. die Bildung d. Geslechtsor- gane insbesondere der aiisseren einiger Affen in Zoologische Bruchstucke; Stuttgart, 1841, ii. p. 37. A. W. Otto, Ueb. eine neue Aftenart den Cercopithecus leucoprymnus in Nov. Act. C. L. C. nat. Curios, vol. xii. p. 2. R. Owen, On the sacculated Form of stomach as it exists in the Genus Semno- pithecus. Trans. Zool. Soc. vol. i. p. 65. G. Fischer, Anat. d. Maki, Frankfort am Main, 1804. G. R. Waterhouse, on the Genus Galeopithecus; Zool. Trans, vol. ii. p. 4. J. L. C. Schroeder van der Kolk, Bydrage tot de Anatomie van den Stenops Kukang in Tydschr. voor Nat. Geschiedenis en Physiologie, D. 8. pi. 277. W. Vrolik, Rech. d'Anatomie comparee sur le genre Stenops in N. Verhand. der le Klasse koninkl. nederl. Inst. D. 10. Amsterdam, Oct. 1843. To this bibliography ought yet to be added H. Burmeister, Beitrage zur naheren Kemitniss der Gattung Tarsius, Berlin, 1846. I regret that this very valuable work was not published when I wrote my article in 1843. (IV. Vrolik.') RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. (Arteres radiale et idnaire — Speichcnpidsader und Ellenbogenpulsader.) — The nomenclature of the different branches of the systemic cir- culation is based upon two principles. Ac- cording to one of these, the distinction of appellation is grounded upon the tubes them- selves ; their different ramifications being designated by as many names, which usually more or less connote the ultimate destination of the vital fluid they contain. Where this method fails, another remains, which, though essentially arbitrary, is yet of the highest im- portance : a method which, in order to their stricter contemplation by the anatomist, and their more accurate recognition by the sur- geon, isolates different lengths of one and the same tube, according to changes in its position and relations with respect to neigh- bouring parts. The radial and ulnar arteries, whose anato- my is here to be considered, are included in the first of these categories ; being the branches which result from the bifurcation of the artery for the upper extremity. Com- mencing in their ordinary distribution, oppo- site and anterior to the elbow joint, they