SHELL. 5G7 o o 4 dominate, and the texture may have either a remarkable lightness and porosity, or a con- siderable degree of compactness and brittle- ness. We may take the [)]ates making up the shell of the Echinus as presenting a typical form of this structure; from which the transition is easy towards either the more solid or the more open character which it elsewhere presents. When we obtain a very thin slice of one of these plates, taken parallel to the surface of the shell, we find that it is composed of a lamina, apparently in itself destitute of structure, perforated with con- siderable regularity by apertures of a circular or oval form. The diameter of these aper- tures {Jig. 423.) varies to a certain extent in Fig. 423. Thin Lamina of shell of Echinus, showing its areolar structure: aa, portions of subjacent layer; hb, fractured bases of columns connecting the super- posed laminae. Magnified 164 diameters. different parts of the same shell, the reticula- tion being much coarser in the inner than in the outer layers : from numerous measure- ments, the extremes may be stated at about I-450th and 1-2500th of an inch. The en- tire thickness of the shell is made up of an immense number of such plates, which lie parallel to each other, but not in contact; for they are separated from each other by little pillars, which rise up vertically from each plate to support the next, and which thus connect the different plates whilst hold- ing them apart. The broken bases or ends of these minute pillars are commonly to be seen upon the surfaces of the perforated plates, at the spots intermediate between three or four of the apertures {fig. 423. b, b). The suc- cessive plates are always so disposed, that the centres of the perforations of one shall corre- spond with the intermediate solid structure of the next (fig. 423. a, a) ; and their trans- parency is such, that, when we have reduced a section to such a degree of thinness as to contain a small number of the reticulated layers, it is easy, by a proper adjustment of the focus of the microscope, to bring either one of them into distinct view. In whatever direction we slice the shell of the Echinus, we always meet with a sort of reticulated structure ; for if our section be parallel to the surface of the plates, it brings into view one or more of the perforated laminae just described; whilst, if it be per- pendicular to the surface, it passes vertically through a series of these laminae, and in the direction of the pillars that connect them, which thus constitute an areolar structure of a tolerably regular form. The testa is thus of an extremely porous character, the areolae having the freest communication with each other. Even in the living state, however, the areolae appear to be empty, the ingress of the fluid with which the surface of the shell is in contact being prevented by the delicate membrane that covers it. At the same time, it possesses a remarkable degree of strength, in proportion to the amount of solid matter employed in its construction ; for every part at the same time supports, and is supported, by the surrounding fabric. The skeleton of the Echinodermata con- tains very little organic matter. When it is submitted to the action of dilute acid, so that the calcareous matter is removed, the re- siduum is very small in amount; indeed, unless the acid be so weak as only just to dissolve the carbonate of lime, the organic matter also will be dissolved, and no animal basis will be apparent. When, however, it is obtained in a state fit for examination, it is found to possess the reticular structure of the calcareous shell ; the meshes or areolae being bounded by a substance in wdiich a fibrous appearance, intermingled with granules, may be discerned under a sufficiently high magnifying power, as was first pointed out by Professor Valentin. This tissue bears a close resemblance to the areolar tissue of higher animals ; and the shell may probably be con- sidered as formed, not by the consolidation of the cells of the epidermis, as in the Mol- lusca, but by the calcification of the fibro- areolar tissue of the true skin. This calcifi- cation of areolar or simply fibrous tissue, by the deposit of mineral substance, not in the meshes of areolae, but in intimate union with the organic basis, is a condition of much interest to the physiologist ; for it presents us with an example, even in this low grade of the animal kingdom, of a process which seems to have an important share in the formation and growth of bone, viz. the progressive calcification of the fibrous tissue of the periosteum.* Not only the entire shell, but the frame- work by which the teeth of the Echinus are enclosed and supported, is composed of a calcareous reticulation similar to that now described ; nor is it confined to these solid structures. It has been pointed out by Pro- fessor Valentin, that the buccal membrane contains isolated patches of extreme de- licacy ; and the same eminent observer has detected a most beautiful example of this * See Dr. Sharpey's Introduction to the Fifth Edition of Dr. Quain's Anatomy, p. 148, et seq.