QUADRUMANA. 199 apices of the large laniaries respectively of the opposite jaw, when the mouth is closed. In the description of all these peculiarities of the skull of the Chimpanzee, I have been somewhat length}-, wishing to give an abstract of the excellent paper by Owen * ; and I deemed it necessary to do so, because the Chimpanzee may be considered as the typical link of a chain uniting mankind with the lower animals. By the minute exhibition of all its characters, it is evident that it has a great deal of analogy with the form of man, but that, on the other side, it is removed from man by its more imperfect structure. This infei'iority becomes gradually more ap- parent in the skull of the other monkeys, as may be seen by the brief statement of their principal forms. In the skull of the Orang-cetan (Jig. 117) Fig. 117. Skull of the Orang-cetan. (^After Owen.) the approximation to the Carnivora appears principally in the interparietal and occipital crests, which, as I have proved in my Reck. dfAnat. Comp. sur le Chimpanse, increases with the general growth of the animal ; in the less large interorbital space; in the sometimes single, sometimes double nasal bone, which never projects, as in the Chimpanzee, beyond the plane of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bones ; in the facial suture of the intermaxillary bone, remaining till the per- manent teeth are almost fully developed ; in the more prominent maxillary and intermaxil- lary bones ; in the stronger teeth ; in the higher and longer lower jaw ; and in the more depressed chin. It is remarkable that the * Fearing I might give an inaccurate account, I have employed, for the most part, the very words of that experienced anatomist, feeling persuaded that, especially for a foreigner, it would be difficult to give a more elegant and more accurate description than he has done. I confess myself guilty of the same plagiarism in some other points of the osteology of the Chimpanzee and Orang-oetan. analogy with the human form is more striking in the young than in the old Chimpanzee and Orang-cetan. In the old, the face, and principally the maxillary bones, grow larger, by which the brutish appearance of the skull becomes greater. On the first aspect, this seems a deviation from a general rule, but it is not so; for in the human subject similar modifications of the skull by age may be observed. In advancing age the face of the child becomes gradually larger and higher, and the receptacle for the brain proportionally smaller, in the same manner as in the Orang- cetan, but in a less degree. In the skull of the Siamang (fig, ] 18), the Fig. 118. Skull of the Siamang. (^Original from the museum of Prof. G. Vrolik.) analogy with the human form is, in some parts, greater than in the Orang-cetan. The superciliary ridges, and the semicircular bound- ary for the insertion of the temporal muscle, are much developed, and the skull is very flat, as in the Chimpanzee, but the interorbital space is large, as in the human subject; the nasal bone is double in young animals, single in the old, but much broader than in the Chimpanzee or Orang-cetan; the facial part of the skull is broad, and not so prominent as in the two preceding species; the chin has a vertical direction and rounded form ; the coronoidal apophysis of the lower jaw is not very high. By all this the skull of the Siamang approaches to that of the human subject, but it shows nevertheless its infe- riority by tY\e foramen occipitale mngmnn being placed more backwards. In this and the other Gibbons a sti'iking character is given, by the swollen appearance of the posterior wall of the orbit, produced by the convexity of the orbital part of the zygomatic bone. The ala magna of the sphenoid bone contril;utes nothing to the formation of the orbit, being bent backwards. The superior margin of the squamous portion of the temporal bone is straight, as in the Chimpanzee, the Orang-oetany and, in general, as in all the monkeys. The Semnopitheci form a sort of transition from these anthropomorphous species to the lower monkeys. Their face is not very pro- minent ; the facial suture of the intermaxillary bone continues to exist in the adult, but dis- appears in the very old; the coronal suture is prolonged in a point between the two parietal o 4