ROTIFERA. 405 D D 3 world, observed them in the north of Africa and the north of Asia ; they are commonly distributed throughout Europe. The loca- lities they inhabit are very various, some are found in fresh water, other in salt. They are fond of confervae, and may be easily found nestling among these plants. They some- times are in great numbers, so that they dis- colour the waters in which they exist. The species of Triarthra give a milky opaque- ness to the water in which they are found. The species of Polyarthra are interesting on account of the finlike organs which are de- veloped at their sides, and by which they are able to move about. Several of the Notom- mata are parasitic on other animals, and thus approach in habit some of the higher epizoa. The elongated setae or bristles of the species of Triarthra are also worthy of notice {fig. 297.). Family 6. — Euchlanidota. Character. Loricated Rotifers, with a many-parted ro- tatory organ. All the species of this family are clothed with a lorica, which resembles the exoskeleton of tortoises or crabs. Many of the species are remarkable for the appendages of the shield, as setw in Euchlanis and Stephanops, hooks {uncini) in Colurus, horns {cornicula) in Dinocharis, spurs or respiratory tubes {calcar sipho) in Euchlanis (fig. 294.) and Salpina, a helmet (cucullus), in Stephanops. Most of the species have a furcated foot, some few of them have styliform feet. The interior of these animals is not so well observed as in families where the shield is of a less dense character. A muscular system, consisting of both longitudinal and transverse fibres, and muscles to move the foot, can be seen in most species. The nutritive organs consist of a muscular oesophageal head, furnished with two jaws bearing teeth. The oesophagus is mostly a short tube. In eight genera the alimentary canal assumes a conical form, in the re- mainder it is constricted into a gastric organ. Two round or egg-shaped intestinal glands are present in all the species. The anal orifice is situated at the back of the basis of the foot {fig. 302. a). An ovarium with small ova, in four genera, Euchlanisy Monostyla, Stepha- nopsy and Squainella, are seen, in the form of Fig. 294. Euchlanis iriquetra. a, single eye; &, band of muscles with transverse striae; c, ovarium; d, alimentary canal.