REN. 240 large oval space, which contained a Malpighian body, and several smaller meshes in which the con- voluted tubes were packed ; rf, Maljjighian capsule and tube, tilled with blood from the Malpighian capillaries; e, fibrinous mould of a urinary tube entangling oil globules, from the urine. a portion from the cortical substance.) It is best examined in a thin section which has been macerated in water for a few minutes, so as to wash away the tubes and Malpighian bodies. The matrix then appears in the form of a fibrous network, the meshes of which have, for the most part, a circular outline. The smaller meshes are of pretty uniform size, and are accurately filled by the tubes, each tube in its tortuous course passing through very many of the cells formed by this curious and beautiful structure. The meshes do not occupy any one plane or posi- tion rather than another, but in whatever di- rection the section of the cortical substance is made, the same regular network presents it- self. When the tubes are in situ, they often appear to be mapped out, as it were, into re- gular circular or oval portions ; an appearance which has, doubtless, confirmed some observers in the erroneous notion that the tubes termi- nate in blind extremities. This apparent iso- lation of the different parts of what is in reality a continuous tube, is very much in- fluenced by the condition of the tube itself. In the normal state, the colour of the tubes often contrasts with that of the matrix, which when free from blood is of a whitish colour, so that the tubes are visible through the sub- stance of the matrix, and the observer can trace the continuity of the tube between the different meshes of the tissue. The same observation applies to the tubes when filled with blood ; in some parts of the specimen portions of the tube appear quite isolated, where they are concealed by the overlying matrix (Jig. 150, a a), while in other parts the tubes are more or less distinctly visible through the intervening fibrous tissue (b b). In some parts transverse sections of the tubes are seen, and in other instances a considerable length of tube appears, uncovered by matrix; this tissue having been removed by the knife, while the tube itself has just escaped the section. In a subsequent part of this article reference will be made to certain pathological changes, as a consequence of which the tubes lose their epithelial fining and become more or less transparent ; and in this condition, when they are packed in the meshes of the fibrous tissue, they have somewhat the appearance of sepa- rate globular or oval cells, and they have ac- tually been described as such by an expe- rienced microscopical observer.* This ques- tion will bs fully considered hereafter, the object of the present brief allusion to it being to show the importance of studying the ar- rangement of a tissue which gives peculiar a})pearances to the parts with which it is con- * On Subacute Inflammation of the Kidney, by John Simon, Esq. F. R. S., Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. XXX. nected, and a misapprehension of which may lead, as it has led, to serious practical errors. Fig. 150. Convoluted tubes filled with blood, as seen when packed in the meshes of the matrix, magnified 200 diameters. The large oval space represented in fg. 149, c, indicates the position of a Malpighian body ; these bodies, as well as the tubes, being accu- rately fitted into meshes of the fibrous ma- trix. The arrangement of the fibrous tissue in the medullary cones is somewhat different from that of the cortical portion. The tissue in this part is more abundant, so that the tubes are separated by it to a greater distance than in the cortical portion of the kidney. The hardness and greater cohesion of the tissue of the medullary cones, as compared with that of the cortical portion, is in great part due to the more abundant fibrous matrix in which the tubes of this part are packed. A transverse section of the cones shows the matrix in the form of circular meshes sur- rounding the tubes, as in the cortical portion ; but on a longitudinal section the meshes ap- pear elongated, thus corresponding in form with the venous capillary meshes wdiich oc- cupy the substance of the fibrous tissue, and which in this part of the kidney are elongated in the direction of the tubes. There being no Malpighian bodies in the medullary cones, the larger meshes of the matrix which contain these bodies are not present in this part of the kidney. In order to ascertain the relation which the blood-vessels bear to the matrix, it is necessary to examine portions of a kidney which has been artificially injected, or one in which the vessels are filied with blood. It will then be seen, that while the tubes {fig- 151) accurately fill the meshes of the fibrous tissue, the capillary vessels (b b and c), form- ing a plexus which surrounds the tubes, are contained in the substance of the same tissue (c c). When the blood-vessels are