POLYGASTRIA. The genus Stentor (fig. 8) contains some of the largest and most active animalcules be- longing to the class, and, as might be expected, these are amongst the most conspicuous for the perfection of their locomotive organs. These beautiful creatures resemble gelatinous trum- pets, the bodies of which are flexible and con- tractile in all directions, either while swimming about freely in the water, or while attached, as they frequently are, to some foreign body by means of a little sucking disc which terminates the pointed extremity of the tail. The whole of the trumpet-shaped body of Stentor is covered over with innumerable cilia, disposed in regular rows, and of sufficient size to be easily distinguishable by the microscope. Its broad end is terminated by a circular disc, the diameter of which is considerably larger than the widest part of the body. The entire surface of this disc is likewise covered with multitudes of cilia, arranged in regular con- centric circles; and, moreover, its margin is fringed all around with a single row of cilia of larger dimensions, which by the rapid succes- sion of their movements give the appearance of a wheel spinning rapidly round, and by its revolution causing powerful currents in the sur- rounding water. At the lower part of the margin of the ciliated disc the ciliary zone ^ig- 8. turns inwards, forming a spiral fold around a funnel-like aperture (jig. 8) which leads to the mouth, and likewise lodges the orifice through which digested materials are cast out. The currents caused by the marginal fringe around the disc are all directed towards the oral aperture, and consequently, by bringing nutritive particles to the mouth, this part of the apparatus becomes eminently subservient to nutrition. In several species of Stentor, in addition to the apparatus of cilia described above, there is an additional riband-shaped band of these vibratile organs extending from near the mouth to a considerable distance towards the hinder part of the body, the outline of which has an undulated appearance. The Trichodinae, or Urn animalcules, have no pedicle or elongated tail, but are provided with a fasciculus or circlet of cilia situated in front of their bodies, which are disc-shaped, bowl-shaped, or conical, the mouth being ap- parently a single orifice situated in the ciliary circlet. One species of this group, T. pedicu- lus, seems to be parasitically attached to the Hydra viridis, and allied forms have been met with in the respiratory laminae of several bi- valve shell-fish, (Anodonta, Unio^ &lc.,) and also in Gyrodactylus coronatus, itself a parasite inhabiting the gills of the Crucian Carp /^Cy- prinus Carassius). That these animalcules are really Polygastrica, and not sterelminthous en- tozoa, Ehrenberg satisfied himself by feeding them with indigo. Urocentrum seems to be similarly organized, only it is furnished pos- teriorly with a sharp style-like process. But perhaps the most remarkable as well as most elegant of all the forms of animalcules belonging to this group are the VorticellcBy (fig. 9,) the sight of which cannot fail to exact the untiring admiration of the microscopical Fiif, 9. Stentor Roeselii, highly magnified, t, viscus supposed by Elirenberg to be the testis. Vorticella cyathina. h, c, d, e,f, exhibit the various steps of fissiparous reproduction in this animalcule.