432 SALIVARY GLANDS. A. Salivary vessels opening into the mouth, generally beneath the tongue, and more seldom at the base of the mandibles. They take the following forms : — 1. Simple, long, undivided, twisted tubes : thus in the majority of insects, viz. all butterflies, many beetles and flies. 2. As a narrow vessel which empties it- self into one or two bladders, whence the salivary duct originates (Nepa, Cimex^ Sarcophaga). 3. As a ramose vessel with Wind branches (Blaps). 4. As two long cylindrical pipes, which unite into one excretorj^ duct. 5. As four small round bladders, each pair of which has a common duct (Pulex, Lygoeus, Cimex). 6. As a multitude of such vesicles in Nepa. 7. As capitate tubes, in the free ends of which many very fine vessels empty themselves (Tabanus). 8. As tubes which at intervals are sur- rounded by twirhng blind bags (Ci- cada). 9. As granulated glands which on each side unite into a salivary duct, both of which join into a single evacuating duct (Gryllus). B, Salivary glands which empty them- selves into the commencement of the stomach, as short or long bags, either simple or furnished with processes (Bu- prestis); other forms as well as those just cited, are found among the Diptera : — L As two capitate tubes, into the free ends of which many delicate vessels open (Hemerobius perla). 2. As two short processes of the same width as the stomach (Leptis and Acheta). 3. As two bags covered entirely with short blind processes (Bombylius, Bu- prestis). 4. As triangular processes, each edge of whicii is occupied by a row of vesicles (Chrysotoxum). 5. As six narrow tubes which surround the commencement of the stomach (Gryllus). 6. The blind processes which clothe the stomach in the predaceous beetles. In Cirrhopoda the salivar}^ glands are two in number and of considerable size, opening into the commencement of a short oesopha- gus. Among PterojKxla they are found in Clio as two long and slender glands placed at the sides of the oesophagus, and pouring their secretion into the mouth. They " present in the Gasteropoda different forms and degrees of development bearing the ordinary relations to the construction of the mouth and the nature of the food. In the Calyptraea they are represented by two simple elongated se- creting tubes. In the whelk they present a conglomerate structure, and are situate at each side of the oesophagus at the base of the proboscis, along which they transmit their slender ducts to terminate on each side the anterior spines of the tongue." (Owen.) In the snail they are flattened, elongated, and irregular in form, and conglomerate in struc- ture, diminishing in breadth as they proceed upwards to the pharynx, where their ducts terminate. In the Vaginulus an additional slender tube which lies first on the stomach, passes through the nervous collar to join the duct by which the saliva is discharged. The salivary glands are present in all the Cejyhalojjoda, with the exception of Loligo- psis. In the Onychoteuthis two glands are situated at the root of the tongue. They are in general, however, four in number, two at the root of the tongue, which give oft'distinct ducts which terminate at the commencement of the oesophagus ; the other pair, generally longer than the superior, is lodged in the vis- ceral sac, on each side of the upper part of the crop. The ducts of the last form a single tube which opens in the neighbourhood of the spiny portion of the tongue. The salivary glands are absent in Pisces. Among reptiles in the Chelonian, Saurian, and Batracliian orders, the substance of the tongue seems principally made up of a glan- dular mass formed by a multitude of little tubes united at their bases, but becoming se- parate towards the surface of the tongue. In the OiMdian reptiles two glandular organs placed immediately beneath the skin of the gums surround the margins of the upper and lower jaw, and pour an abundant salivary secretion into the mouth. (Rymer Jones.) In many genera the salivary apparatus is de- ficient. The |3oison glands of serpents can hardly be reckoned among the salivary organs, being destined for a special secretion, and forming the analogues to similar glands in the Arachnida. In Aves the salivary glands present con- siderable variation in their number, position, and degree of development. In the crow the only indication of a salivary apparatus is a series of simple cone-shaped follicles, placed along the sides of the oral cavity, upon the mucous membrane of which they open by distinct orifices. In general, however, there are four pairs, two sublingual on each side beneath the tongue, two maxillary divided each into an anterior and posterior, and opening by special ducts in front of the tongue, and a gland which can be compared to the parotid. These are generally all present in the Rapaces^ Pas- scres, and Gallinct ; and appear to be absent in Sula, Carbo, and Phaenicopterus, and but slightly developed in the GruUce and Palmi- pedes generally. In the goose they occupy the entire space included between the rami of the lower jaw, being closely united in the median line, and opening into the mouth on each side of this by a series of orifices. In the watercoot and Hirundo esculenta, the parotid is highly developed, in the latter the secretion serving for the preparation of