RESPIRATION. S56 The experiments on the effects of dimi- nished frequency of the respirations in re- ducing the amount of carbonic acid gas evolved from the blood in a given time, are in accordance with observations made on the state of the blood and its circulation, when this condition has been induced in man or in the other warm-blooded animals. A diminu- tion in the frequency of the respiratory move- ments occasionally occurs to a notable extent in the course of some diseases, and this de- serves the careful attention of the practitioner, as it is hkely to lead to very serious conse- quences.* The greater length of time that the respi- rations may be suspended without inducing insensibility, when a deep expiration followed by a deep inspiration has immediately pre- ceded, affords additional illustration of the procedure which a person ought to adopt when he wishes to suspend, during diving, &c., the respirations for the longest period consistent with his safety. The manner and the order in which the vital actions are brought to a stand when the chemical changes between the blood and the atmospheric air are arrested, have been discussed under the article AsPHYxiA.f six per cent, by volume of carbonic acid gas cannot exist in the air without danger to life, and that less than half this amount will soon be fatal, when it is formed at the expense of the oxygen of the air." (Opus cit. p. 54.) Leblanc ascertained that an ad- dition of 3 or 4 per cent, by weight of carbonic acid formed by the combustion of charcoal, and at the expense of the oxygen of the air respired, proved instantly fatal to dogs, while it required the addition of 30 or 40 per cent, of pm-e carbonic acid gas to the atmospheric air to produce the same effect. The great acti%-it3" of air deteriorated by the burning of charcoal in producing asphyxia, Leblanc attributes to the presence of carbonic oxide. He states that birds placed in air containing one per cent, of this gas, die in two minutes (Opus cit. pp. 240 and 24o). Legallois (Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. iv. p. 113. 1817) had pre^-iously performed experi- ments, from which it may be inferred that an addi- tion of somewhat more than 20 per cent, of carbonic acid to the atmospheric air, is sufficient to bring the evolution of carbonic acid from the blood in the lungs to a stand in the warm-blooded animals, and that, when the percentage of carbonic acid in the inspired air is increased to above 30, part of this gas is absorbed by the blood. * We have given some illustrations of this in pointing out the manner in Avhich division of the vagi nerves causes death. (Edinburgh Medical and Sm-gical Journal, vol. b. p. 298 to 302. 1839.) t We have published a series of experiments (Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. Iv. 1841) which go to support the account given of the manner in which the vital actions are arrested in asphyxia in the article referred to. In this we ob- tained satisfactory proof of the opinion of Bichat|upon the effects of the venous blood in suspending the sen- sorial functions. In an excelleiat experimental essay on this subject, published subsequently to our essay (EfUnburgh Med. and Surg. Jovu-nal, vol. Ixiii. 1845), the author maintains, in opposition to the doctrine laid down in the article Asphyxia, " that the flow of blood through the lungs is arrested in consequence of the venous blood acting as an excitant to the minute branches of the pulmonary veins and causing their contraction." In our experiments we foimd that, when the suspension of the respiration had been Experiments have been made by Nvsten*, by Mr. Macgregorf, Dr. Malcolm":J:, and by Hannover §, upon the quantity of carbonic acid gas evolved from the lungs in some diseases, but these have not yet been carried sufficiently far to furnish us with any practical or theoretical conclusions of importance. Differences between arterial and venous blood. — A knowledge of the chemical and physical differences between arterial and venous blood, or, in other words, between the blood imme- diately before and immediately after it has passed through the lungs and been subjected to the action of the atmospheric air, consti- tutes part of the data requisite for discussing the Theory of Respiration. Although many able chemists and physiologists have of late years directed their attention to this subject, yet, from its inherent difficulties, much discre- pancy of observation and conflicting evidence still require to be cleared up and reconciled. Most, if not all, of the comparative analyses of the venous and arterial blood hitherto pub- lished are of considerably less value for our present purpose than they may at first appear, since only those of the venous blood flowing from the right side of the heart, and the arte- rial blood flowing from the left side of the heart or along the arteries, ought properly to be taken into account. The blood returning along the veins of the abdominal viscera, and entering the heart by the cava inferior, differs in composition from that entering the heart by the cava superior, for, independently of other reasons, a quantity of water and certain sub- stances taken into the stomach are absorbed by the mesenteric and gastric veins. The composition of the blood in the large veins at the lower and lateral parts of the neck must also be somewhac affected by the lymph and chyle poured into that portion of the venous system. The analyses of venous and arterial blood taken at the same time from the carotid artery and the jugular vein, — the plan most generally followed in these researches, — are better fitted for throwing light upon the changes the blood undergoes in the perform- carried so far as to arrest the flow of blood through the lungs, the admission of atmospheric air was m- stantaneously followed by the renewal of the passage of the blood to the left side of the heart, — a fact in- compatible with this opinion, seeing that the blood- vessels are endowed •n-ith that kind only of con- tractihty which manifests itself by slow contractions and equalh- slow relaxations. * Recherches de Physiologic et de Chimie Patho- logique. Seconde section. 1811. t Edinburgh ^Monthly Joumal of Medical Science, vol. iii. p. 1. 1843. X Transactions of British Scientific Association, for 1840, p. 87. § De Quantitate relativa et absoluta Acidi Car- bonici ab Homine sano et fegroto exhalati. 1845. Hannover, in his experiments, employed the appa- ratus of Scharling, and was enabled to ascertain the absolute quantity of carbonic acid evolved from the body; while the other experimenters ascertained its percentage only. There can be no doubt that the plan adopted by Hannover is the one which ought to be followed."