566 SHELL. which connect these plates. The Sepiostaire having been formerly described in some detail (vol. i., \>. o4G), it will only be re- qui-^ite here to mention, that the calcified layers which alternate with horny membranes to form the shallow cone or cup, exhibit a distinct cellular structure, when the section is made sufficiently thin; and that indications of a similar structure may also be perceived in the delicate and fragile plates which are arranged obliquely upon one another in the hollow of this cup. Few of the numerous fossil shells referable to this cla»s have yet been examined ; it may, however, be stated as an interesting result of microscoj)ic ob- servation, that the " spathose guard" of the Belenmite is thereby proved to be composed of long prismatic cells, radiating from the centre to the circumference; closely re- sembling in their general arrangement those of the massive tube of SejJtaria giganiea, the great sand-boring Teredo of Sumatra. The structure of the shells of the testa- ceous Annelida, and of the pedunculate Cirrho- jyodn, does not essentially diifer from that of MoUusca; but in most of the sessile Cir- rhopods, such as the common Balamis, we find a cancellated structure or diploe in- tervening between the inner and outer plates of the shell (vol. i., p. 685). A less regular Fig. 421. Cancellated structure from shell o f Hippurite, as seen in transverse section, 3IagniJied 5 diameters. diploe has been described by Mr. J. E. Gray* as existing between the laminae of Oslrea pzirpurea; but in no other shells of existing Moliusca has any approach to it been yet discovered. A very regular cancellated structure, however, is exhibited in the singular extinct group of Rudisles, where it makes up nearly the entire thickness of the shell {fg. 421.). The cancelli are usually short hexa- gonal prisms, terminated at each end by a flat partition ; consequently, a section taken in one direction (/g. 421.) will exhibit the walls of the chambers disposed in a hexagonal net- work ; whilst a section that passes at right angles to this will bring into view the trans- * :.L-:gaziue of Zoolf>gy and Lotar.v, vol. ii. p. 228. verse partitions ( fg. 422.). The cancelli are frequently occupied by calcareous infiltra- Fig. 422. Cancellated structure from the shell o f Hippurite, as seen in vertical section. Magnified 5 diameters tion ; which nvght lead to the belief that, like the cells of the Pinna, they were so consolidated in the hving state. But they are also to be met with entirely empty, or with their walls merely lined by calcareous crystals ; so that there can be no doubt that they were originally hollow. The presence of this structure assists in determining the zoological position of the curious group in question, which many considerations would lead us to regard as having been interme- diate between the Bivalve Moliusca and the sessile Cirrhopoda. And it may be added that, by the same evidence, the place of the curious Pleiirorhynciis hiberniciis, a fossil which has been assigned to a different tribe by almost every naturalist who has examined it, would unhesitatingly be determined as amongst the Rudistes. Echinodernmta.— The structure of the skeleton in this class is entirely different from that which v.e have fount! to be cha- racteristic of the Moliusca ; whilst, in its essential features, it presents a remarkable uniformity throughout the various members of the group. The general arrangement of its components is the same, for example, in the firm plates which make up the testa of the Echinida, in the joints of the stems and branches of the Criuoiden, and in the scattered calcareous deposits wliich are met with in the integuments and in the tentacula of the Holo- ihnrida. The elementary structure of the skeleton of the Echinodermata may be described as a net-work^ composed of calcareous and animal matter intimately united ; the former, however, being greatly predominat)t. In this net-work, the interspaces or areol<s, and the solid structure which surrounds them, may bear an extremely variable proportion to one another ; so that, in two masses of equal size, the one or the other may greatly pre-