QUADR UxMANA. 212 which the inflated hyoid bone is situated. The same character is to be found in the genus Ateles. In Myceies, Lagothrix, and CaUlthrix, there is a peculiar round aperture in the orbital portion of the zygomatic bone, which has the appearance as if it were pierced in the bone by a gimlet. Mycetes, Ateles, and especially CaUithnx, afford a very striking conformity with Hylobates, in the swollen ap- pearance of the posterior wall of the orbits, produced by the convexity of the orbital part of the zygomatic bone. This is a new addi- tion to the analogy between Hylobates and Ateles. The ala magna ossis sjjhcenoidei is yet more depressed backwards than in Hylobates. In Cebus {fg. 133) the cranium is elongated, Fig. 133. Skull of Cebus apella. (^Original, Mus. Vrolik.) and uniformly round. The frontal bone is lengthened to a sharp point, which advances between the two parietals. This is, as I have said before, a manifest indication of a low^er rank. The face is not very prominent; there are two nasal bones ; a distinct intermaxillary bone ; a rounded chin, which recedes. In Callithrix, Pitliecia, and Nuchthora, the skull has an oblong form, but it resembles very much a small human skull. The single frontal bone has a triangular form, and is distin- guished by the convexity of the orbital part. In the Saimiri the septum between the orbits is but membranous, and the interorbital space narrow; the nasal bone is sometimes single, sometimes double ; the intermaxillary bone distinct; the chin round and prominent; the muzzle not protruding ; the orbital part of the zygomatic bone wants the opening proper to Ateles, Mycetes, Lagothrix, and the other species of Callithrix. This general re- semblance to the human skull is still greater in the Ouistitis. The external tuberosity of the orbit is less marked; the interorbital sep- tum is osseous ; the muzzle not very promi- nent; the intermaxillary bone distinct, but obliterated in old age ; the nasal bones broad, short, completely separated, and consequently similar to those of man ; the chin is depressed, but rounded. Notwithstanding this general resemblance to the skull of man, Cebus, Calli- thrix, and Hapale differ in some essential points from man. The forehead is much narrower, and has its greatest elevation not laterally, but in the middle ; the occipital fora- men placed more backwards ; the muzzle more protruding. In the vertebral column of all the CebincB there is a manifest inferiority to be seen in the disposition of the cervical ver- tebrae, in which there are anterior ridges at the transverse processes, in the same manner as in the lower Mammalia. In the Cebi, the spinal process of the second cervical vertebra offers another analogy with the latter, in its elevated form, in its strength, and in its truncated posterior edge. In the Saimiri the tendency to a lower degree of pefection is still greater, by the triangular form of the transverse processes, and in the Ouistitis the spinal processes become long, acute, and di- rected backwards. The number of dorsal vertebrae varies from 13 to 14, and is con- sequently in general greater than in the monkeys of the Old World. There is oppo- site direction between the spinal processes of the three last, and the ten or eleven first dorsal vertebrae. The same disposition is observed in the Saimiri, but in the Ouistitis there is only opposition in the spinal pro- cess of the last dorsal vertebra. In Ateles and Cebus the number of lumbar vertebrae is five. The styloid processes are plainly indicated, but their spinal processes are incHned for- wards, and terminate in a recurved point, in th% same manner as in the Carnivora. In the Ouistitis the analogy with the quadru- ped form is still greater, as the styloid pro- cesses are very long. In the Nochthora the number of the lumbar vertebrae is eight, by which it approaches to Stenops. The sacrum is in the Cebince a broad quadrangular bone, with acute edges, united only by one of its spu- rious vertebrae with the iUac bones. Conse- quently the symphysis sacro-iliaca is less firm than in the higher species of monkeys. At least such is the case in the Cebi, the Ouistitis, and the Saimiri; but in Ateles I found four spurious sacral vertebrae united with the iliac bones. The iliac bones are in general nar- rower in the Cebince than in the monkeys of the Old World : consequently the pelvis has a more cylindrical form, with a very long pubic articulation, and approaches more to the form of the pelvis in the Carnivora. The caudal vertebrce of the CebincB deserve a se- parate mention. They are true or spurious ver- tebrae. The true are but four or five, short and thick. The spurious are the longest, but become shorter at the extremity of the tail. They are onl}' united by the bodies, not by the articular processes. Chiefly remarkable are the inferior spinal processes in the an- terior caudal vertebrce, representing the letter V, and forming a canal, in which pass the vessels for the tail. These processes disap- pear in general in the posterior caudal ver- tebras, and in the monkeys with a prehensile tail the posterior vertebrae become round, tubercular bones, imitating a series of small digital phalanges. The thorax of the CebincB is compressed, and the ribs do not form the posterior arches, by which the back of man, of the Chimpanzee, and of the Orang-cetan acquire a broad and flat surface, and by which it is possible for these animals and for man to lie at full length on their back. All the