SALIVA. 420 Caventon. Lassaigne. Henry. The Ass. The Horse. The Horse. Carbonate of lime - Carbonate of magnesia - Phosphate of lime - Animal mat- ter - Water - 91-6 4-8 3-6 84 3 3) 85-52 7-56 4-40 2-42 100-0 99 99-90 Ramda.—The disease called ranula, which was long supposed to depend upon the deten- tion of saliva within the salivary duct, owing to inflammatory closure of its orifice, and the dis- tention consequent upon such condition, has been lately shown by Dr. Goruss Besanez* to depend on the development of an encysted tumour within the duct. The fluid evacuated from ranula has been analysed by him, and its composition determined as follows : — Water - 95-029 Traces of fat and chloride of sodium - 1-062 Aqueous extractive matter - 0-923 Albuminate of soda - - 2-986 This analysis shows the contained fluid of ranula to differ entirely from saliva, and places it among the products of morbid secreting sacs. Under the microscope, blood corpuscles and inflammatory exudation corpuscles were observed, none of the ordinary characters of saliva appearing. Much curious information has been collected by Dr. Wright with regard to the morbid conditions of saliva, and the production of hydrophobic disease. Among the statements made by various authors are the following, -j- Hydrophobia. — Ambrose Pare agrees v.ith Galen and Dioscorides in the opinion that morbid saliva may produce hydrophobia by contact with the second skin. The disease is stated by Coelius Aurelianus to have been com- municated to a sempstress who used her teeth to unsew the cloak of a hydrophobic patient. Schenckins states hydrophobia to have been communicated by a sword which had been used some years before for the purpose of destroying a rabid dog. Palmarius relates that a peasant rendered his children rabid by kissing them. jNIagendie and Breschet succeeded in pro- ducing hydrophobia in a dog by inserting the saliva of a rabid man under the skin of the animal. Dr. Herturch found that out of fifty- nine trials, only fourteen animals became affected with real rabies. ]Mr. Youatt suc- ceeded in causing hydrophobia in a healthy dog by inserting as a seton-cord a piece of * Heller's Archiv fiir Phvs. und Patholog. Che- mie und ISIikroskopie, vol. ii. t See Dr. Wright's communications to the Lancet, 1844. silk moistened in the mouth of a hydrophobic animal. There appears but little doubt that hydrophobia is really a disease produced by a morbid poison circulating in the system; nor does the long period which occasionally elapses between inoculation and the develop- ment of the disease in anv way miUtate against the correctness of such a view, for we are aware, from the history of other well- recognised morbid poisons, how various the period required for development of action is; probably bearing some relation to the tempe- rament and general habits of the subject af- fected. Dr. Wright beheves that there is no che- mical difference (or, rather, none admitting of detection) between healthy saliva and that secretion which is capable of producing hy- drophobia. He has succeeded in producing rabies by injecting healthy saliva into the veins of animals, and it appears probable from his observations, that the difference between sahva capable of producing hydrophobia, and the fluid in its normal state, must be regarded rather as one of degree than in kind. Infection,— Saliva is said to have produced disease by contact in a variety of ways ; with how much truth appears most uncertain, but the following statements are related as mat- ters of fact:— Syphilis is said to have been communicated by kissing, and by the morbid saliva adhering to a drinking cup. Lassius, Wedehus. and Victor Schneider are of that opinion. Phthi- sis, according to Bernhard Gladbach, has been communicated by means of the saliva ; and scurvy, also, according to Rolfincius, Senner- tus, and Michael. Ledelius states that an old woman infected a boy with ague by giving him bread to eat which she had previously mumbled. ]Man\' other equally strange and disgusting statements of this kind have been put forth by old writers, which show httle else than the imperfect method of inquiry which satisfied the older investigators, and a lamentable inchnation on their part to re- gard coincidences as of necessity bearing the relation of cause and effect. The saliva is stated to become coloured occasionally, but the subject requires further investigation. Drs. Thomson and Christison have noticed it of a blue colour under the use of lead, and Dr. Wright says that ordinary medicinal doses will produce that effect. The same observer has noticed a deep blue co- loured saliva in purpura and advanced stages of fever, and is of opinion that prussian blue is the cause, but has not yet examined the point. Great acridity of saliva has been ob- served in maniacal patients. Dr. Wright has recorded that such saliva is sometimes so irritating as to be capable of excoriating the hand when applied to it. Children's saliva may become so acrid as to excoriate the nipples of any nurse who may suckle them. ^lercurial Salivation.— Simon has obtained acetic acid from sahva discharged during sali- vation, and believes it may also exist in rheu-