293 REPTILIA. u 3 has no occasion to move in search of insect prey, but waits patiently until its victims approach sufficiently near to be within reach of its singularly constructed tongue ; which, although ordinarily concealed within the cavity of the mouth, is capable of being elongated until it exceeds in length the whole body of the animal. No sooner does a fly approach within five or six inches of the chameleon, than tiie tongue is slowly pro- truded for the length of about an inch, so as to expose its thick fleshy extremity, the end of which is divided into two prominent lips, and copiously lubricated with a thick viscid secretion. The whole tongue is then launched out with a rapidity that is perfectly amazing, to the length of six or seven inches, and a fly glued to its extremity is brought into the creature's mouth so quickly that the eye can scarcely follow the movement. The following is Mr. Hunter's description of the anatomy of the tongue of the chameleon. " The tongue of the chameleon consists of four parts: first, a long basis; second, a pulpy or bulbous part, at the tip of the tongue; third and fourth, elongating and contracting parts, which run almost through the whole length. " The basis, or bony apparatus of the tongue, consists of an os hyoides and os linguae, somewhat similar to that of a bird ; there- fore there is nothing very remarkable in their construction.. " The bulbous, or thick part at the end of the true tongue, is that part which is to manage the food when caught; it is the operator within the mouth, of which it is the pincher or catcher, from its being formed at the end into two opposite points, similar to the elephant's snout. This surface is ru- gous, and covered w-ith a gelatinous slime. *' The basis and true tongue or tip are united by an elongated and contracting medium, which is very extensive. This length of tongue, its extension, and contraction, are very singular, and, if well understood, most probably very curious. " The cause and mode of the contraction of its length are not uncommon. The elonga- tion of the tongue in this animal is perhaps like nothing that we are acquainted with in an animal body. " The apparatus for the purpose is a small rounded body which passes from the apex of the OS linguae {glosso-ht/al) to the bulbous parts, and then through the centre of the bulb. The part between bone and bulb con- sists^ of two different substances; one a whitish substance, which is the firmest, and appears to be capable of keeping its form: the other is softer and more transparent. That part which passes through the bulb consists only of one substance, and appears to be a sheath for the reception of the os- linguae. " The first of these (i. e. the whitish firmer substance) appears to be composed of rings, or something similar, placed obliquely in con- trary directions, so as to appear to be two spirals crossing one another. Whether the other, or softer substance, has any direction of fibres, I could not observe, but 1 suspect it is muscular. If I am right in my conjecture, and of its disposition, it will be no difficult thing to show how it may be elongated ; for if these rings are placed transversely, they may be brought so near to one another as to shorten the whole very consiclerablv ; and if they allow of being placed almost longitudi- nally, they must of course lengthen it very considerably ; and this position can be easily produced by muscles, which 1 take the pulj)y substance to be. *' The contraction of the tongue is owing to a degree of elasticity, but this appears to be only in the cellular membrane, acting as an assistant to the muscular. The muscular contraction is owing to two muscles, one on each side of the tongue ; each arises from the OS hyoides, on the inside of the os linguae, and passes along the side of the tongue to its bulbous part ; but before it gets to the bul- bous part, it spreads itself all round. "In the centre of each of these two muscles passes a considerable nerve to the bulbous part, and also two arteries. When the two muscles act, they draw the tongue back upon the os-linguae, which, as it were, passes through the middle elongator, then through the centre of the bulb, till the whole tongue is retracted. Although this middle body is drawn upon the os-linguae, yet it does not appear to be hollow, like a pipe ; it rather appears to be filled whh a very ductile cellu- lar membrane, as in every part of the elonga- ting division of the tongue, in order to allow of the great difference in the situation of parts with respect to one another." In the Crocodiles, the structure of the tongue is equally remarkable, but of a very dif- ferent character. In these reptiles the tongue has no projecting or moveable extrennty, being attached by its whole circumference to the rami of the lower jaw, insomuch that it was described by Aristotle as being entirely deficient. Its whole surface is covered over with a thick coriaceous skin, upon which may be seen the openings of innumerable glandular follicles situated beneath it. At the [losterior part of the organ, close to the opening of" the fauces, the broad anterior part of tlie hyoid cartilage supports a broad fold of the skin that covers the tongue, w hich can be applied like a valve against a corresponding fold of the palatal membrane that descends irom the roof the mouth, so that the two, w hen ap- proximated, form a valve that completely closes the communication between the mouth and the posterior fauces. By this arrangement the crocodile is enabled to keep its mouth open under water without danger of suffo- cation from that fluid getting into its trachea, whilst by means of its long tubular nostrils, w hich open at the very apex of its snout, and are continued^backwards to behind the valvular apparatus above described, it is enabled to