POLYPIFERA. 26 On observing these zoophytes in the living state, each polype is seen to be capable of executing individual movements ; sometimes they expand their tentacles, or bend them in- wards towards their mouth, or retract them into the interior of their bodies, or retreat en- tirely into the substance of the common poly- pary, as into a cell, without the neighbouring polypes at all changing their position. In this respect each polype is independent of the sur- rounding ones. Under other circumstances, however, this is not the case, for sometimes the common body of the creature evinces movements that influence all the polypes, and cause their simultaneous contraction ; and this contraction is occasionally continued to such a degree that all the soft upper portion shrinks into the coriaceous stem, so as to become im- perceptible, as represented in the figure (Jig. 30, e). On separating one of the polypes Fig. 31. Alcyonidium elegans. Upper portion of one of the polypes magnified, and opened longitudinally. a, tentacles; h, mouth; c, stomach; d, inferior aperture of the stomach; e, upper part of the ab- dominal cavity; /, membranous partitions extend- ing from the stomach to the Avails of the ca\ity iu which it is suspended (some of these are cut in the section, others are in place); f, longitudinal folds of the abdominal parietes continuou.s with these partitions; g, the canals that surround the stomach and terminate in the tentacles: gf, one of the ten- tacles laid open; h, groups of spicules situated at the base of the tentacles; k, filiform appendages to the stomach, probably hepatic. (^After Milne Ed- wards.') from the common mass, and opening it under a microscope in a longitudinal direction, it is found that its central portion is occuj^ied by a cylindrical stomach {fig- 31, c) which is open at both extremities, and presents in- ternally eight longitudinal bands and a multi- tude of transverse folds: inferiorly it is con- tracted, and looks as if its termination was surrounded by a sphincter, although no mus- cular fibres are perceptible. At length the inferior contracted orifice of the stomach opens into a wide cavity (d), which occupies the en- tire diameter of the polype, and is prolonged inferiorly into the substance of the polypary. The calibre of the stomach itself is much smaller than that of the body of the animal, in the centre of which it is suspended by means of eight membranous and extremely delicate septa (/), which pass between the outer sur- face of the stomach and the parietes of the polype, forming so many vertical partitions. By their upper extremity these septa are blended with the periphery of the mouth, and thus circumscribe between them eight longi- tudinal canals {g), which are continuous with the corresponding tentacles. These latter aj)- pendages are in fact entirely hollow, and pre- sent on each side of the cavity which they enclose a series of ten or a dozen little aper- tures opening into the pinnules along their borders. Inferiorly, the eight interseptal compart- ments communicate freely with the great ca- vity (d), situated beneath the stomach, the membranous septa becoming gradually conti- nuous, with eight longitudinal folds (/') that project into its interior. Just at the point where each of the membranous septa ceases to be continuous with the walls of the sto- mach and becomes free by its inner margin, may be observed a filiform flexuous organ (^), the nature of which appears to be glandular. The common polypary from which these polypes issue is composed, as was stated above, of two distinct portions {fg. 30, b, c). The superior soft portion is found by dis- section to be made up of an assemblage of longitudinal membranous tubes placed parallel to each other, and so closely conjoined that it is difficult to separate them, and in fact the hard base of the polypary is nothing more than a continuation of these tubes, slightly altered in their structure : those situated near the centre of the stem are only distin- guishable by a slight thickening of their walls, but those near its circumference acquire a much harder consistence, their parietes being encrusted with multitudes of brown-coloured fusiform spicula, which appear to be composed of a cartilaginous substance and of carbonate of lime. These spicula are arranged in a longitudinal direction, and confer upon this part of the polypary its solidity and peculiar aspect. Near the circumference of the poly- pary many of the tubes seem to be obliterated by pressure of the contiguous parts. On tracing the tubular structure downwards towards the base, each tube gradually disap- pears, either by becoming obliterated, or by anastomosing with the surrounding ones, whilst superiorly it is found to be continuous with the abdominal parietes of a polype, the sheath of which it forms when it is in a state of contraction. The tubes thus united into fasciculi are evidently analogous to the cavities into which the polypes of Alcyons, Corals, &c., withdraw. These cavities are generally called "polypi- ferous cells," and some writers consider them as being species of cases or envelopes more