673 SKELETON. observed to occupy the interval between (e, d) the ischiadic and pubic bones, and (3, 4, 5) the sacral vertebrae. The junction between the ihum and the sacral vertebrse is called sacro-iliac, whereas by the union of the ilium {h,h) with the pubic and ischiadic bones {(he), the articular cup called acetabulum (g) is formed. While the ilium becomes thus inter- calated between the pubic and ischiadic bones on the one hand, and the vertebrae on the other, it severs the former from connection with those vertebrae to which, as costse, they properly belong; and it obliterates that costal quantity indicated in dotted outline at 3, 4, 5, which quantity, if it still persisted, would unite the pubis and ischium to their proper vertebrae. In Jig. 491. I have represented in A some of those lineas transversae (a. h, c), which sketch out the form of the original ventral ribs f)roper to the lumbar vertebrae; and it will be seen that «, b, c hold series with (d) the pubic bone, and (e) the ischiadic bone. Between a, h, c, as the ventral ribs, occur the intercostal spaces (//), and be- tween the pubic and ischiadic bones {d, e) occurs that space (/) which, in human ana- toniy, is named " thyroid foramen." Is not this thyroid foramen an intercostal space, if d and<? becostas proper to the sacral vertebra ? And do not the pubic and ischiadic sym- phises at the point k correspond to the linea alba (/, /), which stretches between the pubis and sternum } In Jig. B. we find the scapula (k, k, k, i) oc- cupying, at this region of series, a position smiilar to that which the iliac bone Uolds elsewhere. But beneath the scapula the ribs (2, 3, 4), for obvious purposes, persist ; while beneath the iliac bone they are wanting. This want of the ribs beneath the iliac bone, and this presence of the ribs beneath the scapula, constitute the difference. If those portions of the ribs (b and c of Jig. B.) which lie beneath the scapula suffered metamorphosis, then b and c would abut upon the glenoid cavity k, and would be to the scapula what the pubic and ischiadic costiform bones are to the ihum ; and then we should have, between b and c of Jig. b., the inter- costal space/, as corresponding to the thyroid aperture. It is the costiform clavicle (a of b) which becomes severed by the scapula from its vertebra behind, just as the costiform os pubis is severed by the iliac bone from its ver- tebral quantity. The cotyloid cavity (g of a) is formed by the junction of three bones, viz. the ilium (/^ ii), the OS pubis (d), and the ischium (e) ; but it is the iliac facet of the cotyloid cavity which alone corresponds to the glenoid cavity of the scapula. If the ribs (b or c of Jg. b.) happened to be dissevered from their vertebrjE behind by an interval equal to the size of the scapula (k, k, Ji), and if these sternal ends of the ribs (6, c) then joined themselves to the glenoid articular surface (/^) of the scapula, the three bones Qi, b, and c) would also form a cotyloid cavity for the head of the humerus. In those animals (birds, reptiles, &c.), where VOL. IV. two clavicles are required to be metamor- phosed from ribs, they illustrate still further the structural analogy which exists between them and the ischiadic and pubic bones, which latter exhibit, in relation to the ilium, the same character that the clavicles manifest in relation to the scapula. In Jig. A. the os penis (/*) will be seen to fall behind the symphisis [jubis, while in Jig. b. the episternal ossicles (/*) will i)e noticed as producing the sternal median line forwards into the neck. At the subpubic region, where /* occurs, and at the e|)isternal region, where the episternal ossicles occasi' nally appear, the sternal median line is bounded in the animal ; but in the com{)arative abstract animal, these points may be regarded as unfinished. Prop. XLIV. Tiie cmnio-faciol apparalus of segments are propoi'tiouais of tlic dorso-vcnlral arciictypes.—If it be true that the vertebral quantity is a proportional of the stcrno-costo- vertebral quantity, and this latter a propor- tional of the dorso-ventral archetype, then it must follow that the cranio-facial apparatus, which appears to bear a structural homology with the sterno-costo-vertebral quantities, is also constituted of segments which, like these latter, are proportionals of the archetypal quantities. Even though the whole animal kingdom did not present us with a skeletal form, upon whose cranium the dorsal rays persisted complete, still the above-mentioned inference may be legitimately drawn; but when, amongst the class of osseous fishes, we find Jig. 492., upon whose cranium the dor- sal rays actually persist, then the d priori and the d posteriori trains of reasoning meet and answer to each other, while standing in pre- sence of the fact itself, as nature produces it. In Jg. 492. we see that the archetypal dorso-ventral quantities (a, b, c, d) are conti- nued into the head, not only by their centra, their costal inferior arches, and their dorsal laminae, which form the neural arches from 17 to 1, but also by their dorsal interspinous os- sicles from in to «, and by their dorsal palms from o to J). The head of the osseous fish (Jig. 492.) of the class Pleuronectidae may be accounted, therefore, as constituted of a series of the dorso-ventral archetypes speciall}' modified. Between the cranial and the facial structures is continued the line of spinal centra ; and from these, as from the centra elsewhere throughout spinal series, the dorsal and the ventral rays project. The inferior cranial rays are the jaw-bones (<? /. Ji Ji) and hyoid arches (g, g) ; the superior cranial ra} s are the forms o p, m n. Prop. XLV. Tfie cranio-facial apparatus is i/ie origin of tiie dorso-ventral arcJicti/pal series, and the caudal apparatus is its termination.— In the same animal, whose cranial structures are still crested by the dorsal rays complete, we find the opposite caudal extreme (Jg.idS.) also crested by similar rays, dorsad as well as ventrad. The spinal centra (n, m, I—a) still produce the entire rays (o, q) above and be- low, while the terminal centrum (a) stands as X X