498 SEMEN. whilst the formation of the spermatozoa in others (for instance, in Flustra, Erisia, Bowerbankia) only commences when the separate cells of developement (b) have be- come free through the destruction of the large (tW^^—tVO cyst-like mother cell {fg. 388. A.). The spermatozoa even here, how- ever, are produced by the apparent growing out of the small cells of developement (of -gL-^'^j containing nuclei (see fg. 389.). When developed they are linear and proportion- ately thick and long (in Flustra about oVO' and frequently, it seems, furnished with a roundish or oval corpuscle. Roiifera—The spermatozoa of the Rotifera, at least of iSIegalotrocha, have a similar pin- like form, if we may judge from the observa- tion of KoUiker^,vih\c\\ is the only one before us, and this does not seem to be quite decisive. His statement, that these formations had par- tially been fixed in the interior of the cavity of the body, makes us at least look upon his observations with mistrust, and leads us to suppose that the}' have been confounded with the remarkable vibratile organs, which are certainly not spermatozoa. Xul/i/cer's observa- tion, however, is interesting, inasmuch as he also states that those fibres are apparently produced through the growing out of small solitary cells. Speinnatophora have not yet been met with in the division of the Annelida. On the other hand, however, we have observed that the spermatozoa in some species of Saenuris (Tubifex) unite into transparent homogeneous strings (as in many insects) in their passage through the vas deferens. These formations have a cylindrical shape, almost vermicular, getting thinner towards both ends. They are also not unfrequently met with in the recepta- culum seminis of the female apparatus. A simi- lar mode of grouping seems to take place with regard to the spermatozoa of the Hirudines, in the so-called secondary testicles. The sper- matozoa of the Nematoda (excepting the paradoxical genus Pentastomum, in which we find the ordinary linear spermatozoa ) possess very deviating shapes. They consist of a roundish or oval corpuscle of about 3-00"^ and a short rigid peduncle, which projects more or less outwards, and has a varying thickness (^^r. 390.). The spermatozoa in the very same formations again, in a perfectly unchanged shape, in the female individuals. We must therefore characterise Ku/li/cer's supposition of these corpuscles being mere stages of developement of seminal fibres, as one that cannot be relied upon. The developement takes place in the same way as in lulus. At first we find simple cells containing n uclei, which, according to it'e/f/^erf^ researches, are produced in the interior of large mother cells * (fg. 391.). The nucleus Fig. 391. Spermatic cell of Ascaris acuminata, with four vesicles of developement. (A fter Reichert.) has at first a roundish shape {fg. 392.), but gradually stretches itself more and more, and Fig. 392. Developement of the spermatozoa of Ascaris acuminata. projects 'more or less outwards with its point, thus metamorphosing itself into the peduncle-like appendix of the spermatozoa, the body of which is formed from the persisting membrane of the seminal cell. This last circumstance, but %\hich does not in- variably occur, is the only distinction that can be found between the Nematoda and the lulidae. Radiata. — Echinodermata. — The sper- matozoa, in the division of the Echi- nodermata, possess, it seems throughout, a pin-like form {fg. 393.), with a small Fig. 393. ] Fig. 390. Spermatozoa of Sti'ongylus auricularis. {After Reichert in Midler's Archiv. 1837. Tab. VI.) Gordius appear in the shape of short rods without any corpuscles. We cannot doubt that these seminal ele- ments are developed spermatozoa, havino; sought in vain, and for a long time, for other forms of developement, and having found * Froriep's Xeuen Xotizen, S. 59G. Spermatozoon of Holothuria tububsa. roundish body (of eiso'")^ ^^d a very slender tail appendix of about —-5^'^'. It is only in rare cases (as Spatangus} that the body has an oblong form, and is rather pointed at the anterior end. The developing cells of these spermatozoa are very small, and lie in groups, as in the Bryozoa, inclosed in large cyst-like mother cells. The developement of the spermatozoa undoubtedly takes place according to the usual mode, although it cannot be proved with certainty, and although the appearance * Mullet's Archiv. 1847, S. 88.