353 RESPIRATION. cent.; while, if they were allowed to remain in it until they had become asphyxiated, it con- tained ]275 per cent. Vierordt, in three experiments, breathed, from 1^ to 3 minutes, a volume of air amountin;^ to 427 English cubic inches, and found, on an average, the carbonic acid gas l*o per cent, above that contained in air breathed only once. The percentage of carbonic acid in the expired air differs at different periods of the same expiration. As the air ex[)elled in the first part of an expiration consists chiefly of that contained in the trachea and upper part of the air passages, its amount of carbonic acid gas must necessarily be smaller than that expelled at a later period of the expiration. Allen and Pepys found the carbonic acid gas in the first and last portions of air in a deep expiration to differ as widely as 3 5 and 9*5 per cent. Dalton states that while the ave- rage carbonic acid in an ordinary expiration is 4 per cent., the last portion of a forced ex- piration contains 6 per cent. Vierordt divided the air of an ordinary expiration as far as possible into two equal parts, and in twenty- one experiments ascertained that while the average quantity of carbonic acid in the whole expiration was 4*48, the first half contained 3*72 per cent., and the last half 5*44 per cent. We have already seen, that Vierordt concludes from his experiments that the air, after a sojourn of about 40 seconds in the respiratory apparatus, has the same percentage of car- bonic acid gas in the different parts of the lungs and air passages. From the above details, it must be obvious that nearly all the attempts made to estimate exactly the average quantity of carbon evolved in the form of carbonic acid gas from the body in the 24 hours are entitled to very little con- fidence. The greater number of these are founded on a few experiments performed upon one or a very small number only of indi- viduals in a state of rest, and upon the result of a few respirations in some cases performed under constraint. The estimate of the amount of loss of carbon in the 24 hours from the lungs and external surface of the botly, based upon the direct method of experiment, in which the greatest number of the circumstances that influence the evolution of carbonic acid gas from the lungs were taken into account, is undoubtedly that of Scharling, though this even must be regarded as an approximation only to the truth. Suppose we take the average estimate of the two adult males be- tween 28 and 35 years of age for the 24 hours, as given by Schai ling *, the loss of carbon by the lungs and skin is 3543-13 Troy grains, or 7-382 oz. Troy, f Liebig % has endeavoured * Vide table given in p. 350. t The estimates of the average loss of carbon, in the form of carbonic acid gas, from the kings in the twenty-four hom-s by other experimenters, differ con- siderably. Lavoisier and Seguin estimated the loss of carbonic acid gas at 14,930 cubic inches, Avhich they believed would yield 277G-304 grains Trov; Messrs. Allen and Pepys at 39,534 cubic inches'of carbonic acid gas, containing rather more than 11 oz. Troy of carbon; and Mr. Coathupe at 10,666 cubic VOL. IV. to ascertain the quantity of carbon lost at the lungs and skin in the 24 hours by the indirect method of research, which he maintains to be by far the most trust-worthy. He [jroceeded to ascertain the quantity of charcoal in the daily food and drink of a body of soldiers, and after deducting the comparatively small quan- tity of this substance that passes off" in the faeces and urine, the remainder was taken as the amount of carbon that unites with oxygen, and escapes in the form of carbonic acid tras by the lungs and skin. From the data thus obtained he calculates that an adult male, taising moderate exercise, loses 13-9 oz. of carbon daily by the lungs and skin ; and tliat 37 oz. of oxygen gas must be daily absorbed from the atmospheric air for the purpose of converting this charcoal into carbonic acid gas. From similar exi)eriments upon the in- mates of the Bridewell at Marienschloss (a prison where labour is enforced), he calculates that each individual lost in this manner iO'5 oz. of carbon daily ; while in another prison, where the inmates were deprived of exercise, this loss amounted only to 8-5 oz. daily. * Allowing that this indirect method of research is more accurate than the direct,—a point which we are not at present prepared to de- termine, — the accuracy of the data upon which Liebig's inferences rest regarding the quantity of carbonic acid exhaled from the lungs and skin in an adult using moderate exercise, has been called in question by Schar- ling. f He endeavours to prove, by an ana- lysis of the food and drink allowed to the sailors on board of his Danish Majesty's vessels of war, that the whole carbon' taken daily into the body of each of these individuals must be somewhat less than 10| oz.; yet these sailors are subjected to harder work than ordinary seamen. J The quantity of carbonic acid gas evolved from the body in respiration varies greatly in the different divisions of the animal kingdom. It is greater in birds, in proportion to their bulk, than in the cold-blooded vertebrata, and still smaller in the invei tebrata, with the ex- ception of insects. § The ascertainment not feet of carbonic acid gas, yielding 2386-27 grains, or 5-45 oz. avoirdupois. Vierordt, from numerous ex- periments on himself, ascertained that when in a state of rest the quantity of carbonic acid gas ex- haled from the lungs per minute was for the maxi- mum 452 cubic centimetres (27-572 Eng. cub. in.\ for the minimum 177 cub. cent. (10-797 Eng. cub. in.), and for the average 261 cub. cent. (12-261 Eng. cub. in.), so that the relation of the minimum and maxi- mum Avas 100: 255. If the quantity of carbonic acid evolved from the lungs differs so much at dif- ferent times in the same individual in the minute, and is so materially influenced by the varying con- ditions of the body, how difficult must it be to ascertain the average quantity during the twenty- four hours. X Animal Chemistrv, &c., edited by Dr. Gregoi-y, p. 13 ; 3rd edit. 1846."^ * Opus cit. p. 46. I Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, von "\Voh- ler und Liebig, Band Ivii. S. 1. 1846. Opus cit. p. 9. The results of the various experiments upon A A