SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 524. similar mucous membranes ; and that the cell-hning of the arteries, which becomes deficient where these pass into the capillaries, and thus leaves the latter vessels with a simple membranous wall, seems to exhibit a kind of natural analysis of a yet more similar compound structure. And it must be recol- lected that failure of recognition is by no means a satisfactory argument against the presence of such a delicate structure; i. e. that one such affirmation as those above ought to outweigh many denials. Still those who, after repeated and careful examination, have failed to recognise it, are no doubt justified in continuing to doubt its existence. Areolar Tissue. — A stratum of areolar tissue occupies the outer or inferior surface of the preceding cellular structure, and in- cludes in and amongst its meshes the remain- ing constituents of the serous membrane. The inner surface of this lamina is smooth and condensed, where it immediately under- lies the cells: exteriorly, it can scarcely be considered as possessing a defined surface, but gradually merges into the areolar tissue of the neighbouring organs. The separation of the two structures is, however, generally indicated by an interval, in which their tex- ture is somewhat looser. This is called the subserous cellular tissue.''^ As this layer constitutes the chief thick- ness of the membrane, and is the constituent on which its physical properties are mainly dependent ; so its varieties of co istitution and arrangement, correlatively with the re- quisite differences of these properties, are both numerous and important. One of the most common of these altera- tions is an augmented quantity of the yeliow fibrous element; indeed, in many portions of the serous membranes, this increase is so considerable as to constitute a continuous special layer of the elastic fibre, which occu- pies a horizontal plane immediately beneath the epithelium. The fibres of this layer are delicate, of a smaller diameter, and somewhat paler colour, than those which are found in the ordinary areolar tissue: they branch at acute angles in every direction, and unite with those in the immediate neighbourhood ; while beneath, and partly amongst them, are seen the white fibrous bundles, with their ordinary arrangement. The advantage of such a pre- dominance of the yellow element is obvious : it confers an increased elasticity on the mem- brane, and better adapts it for distention, or for a return to its original bulk after this force is removed. The situations in which it is found are in exact conforn)ity with this view : m the peritoneum, which lines the anterior abdominal wall and covers the blad* der, it attains its maximum ; in the detached folds of the mesentery, in the costal pleura, and in the so-called suspensory ligaments of the liver, it is still very prominent ; but on the posterior wall of the belly, and in the serous membranes where they cover many of the viscera, such as the heart, brain, lungs, liver, &c., it is almost completely deficient. On the lungs, the necessity of its presence is probably superseded by the large quantity, both of the texture and of the property, which is inherent in these organs themselves : the remaining viscera are all organs of a size which is either little variable, or of uniform variety. In the areolar tissue beneath the spinal and ce- rebral arachnoid, another modification occurs. Between the vascular pia mater, which closely envelopes the nervous centre, descending in- to its sinuosities of surface, and the visceral layer of the arachnoid, a considerable interval exists, in which the meshes of this tissue are exceedingly long and lax ; while, in many parts, the distance between them is so much in- creased as to form cavities, which have re- ceived the name of " the subarachnoid spaces." They are filled with the fluid of the same name ; and by its presence the visceral and parietal layers of the serous membrane are maintained in contact, pressure generally be- comes equalised, and large portions of the nervous centre hang suspended in fluid. The chief interruption to this arrangement obtains at the summit of the cerebral convolutions, where the arachnoid and pia mater are strongly adherent to each other : but the more minute description of these spaces or cavities belongs to the special anatomy of these membranes. The fat cells which are so often deposited in the intervals of areolar tissue frequently occupy its meshes in the serous membranes. In most of these instances, however, it would be more correct to regard the subserous or connecting areolar tissue as the seat of the dei)osit, than that more condensed portion of it, to which an artificial separation would limit the term " serous membrane." It is plentifully found in connection with both lajers of the jDcritoneum, while it is comparatively absent from the arachnoid. In the case of the other serous membranes, the parietal layer is that which is most liable to its presence ; indeed, on the lungs, it appears to be completely and invariably absent. This latter circumstance has been ascribed to a supposed local antago- nism of respiration to the deposit, analogous to that which is known to be exerted by this process generally. But this supposition seems quite untenable, since the lungs themselves are not nourished by the blood which it is their function to depurate, but by the ordinary arterial fluid, which exhibits the usual changes in the bronchial veins ; and one can hardly imagine respiration to exert an influence on the tissue, apart from, or greater than that which it exerts on its blood. Here, as else- where, the necessities of movement seem to be the circumstances which chiefly regulate the locality of the deposit: excessive mobility, as in the scrotum, penis, and eyelids, seeming to contraindicate the formation of adipose tissue. The amount present in these membranes generally exhibits a direct relation with that which is contained in the whole body. The vessels of the serous membranes ramify in their areolar tissue, and by their numerous anastomoses with each other constitute a