ROTIFERA. 401 4. Rotifers without vibratile cilia, but which are supplied with nails, by means of which they walk. Examples: Hydatina, Notom- matay Furcularia^ S^c. Dujardin, in his work, also objects to the characters on which Ehrenberg has consti- tuted the various genera belonging to his eight families, these genera being principally determined by the presence or absence of little red spots, which Ehrenberg designates as eves. (^Fig. 292. a ; fig. 303. a ; fig. 296. a; fig. 294. a ; fig. 298. a ; fig. 299. b.) The following is a description of the families adopted by Ehrenberg: — Family 1. — Icthydina. Character. Naked Rotifers, with a single continuous rotatory organ, not lobed at the margin. In the genera Ptygura and Glenophora^ the rotatory organ is circular, and serves as a means of locomotion. In ChcBtonotus and Icthy- dium it is elongated, elliptical, band-like, and seated on the ventral surface. ChcBtonotus and Icthydium possess a furcated foot, Pty- gura and Glenophora a simple one. Icthydium and Chtstomttts have a simple conical intes- tine, with a long thin oesophagus without teeth (?) Glenophora, a short oesophagus with two teeth; Ptygura,dL constricted stomach with three teeth (jifg.288.). Pancreatic glands are only seen in ChcBtonotus and Ptygura. Caecum, gall-ducts, and male sexual organs not observed. In two genera, the female sexuaj system consists of an ovarium with a few large ova. The evidence of the existence of a nervous system is seen in the two large red frontal eyes of Glenophora. Chaetonotus has a hairy back. Analysis of the genera : — 'A single foot. Ptygura. A furcated] j-, j-,^ foot. ] Icthydium. ChcBtonotus. Fig. 288. Eyes ab- sent. Two eves. No hair. Hairv. Glenophora. These genera embrace six species, some of which have been known to microscopic ob- servers under various names, from a very early period. Icthydium podura was described by Joblot, as poisson a la tete treflee, in 1718. The Chcstonotus larus was described by Miiller in 1776 as Trichoda acarus. This family embraces some of the simplest forms of the Rotifera. It may perhaps be doubted as to whether this class at all is the place for the genus ChcBtonotus. They have no distinct rotatory organ, and their bodies covered with cilia, place them in very close alliance with some forms of the Polygastria, especially the Euplota, from which they are distinguished by their symmetry, and distinctly furcated tail. Dujardin places CJuEtonotus amongst his symmetrical Infusoria, which do not include the Rotifera or Systolides. Family 2. — CEcistina. Character. Ro- tiferous animals, with a single rotatory organ entire at the margin, enclosed in a shield. The organs of motion consist of internal muscles and an entire foot or tail. The or- gans of nutrition are an apparatus with rows VOL. IV. Ptygura melicerta. {After Elirenberg.') 1, partially expanded; 2, completely expanded, the cilia in action causing currents indicated by the arrows; 3, contracted. a, a, a, contractile vesicle; b, situation of the anal orifice. of teeth for chewing (/g. 289. «, a), two pan- creatic glands. Ova and ovaria have been Fio. 289. Conochilus volvox. (^After Ehrenberg.') a, a, jaws and teeth ; b, b, papillai; c, c, c, c, glands; d, d, ovarium, observed in the two forms of which the family consists. Vessels, two filiform tremulous or- gans (called by Ehrenberg "gills"); nervous D D