218 QUADRUMANA. brachium is less firm, by which the hand acquires a great deal of mobility, and can be incUned, as I have often observed, not only outwards, but also backwards. With regard to the posterior extremities, the principal deviation is oifered by the Tarsius, in which the fibula is but a slender filiform bone, not extended to the tarsus, but terminating on the third inferior part of the tibia, with which it is united. Consequently the tarsal articu- lation is only united with the tibia. A yet more striking peculiarity is exhibited in Tarsius and Otolicnus by the tarsus, in which the calcaneum and the scaphoid bone are two long styliform bones, contributing in that way to produce the enormous length of the posterior extremities. In the Stcnops there is not so great a deviation from the ordinary form to be observed ; but it is, how- ever, of some interest, that the two Malleoli are very small, and that the astragalus has an oblique direction inwards. The results of this disposition, as I have proved more minutely in the said paper, are a greater mobility of the foot, a direction upwards of its internal edge, and a great interval between the thumb and the other digits. Myology. — I can only mention the mus- cles of the Stenops, having had no opportunity to dissect the other genera of Lemurincs. The sterno-mastoideus has a distinct clavicular fascicle, the existence of which is very interest- ing, while it is not found in some monkeys, nor in any of the mammalia which have no cla- vicles. In the M. d/gastricus there is but an in- dication of intermediate tendon ; consequently the muscle is simplified, and passes into the form it has in the Carnivora, in which it is composed of a single fascicle. Another pecu- liarity in the muscular system of the Stenops is the existence of the omo-hyo'idcus^ which is wanting in many large Mammalia, but exists in the monkeys, and as my dissection has proved in the Dasyunis^ the Ursus arctos, the Pteroj)us, and the Opossum. This muscle is also one of the links connecting the genus Stcnops with the Quadrumana on one, and with the Carnivora on the other side. The latissimus dorsi gives, in the same manner as in so many other climbing animals, a pro- longation to the internal condyle of the hu- merus. The pectoralis viagnus has the length and the strong disposition of fibres, proper to all the quadrupeds. As in them, the clavi- cular fascicle is not much developed. The disposition of the bicej^s and hrachialis interjius is interesting, because it proves that the genus Stenopsy and probably the other Lemurincs, form a transition from the Quadrumana to the Carnivora insectivora. In the same manner as in these, the biceps consists of but one fascicle, which arises from the superior edge of the articular cavity of the scapula, and is inserted into the radius, and the brachialis interims pos- sesses but an external fascicle, which passes to the antibrachium, behind and under the biceps. It is very remarkable, that notwith- standing the want of the internal fascicle of the biceps, there is a coraco-brachialis. It is prolonged downwards to the internal condyle of the humerus ; between it and the internal fascicle of the triceps passes the cu- bital portion of the vascular' plexus. This is an exception to the rule, that the existence of a coraco-brachialis is connected with the ex- istence of an internal fascicle of the bicejis, and an additional {)roof that the genus Stenops forms a transition from the Quadrumana to the Carnivora. In the antibrachium the prona^ tores and sujnnatores are very strong. The Jlexores are the radialis and ulnaris internus, with the palmaris longus. The extensores are the radialis externus longus et brevis, with the uhiaris externus and the extensores of the fingers. For the flexion of the fingers, there is a rudimental flexor superficialis^ which is wanting in the Carnivora, and which exists, on the contrary, in the Quadrumana. Instead of the abductor magnus and extensor brevis poinds there is but one muscle, formed by the union of both these muscles. I have shown already that this tendency to simplify is yet observed in the Orang-cetan and in the Alandrill, and more distinctly in the hiui. Besides this the thumb of the Stenojys pos- sesses a flexor brevis, an abductor brevis, and an adductor j^ollicis. In the posterior extremities we observe, first, a very long and very strong psoas, composed of two portions, of which the in- ternal is the strongest. They are united to the iliacus internus and attached to the small trochanter. Thesartorius has an obhque di- rection, and is attached to the internal edge of the tibia. The gracilis is broad and attached lower to the tibia. The rectus femoris, the cruralis, vastus externus and internus have their usual disposition. There is no jyectijueus, but there are three adductores. It is very re- markable that the adductor magnus forms no aponeurotic canal for the passage of the plexi- form crural artery, but that this passes only on the superior margin of the adductor magnus, and penetrates in this manner into the popli- teal cavity. I have stated the same disposi- tion in the Bradj/jms didactylus, in which, and also in the Stenops, this deviation seems to be connected with the peculiar ramification pro- per to the vessels of the extremities, by which they are more preserved from compression, than in the animals, in which the crural artery forms but a single tube. On the posterior surface of the thigh there are a semi-tendinosus, semi- membranosus and biceps. The semi-tendinosus is united to the gracilis. The semi-membrano- sus has its own insertion. They descend very low and surround the gastrocnemius. The biceps terminates on the superior part of the tibia with a large muscular fascicle. Theglu- tcBus maximum has a large insertion on the thigh, and is inserted very much downwards. On the anterior crural surface there are a tibialis anticus, an extensor magnus and brevis digitorum jjedis, and extensor brevis hallucis, which has a very oblique direction, and d^per- oncEus magnus and brevis. As regards the flexores, I have only to mention the union of the flexor magnus hallucis with the flexor mag-