SALIVARY GLANDS. 423 E E 4 they not unfrequently impinge the one upon the other, the lower edge of the parotid ap- pearing to be structurally connected with the posterior border of the submaxillary, and the latter forming a junction with the sublingual. An uninterrupted glandular chain then in these instances surrounds the lower jaw. The saliva secreted by them is poured by the ducts of the two last into the floor of the mouth, and by the duct of the first into the posterior part of the side of the cavity between the cheek and the upper and lower dentar arches. The Parotid Gland is so named from its si- tuation in the immediate vicinity of the exter- nal ear {japa. near, and olc the' ear). It fills up the space of the same name, and is conse- quently bounded in front by the posterior edge of the ramus of the lower jaw, behind by the meatus auditorius externus above, and the mastoid process, digastric and sterno-mastoid muscles below : internally by the styloid pro- cess and muscles attached to it, together with the internal and external pterygoid muscles : superiorly by the posterior or parotidean divi- sion of the glenoid cavity within, and the zygomatic process without: inferiorly by a line continued on a level with the lower bor- der of the horizontal ramus of the jaw from its angle to the anterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle. The dimensions and form of the gland can only be well ascertained after re- moving it from its various connections, and in so doing it will be found that its posterior surface adheres very strongly by condensed cellular membrane to the cartilaginous portion of the meatus auditorius externus, while from its inner edge will be observed a process ex- tending between the styloid muscles and the internal pterygoid as far as the pharvnx. A dense fibrous septum, the stylo-maxillary, con- stituting one of the fixed points of attachment of the deep cervical fascia, separates it usually from the submaxillary gland. It has a triangu- lar or pyramidal form. "The base, which is su- perficial and slightly convex, rej^resents its ex- ternal surface, and is covered over bv a dense areolar tissue, known as the parofidfascia,'' from which the different processes which sepa- rate the component parts of the gland are ob- served to proceed. The apex is^the deepest- seated portion of the gland, and is represented by the prolongation already alluded to. The gland is bent, as it were, upon itself from be- hind forwards, so that its anterior surface presents a deep vertical groove, corresponding with the convexity of the ramus of the jaw, which is consequently overlapped bv it ex- ternally and internally, in the former situation extending to a greater or less degree over the masseter, in "the latter over the internal pterygoid muscle, and stylo-maxillary liga- ment. The part overlapping the masseler externally gives off above a process which runs between the zygoma and the duct of the gland, is horizontal in direction, and some- what triangular in form, and is known as the Accessory Parotid Gland or " Soda Parotidis:' It varies as to size, extent, and relation with the gland itself. It is ordinarily about two- thirds of an inch in length, a third of an inch in the longest part of its vertical diameter, and from one-sixth to one-eighth of an inch in thickness. It is generally, as it were, an offset from the body of the gland, and has no imme- diate connection with Steno's duct: at other times it is distinct from the body of the gland, and opens by one or more excretory ducts into, this canal. It occasionally becomes hyper- trophied when the body of the parotid itself is atrophied. Cruveilhier has observed two small accessory glands, one at the middle and the other at the anterior part of the masseter muscle. The parotid measures in a vertical direction from an inch and a half to two inches, from before backwards from an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half, and from with- out inwards about an inch. The lobes which enter into its composition are irregularly rounded, and considerably smaller than those of the submaxillary gland. They range from the one-eighth to the one-fifth of an inch in diameter; and these again are constituted of lobules having an average diameter of about the ^ of an inch, the smallest measuring .j-i^, and the largest about 3^ inch across. The relations of the external carotid artery, and its terminal branches, the external jugular vein, the facial and the anterior auricular nerve, and the further relative anatomy of the gland, have been already fully entered into.* We may mention, however, that in the sub- stance of the parotid, i. e. in the cellular tis- sue between its lobules a little below the surface, are embedded one or more lymphatic glands which can at a glance be recognised from the structure of the parotid by their brown colour; smooth surface, and compara- tive density. These glands not unfrequently undergo morbid changes, and by their gradual enlargement cause progressive atrophy of the parotid itself, and ultimately assume its ana- tomical position. This circumstance consti- tutes therefore an important element in the inquii-y as to the nature of any morbid growth occupying the parotid space, but which it would be out of place here further to allude to. The Duct of the Parotid Gland, called also the Duct of Steno, emerges from above the middle of its anterior border, accompanied by several branches of the portio dura, runs hori- zontally forwards across the masseter muscle as far as its buccal border, passing about half an inch below the zygoma, and immediatelv below the accessory gland and transverse facial artery. Having reached the anterior border of the masseter, it curves over a mass of fat between it and the buccinator; forming then a very obtuse angle, it perforates the latter, and glides between it and the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, which it perforates oppo- site the second upper molar tooth. This terminal oblique portion is about the fifth of an inch in extent, and has justly been compared by Cruveilhier to the vesical portion of the ureter, w hich, after having perforated * See Parotid Regiox.