24.2 REN. from the basement membrane which it lines, and to fall into and block up its narrow channel." It consequently happens that, in face of mechanical obstacles such as those above mentioned, the force employed to in- ject the tubes sooner or later bursts their coats ere their extremities have been reached.* Course and Termination of the Tubes,—Tra- cing the tubes from the apex of a medullary cone, on the surface of which their open mouths may be seen, we find them taking a straight course through the pyramid, branch- ing dichotomously and diverging as they pro- ceed {fig. HS). After reaching the base of the pyramid, their course through the cortical portion is very various ; many tubes imme- diately take a very tortuous course, some of them bending down into the inter-pyramidal portions of the cortical substance, while those near the centre of the pyramid pass onwards in a mass and in a straight line towards the surface, the tubes on the sides of the bundle in their progress passing olf successively in a tor- tuous course through the cortical substance, so that only a few of the central tubes in each bundle retain their straight course quite up to the surface of the kidney ; these finally turn backwards, making many convolutions in the cortical substance. After leaving the medullary cones, the branching of the tubes, except in very rare instances, appears to cease ; occasionally two tubes in the cortical sub- stance unite in passing towards the cones; and I once saw this occur at a very short distance below the Malpighian bodies, so that two short tubes, each with a Malpighian body at its extremity, united into one common tube. Some distinguished anatomists have main- tained that the tubes, after dividing in the corti- cal substance, reunite in a plexiform manner, and they have described this as their natural * In opposition to the opinion of IMr. Bowman, supported as it is by facts and arguments which, to most practical anatomists Avho are acquainted with the structure and relations of the tubes and Mal- pighian bodies, will appear quite conclusive, INIr. Toynbee states that the possibility of injecting the entire length of the tubes, and even the Malpighian capsvdes from the pelvis oif the kidney, is abundantly proved by many of his o-wn specimens, in which the Malpighian Ijodies are in this way distended, and that without any extravasation into the vascular tissues. If the account Avhich ]\Ir. Bowman has given of the connexion of the tubes with the Mal- pighian bodies be a correct one, it is clearly impos- sible that the tubes, long, tortuous, closed at their extremities, and always containing more or less liquid, can be completely injected fi-om the pelvis of the kidney, unless the nipture of the tube or of the Malpighian capsule allows the liquid contents of the tube to give place to the injected material. Cer- tainly the Malpighian capsides cannot possibly be injected from the tubes so long as the tubes and the capsules remain entire. If, therefore, IMr. Toj^nbee is correct in his observation on this point, the ex- planation of the fact must, as I think, be that which I have given. His account of the Malpighian bo- dies (Med. Chir. Ti-ansactions, vol. xxix. p. 311), and of their relation to the tubes, so far as I can comprehend the description given, appears to be incorrect; and his diagrams of these bodies (Plate 8, loc. cit.) represent appearances such as I have never observed in the course of my own examinations. mode of termination. This opinion is in all probability founded on deceptive appearances, such as must often have presented themselves when the means of observation were less per- fect than they now are, and which even at this time are but of too frequent occurrence. It appears to be a general fact that the tubes divide in their course from the apices of the medullary cones towards their opposite termina- tions, but they never reunite while passing in this direction. Other anatomists have con- sidered the tubes to terminate in free blind extremities unconnected with the Malpighian bodies ; and they have based their opinion on the appearances of injected specimens as well as on those of recent ones. With reference to this question Mr. Bowman* remarks, " As the injection always stops short of the real extremities of the tubes, it must necessarily show apparent free extremities—and others may be produced by the section requisite for the examination of the part. As for the false appearances presented by recent specimens, they are obviously referable to the sudden bending down of a tube behind the part turned to the observer. In a mass con)posed of convolutions, many such must continually occur; and their real nature may be easily determined by the use of a high power and varying focus." In addition to the sources of fallacy thus alluded to by Mr. Bowman, there is another, to which I have already referred-j- in describing the fibrous matrix in which the tubes are packed. To an inexperienced obser- ver, few appearances could be more deceptive than the apparent abrupt terminations of the tubes, as these are seen in the spaces formed by the surrounding tissue, here visible in the meshes of the network, and there suddenly concealed as they pass beneath the fibrous tissue. The manner in which the tubes actually terminate is by becoming continuous with the Malpighian bodies. This fact, which can be demonstrated in many of the tubes, is a matter of fair inference and of moral certainty in the case of every tube. The proofs of this fact, and the precise mode of continuity, we shall presently proceed to examine. Structure of the Tubes.—The uriniferous tubes contain the two structures which usu- ally compose the mucous tissue, viz. the basement ynembrane and the epithelium.'^ The basement membrane is a thin transpa- rent homogeneous lamina, simple and entire, without any aperture or appearance of struc- ture. It forms the parenchymal wall of the uriniferous tubes ; gives them their form, size, and stability; is in relation, on the one hand, with the vascular system of the organ and the investing fibrous matrix, and on the other, with the epithelial lining of the tubes. The epithelium adheres to the inner surface of the membrane by organic union: it sometimes separates readily after maceration in water, and in some forms of chronic inflammation of * Loc. cit. t Vide ante, p. 239. X Vide art. Mucous Me^ibrai^e.