430 SALIVARY GLANDS. and its absence or mere rudimentary condition in those that swallow -without masticating. Its comparative smallness, in relation to the submaxillar}' and sublingual in the human in- fant, is also corroborative. Without entering into the physiology of the secretion of the saliva, which will be found treated of elsewhere (see Saliva, Se- cretion), it may be interesting to remark, that the salivary glands, although immediately surrounded by muscles, are not necessarily compressed in the different movements of the jaw. This conclusion has been arrived at by a series of interesting experiments and in- ductions due to Bordeu, but into the analysis of which it would be beyond the limits of this article to enter.* Morbid Anatomy. — The parotid gland is far more frequently the subject of disease than either the submaxillary or sublingual. The idiopathic inflammation of these glands is known under the name of Cynanche parotidea, vulgarly translated " mumps." The submaxil- lary is occasionally, and the subUngual but rarely implicated. The surrounding soft parts, particularly the lymphatic glands, participate in the inflammation, tending greatly to increase the swelling. On account of the intimate relation of the glands with the jaw, consider- able pain and inconvenience form a prominent svmptom. The saliva is at first increased, and subsequently diminished in quantity. Suppuration very rarely occurs. Secondary inflammation takes place as an occasional com- plication of the different forms of fever. In eighteen cases of typhoid Louis observed one in which the parotid was implicated. The man died on the thii*ty-ninth day of the attack ; and nine days prior to death pain supervened in the parotid glands, which were found after death to be twice their ordinary volume, and studded throughout with small purulent deposits. The chief point of interest, however, to the surgeon and anatomist, in connection with inflammation of the parotid, is the formation of abscess in the region of the gland. This may either take place in the subcutaneous cellular tissue superficial to the parotid fascia, or in the substance of the gland beneath that fascia. It generally occurs, in the one form or the other, in connection with phlegmonous erysipelas of the face and neck. Abscesses forming in the latter situation demand the prompt attention of the surgeon, inasmuch as they are attended with the most severe con- stitutional symptoms, which are only relieved by a free incision through the dense fibrous envelope of the gland : unless thus treated, the matter either makes its way through the external auditory canal, by passing between its bony and cartilaginous divisions, or, after the most severe symptoms, bursts externally in the parotid region. It may even extend deeply into the neck as far as the trachea, and terminate by effusion into the chest and * Bordeu, Eecherches Anatomiques sur la Position des Glandes, et sur leur Action. Paris, An. viiL — death. Independent of this extensive bur- ro\\ing, matter pent up beneath the parotid fascia may exert a most injurious influence by compression of the larger vessels of the neck, the structure of the gland itself, and the facial nerve. Examples, in fact, are on record of almost complete destruction of the gland itself, and incurable facial paralysis, from neglect of incising the parotid fascia at an early period of the formation of pus beneath it. In inflammation of the salivary- glands, whether primary or secondary, the areolar tissue of the gland is most usually affected ; in a few instances, however, the true structure of the gland is impUcated. Berard* relates a remarkable instance of this kind, in which both the areolar and glandular tissue were affected. When the parotid was pressed, pus flowed into the mouth from Steno's duct. Abscesses connected with disease of the ear now and then make their way into the sub- stance of the parotid gland. Encysted tumours are occasionally observed in the body of the paiotid, and in all pro- bability are more in connection with the lymphatic glands than the gland itself, except in those cases where they arise from isolated collections of saliva, owing to obstruction in some part of the excretory canal. The latter formations are, however, but rarely met with, and, when so, occur usually in the track of Steno's duct. The parotid and submaxillary undergo also fibrous and carcinomatous degeneration. The latter affection, as a purely idiopathic change, is extremely rare ; and, although the records of surgery afford ample illustration of such in the parotid, according to the assertions of the authors of individual cases, the evidence in some must be received with considerable reserve. Carcinoma originating in the lym- phatic glands, superficially to or beneath the parotid fascia, or, lastly, in the paren- chyma of the gland itself, has been, in fact, indiscriminately described as carcinoma of the parotid gland. This subject has been minutely inquired into by Berard, as also the extir- pation of the gland j in a great number of the cases on record. He concludes his obser\a- tions, by remarking that scirrhus of the parotid generally calls for the extirpation of the parts affected: and supports this conclusion by ob- serving, that relapses after the operation are comparatively rare. This inference is at variance with the opinion of many practical surgeons ; and it would require a much more extensive and impartial series of statistics than we at present possess to arrive at a definite conclusion on the subject. No greater difficulty exists than to obtain the subsequent history of apparently successful cases in sur- gery, and that of those in which the parotid has been extirpated forms no exception to the remark. In the case related by Mr. Luke J, * Berard, Maladies de la Glande Parotide, et de la Ee'gion Parotidienne. 8vo. Paris, 184L t Loc. cit, J London Medical Gazette, Feb. 5,183L