364 RESPIRATION. the lungs, and carried out in the expired air. If, then, we add an increased flow of blood through the capillaries of the lungs to an in- creased frequency of the respiratory move- ments, as occurs in exercise, the interchan_'e between the oxygen of the air and the free carbonic acid of the blood will be carried on with greater activity. When, on the other hand, the air is renewed in the lungs less fre- quently than usual, as happens when the respiratory movements are diminished in number and in extent, the air in the deeper parts of the lungs will contain less oxygen and more carbonic acid than usual, and the interchange between the oxygen of the atmo- spheric air and the free carbonic acid of the blood will proceed more slowly. When the respirations are reduced to about one half of their normal frequency, as occurs in the course of some diseases, and after division of the vagi nerves, the carbonic acid gas gradually accumulates in the blood, less oxygen is ab- sorbeJ, and the individual generally sooner or later dies of asphyxia. When the quantity of carbonic acid gas in the air-cells reaches a certain amount, the evolution of this gas from the blood wi.l cease; and when this is carried still farther, there will be an absorption of a part of the carbonic acid gas by the blood. The interchange between the nitrogen and the other gases at the lungs is very small in the normal condition of the respiration, but there is every reason to believe that this is regulated by circumstances similar to those which determine the interchange of the oxygen and carbonic acid. The nitrogen is much less soluble in the blood than the oxygen and carbonic acid, and we presume that its power of permeating moist animal membranes is much inferior to these gases, and that the smaller quantity of it held in solution in the blood may be in this manner explained. We have already pointed out that, in the experi- ments made to determine whether nitrogen is absorbed or exhaled at the lungs, opposite results have been obtained, but that the evi- dence preponderates in favour of the opinion that a small quantity of this gas is evo'.ved from the blood during respiration. By an alteration of the usual relation between the quantities of nitrogen present in the air and in a free state in the blood, the evolution of nitrogen from the blood may be increased or suspended, or it may be absorbed by the blood instead of bemg evolved by it. In a previous part of this article we have referred to ex- periments which prove that when animals breathe oxygen or hydrogen gases, or a mix- ture of both, azote is evolved in greater quantity than usual from the blood in the lungs; and that when they breathe azote alone, part of this gas is absorbed at the lungs. The exact condition in which the whole of the oxygen absorbed at the lungs exists in the biood, notwithstanding the light thrown upon this point by recent researches, is still not free from considerable difficulties. Pre- vious to the experiments of Magnus upon the gases of the blood, already referred to, the opinion of Le Grange and Hassenfratz, that the greater part of the oxygen gas absorbed at the lungs is dissolved in the blood and carried along with it in that condition to the systemic capillaries, was considered untenable by many celebrated ph} biologists, the more especially as the attempts to detect free oxygen in the arterial blood had failed in ali the more trust-worthy experiments. Different opinions as to the kind of chemical combination formed by the oxygen in the arterial blood have been entertained by those who believe that the portion of this gas that disappears from the inpired air does not unite with car- bon in the lungs to form carbonic acid, and that little or none of it is simply dissolved in the arterial blood. In the greater number of these hypotheses, however, the oxygen is supposed to unite itself in whole or m part to the red corpuscles, and especially to the iron contained in these: and as the exact state in which the metal exists in the red corpuscles is still undetermined, this has given rise to very different notions regarding the changes effected upon it by the oxygen. According to other views, the oxygen in whole or in part is united chemically to some of the other constituent parts of the arterial blood, and from these it is again separated in passing through the systemic capillaries, and unites with carbon to form carbonic acid.* * "We shall here very shortly notice a few of the more recent theories of respiration, which proceed on the supposition that the oxygen abstracted from the inspired air is combined, in whole or in part, with some of the constituents of the arterial blood. Gme- Un, Tiedemann, and MitscherUch (Zeitschrift fur Physiologie, Band v.) supposed that the oxygen absorbed at the lungs partly unites with carbon and hydrogen to form carbonic acid and water which are there exhaled, and partly with organic substances in the blood to form acetic and lactic acids: that these acids decompose some of the car- bonates of soda brought to the lungs in the venous blood, and that the carbonic acid thus set free is also exhaled. The arterial blood in its course through the tissues, more especially those of the kidneys and skin, loses part of its acetic and lactic acids; and the soda with which they were combined, being set free, unites with the carbonic acid formed during the process of nutrition, and these carbonates are again decomposed in the lungs in the manner de- scribed. Dumas (Statique Chimique des Etres Or- ganises, pp. 43, 44, ome e'dit.) believes that the absorbed oxygen combines with certain matters of the blood and forms lactic acid, the lactic acid com- bines with soda to form lactate of soda, and this latter salt, by a real combustion, is converted into carbonate of soda, which is decomposed in its turn in the limgs by a fresh portion of lactic acid. Liebig (Organic Chemistry of Physiology and Pathology, edited by Gregory, p. 265. 1841)"supposes that car- bonate of protoxide of iron exists in the red cor- puscles of venous blood, and that in its piissage through the lungs, a large portion of the absorbed oxygen unites with it, forms hydrated peroxide of iron, and sets the carbonic acid free. !Miilder (The Chemistry of Vegetable and Animal Physiology, translated by Fromberg, Part II. p. 337) affirms that an alternate" change into carbonate of the protoxide of iron and peroxTde of iron in respiration is impos- sible, and maintains that the absorbed oxygen com- bines with the proteine compoimds of the blood and forms oxy-protelae, which being conveyed by the