RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. 224 from the more superficial arch of the ulnar vessel. Their distribution to the fingers cor- responds to that of the arteria dorsahs polli- cis. The arteria magna seu princej)s poUicis is the first branch given off from the radial in the palm, and, as its name intimates, it is usually of considerable size. From the point of its origin it runs downwards beneath the flexor brevis pollicis and tendon of the flexor longus, lying on the metacarpal bone of the thumb, until near the metacarpo-phalangeal joint; where it divides into two branches, one of which occupies each border of the phalanges, and joins that opposite in the ordinary manner beneath the sentient cushion which forms the extremity of the thumb. The arteria radialis indicis — also given off" beneath the flexor brevis polHcis, runs yet more vertically downwards than the pre- ceding, beneath that muscle and the adductor pollicis, and on the abductor indicis or first dorsal interosseous muscle, to become super- ficial at their lower borders. Here it gives off" a tolerably large communicating branch to the superficial palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and from this point it passes along the radial side of the second metacarpal bone and index finger to its extremity, having a distribution in all respects like that of the digital branches of the palmar arch ; its description is deferred to them. From the arch itself are given off" few branches of any size. Those which proceed downwards, lying on the palmar interossei, are three in number, one for each space, and anteriorly they end by inosculating with the digital branches from the ulnar, like the small twigs already referred to as occupying the same interosseous position on the dorsum of the hand. They have been named " ante- rior interosseous " branches. The remaining branches of the radial are the j^osterior per- forating, three twigs which perforate the supe- rior extremity of the same metacarpal spaces, to anastomose on the back of the hand with the posterior carpal and metacarpal branches. The ulnar artery. — The remaining terminal branch of the brachial is usually much larger than the preceding, with which it is also contrasted by the more linear direction of its course, and by its situation in the different regions through which it passes ; since it oc- cupies the front of the limb from its com- mencement to its termination, and is placed less superficially in the forearm than in the hand. Its relations in the forearm. — In this part of its course its direction is nearly straight, but with a slight convexity inwards, and it corresponds to the ulna in its whole length. At first lying on the brachialis anticus, by passing downwards and rather inwards, it next comes into contact with the flexor pro- fundus digitorum which covers the bone; and it continues to lie on it to near the annular ligament. Superficial to the vessel are the skin and fascia of the forearm, together with the first layer of the muscles which oc- cupy this situation, or the flexors which pro- ceed from the inner condyle ; viz., the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris lon- gus, and flexor carpi ulnaris, successively. It is overlapped by the outer head and border of the latter muscle during about two-thirds of the forearm, being only uncovered where it becomes tendinous; in this lower part the artery lies external to this tendon, situated between it and the two inner tendons of the flexor sublimis ; structures which would form a very easy guide to its locality during life. Although thus uncovered, the artery is by no means so superficial as was the case with the radial in the same stage; having in front of it fasciae of great strength, and being placed in a deep depression, from the coming forward of the tendon of the ulnar flexor to its in- sertion in the pisiform bone. The median nerve, which lay to its inner side on the brachialis anticus, crosses the ulnar artery very soon after the origin of the latter, the point of decussation exactly cor- responding to the coronoid origin of the pro- nator radii teres, which shp of muscle lying over the vessel, separates the two structures. The ulnar nerve at its inner side above, where it enters the forearm between the condyle and olecranon, is in close contact with it in the lower half of this region, placed somewhat superficially and to its inner side. The or- dinary venae comites accompany the vessel. In the hand.—In this latter part of its course the artery passes over the annular ligament of the wrist, internal both to the pisiform bone and the muscles of the hypothenar eminence; and next, as the superficial palmar arch, it passes transversely through this part of the hand, crossing superficially to the flexor ten- dons and the branches of the median nerve, until it arrives at the point to which we conducted the superficiaUs volae, and the communicating branch sent upwards from the radialis indicis; a point nearly at the inner border of the prominent ball of the thumb. Though placed above the tendons and nerves the artery, however, is far from subcutaneous in any part of its progress ; for while on the annular ligament, fibres from the insertion of the flexor carpi ulnaris into the pisiform bone pass outwards over its surface to join that structure external to the vessel lying on it ; a little further downwards, the palmaris brevis, where present, is also directed inwards in front of it; and during the remainder of its length, the strong palmar fascia effectually shields it from immediate pressure. The ver- tical part of the vessel is accompanied by the ulnar nerve, which maintains the relation it had in the lower part of the forearm, and, inferiorly, divides into its digital branches. The arch, like that of the radial artery, pre- viously described, is convex downwards, con- cave upwards; but it is obvious that its situation is considerably inferior to it, as well as much more superficial. A transverse line across either the middle of the hand or the centre of the metacarpus would tolerably indicate its position, or one continued across