34 POLYPIFERA. Fis. 38. Fungia. A portion of the calcareous basis has been settle down again at the bottom in its right position. The living gelatinous crust which covers the surface of the lamella is not merely a su- perficial investment, as it has been described by some writers, but, as will be proved here- after, enters essentially into the formation of the substance of the stony mass, upon the component parts of which it exerts a vital influence. The Fungia described above inhabits the Red Sea, and is entirely destitute of tenta- cular appendages ; but the generality of those brought from tropical climates have their up|)er surface covered with numerous cylin- drical tentacula (fg. 39), which, when ex- panded, give it very much the appearance of a true Actinia. When these tentacula are touched, they shrink, and partially hide them- selves between the radiating lamellae. The stony polypary has in this species been proved to be in reality lodged in the interior of the animal's body, the soft parts of which cover the lower surface as well as the upper, and even form a fleshy ring around the margin of the disc, giving the idea of the foot of an Actinia. In the centre of the upper surface there is an oval aperture (^g. 39), which has been regarded as the creature's mouth ; but there does not seem to be any stomachal cavity. The tentacula of some species are so large, . that they look something like leeches ; they have, however, no terminal orifice, as those of the Actiniae have, but seem to fill them- demuhd of the gelatinous coating. (^After Forskal.) selves with water by a kind of interstitial absorption. The polype-hke investment of a Fungia of this description * is fleshy, membranous, and flattened, generally circular or oval, having in its centre an elongated opening ; the animal is thicker at this part than at the circumference. The Fungia then is a broad polype, slightly fringed around its margin, and secreting, by its inferior surface, calcareous matter, imitating all the natural forms of the animal, and even its accidental positions. All the septa are tri- angular, much thicker at their base than at the summit, where the fleshy crust is so thin, that if the polype is colourless it is im- perceptible; but it is distinct in coloured species. Upon the sides of the laminae are little tubercles, which, penetrating the fleshy folds of the animal, cause it to adhere so firmly to the calcareous basis, that it is impos- sible to detach it, except by piecemeal. In the natural state, the mouth of the polype is prominent, but it does not project beyond the fissure which contains it ; at the least touch the whole creature contracts, so that it would seem that there was no animal. During growth, as the laminae become more elevated, the interstices are gradually filled up from the bottom ; but the increase of the Fungia in thickness is very limited, as, in fact, is its lateral extent, the diameter rarely exceeding six or seven inches. Generally the gemmules of Fungiae are de- veloped upon the sand, without, however, ad- * Quov et Gaimard, Voyage de TUranie.