168 PROTEIN. other substances, as tannic acid, creosote, al- cohol, and ether; and its coagulation may also be effected by a current of voltaic elec- tricity. When taken into the stomach it is coagulated by the free acid usually present. The curious change which albumen under- goes from the soluble to the insoluble condition is but very imperfectly understood, and it is not known how far the physical state of that coagulated by heat resembles that rendered insoluble by alcohol and the other precipitants. It is said that if an egg be smeared with oil immediately after it is laid, and afterwards ex- posed to heat, the coagulation is incomplete. Coagulated white of egg readily di^solves in alkaline solutions, and is reprecipitated un- changed if the solution be supersaturated with sulphuric acid. If it be digested at a tempe- rature of about 120°, with a tolerably strong alkaline solution, the sulphur and phosphorus are separated from the protein; but if the alka- line solution be boiled, further decomposition takes place ; ammonia is given off, and leucin, protid, and other compounds are formed. If the alkaline solution in which white of egg is boiled be rather weak, it acquires, after some hours' boiling, a smell precisely similar to that of boiled fowl. Though perfectly insoluble after coagulation, both in cold and boiling water, it appears to dissolve when heated under pressure to about 300~ with that liquid, and the solution thus formed behaves in ever}- re- spect similar to uncoagolated albumen. Allien exposed to the air in a moist state albumen is extremely prone to enter into putrefaction; but if dry it may be preserved unchanged for any length of time. If boiled for several hours in water it is converted into tritoxide of pro- tein, w ithout passmg through the intermediate stage of binoxide, in which respect it differs from fibrine. The ready convertibility of albumen into the other protein compounds, as well as into many other animal tissues, is well illustrated in the phenomena of incubation; where we find all the various conipounds which are contained in the hatched bird, derived more or less directly from this substance, which, together with a yellow oil and some inorganic salts, constitutes the whole of the solid contents of the egg. Casein is the form in which protein appears in the milk, where it constitutes the chief source of nourishment to the young animal, for \\hich purpose it is admirably adapted, not only from the protein it contains, which is readily converted into fibrin and albumen, but also on account of the inorganic salts, espe- cially phosphate of lime, with which it is always associated. The proportion of casein contained in the milk of different animals varies consi- derably; and a still more striking variation is caused by the food of the animal, as may be seen in the following table. 100 parU. Casew. Cow's milk 4'4rS „ fed on hay 3'0 „ „ turnips 3 0 „ ., clover 4*0 100 par is. Casein. Cow's milk potatoes and hay. 3'3 to o'l Ewe's milk '. 4'.3 Goat's milk 4'02 Ass's milk 1*S2 Woman's milk l o2 Casein is scarcely known in a state of abso- lute purity, as it is extremely difficult to sepa- rate it entirely from inorganic impurities: these consist chiefly of hme, potash, soda, and iron, combined with phosphoric, sulphuric, and hy- drochloric acids. The purest specimens pre- pared by Rochleder left, when burnt, only 0-3 per cent, of incombustible ash; but as it is generally prepared it contains considerable more, sometimes as much as 10 per cent. It appears to be insoluble in water, and owes its solubility ia milk to the small quantity of potash which is always present. The best pro- cess for obtaining casein is the following. A quantity of milk is first evaporated to dryness on a water-bath, and the dry residue, reduced to powder, is boiled in successive portions of ether until the whole of the fatty matter is re- moved ; the impure curd should then be eva- porated to dr} ness, and the soluble part sq)a- rated by digesting in water. To this solution, after filtration,alcohol is added to throw down the casein, which, however, is often still con- taminated with a little sugar of milk : this mav be removed by again dissolving in water, and once more precipitating the casein bv alcohol. When dry it resembles albumen verv much in appearance, and its behaviour with reagents is in most cases very similar: it differs from it chiefly in not coagulating when heated, and it is precipitated by all the acids, but redissolves in an excess of most of them. Sulphuric acid throws down a compound which has been called sulphate of casein; this precipitate al- ways contains a cenain quantity of phosphate of lime, and it is only by repeatedly dissolving it in an alkaline solution, reprecipitarins with dilute sulphuric acid, and well washing with boiling water, that it can be obtained in a state of purity. When miJk or a solution of casein is heated under ordinary circumstances, a thin skin is formed on the surface, which, if re- moved, is quickly replaced by another; this substance has never been properlv examined; but as it is not formetl unless oxygen is pre- sent, it is probably the result of oxidation. Casein is precipitated from its solutions by ferrocyanide and ferridcyanide of potassium, provided the solution is not alkaline, and still more perfectly if a little acetic acid is present. Lactic acid also readily coagulates casein; but the coagulation appears to be most completely effected by the lining membrane of the stomach of the young animal, an action due either to lactic acid, or, what is {>erhaps more probable, to the presence of pepsine. Casein has been found in some of the animal fluids besides milk : the saliva, the bUe, pan- creatic juice, and perhaps the blood, all con- tain it in more or less notable quantity. It affords another instance of the admirable adap- tability of this interesting class of compounds