SHOULDER JOINT—(Normal Anatojiy). 571 section of it impermeable to light, unless it be saturated with Canada balsam, which then very commonly enters the tubuli, and prevents them from being readily distinguishable. The purpose of the extraordinary density possessed by the extremities of the claws, is evidently to adapt them to the various mechanical uses to which the animal applies them : and it is in- teresting to see that this is attained without any variation in the organic structure of the part, but merely by a more intimate union, as it would seem, of the solidifying mineral matter with the organic basis. It does not seem improbable that the phosphate of lime which is known to be present with the carbo- nate in the shells of Crustacea, may exist in larger proportion towards the extremities of the claws than in other parts of the shell ; a question well worthy of chemical investigation. The periodical exuviation of the shell does not appear to be common to all Crustacea; for, according to Mr. Couch*, it does not take place in many of the sessile-eyed tribes, whose cases are as dense as those of the pe- dunculate orders. It is much to be desired that careful observations should be made on the formation of the new shell in the Crab ; since these would probably throw light on much that still remains obscure in the de- velopment of dentine. [The author of the forgoing article is de- sirous that it should be understood that all the statements contained in it, except such as are expressly made on the authority of others, are the result of his own obst-rvations; the general facts regarding the organic structure of the shells of Moilusca, Echinodermata, and Crustacea, having been determined by him in the year 184'2, and embodied in a paper read before the Royal Society, Dec. 22 of that year, of which the first of the memoirs cited is an abridgment ; and the subject having been subsequently worked out by him in de- tail, with the aid and encouragement of the British Association, to the reports of which he would refer the reader who may desire additional information as to the results of his researches.] BiBLiOGhAPHY. — Carpenter, On the INIicroscopic Structure of Shells, in Annals of Natural History, Dec. 1843; and in Reports of British Association for 1844 and 1847. Boiverhank, On the Structure of the Shells of Molluscous and Conchiferous Ani- mals, in Transact, of Microscopical Society, vol. i. London, 1844. G. Valentin, Anatomie du Genre Echinus, in Monographies d'Echinodermes vivans et fossiles, par L. Agassiz : Neufchatel, 1842. Lavalle, Recherches d'Anatomie Microscopique sur le test des Crustaces Decapodes; in Aunales des Sciences Naturelles, Juin, 1847. (W. B. Carpenter.) SHOULDER JOINT (Normal Ana- tomy of), f The scapular and the axillary regions are each limited externally by the * Report of Coniwall Polytechnic Society, 1843. t This article includes the surgical anatomy of the scapulo-humeral articulation. region of the shoulder-joint ; the latter also unites the two former regions to each other. The region of the shoulder joint (/<? moigiwn de rt'pai(le) exhibits a rounded projection, due to the angle formed by the union of the arm with the shoulder ; and to the surgical anatomist it possesses extreme interest, be- cause its skeleton is formed by the shoulder- joint. Some difficulty arises in assigning to this surgical region precise limits. Anteriorly, it is separated from the pectoral region, by the narrow space between the deltoid anil the great pectoral muscles (the cornco-deltoid groove, Velpeau) ; above, it is limited by the convex projection of the acromion |)ro- cess, and by the outer end of the clavicle; posteriorly, it is confounded with the scapular region ; whilst inferiorly, it extends as far as the insertion of the fold.H of the axilla. The elements of which this region is com- posed, are the following : under the super- ficial coverings lie the deltoid muscle (the greater portion of which belongs exclusively to this space), and in it and beneath it, tlie branches of the circumflex arteries, and of the great circumflex nerve ; still deeper are situ- ated the exteriorof thecapsuleof the shoulder- joint, the neck and tuberosities of the humerus, the acromion and coracoid processes, with the attachment to them of numerous muscles and ligaments. In this article it is proposed to notice, the structu'-es in the scapulo-hunieral region which are superficial to the joint ; and, se- condly, to describe the anatomical characters oi the shoulder joint itself. In removing the integuments and subcuta- neous layer of areolar tissue which covers the deltoid muscle, the anatomist brings into view numerous small branches of nerves from the cervical plexus (snjva-acrojnial twigs), some of the fibres of origin of the platysma myo'des, and some small venous branches which, after anastomosing freely with one another, termi- nate in the cephalic or axillary trunks. By the removal of its investing fascia, the deltoid muscle is next exposed : in its origin it corresponds accurately to the insertion of the trapezius ; hence these two muscles are direct antagonists of each other. The fibres of the deltoid muscle a)-ise from the anterior edge of the outer third of the clavicle and of the acromion process, and from the lower margin of the spine of the scapula : from this extensive line of origin, the fibres in descending con- verge to the humerus, and are inserted on the outer aspect of that bone into a rough surface called the deltoid impression. The insertion of the muscle is outside the hmits of the scapulo-humeral region, and belongs to that of the arm, whilst its posterior portion is contained in the scapular region; so that the anterior, upper, and central portions of the deltoid alone belong to the region under con- sideration. Immediately beneath the clavicle, the anterior edge of the deltoid is separated from the pectoralis major by a triangular in- terval, of which the ba&e, placed superiorly,