451 SECRETION. G G 2 tion of the bile-ducts in the left lateral liga- ment, which he considers as in itself a rudi- mental liver, exhibiting the structure of the entire organ in its most simple form. By Mr. Bowman it was supposed, that the limitary membrane forming the wall of the minute biliary ducts is not continued into the sub- stance of the lobule, but that the epithelial lining of the ducts is continuous with the mass of hepatic cells which forms its parenchyma. There is an a priori improbability in such an idea, which would leave the glandular cells in immediate 'contact with the surface of the blood-vessels ; an arrangement which does not exist in any other gland. We have been accustomed, therefore, to accord with the opinion of Dr. Thomas Williams*, that the limitary membrane of the bile-ducts is pro- bably expanded over the whole of the paren- chymatous portion of each lobule, moulding itself upon, and identifying itself with, the capsule or sheath of the vessels, and thus forming a sort of irregularly reticulated cavity, which may be described as the whole space occupied by the lobule, minus the series of passages containing the capillary plexus. The manner in which the lining membrane of the uterine sinuses with the cellular decidua are prolonged into the placenta, and reflected over the capillary tufts of the foetal vessels, so as to divide the whole cavity of the placenta into a series of irregularly shaped chambers, freely communicating with each other, into which the maternal blood is conveyed, will convey an idea of this method of viewing the disposition of parts in the liver ; the uterine sinuses representing the bile-ducts ; thecellated cavities of the placenta, corresponding with the spaces occupied by the cells of the hepatic parenchyma; and the foetal vessels occupying Fig. 317. Biliary plexus in human Liver. Transverse section of a lobiJe of the human liver' highly magnified, shoAving the reticulate struc- ture of the biliary tubes. In the centre of the figure is seen the hepatic vein cut across, and several small branches terminating in it. At the periphery are seen branches of the hepatic artery, vena portae, and hepatic duct. {After Leidy.) * Op. cit. p. 330. the place of the capillary plexus from which the secretion is formed. The observations recently published by Dr. Leidy harmonise precisely with the view pro- mulgated by Mr. Kiernan, and seem to confirm the idea that here, as elsewhere, the hepatic cells are enclosed in a limitary membrane. " The lobules are composed of an intertexture of biliary tubes {fg. 317.) ; and in the inter- spaces of the network the blood-vessels ramify and form among themselves an intricate anastomosis, the whole being intimately con- nected together by a combination of the white fibrous and the yellow elastic tissue. In Fig. 313. Biliary plexus in h uman Liver. A small portion of the same section more highly magnified. The secreting cells are seen within the tubes; and in the interspaces of the latter, the fibrous tissue is represented. (After Leidy.') Structure, the biliary tubes (^^5.318,319.) cor- respond with those of Invertebrata, consisting Fig. 319. Biliary tubulus of human Liver. Portion of a biliary tube from a fresh human liver, very highly magnified. The secreting cells are seen to be polvgonal from mutual pressure. (After Leidy.) of cylinders of basement membrane, containing numerous secreting cells, and the only differ- ence exists in the arrangement, tlie free tubes of the lower animals becoming anasto- mosed on forming an intertexture in the Ver- tebrata. The tubuli vary in size in an un- important degree in different animals, and also in the same animal, being generally from two