RODENTIA. 386 trees, or upon tender succulent plants. The differences observable in the structure of the stomach and intestinal canal correspond to the variety of their food, and bear a relation to the structure of their dental apparatus. Fig. 270. Cheek pouches of the Canada Rat ( Geomys bursarius^. Some genera, as, for example, the Canada rat (fig. 270.) are remarkable for the pos- session of capacious cheek pouches, in which considerable quantities of food can be stored up, and which, like the crop of birds, may be considered as reservoirs, wherein nutriment can oe retained preparatory to its introduction into the stomach. The type of stomach most common in this order is the following: the stomachal bag is formed by two distinct pouches, which are more or less separated from each other ; one portion, situated to the left of the cardia, is placed longitudinally, and is generally of a cylindrical or conical shape. This portion is frequently larger than the right portion ; it is lined internally with a thick epidermis, which terminates suddenly, and clearly indicates by its margin the boundaries of this compart- ment of the stomach. The right compartment, which is situated more transversely and further back, is of a conical shape, the apex of the cone terminating at the pylorus. This second portion has its walls thicker and more mus- cular than the former ; its mucous membrane is not hned with epidermis, but presents the ordinary appearance. The distinction be- tween these two portions is indicated ex- ternally by a constriction. The cesophagus enters the first compartment very near to the point where it communicates with the second. Such may be said to be the typical form of the stomach in this extensive order, but many families recede from it to a greater or less ex- tent. In the squirrels (Sciiirus) for example, the stomach is not divided into separate cavities, but is of a pyriform or oval shape, giving off a conical or cylindrical portion, which ter- minates in the pylorus. The first compart- ment is hned internally with a thick epi- dermis, which foi'ms two oval lips, as it is prolonged around the opening into the second compartment, the lining membrane of which is simply mucous, without any apparent epi- dermic covering. The ondatras (Fibcr^ Cuv.), campagnols (Arvicolaj, and the lemmings (Geoiyckiis, llinger), present a similar ar- rangement. Stomach of the Water Vole {Arvicola amphibius'). g, oesophagus ; a,f, cardiac extremity of the stomach ; c, its median constriction; b, dilated pyloric extre- mity of ditto; e, pyloric pouch ; h, i, duodenum. In the Hudson's Bay lemming (Mus Hnd- sojiius, Gm.), the shape of the stomach is slightly different, it is situated transversely and much elongated, without any division into cavities ; the cardia opens at about the upper third of its anterior border ; the left cul-de-sac is cylindrical and of uniform size with the pyloric portion, which is bent for- ward and to the left side. The stomach likewise varies from the com- mon type in the jerboa (Dipiis, Gm.), and in the leaping hares of the Cape {Helami/s). In the former it is globular, in the latter pyriform and longitudinal, with a large cardiac cul-de sac directed forwards, a pyloric cul-de-sac, and a short c\lindrical pyloric portion, which is bent forwards. The rat moles (Spa/ax, Guldensledt) are approximated to the lemmings and to the campagnols in the shape of their stomach, which is divided into two pouches, having the oesophagus closely approximated to the pylorus. In the muscardin (21. avellenarius, L.) the stomach offers a peculiarity in its struc- ture, which distinguishes it not only from the other species of this genus, but also from all other Mammalia, — the cesophagus imme- diately beyond the diaphragm terminates in a globular pouch, the walls of which are thick, glandular, and exhibiting internally numerous pores leading into crypts: this structure is separated by a constriction from the stomacii properly so called. This latter organ forms a large cul-de-sac of a slightly oval shape, which gives off anteriorly, and to the right side, a short bowel-like pyloric portion. In this animal, therefore, there are two stomachs, one of which corresponds with the glandular stomach of birds, as will be seen further on. The beaver exhibits traces of this structure. The stomach of the hamster (Cricefus, Cuv.) approximates the common type de- scribed above, the stomach being divided into two pouches, separated by a deep constric- tion ; the left pouch is cylindrical, the right globular. The cardiac orifice is situated in