277 REPTILTA. T 3 Fig. 193. 3Tyology of the Tortoise. 12, palpebralis, representing the orbicularis muscle of the eye; 23, splenius capitis ; 24, biventer cervicis; 33, transversalis cervicis ; 35, spinalis cenacis; 40, obliquus abdominis; 41, 41a, 41b, transversus abdominis; 42, a muscle thought by Bojanus to be analogous to the diaphragm; 45, adducens pelvim; 46, abducens pelvim; 47, extensor caudce; 48, flexor caudae lateralis; 49—51, flexores caudae, inferior, lumbalis et obturatorius; 53, sphincter cloacte; 58, latissimus dorsi; 110, peroneus. The other muscles are indicated by the same letters as in the preceding figures. SO disposed that the coracoid bone, instead of ternal, is anterior; this arrangement, in fact, being anterior, as in mammalia, is internal, exists more or less in all oviparous verte- and that the acromion, instead of being ex- brata. Fig. 194. Myology of the Tortoise. 5, rectus oculi supei-ior; 8, rectus oculi externus; 11, suspensor oculi; 14, omohyoideus; 16, hyo- maxillaris; 18, hyoglossus; 22, stemomastoideus; 24, biventer cerv'icis; 25, complexus; 34, scalenus; 37, transversarii colli obliqui. The other muscles as in preceding figures. The analogue of the great pectoral {fig. 191, 56) is composed of two superficial portions, one of which is attached to a ridge on the anterior part of the plastron, and goes to be inserted into the small tuberosity of humerus: the other is much more extensive; it arises from a great portion of the internal surface of the plastron, and is likewise inserted by a flat- tened tendon into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, but it is continued by an aponeu- rotic expansion, which spreads like a fan over the inferior surface of the arm, and even of the fore-arm : its tendon is united to that of the preceding. The analogue of the deltoid {fig. 191, 60«, and 606) arises from the extremity of the acromion, and goes to be inserted upon the external surface of the small tuberosity of the humerus, uniting its tendon to that of the infra-spinalis. The latissimus dorsi {fig- 192. 58) arises from the lateral part of the carapax as far as the articulation of the second rib, and runs nearly vertically towards the humerus, joining its tendon with that of the teres major, to be implanted in a fossa situated at the base of the internal tuberosity. The supra-spinatus arises from the pos- terior aspect of the spine of the scapula, and runs to be inserted into the external tuberosity. In the turtles it is reinforced by a large muscle derived from the anterior edge and the superior siu^face of the ex- tremity of the coracoid. The infra-spinatus arises from the posterior border of the spine of the scapula, and runs to