237 REN. presenting an irregular granular surface. In an injected specimen there may be seen scat- tered through the cortical substance, in every part, except near the surface of the organ, numerous minute red granules; these bodies have been named after the distinguished ana- tomist who discovered them, the Malpighian bodies of the kidney. The great mass of the cortical substance is made up of secreting tubules, the existence of which was first clearly demonstrated by Ferrein; hence they have been named the tubes of Ferrein. The course of these tubes is, for the most part, very tortuous; but near the basis of what will presently be described as the pyramids of Malpighi there is an appearance, visible even to the naked eye, of straight lines radiating towards the surface of the kidney; these lines result from bundles of tubes passing upwards from the pyramids of Malpighi and retaining their straight course until they reach the sur- face, where they become tortuous, and pass backwards deeply into the cortical substance (Jig. 143). The surface of the cortical portion fre- quently presents an appearance of lobules, some- what similar to those of the liver. The form of these lobules varies considerably ; in some instances they are circular, but very com- monly they have a pentagonal or hexagonal outline ; they are usually about \ of an inch in diameter {Jig. 144). Fig. 144. Portion of the surface of the kidney, showing the lobulated appearance which results from congestion of the venous radicles. Xatvu-al size; from a speci- men prepared by Mr. Bowman. This lobulated appearance of the surface is produced by the venous radicles which are dispersed at nearly equal distances throughout the cortical substance, each receiving the blood, as will presently be shown, from the plexus surrounding the convoluted tubes. These radicles unite in an irregularly arbores- cent figure, anastomose, and form the several branches of the renal vein. Those on the sur- face have a tendency to converge towards a central vessel, wMiich then dips into the interior to join the trunks of the renal vein. Thus are formed the stellated vessels, which are often very conspicuous in diseased specin)ens, when there has been an impeded circulation through the veins of the kidney. Between the arms of these stella? the convoluted tubes are visible on the surface (fg. 145). Ferrein supposed each of these lobules to form the base of a pyramid, the apex of the same being at the extremity of a mamillary process, and he believed that such an elongated pyra- mid might be traced continuously from one part to the other, the tissues radiating from Fig. 145. Portion of the surface of the human kidney in- jected by the arterj'-. t, t, tortuous tubes as seen on the surface; p, capillar^' plexus surrounding the tubes; e, a branch of one of the stelliform veins. iVIagnified forty-live diameters. (After Bowman.) a point in the mamillary' process, through the cortical substance, to one of the lobular divisions on the surface. Mr. Bowman's preparations show that " each lobule contains many tortuous ducts with their capillaries, but the convolutions of any one duct are not confined to a single lobule." Hence it is ma- nifest that there is no natural division of the renal substance corresponding with the sup- posed *' pyramids of Ferrein," and there appears no reason for retaining a name which is not expressive of any fact or definite idea. The meduUanj substance or, as it is some- times called, the tubular portion, is of a firmer texture and darker red colour than the cortical portion, and presents itself under the form of cones or pyramids, (pyramids of INIalpighi,) the bases of which are directed towards the surface of the kidney and continuous with the cortical portions, while the apices, which are called mayni/lari/ processes, or papit/ce. are free and directed towards the cavity of the pelvis. The number of these pyramids has been variously stated by different anatomists ; their number is not constant, but it is usually about twelve or fifteen in each kidney. Some of the pyramids are compound, being formed by the union of two, which have one com- mon mamillary termination. The number of mamillary processes is therefore less, by four or six, than that of the pyramids. The cut surface of each pyramid has a striated appearance, being composed of tubes which subdivide and radiate in passing from the apex towards the base, where they merge into the cortical substance. These tubes ai*e com-