260 REN. * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx. ance represented in Jig. 172 c. These dilated very similar to those which may sometimes be seen covering the vessels of the Malpighian tuft. {Vide ante,Jig. 160.) After the tubes have lost their normal epithelial lining they may undergo one of the three following changes. 1. In some in- stances a pecuhar whitish glistening material is thrown into the tubes, some of which escapes with the urine in the form of cylin- drical moulds of the tubes, the appearance of which as seen in the urine is somewhat im- perfectly represented in fig. 173. The effect Fig. 173. Cylindrical moulds of the iirinaiy tubes composed of a'peculiar whitish glistening material, which is sometimes effused into the tubes in the advanced stages of chronic nephritis. From the urine. Mag- nified 200 diameters. of this material being effused into the tubes appears to be to obliterate them, and in some instances it apparently becomes organised into fibrous tissue. 2. Another change which the tubes un- dergo in consequence of losing their epithelial lining, is that of becoming atrophied. The power of separating the solid urinary consti- tuents from the blood resides in the epithelial cells which line the convoluted tubes. After the destruction of the cells the secreting power is lost, and as the normal action of the cells is certainly one of the essential conditions for maintaining the continued flow of blood to the tubes, so the removal of the cells is very commonly followed by a diminished afflux of blood, and a consequent wasting of the tubes. 3. Another change consequent upon the destruction of the epithelial cells is, in a cer- tain sense, the reverse of the preceding. The tubes apj)ear to retain the power of secreting serum, which fills and dilates the tube in con- sequence of its escape being prevented by epithelial debris choking up the lower ex- tremity of the tube. When once a tube is brought into this condition the process of dilatation may proceed to an almost unlimited extent. The tube bulges in the intervals of the fibrous matrix, and assumes the appear- tubes form the serous cysts which are so commonly seen in the cortical portion of the kidnc}. And it is remarkable that the moni- liform appearance of the dilated tubes, as seen in the microscopic specimens, is in many instances preserved even when the tube is so much dilated as to form cysts visible to the naked eye. {Fig. 174.) Fig. 174. Section of a portion of kidney in which serous cvsts have been developed. At a there is a series of four cvsts which are probably formed by the dilata- tion of a single tube. Compare this Avith fig. 172. From a specimen in the museum of King's College. Xatm-al size. Mr. Simon, in a paper on " Subacute In- flammation of the Kidney," * has propounded the theory that these cysts are greatly dilated epithelial germs, which become thus mon- strously developed in consequence of the destruction of the basement membrane of the tubes. If jMi\ Simon's account of these cysts were correct they would be in fact hydatid cysts. I am not prepared to deny that cysts are ever formed in the kidney by the development of isolated cells, as described by Mr. Simon ; it is very possible that such an occurrence may be not unfrequent, although it has hitherto escaped my observation. But there can, I think, be no doubt in the mind of any one who will carefully examine the subject, that the appearances described and figured by jNIr. Simon are produced simply by the packing of the tubes in the fibrous net- work which surrounds and partially conceals them. The best safeguard against a misin- terpretation of appearances in diseased speci- mens is a careful study of the healthy tissues. The peculiar cyst-like appearance of the tubes in cases of chronic nephritis results from the transparency of the tubes when deprived of their epithelial lining. This delicate and