558 SHELL. in the direction of their length {fig. 409.); and shells, that the decay of the animal membrane it is then seen that whilst many of them pass leaves the contained prisms without any con- Fig, 407. Fic 409. Section of the shell of Pinna parallel to the surface, showing prismatic cellular structure, cut trans- versely. 3Iagnified 185 diameters. continuously from one surface of the layer to the other, some terminate in points midway. _ Fig. 408. Lamina of decalcified membrane of prismatic cellular structure, from shell of Pinna. JIagnifiea loo diameters. Hence it happens that the number of the re- ticulations is smaller on the interior than on the exterior of the layer ; their size, on the contrary, being greater. The 'prisms are seen to be marked by delicate transverse striae, closely resembling those observable on the prisms of the enamel of teeth, to which this kind of shell-structure may be considered as bearing a very close resemblance, except as regards the mineralising ingredient. If a si- milar section be decalcified by dilute acid, the membranous residuum will exhibit the ■walls of the prismatic cells viewed longitudi- nally ; and these will be seen to be more or less regularly marked by the transverse striae just alluded to. It sometimes happens in recent, but still more commonly in fossil Vertical section of prismatic cellular structure, from external layer of shell of Unio occidens. Magnified 40 diameters. necting medium; and being then quite iso- lated, they can be easily detached from one Fig, 410. Vertical section o f cellular structure of Pinna ; at its lower part the membrane is splitting into thin layers. Magnified 74 diameters. another without any fracture. A group of three such prisms, found in a fragment of chalk, is shown in ^g. 411.: it is seen that these also exhibit transverse stria of a si- milar aspect. By submitting the edges of the membranous walls of the prismatic cells divided longitudinally (as in fg. 410.) to a high magnify ing power, the cause of the transverse