463 SECRETION. nearly as injurious as the cessation of the eliminating process. In either case, the uri- nary apparatus is the principal channel through which the biliary matter is eliminated ; the urine becomes tinged with the colouring prin- ciple of bile, being sometimes of a yellowish or orange hue, and sometimes of a brown co- lour with a considerable sediment ; and the presence of the most characteristic consti- tuents of the bile has been determined in the urine. The same result presents itself when the biliary duct has been artificially obstructed by ligature. Other secretions have been found tinged with the colouring matter of bile: thus the pancreatic fluid has been seen of a yellow colour in jaundice; and the milk has presented not merely the hue, but the characteristic bitterness, of the biliary secre- tion. The cutaneous transpiration is not un- frequently so much impregnated with biliary matter, as to communicate the tinge to the linen covering the skin; and even the sputa of patients affected with bilious fevers have been observed to be similarly coloured, and have been found to contain biliary matter. The secretions of serous membranes, also, have been frequently seen to present the cha- racteristic hue of bile ; and biliary matter has been detected, by analysis, in the fluid of the pleural and peritoneal cavities. Biliary matter, however, when unduly pre- sent in the circulating current, is not removed from it by the secreting organs alone; for it seems to be withdrawn also in the ordinary operations of nutrition, entering into combi- nation with the solid tissues. Thus, in per- sons affected with jaundice, we find the skin, the mucous and serous membranes, the lym- phatic glands, the brain, the fibrous tissues, the cartilages, the bones and teeth, and even the hair, penetrated with the colouring mat- ter of the bile, which they must have with- drawn from the blood, and which seems to have a particular affinity for the gelatinous tissues. Many instances are on record, in which the secretion of milk has apparently been trans- ferred from the mammary glands to some other surface. It might be expected, fiom what has been already stated regarding kies- tine, that the kidneys should eliminate the constituents of the secretion when the mam- mary glands are unable to do so. Several cases in which this happened are referred to by Voigtel.* One of these, strange to say, was a male^ who was suffering under tume- faction of the mammary glands, accompanying an attack of catarrh. It is well known that the secretion of milk may be formed by the mammary gland of the male under particular circumstances ; but it could scarcely have been anticipated that it would be produced and ehminated through any other channel. A case has been recorded by Koller, however, in which this was unequivocally the case, A young man, suffering under various ailments, * Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie, torn. i. 583. was affected with a vesicular eruption on the skin of the scrotum, which was considerably distended, and on the thighs ; and these ve- sicles discharged a large quantity of a whitish fluid, of somewhat spermatic odour, in which Ldwig detected butter, caseous matter, sugar of milk, and alkahne and earthy salts. A fluid, having the appearance of milk, has also been transuded from the skin of the umbi- licus, of the axillae, of the groins, and of the back; from the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane; from the mucous membrane of the genitals; and from the surface of an ulcer. The following seems an unequivocal case of the vicarious secretion of milk by a very unusual channel. " A lady of delicate constitution (with a predisposition to pneumonia) was prevented from suckling her first child, as she desired, by the following circumstance. Soon after her delivery she had a severe fever, during which her breasts became very large and hard ; the nipples were swollen and firm ; and there was evidently an abundant secretion of milk ; but neither the sucking of the infant, nor any artificial means, could draw a single drop of fluid from the swollen glands. It was clear that the milk-tubes were closed ; and as the breasts continued to grow larger and more painful, purgatives and other means were em- ployed to check the secretion of milk. After three days the fever somewhat diminished, and was replaced by a constant cough, which was,at first dry, but soon after was followed by the expectoration of simple mucus. After this the cough diminished in severity, and the expectoration became easy ; but the sputa were no longer mucous, but were composed of a liquid which had all the physical charac- ters of genuine milk. This continued for fifteen days, the quantity of milk expectorated amounting to three ounces or more in the twenty-four hours. The breasts gradually diminished in size ; and by the time that the expectoration ceased, they had regained their natural dimensions. The same complete ob- stacle to the flow of milk from the nipples re- curred after the births of four children suc- cessively, with the same sequel. After the sixth, she had the same symptoms of fever, but this time they were not followed by bron- chitis, or the expectoration of milk ; she had in their stead copious sweatings, which, with other severe symptoms, reduced her to a cachectic state, and terminated fatally in a fortnight."* Although the menstnudflux cannot be re- garded in the light of an ordinary secretion, since it consists in great part of actual blood, yet there are indications that it is the means of removing from the body something that is more injurious to it than a mere superfluity of the circulating fluid. A sudden suppression of the catamenia is frequently followed by symp- toms of constitutional disturbance, which neither general nor local abstraction of blood suffices to relieve, and which are only abated * Bidletino delle Scienze Mediclic, Apr. 1839.