173 PTEROPODA. run transversely from the dorsal to the ventral aspect of the body bounding and separating their orifices. Locomotive Apparatus.—The locomotive ap- paratus of the Pteropoda is constructed upon most peculiar principles, consisting of a pair of fin-like expansions attached to each side of the neck of the animal. These fins, or, as they are commonly called, wings in the Clio have a very remarkable struc- ture, the two being continuous with each other, through the intervention of a central part, which extends transversely across the neck of the animal, so that the lateral expansions are only the free extremities of the same organ, the whole apparatus representing, \\ ith curious exactness, the double paddle used by the Greenlanders in na\ngating their light double- pointed canoes (Kajaks). The entire appa- ratus is muscular, and consists of two layers, precisely similar in their structure, which, at their margins, overlie each other, but are only connected together by means of cellular tissue. The course of the muscular fibres is shown in the annexed figure, representing the %^hole of the swimming apparatus removed from the body; in which the following parts may be distinguished : — a, the anterior or Fig. 109. Clio BoreaJis. Swimming apparatus detached- (^Afier Eschricht.) dorsal margin; b, the posterior or ventral ex- cavation ; c c, the posterior, transparent, tri- angular lappets which bound the (in ; d d, the posterior outer border ; ee, the posterior inner border ; o, the central portion which traverses the neck ; m 7n m m, commencement of the free portions of the fins. In the cellular membrane interposed be- tween the two muscular layers of the fin ap- paratus, four or five large nerves are seen to run a tortuous course, and to divide into in- numerable fibrillae. Eschricht likewise ob- served a considerable blood-vessel derived from the ventricle of the heart (notfrom the auricle'), mounting up and dividing to supply each fin. Respiration and Circulation. — According to Cuviers views the fins of the Pteropoda have been very generally regarded as performing likewise the functions of branchiae. " Their surfaces, seen with the microscope, present a net-work of vessels, so regular, so close, and so delicate that it is impossible to doubt their office : their connection with the internal ves- sels and the heart, moreover, confirms this idea." * Cuvier's opportunities of investi- gating this point of their anatomy were, how- ever, very limited ; a single specimen only, and that long kept in spirits of wine, having been at his disposal. Eschricht's researches do not at all confirm this view of their nature; and it appears clear that Cuvier mistook the net- work of muscular fibres represented in the preceding figure for vascular ramifications. * Cuvier, Me'm. sur le Clio. The vessel likewise called by Cuvier the branchial vein," and which he regarded as re- turning the blood from the branchice to the auricle of the heart, Eschricht assures us, does not communicate with the auricle, but is de- rived from the apex of the ventricle so as tJ be evidently arterial, and not venous, in its nature. With regard to the connexion which exists between the fin-apparatus and the body of the Clio, it would appear that its central muscular basis passe^i directly through the neck, and is only attached to the surrounding parts by nerves, vessels, skin, and cellular membrane. Xervous system.—The nerves of the Clio are very easily traced, seeing that they are not only of considerable size, but are likewise con- spicuous, on account of their pale red colour, at least while the specimens are tolerably fresh. The oesophageal ring lies in the neck above the centre of the fin-apparatus, and lodged in its dorsal excavation. It is composed of eight large and two small ganglia. Each gang- lion is surrounded by a transparent invest- ment, and is ven»- e\-idently composed partly of a reddish and partly of a white nervous substance. Of the eight larger ganglia of the circum-oesophageal ring the two anterior (fig. 113. 30, 1) are situated close together, upon the dorsal aspect of the oesophagus ; the two posterior {fig. 113. .30, 4) are likewise close together, but beneath the oesophageal tube. Ot' the four intermediate ganglia, two are situ- ated close together on each side of the oesoph- agus (fig. 113. 30, 2, 3), so that when viewed