411 ROTIFERA. Projecting from the upper part of the ex- ternal tegument, in many species, is a little process, which Ehrenberg calls a spur, or siphon {Jig. 299. d), and which he thinks is connected with the function of respiration, and therefore calls it a respiratory tube. It corresponds with an orifice in some species (^g.293.g), which Ehrenberg calls the respira- tory orifice. He has also hinted that they may be connected with the reproductive func- tion. Two of these organs are seen in some of the Notommata and other genera, and they are sometimes covered with cilia. Dujardin thinks that they resemble more closely the palpi and antennae of the Entomostraca. The rotatory organs, or wheels, must be also regarded as a portion of the tegumentary system. They are fleshy retractile lobes, covered with vibratile cilia, capable of being contracted or expanded at the will of the animal. The movement of the cilia when the lobes are expanded gives the appearance of a wheel moving upon its axis, an appearance which was a source of much wonder to the earlier observers of these creatures. In addi- tion to the vibratile cilia, there are frequently found, on the rotatory lobes, setae, or bristles, which have not the power of moving. This is the case in Floscularia^ if, indeed, the organs called rotatory in that genus are truly homologous with the rotatory organs in other species. The true homologue of the rotatory apparatus in Floscularia appears to us to be seated within the external ciliated lobes, where an evidently active motion is constantly going on. The form of the lorica varies greatly ; in some species it is flat and depressed, as in Pterodina and Monostyla; in others it is pris- matic, as in Mastigocerctty or gaping, as in Euchlanis {Jig. 294.). Some species, as Ste- phanoceros {Jig. 292.), Floscularia^ Melicerta^ and others, have a soft skin, very contractile, which secretes externally a case, and which Ehrenberg calls a lorica; but this is essen- tially a different organ from the lorica. Where this case occurs, it seems to stand in the same relation to the animal as the Polypidon of the zoophytes. The animals which form these cases are also fixed, and retract their bodies within their case in the same manner as the Polypiferae. The Floscularia may be compared to the Hydroid Polyps, while Ste~ phanoceros^ with its ciliated tentacula-like pro- cesses, would appear to have a relation with the Ascidoid polyps. Motory system. — As the movements of the Rotifers are rapid and various, so we find their muscular system complicated. The principal organs of locomotion are the rota- tory organs, by which alone the great mass of the Rotifers appear to move. The move- ments effected by these organs are performed principally by the agency of the vibratile cilia. Although no tissue has yet been dis- covered in the cilia of the Rotifera and Poly- gastria. Professor E. Forbes has observed fibrous tissue in the cilia of a species of Me- dusae, and there can be little doubt that the movements of the cilia, like those of organs to which muscles are attached, are of two kinds, one of which is under the control of the will, and the other not. In the Rotifera, the vibratile cilia of the rotatory organ appear to be under the control of the will of the animal. The extension and contraction of the rotatory apparatus is under the influence of longitudinal muscular bands, which are very evident in most of the species {Jig. 293. e,<?,e',e ;Jig. 296.; Jig. 294. b). Not only is it evident, from the action of these muscles, that they are under the con- trol of the will of the animal, but Ehrenberg has described some of these muscles as pos- sessing the striated character of the voluntary muscles of animals higher in the scale of or- ganisation. Euchlanis tiiguetra {Jig. 294. b) and the species of Eosphora are those in which striated muscles have been observed. This fact is interesting in connection with Mr. Busk's observation of the existence of muscular striae in Anguinaria spaihulata, a form of ciliobrachiate polyps. It affords a proof not only of the relation of these two families, but also of both, to the articulate tribes rather than to the MoUusca. Mr. Busk, after the most patient research, has not been able to discover the presence of striae in the muscular system of the Mollusca. Not only have the longitudinal bands been regarded as active agents in the movement of the rotatory organ, but also certain transverse bands. These bands {Jig. 29^.JJJJ;Jig. 299. g, g, g) have been described by Ehrenberg as trans- verse vessels. There seems to be little proof that such is their office. In many of the Rotifers, more especially the Philodinaea, the tail is employed for the purposes of progression. In order to effect this, it is supplied with distinct muscular bands {Jig. 293. e). Muscular fibres have also been described by Ehrenberg surrounding the oesophagus, and apparently assisting the jaws in their movements, in Conochilus Xjig. 289.), Pleurotrocha, and other species. Digestive system, — This apparatus is per- haps more highly developed than any other part of the Rotifera. An oral and an anal orifice indicate the commencement and end of this system. It is furnished with jaws and teeth, an oesophagus, sometimes a distinct sto- mach, and various forms of intestinal glands. At the commencement of this system, we find a distinct masticatory apparatus, which consists generally of two semicircular pieces, to each of which is attached one or more Fig. 300. Jaws of Brachionus brevissimus. {After Ehrenberg.^ teeth, which act upon a central plate (^g.300.; Jig. 299. eifg. 289. a, a; Jig. 296. b ;Jig. 292. d;