585 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. be observed to be somewhat elevated, ad- vanced, and very generally approximated towards the middle line. When we view the articulation in profile (as it were), the amount of the advancement of the head of the hume- rus is more readily appreciated. And when we look at the shoulder joint from behind, a very remarkable abnormal depression mny be seen, which corresponds to the space or interval which exists between the posterior part of the glenoid cavity and the head of the hume- rus. After a time, the voluntary motions of the joint become restricted within very nar- row limits. The patient cannot well abduct the elbow from his side, nor elevate it nearly to an horizontal level. The motions he is himself capable of communicating to his arm are chiefly confined to under movements, yet the head of the humerus is in some of these cases susceptible of an abnormal degree of mobility. Although in the ordinary form of this disease the head of the humerus will be found to be placed above its normal level, and is observed to be several lines higher than the coracoid process, still if the arm be grasped by the surgeon it can be drawn down, and the head of the bone will place itself beneath the coracoid process ; the joint will then as- sume all the appearances usually assigned as the marks of the case styled by Sir A. Cooper " Partial luxation of the head of the humerus forwards and inwards." In cases of long standing, the capsular ligament becomes wider than natural, and the articular surfaces are so altered that partial dislocation of the head of the humerus occurs in other directions besides those above alluded to; but any observations we have to offer upon this part of our subject it will be more convenient to defer until we come to speak of the anatomical characters of this disease. Although the patient may complain of pain in the middle of the arm, and of spasms of the muscles, of the whole extremity of the affected side, even to the fingers, yet if the surgeon elevate the arm at the elbow, and press the humerus even rudely against the glenoid cavity of the affected articulation, the patient experiences no tmeasiness. It is very remarkable that this peculiar affection of the shoulder joint has never, as far as we have known, terminated in anchy- losis, nor proceeded to suppuration ; nor has its presence excited any sympathetic disturb- ance in the constitution of the patient; yet from year to year the disease slowly but gra- dually increases, until the patient is carried off by some other complaint, or dies from the mere effect of age alone. Diag?2osis.—This peculiar affection of the shoulder joint, particularly when the history of the case is known, cannot well be con- founded w^ith any other disease of the articu- lation with which we are acquainted. Scro- fulous -caries of the bones of the shoulder joint may have some symptoms in common with the chronic disease we are describing, but there is more pain and more wasting of the inuscles of the arm and fore-arm, and more sympathetic disturbance of the constitu- tion in the case of articular caries of the shoulder than in that of chronic rheumatic arthritis of this articulation ; and while the former case usually proceeds to suppuration, or to anchylosis of the joint, these processes never take place in the latter. In the chronic rheumatic disease, the op- posite shoulder joint will, in general, be found symmetrically affected; a circumstance we have never yet known to have been the case in a chronic arthritis, or articular caries, of the shoulder. The history of the case of chronic rheuma- tic arthritis usually betrays its nature by the general rheumatic pains the patient reports himself to have suffered from ; by the disease not being confined to the one articulation ; by the enlargement of the bony prominences about the joint, although the muscles are wasted. In both cases there may be crepi- tus felt on moving the joint and on making pressure ; but the efforts to elicit crepitus, and the pressing together of the articular sur- faces cause, in the case of chronic arthritis, or articular caries, so much pain, that the patient shrinks back from our attem[)ts at making these trials ; while in the ordinary case of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder, when even it appears as a local disease confined to one or two articulations, we find we can even rudely press the heat! of the humerus against the surface of the glenoid cavity without causing the patient pain, just as we can, in the case of the same disease when it affects the hip joint, press the head of the femur against the acetabulum without causing the least uneasiness to the patient (see Vol. II. p. 799.). No doubt some few cases of chronic rheu- matic arthritis of the shoulder joint in the living and in the dead have been mistaken for partial dislocation of the head of the humerus, the rcsidt of accident; but we are of opinion that, as the chronic rheumatic affection is daily becoming better known to the profes- sion than formerlv, such errors will no longer be committed, particularly w^hen the anato- mical characters of this disease have been more fully studied by the profession. Anatomical characters. — When we ana- tomically examine the shoulder joint of a patient who has long laboured under this chronic disease in the articulation, we notice on removing the integuments that the deltoid muscle is unusually pale, and that the inter- stices between its fibres are occupied by an unhealthy-looking fat. This and the sub- jacent capsidar muscles are in a state of atrophy. The capsular ligament is generally altered in form and structure, and it will be sometimes found to have abnormal attach- ments above to the acromion or coracoid process ; and, below, its attachment to the anatomical r^eck of the humerus is some- times partially interrupted, allowing of an interval which in some forms of the disease permits the head of the humerus to pass through it.