582 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. narrowed transversely. The axillary margin of the scapula, where the long head of the triceps arises, was furnished with the friable stalactiform osseous productions, which we have already noticed to have existed around the articular surfaces of ail the other articu- lations, when they had been for a long time the seat of strumous arthritis, or scrofulous caries of the joint.* The rest of the scapula had a rough scabrous aspect; the coracoid pro- cess presented the appearance also of having been in a commencing state of caries. The external lamina of the bone had been absorbed; the exposed reticular structures of it were so friable, they would crumble under the slightest pressure.f The lungs presented the ordinary appear- ances of phthisis in its last stage ; there were tubercles and tubercular excavations in both iungs. In this case the disease of the shoulder joint seemed to have arrived at its last stage, and to have been in itself sufficient to have induced a fatal hectic fever. However, co- incident with the articular caries appeared the disease of the lung, which caused, or at all events hastened, the death of the patient. Case 4. Articular caries of the shoulder in the fourth stage.X—Edward Brady, set. 36, a baker, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital, 6th of May, 1S28, labouring under disease of the right shoulder joint. It appeared that he had had for some time previously a chronic inflammatory affection of this articulation, for the origin of which he knew no cause ; that an abscess had formed, and that matter had made its way through the skin just beneath the point of insertion of the pectoralis major into the humerus, where a fistulous aperture ex- isted, which daily gave exit to a considerable discharge of purulent matter. On admis- sion into the hospital, the right shoulder joint was swollen, the man was emaciated and in a state of debility, his pulse quick and weak ; he complained of pain when the slightest pressure was made on the joint, or motion communicated to it. From the short notes of the patient's symptoms during the two last months of his life when in hospital, we learn, that after five weeks' treatment, such as local bleeding and counter-irritations, as bhsters, &c., he was not really better. On the contrary, "the patient was much debili- tated, the hectic symptoms had increased, the shoulder v.as flattened, the motions of the joint were circumscribed within very narrow limits, the acromion was prominent as in axillar}' dislocation." In another month, viz. July 12, we find entered the following re- port:—" No improvement either locally or constitutionally; the shoulder is more ema- ciated, and a crepitating, grating sound is el'- cited on rotating the humerus ; the hand is * Vide Hip .Joixt, Abxormal CoxDmox of, Tol. II. p. 704.^^^. 311. t Museum, Eichmond Hospital. j This case has been extracted from the case book of the late Dr. Macdowell, whose accuracy of obser- vation and fidelity were well knoT.Ti to the editor of this work as well as to the WTiter. slightly cedematous, yet the discharge is less profuse, and considered of a more healthy ap- pearance." Eight days subsequently to this report the patient became comatose, and died in the course of a few hours. Post-mo7'tem examination. — The subcuta- neous cellular structure which covered the deltoid muscle of the affected side was desti- tute of all adipose tissue; the deltoid was pale and thin ; the sub-deltoid bursa contained a sanious fluid, which being removed it was seen that the bursa had been lined with lymph ; the fibrous capsule, ulcerated at one point, was thickened, as was the synovial membrane, which was pulpy; the articular cartilage was entirely removed from the head of the hume- rus and surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The superior extremity of the former was almost totally destroyed, the bone having been crumbled down into many small portions. The surfaces were covered with unhealthy looking pus and lymph. The long tendon of the biceps had disappeared; the surface of the glenoid cavity was carious ; the small muscles about the joint resembled the deltoid as to the state of thinness and atrophy they had been reduced to. The sinus leading to the point in the axilla already mentioned was lined with lymph. The disease of the shoulder joint in this case, it appears, had, as in the preceding, ar- rived nearly at its last period, and we might have supposed that the morbid state here described of so important an articulation was of itself sufficient to cause a fatal result, when the affection of the brain suddenly supervened, and became the immediate cause of the death of the patient. It were very desirable that we could assign to the four periods of this disease of the shoulder joint, when affected by chronic ar- thritis, the anatomical characters which belong to each stage respectively ; but we repeat, we are as yet only trul}' acquainted with those appearances which the post-mortem exanii- nations exhibit of the ultimate result of the disease as it has afl^ected the articular tex- tures, when it has been the cause of the death of the patient. The pathological condition, therefore, of the different tissues which enter into the com- position of the shoulder joint, as they are af- fected in the early stages of this chronic dis- ease, is as yet, we believe, but little known. The most remarkable features of the second stage of chronic arthritis of the shoulder joint we notice, is the descent of the head of the humerus from the glenoid cavity, and conse- quent elongation of the upper extremity of the affected side. This, we conjecture, may be accounted for bv recollecting that the del- toid and articular muscles, which in their normal state maintain the head of the humerus close up against the glenoid cavity, are now in a state of atrophy. They have from want of use, and perhaps, also, from sympathy with the dis- eased state of the articular structures, lost all tonic force. Although these muscles are not really paralysed, still they seem not to have