SKELETON. 6K5 T T 3 just as the first thoracic rib (7, 8, fig. 46-5.) itself does; and, in this particular, the clavi- cle is like the rib. The sternal half of the cla- vicle {h fig. 465.) and the sternal half of the first rib (7, b) are therefore as identical one with the other as the sternal halves of any other two thoracic ribs of serial order. But I see that while the ribs join the dorsal vertebra behind, the clavicle joins the acromion pro- cess of the scapula laterally. In this latter particular the clavicle differs from the rib. Now, granting this to be a well-marked spe- cific difference between rib and clavicle, I still maintain that there is as broad a difference ex- isting between clavicles of mammals and birds; and also between clavicles andcoracoid bones. If change of place at one end from vertebra to acromion process be enough to distinguish clavicle (c, h fig. 4:6.5.) from rib (7, 8' in the mammal body, so must change of place be sufficient to characterise the bone named cla- vicle (a fig. 4:66.^ in the bird from the bone so named in the mammal, for the former does not join the sternum (f,fig- 466.), and the latter does abut against that bone. And true it is that the bone named coracoid (d, fig 4:66.) in the bird joins the sternum (/), hke a true mammal clavicle, but yet is not considered the clavicle, because its scapular end (e") joins another process than the acromion. It ap- pears, therefore, all circumstances considered, that the mammal clavicle (a, b,fig. 46b.) is as homologous to the rib (7, 8) in sternal re- spect (r, d) as it is to the bird's so-calied cla- vicle {ft, fig. 466.) in scapular respect (c,b); and at the same time it appears that the coracoid bone \d,fig. 466.} of the bird is as similar to the mammal clavicle {a, h,fig. 465.), and mammal rib (7, 8) in sternal junction, as the bird's clavicle {fiyfig. 466.) is to the mam- mal clavicle (a, fig. 465.) in acromion junc- tion. What, then, is the dirference between the rib, the clavicle, and coracoid bone ? It is a difference of articular connection, which all three bones appear to share in common,— a crosswise difference in articular connection, wfiith presents us with reasons equally strong for naming either of these bones ribs, as well as clavicles or coracoids. Viewed all three as clavicles, they share the clavicular cha- racter amongst them ; for that clavic;ilar con- nection which the one has not, the other ha«. Viewed as ribs, all three, they share the costal character likewise between them, and hence follows the inquiry into truth; naiiely, whe- ther their originals be ribs, or bodies abso- lutely distinct from ribs, passing through metamorphosis. I believe them to be ribs, or costal parts of whole costo-vertebral arche- types, and that their difference depends simply upon that act of the creative force which in the process of development bends them from the continuous line of serial costal order, and renders them cleaving arlicuiariy to various parts for the fitness of various special skeletal fabrics. The track of the law of metamorphosis which differences clavicles or coracoid bones from ribs, may be easily fol- lowed, if we will enlarge the view, through comparison, and over a suf&cient number of facts. As in fip 467. the rib (A) follows the rib i, 9, in serial order through the thoracic 467. Tlie ctrvica! spine of the Crocodile, Showing that if in idea we continue the cervical ribs, a, b, c, d, e, f,g, A, i, over the cervix, in the same way as we find the thoracic ribs, k. See, enclosing tho'racic space, we then find 8, the clavicle, holding serial order with the costal continuations, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, which proves the costiform character of the clavicle itself. region, so does rib i, 9, and clavicle 8, taken with the cervical rib h, succeed each other in the same serial line ; and so likewise in fig. 468. does rib e, the coracoid d, and clavicle b, succeed each other in costal order. These bodies are similar by succes- sional position; and the only specific differ- ence between them, upon which we hang the names rib, clavicle, and coracoid bone, is this, viz., that whilst all three bodies have a ster- nal articulation (c,fig. 468.), the rib (e) still holds connected with its proper vertebral piece, while the clavicle (b), and the coracoid bone (d) disconnect themselves from their vertebras behind, and are taken up by the acromion and coracoid processes of the sca- pula.* In^o'.469. we find the osseous pieces marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, to be succeeded by the sternal rib 6, which joins the part/ and constitutes the costo-vertebral archetypal quantitv of the thorax. If, therefore, the' serial order of the osseous pieces a, b, c, d^ e, continued into the * This fact will be more ftdly Ulustratai when 1 shall have to define the homological relations of the scapolary members.