331 RESPIRATION. nida:), the internal integumentary membrane is materially aided in the performance of this function by the aquiferous canals in the former, and by the peritoneal cavity in the latter ; indeed, the peritoneal cavity may be considered the special organ of respiration in the Echinidas. The respiratory membrane, in most cases, presents one of three forms, which have re- ceived the names of gills or hrancliice, of trachecB, and of lungs. In the gills or branchiae the tegumentary membrane is pro- longed outwards, in the shape of laminae, tufts, or branches; and this arrangement is found in aquatic animals. This form of the respiratory membrane is not, however, uni- versal in those aquatic animals possessing special organs of respiration. In the Ho- lothuridae, one of the tribes of the Echinoder- mata, the chief respiratory organ consists of two aquiferous tubes, of an arborescent form, that open upon the surface of the cloaca.* In the Ascidians, among the Mollusca, the chief respiratory organ is a large cavity, re- garded by some as a dilatation of the oeso- phagus ; and in certain of the aquatic Gastero- poda it consists of a sac, with lamellte on its inner surface, opening upon the external sur- face of the body. The small cavities placed along the sides of the body of the leech, and opening externally, are also believed to be respiratory organs. The arrangement of the respiratory mem- brane, termed tracheae, is present in the Arti- culata, among the Myriapods, insects, spiders, and also, with a few exceptions, among the larvae of insects living in the atmosphere ; and is observed in greatest perfection in the adult insects. It consists of a prolongation of the external membrane into the interior of the body, in the form of tubes, often ex- tensively subdivided and ramified, kept open by fibres rolled round their walls in a spiral manner, and commencing at the external sur- face of the body by orifices termed stigmata. In certain of the larvae of insects, this ar- rangement of the respiratory membrane is modified to adapt it for aquatic respiration. In the larvae of the Ephemera, these tracheae, instead of terminating in stigmata, are prolonged outwards into a foliaceous expansion of the external integument, where they are subdi- vided and ramified, and terminate in shut ex- tremities. A constant interchange between the air in the tracheae of these larvae, and the atmospheric air dissolved in the water, will go on through the membranes interposed between them.-|- In the larvae of the Libella the tracheae are distributed in a similar man- ner in a membrane placed within the anus, and the animals draw in and expel the water with considerable force from that cavity, so * This form of the respiratory apparatus has been termed ccelohranchiate by Straiis-Durckheim, being derived from hollow; and ^i«.yx^«; gill. t This modification of the tracheal respiratory organ has been designated tracho-hranchiate by Straus-Durckheim. that these respiratory movements act at the same time in causing locomotion. The arrangement of the respiratory mem- brane called lungs consists of the prolonga- tion of the tegumentary membrane inwards in the form of sacs, and is destined for aerial respiration. In some of the terrestrial gas- teropodous Mollusca, the lung is formed by a single, large, and simple sac, opening by an orifice on the right side of the body. In the Arachnida the lungs are composed of two or more separate cavities, lamellated on their in- terior, opening on the external surface of the body, and are analogous to the branchial cavity in some of the aquatic Gasteropoda. In all the air-breathing Vertebrata, the respiratory membrane is formed by a prolongation of the internal tegumentary or mucous membrane from the upper part of the digestive tube, and this also holds in the aquatic Vertebrata, or the fishes. When the expanded respiratory membrane is placed at some distance from that portion of the mucous membrane of the digestive tube with which it is continuous, as is especially the case in the Mammalia and birds, this nuicous membrane is prolonged to the part where its expansion occurs, in the form of a tube, strengthened on the outer sur- face by elastic textures to enable it to with- stand the atmospheric pressure. Along this tube (trachea), and its branches (bronchi and bronchial tubes), the air passes to and from the proper respiratory membrane on the inner surface of the lungs. In the water newt the lungs consist of a pair of elongated sacs, without any internal lamince or folds. In the frog these membranous sacs present ridges on their inner surface, especially at the upper part; and in the lungs of the turtle and crocodile these ridges increase in number and in size, and form partitions dividing the interior of the lungs into numerous cells communi- cating with each other. In birds the bronchial tubes on entering the lungs have numerous parietal cells on their inner surfiice; and this extension of the respiratory surface is still further increased by some of the tracheae opening into membra- nous bags, often presenting a cellular appear- ance, and communicating with the interior of certain of the bones. In the lungs of man and the other Mammalia, the bronchial tubes divide and subdivide into minute branches, each of which ends in a cluster of terminal cells, forming one of the small lobes into which the lung may be divided. By this arrangement an immense extent of respiratory surface is packed up in a small space.* * Hales (Statical Essays, vol. i. p. 242. 1769) estimates the inner surface of the whole lungs in the calf at 289 square feet, equal to 19 times the surface of a man's body; and Lieberkuhn calculates (as quoted by Schultz m his System der Circulation, p. 288) that the whole surface*^ of the air-tubes and air-cells in the human species amounts to 1400 square feet. Monro, on the other hand (Essays of Monro Secundus, p. 59. Edinbm-gh, 1840) calcu- lates that the inner surface of the human lungs is only equal to 440 square feet, or nearly thirty times