SEMEN. 476 margin of the body which projects at the posterior part into an obtuse angle. In the rat i^fig. 325. a) the body is very long, but narrow in proportion, and bent like Fig. 325. A. Spermatozoa of the Rat; B, of the common Mouse. a sabre at the anterior extremity. The body of the spermatozoa of the domestic mouse is shorter, and may be compared to a bent bistoury. The anterior end, how- ever, is likewise drawn out into a short point, which in the field mouse is very slightl}' de- veloped. Thedifferences in the caudal afjpen- dages of the spermatozoa among the mammalia may be reduced to mere differences in length and thickness. In all of them the anterior part attached to the body distinguishes itself from the posterior part by its thickness, but not always to the same extent. Wherever the spermatozoa distinguish themselves by their length, the tail is likewise proportionably thick. Dujardin* occasionally observed in the spermatozoa of men, at the commencement of the tail part, a small irregularly shaped protuberance, wliich KoUiker (who had like- wise observed this in the semen of rabbits^ * Aiinal. des Sciences, 1837, t. vii. p. 291. supposes to be a mere temporary pheno- menon— only a phenomenon of developement —and that it subsequently disappears, whilst its adhesive matter is expended in the pro- longation of the tail. This assumption like- wise appears to us possible, although it is remarkable that such swellings or protuber- ances are so rarely met with, and, therefore, certainlv cannot be considered as constant associates of the developement. We have only observed a few cases of this description, and that principally in the semen of rabbits. The swellings, which in their physical condition, especially in their refracting power, coincide entirely with the anterior body, have gene- rally a globular shape, but exhibit otherwise many differences in size and position. They are found sometimes at the commencement of the tail part, sometimes rather remote from it. It appeared to us as if the respective ap- pendages were formed less by a swelling of the tail fibre, than by a peculiar enclosing matter. It seemed to us. at least in a single spermatozoon, as if the tail could be clearly distinguished in the interior like a peculiar fibre. Further investigations on this subject are still necessary. The spermatozoa of the mammalia generally lie very irregularly and confusedly. At times, how ever, they are grouped together (as we have especially found in the rat, the guinea pig, and rabbit, and as others have likewise observed in men) in very regular fascicles or bundles, which are formed by the bodies of the spermatozoa adhering by their lateral surfaces, as may be often observed with the blood glo- bules.* It is uncertain, however, whether this group-like association of the spermatozoa is dependent, like that of the blood globules, on definite physical processes. The developement of the spermatozoa takes place among the mammalia in the interior of vesicle-shaped globules, which fill up the separate little canals of the testicles in great quantity. KoiUker has traced this mode of developement first of all in the guinea pig (which is very convenient for these in- vestigations); likewise in the domestic mouse; but has subsequently, after more extensive researches, determined that the mode of de- velopement in all the mammalia is the same. These developing vesicles have pretty uni- formly a size of about but intermixed with them there are frequently found vesicles of a smaller and of a larger diameter (to t^ct"')- Taken from a fresh dead body, and when ex- amined without being treated with water or any other agent, they are as clear as glass, possessing a delicate contour, and perfectly homogeneous contents. The latter, however, coagulates very readily, assuming thereby a granular quahty ; but this we cannot con- sider as its natural condition. Most of these vesicles are free within the Httle seminal canals {fg. 326. a, b, c). They are frequently surrounded by a cellular enclosure, * Tide Wagner, Ic<>Des Physiolog. tab. 1. fg. 2. Elements of Physiolog;N-, p. 10. fg- 4.