SKELETON. 640 Jig. 459., I find that the difference between thein is resulting by a subtraction of different parts from each. But when guided by the light of comparison, I supply to each those parts which it has lost, then i render them all equal as whole quantities. Now, if the ques- tion be here asked upon what authority I act in thus equating the minus ens with the plus, by adding to the former that quantity by which it is less than the latter ? I may answer that nature herself teaches me the rule in offering to my consideration the following facts : — In Jig. 459. a b c d represents the same numerical spinal segment of different animals, and it manifests only a proportional variety. Again, I find that, numerically dif- ferent vertebrae of the same spine e f g h, exhibit the same proportional variety. Again, I choose numerically different vertebrae from the spinal axes of different classes of animals (a b c,^g.46].), and they present in the same Fig. 461. ABC, vertebrae taken from, the human neck (a), the bird's thorax (b), and the crocodile's loins (o) ; D E F, vertebrae from any region of the ophidian spinal axis. proportional variety ; and, lastly, I take d e f numerically different vertebrge from the same spine, and they represent uniformity amongst themselves ; but this uniformity is occurring only by reason of the fact that these units are of equal quantity. Now, upon comparing all those spinal segments of Ji^s. 460. and 461., it becomes manifest that the thoracic or ventral circle o, b, c, which I have supplied in dotted outline for some, indicating the quantity lost or substracted, is actually created for others ; and hence it appears that the only difference between them, one and all, is in that decree in which the rib (a h) falls short of the sternal median line c. The law of species therefore appears to be the law of proportioning lesser quantities from whole and complete quan- tities. It is the metamorphosis of ribs at the neck, loins, sacrum, and caudex, which renders these regions different to the thorax. Be- tween those spinal segments to which the plus ribs are present in one animal (b,/?o-.46].), and those spinal segments from which the ribs are metamorphosed in another animal (a., Jig. 461.), I hold comparison, and I find the ra- tional conclusion, that the parts or ribs (a, b of a) which are absent from one class of ver- tebrae are identical with the parts or ribs (r/, b of b) which are present to another class of vertebrae. And that specific difference, as it exists between two or more animals, is ac- cruing by the loss of known parts, viz. ribs. For which reason I am led to name that skeletal form (n o,Jig. 459.) which holds all its ribs (a, 6, c,) to be archetype of all other skeletal bodies of the four classes from each of which variable numbers of original ribs are subtracted. And for the like reason, I say, that the thoracic region of the one skeletal axis which holds its ribs is archetype of all other regions of the same spinal axis from which the ribs have been metamorphosed. The law of formation therefore is the meta- morphosis of ribs. The original or archetype skeletal axis is therefore one of costo-ver- tebral character from occiput to the extreme caudal tip. The metamorphosis of the ribs of this original, or archetype, or continuous series of costo-vertebral quantities, yields all species of skeletal axes. If all skeletal axes were similar in osseous quantity to the thoracic ophidian (n o,^g. 459.), there would be no specific variety, for all skeletal axes would then be similar to one anotiier. But they are not all quantitatively similar, and this is the reason that they are specifically various, having severally lost various parts, which parts are to be read in the original, the uniformity, the archetype, the uninter- rupted serial line of costo-vertebral spinal segments. Prop. XXXII. The Hi/oid Apparatus occurs opposite to the cervical spinal region, luhere ive know costal quantity to be lost. The hyoid ap- paratus refers to the cervical vertebrce, and con- sists of their ribs metamorphosed. — Wherever plus or archetypal or thoracic osseous quan- tity persists complete in all its parts, there, in that place, we never find a new apparatus posited. It is as impossible for a new or specifically various apparatus to appear where archetypal osseous quantity exists, either among the four classes of skeletal forms, or the four spinal regions of the one skeletal figure, as it is for two things to occupy one and the same place. I call the thoracic sterno costo-vertebral apparatus the archetypal or plus quantity of the spinal axis, and I find