69 PORIFERA. F 3 direction of the aqueducts through the sponge, and the position of their orifices or oscula on the surface, is very much a matter of chance, and that their formation is the result of a mechanical cause Hable to be diverted from its course by exterior circumstances. If we follow the growth of a sponge, we may feel still more confirmed in this view. The species begins as a spot-like crust of uniform texture, porous throughout, and nearly equally so. In this primitive, homologous condition, there is nevertheless a perfect circulation, — a current which seeks the interior, and another which flows from it, to mix with the circumfluent medium. As the sponge grows in extent and depth, the space for imbibition is enlarged, and the centrifugal water, in its efflux, flowing at first into one and tlien into more currents, these gradually make for themselves channels in the cellular texture, the fibres of which are pushed aside, and prevented, by the continu- ance of the stream, from again encroaching on its course. The channels increase in number with the continued increase of the sponge, and as it cannot but happen that they shall oc- casionally open into and cross each other, we have a wider canal formed by the additional flow of water into it. Such of these canals as reach the surface, soon effect for themselves an opening there; for the current in it pushes against the superficial coat that opposes its efflux, and gradually thins and loosens its texture until this ultimately disappears leaving a fecal orifice or osculum. This is frequently a simple circular hole ; but often, on looking within the outer rim, we notice in the funnel from two to five lesser oscula united together, which are the openings of so many canals that have united there ; and sometimes we find spread within the osculum, or over its mouth, a net work of finer texture than the rest of the sponge, but otherwise of the same nature and composition." *' Such, we believe, to be the manner in which the canals and oscula are formed, and hence we cannot give our assent to the notion that the net-work spread over or within them is intended as a' wise provision '* against the intrusion of noxious animals, or other foreign bodies within the sponge, which seems indeed to be sufficiently protected at these orifices by the efflux of the currents passing continually from them. Neither can it be supposed that the position and elevation of the oscula have * " Wlien we cut a thin piece of the surface of a living sponge, and look down through one of its pores witli the reflecting microscope, we perceive, immediately beneath the projecting spicula Avhich defend the pore, a very delicate network of gelati- nous threads thi-own over the entrance of the tube. This piece of structure is so fine as to be perfectly invisible to the naked eye ; it consists of five or six threads which pass in fi-om the sides of the tube, to be connected with a central mesh ; so that there are five or six meshes thus formed; and while this soft apparatus is beautifully defended by the pro- tectmg spicula of the pore, it serves still further to guard the interior of the animal from the smallest particles of sand or the minutest visible animal- cules."— Grant, Edinb. PhU. Journ. any foreseen relation with the situation of the sponge in the water. When, according to Dr. Grant, this production spreads level on a rock with an upright aspect, the oscula are raised into crater-like cones, to enable the sponge to clear itself of the excrementitial matters carried out by the centrifugal streams ; but when it hangs pendent Irom the rock the oscula do not rise beyond the surface, l)ecause the necessity of ejecting excrementitial matters to a distance does not exist. This is to be- stow a foresight and instinct on the sponge which even the followers of Lamarck would hesitate to give it, and which we may safely deny it to be possessed of. The form of the oscula depends entirely on the texture of the species, and on the force of the efliuent cur- rents. If the texture be loose antl fibrous it yields easily, and the oscula are level, or nearly so: if more compact the skin is pushed be- yond the surface into a pa|>illary eminence ; and if too firm and dense to \'eld to the pres- sure behind, they fall into a level condirion. They are also liable to be modified in some degree by external forces, for the littoral sponge, which, in a sheltered hollow, or fringed pool, will throw up craters and cones from its surface, may be only perforated with level os- cula, when it is swept over, and rubbed down by the waves at every tide." Reproduction. — The following are Pro- fessor Grant's recorded views u|)on this sub- ject. " Every part of the gelatinous matter (which invests the skeleton of the sponge) is covered with minute granular bodies, which are distinctly seen in every species of sponge by the weakest magnifier of the microscope. These granular bodies are represented in the plates of Donati of a spherical form, adhering to the quadriradial fibres of what he has named the Alcyonium primum Dioscoridis. They are quite invisible to the naked eye ; they escape along with the gelatinous matter, and com- pose the greater part of it ; they are connected with each other by the gelatinous matter, and probably by the same medium, have some connection with the spicula, along which they are placed. No part in the organization of a sponge is more constant and obvious than these granular transparent bodies, linmg the interior of every canal from the pnres to the fecal orifices. Their form is not quite spherical, but somewhat lengthened and ovoidal, and they are always attached by one extremity to the gelatinous matter, while their opposite end is seen to project free into the cavity of the canals. Through the greatest magnifier of the microscope no difference can be detected in their forms in different species of sponge ; they all appear to be enlarged, and round at their free projecting extremity, and, when watched with attention, we distinctly see that they possess some power of spontaneous motion both when in connection with the sides of the canals and when lying isolated at the bottom of the water. The ova of the sponge are quite visible to the naked eye, and are seen dissemi- nated through the whole texture of the sponge in the winter season. They are bodies of a