POLYPIFERA. 20 bodies, and forming, when dried, a sort of coriaceous polypary. Zoanthus, Mamillifera, Corticifera. Fig. 24. Actinia sociata {EUis). Zoanthus (^Cuviery {After Ellis.) Family 6. — Actiniad^. Body soft and fleshy, free, mouth furnished with several rows of simple or branched tentacula. Actinia {fig. 45) Lucernaria, Moschata, Ac- tinecta, Discosoma, Actinodendron, Me- tridium, Thallasianthus, Actineria, Acti- noloba, Actinocereus, &c. Family 7. — Pexnatulid^. Animals po- lypiform, with eight pinnated tentacles, more or less prominent, and regularly arranged upon a part onl\' of a common polypary, which is free or adherent. Its form is deter- minate, and it is composed of a central axis, which is solid, and enveloped in a fleshy cortex, often of considerable thickness, and supported by calcareous aciculi. Pennatula {fig. 44), Renilla, Virgularia, Scirpearia, Pavoniaria, Veretillum, Om- bellularia. Sub-class 3. Aulozoa* (nobis). (Tubular Polypes.) Animals simple or compound, occupying the interior of corneous or calcareous tubes, which are either simple or ramified; polypes terminal or lodged in lateral cells ; repro- duction multiform. Family 1. — Tubularid.e, Animals gene- rally aggregated; polypes terminal, not retrac- tile ; reproduction by ova produced near the bases of the tentacula, and unenclosed in any cell; polypary pergamentaeeous or corneous, simple, tortuous, or regularly ramified ; some- times wanting; tentacula, numerous, solid. Tubularia {fig. 48.), Endendrum, Pennaria, Syncoryna {fig. 47), Coryna, Hydractinia, Stipula. Family 2. — TuBiPORip^. Polypary com- posed of calcareous tubes, arranged in succes- sive stages like the pipes in an organ ; po- lypes terminal, with eight pinnate arms. Tubipora {fig. 52). Family 3.— Sertularid^. Polypes hy- driform, provided with simple tentacula, w hich are never ciliated ; lodged in lateral cells of various shapes and disposition, continued into the interior of the tubular polypary, which is ramified, horny, subarticulated, and fixed by a root-Hke basis. Sertularia {fig. 55), Campanularia. * ofixa,-, a pipe or reed; C^^**, animal. Sub-class 4. — Bryozoa (Ehrenberg). Ciliobrachiata (Farre). Animals polypiform, with the tentacula around the mouth covered with vibratile ciUa, by the agency of which food is furnished to the oral opening ; aliinentarv canal com- plete, being furnished with an intestine and distinct anal orifice ; body generally enclosed in a corneous or calcareous cell ; with or without an operculum. Eschara {fig. 57), FlustraB, Bowerbankla {fig. 56 \ Pedicellina {fig. 65}, Lagunculus {fig. 61), Cristatella Mucedo. Polyps are invariably aquatic animals, some inhabiting fresh water, but the great body are marine, and most numerous in tropical seas. In very high latitudes only Cellarians, Sertula- rians, and Alcyons occur: and in the vicinity of volcanic islands in the polar seas Ccrai- lines and Gorgonians. These latter multiply a httle from 6^ to 9° N. Lat., and as they ap- proach the tropics attain their full powers of growth and multiplication. Some frequent the mouths of rivers where there is a conflux of fresh and salt water; some love atmo- spheric influence, while others avoid it. The jnarine ones frequently plant themselves on rocks in different aspects, often regulated by the climate. They rarely expose them- selves to violent ciu-rents, or the direct shock of the waves, being generally found in the hollows of rocks and submarine caverns, and in gulfs, where the water is less agitated. HVDROZOA. The Hydree are to be met with abun- dantly in summer time in almost every pond or ditch, and may easily be collected' along with the duck-weed or other aquatic plants among wljich they reside. On filling a glass jar with the water in which they reside, and allowing it to stand for a few hours undis- turbed, the little polypes will be found, some- times in great numbers, adhering to the sides of the vessel, in which position nothing is easier than to watch their proceedings, and with the assistance of a simjile magnifier to verify the descriptions which Treiubley and others have given of the extraordinary phe- nomena they exhibit. The Hydra vij'idis, or short-armed polype, which is the species most commonly met with in this country, resembles, when expanded, a little bit of green sewing-silk, about the sixth • part of an inch in length, attached by one ex- tremity to the interior of the jar, or to any other fixed body, and having the opposite end slightly untwisted. When moderately magnified, the body of the animal is found to be a little bag open at one extremity, the opening, which is in fact its mouth, being surrounded with seven deli- cate filamentary tentacula ; while the other end is provided with a little flattened disc or sucker, by which it fixes itself to any foreign body (fig. 25). Its substance seems to be entirely composed of a gelatinous mate- rial, in which are contained numerous green- ish granular particles suspended in a glairy