PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 124 integration and alteration, is matter of physical demonstration — changes which divest them apparently of their pathological properties. On analogy, which seems in nowise strained, we may then admit that disintegration of the elementary ceils of the morbid Growth is the cause of the occasionally n7i])rodiiciive cha- racter of cancerous absorption.* When, on the other hand, secondary Growths form in locahties free from direct lymphatic commu- nication with the seat of the primary forma- tion, there can be no doubt (although the productive elements have not yet been found in transitu with the circulating blood) that the venous system acts as the agent of trans- lation of such elements from the one to the other site. In the instance of cancer the following arguments may be adduced in favour of this notion, a. " Cancerous matter exists in a multitude of cases in the veins of the diseased part; now this is obviously a most favourable circumstance for its circulation with the re- turning blood. j3. The rapidity of the suc- cessive development of the disease in different organs, sometimes observed, seems only pro- ducible by the agency of a fluid which, like the blood, pervades them all. 7. The liver and lung, the two organs in which foreign bodies introduced into the circulation are almost invariably observed to stagnate, are by far the most frequent seats of the secondary development of carcinoma. 8. The parenchy- matous viscera and the bones, the precise structures most frequently affected with se- condary abscess, are those peculiarly liable to secondary cancer, e. In respect of both mor- bid products, the liver and lungs stand at the head of the Hst for frequency of implication. ^. Secondary abscesses affect a special pre- ference for the peripheric strata of the viscera ; so likewise do secondary cancers. In the instance of the lung, I believe this readily explicable, by the fact that the majority of the ultimate ramifications of the pulmonary artery reach the periphery of the organ before be- coming continuous with the capillaries, where- in stagnation must occur. 77. Double organs are very rarely the simultaneous seats of pri- mary abscess; in cases of secondary abscess both invariably suffer: the same propositions hold good of cancer. ^. Secondary cancer in the liver and lung occupies the same ele- mentary seat (the lobules) as the pus of * Absorption of cancerous matter artificially in- duced, woidd apriori appear likely to prove of the unproductive kind, as disintegration of the primary particles of the growth must, in all probability, form a stage of the absorptive process. The question is rendered one of practical interest by the prospect held out of removing these tumours by the ingenious system of pressure invented by Dr. Arnott. It is clear, in truth, that if that system only lead to the translation, from one part of the frame to another, of elements endowed with the faculty of unlimited germination, the benefit obtainable from it is more apparent than real. AMiereas if, while that system causes their entry into the circulating fluids, it deprives their elements of all productive power, and leaves them in a condition fit for excretion as efifete particles, a ])erfect cure of the disease is ef- fected by the removal of the tumour. secondary abscesses."* Some apparent ob- jections to the doctrine here upheld are ex- amined and (as we believe) refuted in the same place. Or, thirdly, in certain cases where numerous parts are found to be the seats of tumours of the same species, it is more than probable that the development of these tumours has been simultaneous, and each mass been evolved independently of its fellows. There can be no doubt, for instance, that internal cancer is frequently described as secondary to external cancer (especially when the latter has been removed with the knife, and the former has not manifested its existence by symptoms until after the operation), where no proof of the two Growths not having originated at the same time can possibly be adduced. The same is true of Fibrous Growths. The inoculabiliti/ of Growths has not been maintained except in the instance of cancer, and, even in respect of this product, upon very imperfect evidence. Experimental re- sults may be cited against (Dupuytren), and in favour of (Langenbeck),the transmissibility of the disease by inoculation; while, on the other hand, we learn from M. Gluge that his attempts generally failed utterly, and in rare cases appeared to succeed. Theoretical con- siderations, repudiating, as they do, the idea of the constant inoculability of cancer-ele- ments in organisms of all varieties of morbid aptitude, nevertheless do not wholly oppose the notion, that where constitutional predispo- sitio?i to cancer exists in an animal, the ger- minal element of that product, introduced into its blood, may prove prolific. Unless this constitutional state exist, "even the ac- tual elements of cancer only manifest them- selves as simply irritative agents, the perfection of the seed is not enough to secure the de- velopment of the plant; the soil, in which it is sown, must be capable of feeding it." Per- haps these views furnish a clue to the con- tradictory statements of experimentalists. § 8. Clinical observers of disease have long been aware that certain Growths are of evil, others of innocent, tendency ; that they are " malignant" and " benignant." Morbid ana- tomists have sought to connect definite and invariable structural characters with the pos- session of one or the other tendency ; and their search has been vain. Micrologists are divided on this question; some affirm that "malignancy" depends on the presence of a special cell ; others deny the distinctiveness of microscopical elements. We, for our own parts, believe that the qualities of a growth cannot be determined by the characters of its cell. We have known Growths, which had destroyed life with the cachexia of cancerous disease, and clearly exhibited the local progress and naked-eye characteristics of encephaloid; Growths which, nevertheless, were composed of non-nucle- ated cells undistinguishable from those of common exudation-matter. Nor do we be- * Nat. and Treatment of Cancer, p. 106.