POLYGASTRIA. G furnished with two preparatory to its separation into two individuals. In some species, how- ever, two are constantly present. These pro- boscides may possibly discharge a double func- tion, and perform the duty both of locomotive and of prehensile organs with which to collect nourishment. In the Cryptomonadinidae likewise one or two filiform proboscides, similar to the above, seem to be the locomotive organs; and the vibratile apparatus that serves for the move- ments of the Volvoces is entirely composed of similar structures belonging to the individual animalcules that constitute the compound bo- dies of these wonderful beings. Amongst the Vibrionidae the locomotion is of a very different character. In the true Vibrios it is performed by a kind of meandering or undulating movement, the fibre-like com- pound body of the animal bending and straight- ening itself alternately, the cause of which seems to depend upon a stronger binding together and subsequent relaxation of the individual animalcules, so that these seem to displace one another. In Bacterium the contraction is weaker, so that no undulating movement is produced, although the creature swims straight forward. In the family Closterina (6, 7, Jig. 5) the lo- comotive organs consist of numerous short, soft, conical papillae, situated near the openings of the shell at the two opposite extremities of the animal; they are placed upon the inner side, and can be protruded but a very little way from the shell. In the family Amoeba no special locomo- tive organs are met with. The round, gelati- nous, and highly contractile bodies of these creatures have the capability of thrusting out at will foot-like processes from any part of their body, by the assistance of which they manage to move about. A similar mode of progression is met with in the Ai'cellinidae. In all the higher forms of Polygastric Infusoria locomo- tion is effected by means of cilia variously distributed over different parts of the body, but their position in different genera will be described when speaking of the external forms of the different families. These cilia are described by Ehrenberg to be minute hairs arising from a thick bulbous basis, upon which they execute a rotatory mo- tion, some of them being continuous with their basis, while others are only articulated there- unto ; of these the former kind exists in Sti/lo- nychia mytilus^ and the latter in Paramecium aurelia. In addition to the cilia some forms of ani- malcules (Oxytrichina) possess seta^ which are likewise stiff moveable hairs, but which are without any power of vibration; these organs are used m standing and climbing. Sometimes they are without any thickened basis, as in Actinophrya; generally they are pointed, but occasionally have a knob at the end. A fourth set of locomotive organs are the atyli. These are thick straightsetze, which in some forms of animalcules are attached like the tail fea- thers of a bird to the hmder part of the body ot the animalcule : such styli do not vibrate Kke cilia, neither are they implanted in a bulb-like basis, nor bend like hooks, but serve merely as instruments of support, or are useful in climbing the stems of aquatic plants. Lastly, many races are furnished with uncini or booklets; these are merely bent, hook-like seta, which, being thick and strong, and situ- ated upon the venti-al surface of the animal- cule, seem to take the place of feet: they do not vibrate, but are implanted into a bulb-like root, which permits them to be moved in all directions; and although they are not articu- lated, they resemble very much the limbs of articulated animals. So various, however, are the forms of the different families of Polygastric animalcules, that the above general view of their locomotive organs gives but a very imperfect idea of this part of their economy; and it will, therefore, be ne- cessary, before we proceed further, to describe more at length some of the most interesting ge- nera belonging to the class, for so strange and re- markable is the organisation of some of them that no generalisation would answer our present purpose. Some are single and isolated indivi- duals, moving freely wherever they list; others are strangely compounded of aggregations of numerous animalcules associated into one com- mon body, all of which must cooperate in rowing about the microcosm which they col- lectively form; some are affixed to highly irri- table stems, whereby they are attached to various foreign bodies; some are naked, others covered with shells: in short, nothing but a rapid glance at the whole group will enable us satis- factorily to discuss the many curious circum- stances discovered in connection with their history. The family Monadinid^ embraces nume- rous animalcules, which, however different in external appearance, are evidently related to each other in all essential parts of their struc- ture. The Monads, properly so called, are so small that the utmost penetration of the miscroscope is insufficient to display their outward form with any degree of distinctness, much less to reveal their internal structure, some of them being not larger than from the 1,000th to the 3,000th of a line, or the 36,000th part of an inch in diameter. Under the highest powers of the microscope they have the appearance of almost invisible globular active specks, swim- ming about with the greatest facility, and never impinging against each other during the rapid dance that they continually execute. Their numbers are absolutely beyond human appre- ciation, as may be readily understood from the following computation of the multitudes some- times met with. The Manas crepiiscuhim, found in infusions of putrid flesh, crowds the drop of water in which it is found to such an extent that there seems to be no interspace whatever between the individual animalcules. Supposing these animalcules to be, as is generally the case, ^'j^gth of a line in diameter, their number will then amount, in a drop of water of the size of