RODENTIA. 380 In the order Rodentia the structure of the thumb differs in different genera ; there is a complete but short thumb in hares, beavers, and jerboas; an incomplete thumb, consisting of only two phalanges, in squirrels, rats, por- cupines, pacas, and agoutis ; and a thumb, represented by only a single ossicle, in the capybara, the Guinea-pig, the marmot, &c. In connection with the fore-arm it may be observed, that the rabbit has only one pronator of the wrist, corresponding to the pronator teres; a circumstance easily accounted for by the very small degree of motion permitted between the bones of the fore-arm; in most other Rodentia, however, both the pronators are present. 263. Skeleton of the Beaver (^Castor Fiber). The terminal phalanges of the fingers are generally very slender, elongated, almost straight, and pointed, except in the capybara, which has its last phalanges of a triangular shape, and enclosed in strong horny hoofs. In those Rodentia which have a complete clavicle, the muscles of the shoulder resemble very nearly in their disposition those of the human subject. The humerus resembles that of the Carnivora in its mode of articulation with the fore-arm ; but in those genera that are without clavicles, the articu- lation of the elbow joint resembles more nearly what is met with in herbivorous quad- rupeds, being a simple hinge joint. The hu- merus of the beaver is much expanded at its ulnar extremity, and the deltoid crest is pro- In the Rodentia the general form and posi- tion of the pelvis is nearly similar to what exists in the Carni- vora. The femur is in the beaver very broad, flattened from before to behind, and exhibits along its outer surface a sharp crest, which represents the linea aspera, and which is pro- longed towards its middle into an apophysis, which has been named the third trochanter. This third trochanter is also met with in other rodents, as, for example, in the musk rat ; in the hares it is placed so high up, that it ap- pears to be a derivation from the great trochan- Fig. 2G4. Skeleton of the Flying Squirrel (^Fteromys volitans). longed inferiorly into a prominent point ; a circumstance which is likewise observable in the rat, the water vole, the ondatra, and in many other genera. In the hares, the porcupine, the paca, and the agouti, the humerus near the elbow joint is completely perforated. ter ; in other genera, as in the water vole, the rats, the squirrels, and the marmots, it is a simple crest, or ex- ternal iinea aspera ; in all the Rodentia the great tro- chanter is very prominent, and the neck of