REN. 250 ation of blood in the tuft tlian occurs pro- bably in any other part of the vascular system ; a delay that must be increased by the tor- tuosity of the channels to be traversed. The other system of capillaries, or that surrounding the uriniferous tubes, corre- sponds, in every important respect, with that investing the secreting canals of other glands. Its vessels anastomose with the utmost free- dom on every side, and lie on the deep sur- face of the membrane that furnishes the secretion. Mr. Bowman has applied the term "portal si/stcm of the /ddiiej/ " to the series of vessels connecting these two, on account of the close analogy it seems to iDear to the vena porta, intervening, like it, between two capillary net- works, the first of which answers to that in which the vena porta originates, and the second to that in which the vena porta ter- minates. The capillary plexus surrounding the tubes differs, therefore, from that of other glands, and agrees with that of the liver, in its receiving blood that has previously tra- versed another system of capillary vessels. The correctness of the analogy which Mr. Bowman has drawn between the circulation of the kidney and that of the liver is very beautifully shown b}- his observations on the kidney of the boa-constrictor, an animal w hich may be regarded as the type of those in which, besides the renal artery, the kidney receives a portal vein derived from the hinder part of the body.* Mr. Bowman thus de- scribes the organ in question : — " The kidney of the boa, being composed of isolated lobes of a compressed reniform shape, displays all the points of its structure in peculiar sim- plicity and beauty. At what may be termed the hilum of each lobe, the branches of the vena porta and duct separate from those of the renal artery and emulgent vein ; the two former spreading side by side, in a fan-like form, over the opposite surfaces of the lobe, while the two latter enter its substance and radiate together in a plane midway between these surfaces. The lobe is made up of the ramifications of these four sets of vessels, in the following mode (fg. 161.). Each duct, as it runs over the surface, sends down a series of branches which penetrate in a pretty direct manner towards the central plane. Arrived there, they curl back, and take a more or less retrograde course towards the surface, and, finally, becoming more convoluted, terminate in the Malpighian bodies, which are all situated in a layer at some distance within the lobe, parallel to the central plane, and nearer to it than to the surface. The ducts never anastomose. The arteiy subdivides into ex- tremely minute twigs, no larger than capil- laries, which diverge on either hand and enter the Malpighian bodies. The efferent vessels are of the same size as the afferent, and, on emerging, take a direct course to the surface of the lobe, and join the branches of the vena porta there s{)read out. The * Vide ante, p. 232-3. branches of the portal vein on the surfiice send inwards a very numerous series of twi<is Fig. 161. Plan of the arrangement of the elements of tlie kidney, in the boa constrictor, bv Mr. Bowman. a, arterial branch in the centre of the lobule, seuiling afferent t\\igs to the Malpigliian bodies on each side. The efferent vessels are seen running to the branches of the portal vein, p v, p v, on the sur- faces of the lobule. The plexus surrounding the tubes is seen at p, running from the portal vein to the emulgent vein, e v. which lies in comp;vny with the arterv in the centrt- of the lobule. The tirinife- rous tube, t, is seen commencing in the M. body, and passing to the branch of the ureter, u r, u r, at the surtace of the lobule where it accompanies the portal vein. The M. botiies are seen diminishing in size, as the tubes become shorter towards the thin edge of the lobtile b. of nearly uniform capacity, and only a little larger than the vessels of the capiUaru plexus, in which they almost immediately terminate. This is the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. It extends from the surface to the central plane of the lobe, and there ends in the branches of the emulgent vein.'' " Thus the efferent vessels of the INIalpighian bodies are radicles of the portal vein, and, through the portal vein, empty themselves, as in the higher tribes, into the plexus surround- ing the uriniferous tubes. The only real difference between this form of kidney and that of Mammalia is that there is here a vessel bringing blood that has already passed through the capillai'ies of distant parts, to be added to that coming from the Malpighian bodies, and to circulate with it through the plexus surrounding the tubes. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies run up to the surface, in order to throw their blood through the whole extent of the capillary