626 SKELETON. tebra naturally independent of its costa.* When we bisect the circles we make semi- circles ; but by so doing we cannot possibly lose sight of the fact, that both semicircles -once constituted the whole circle ; and in the same way, when we separate the dorsal ver- tebra (c) from its attendant ribs (4 in d), we cannot obliterate from the memory the idea, that the dorsal vertebra and its ribs once formed an entire osseous quantity as that re- presented by D, having the ribs appended. When the human anatomist separates the dorsal quantity (c, fig. 444.) from the costal elements 4 in d, and describes the quantity of c as a vertebral figure, he commits an error no less visibly opposed to natural evi- dence than if he separated one half of the dorsal element from the other half, and called either half a vertebra. The dorsal vertebra (c) of human anatomy is therefore insepa- rable from its thoracic ribs (4 of d), and to these several pieces naturally combined and collectively contemplated (in d), I give the name costo-vertebral quantity. Prop. V. The cervical vertebra develops the costal appendages also.—In order to prove in- contestably that the anterior moiety (4) of the Fig. 445. A, dorsal vertebra ; b, cervical. transverse process (4, .3,^/%. 445. b), is the true homologue of the thoracic rib {^,fig. 445. a), I * I call the reader's attention particularly to this fact, as a starting point from which I set out with my argument, which is to conduct to the recog- nition of what I call whole quantities in the skeleton axis. It will be seen afterwards, that owing to this first error of the anthropotomist arbitrarily severing the ribs from the dorsal spinal centre, and giving to this latter the name vertebra, much con- fusion has arisen in the comparative method and its inferences. " Errores radicales et in prima digestione mentis ab excel)entia functionum et remedioi-um sequentium non curantur." Xo%'um Organon Sci- entiarum, Aph. 30. shall lay down my remarks as follow : — I se- parate from the human spinal axis that body (c,fig. 444.) which the human anatomist terms the " dorsal vertebra ; " and on comparing it with the cervical vertebra (A,/g. 444.), I find that both figures are identical as to the number and position of their elemental pieces in all respects save one particular. This one point in which the cervical vertebra (A,fig. 444.) dif- fers from the dorsal vertebra is evidently the anterior moiety (4) of the transverse process of the cervical vertebra (a) ; for the dorsal vertebra (c), such as the human anatomist describes it, does not contain any elemental piece as the true counterpart or homologue of the clement (4) which is posited as the an- terior half of the cervical transverse process.* In both vertebras (a, c, fig. 444.), I find the spinous elements marked 1, the laminae or neural arches (2), and the bodies or centra (5) ; but it is attaching to the transverse pro- cesses of both vertebras that a doubt arises as to their identity. Now if I call the posterior moiety (.3) of the transverse process of fig. 445. B, the true homologue or counterpart of the dorsal transverse process {fig. 444. c, 3), I still have no element in the dorsal ver- tebra (^g. 444. c), wherewith to compare the anterior half (4) of the cervical transverse process of fig. 445. b. But when I apply the costal piece (4,^g. 445. a) to the dorsal vertebra, constituted of the pieces 1, 2, 3, 5, then it becomes evident that this costa is supplying the place of the anterior half (4) of tlie cervical transverse process {fig. 445.). * AH anatomists (the comparative as well as the human) had, until lately, overlooked the compound nature of the transverse process of the cervical vertebra; and even when this character of the pro- cess came to be fully acknowledged, still so difficult was it for them to emancipate themselves from the toils of the original error committed by the anthro- potomist, that we find them more willing to bend the stubborn facts of nature in accordance with the error, than to correct the oversight. Thus, agree- ably with the artificial vertebral quantity of the human anatomist's " dorsal vertebra," whose trans- verse process is single, that of the cervical vertebra being double, both processes were held to correspond nevertheless; and consequently, when such a fact as that of the anterior nucleus of the cer^^cal trans- verse process being produced to the dimension of a cervical rib appeared, they, with Meckel, inter- preted this as a prolongation of the cer\-ical trans- verse process, which they had already regarded as homologous vrith the process so named in the dorsal vertebra: or with Blainville, they acknowledged its costal character and proportions, but interpreted it as belonging to a " category of ribs proper to themselves," distinct from those of the thorax, and also diverse to those called " cer-vical ribs " in other classes of animals. And although it had been broadly asserted, long since, by Hunauld, Santli- fort, and others, that the transcendental law gave to even the human skeleton more than twelve pairs of ribs—the supernimierary ones which now and then stood upon the cervical and lumbar vertebrae— still, owing to the obstructiveuess of the pre-con- ceived doctrine of the mammal cervix being ac- counted limited to the nmnber of seven ribless vertebrse, even nature herseh" failed to prove the invalidity of that general rule, though she presented them with the sloth's cer\-ix, Avhich produces nine vertebra, and that of the human species occasionally producing only five or six.