680 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. in hospital, and her left shoulder joint has in this period {^one through ail the stages of chronic arthritis ; and a process of anch> losis, with shortening of the left upper extremity, appears to have been nearly completed. Her general health seems at this time but little affected: several depressions along the mar- gins of the deltoid muscle, anteriorly and pos- teriorly, mark the situation of the numerous openings, most of which are now closed, through which purulent matter had escaped from the joint. The history which we collected of her case was, that about two months pre- viously to her coming to the hospital she fell backwards on her left elbow, to which acci- dent she ascribes her disease; that subse- c|uentiy to this fall she felt pain in her left shoulder, but she cannot recollect that the joint swelled or became hot ; on the contrarj^ the shoulder always seemed to her, from the first, to waste, and to be colder (as it is at this moment) than the other ; except when the period of the formation of the abscesses arrived. She states that the movements of the joint, during the [U'ogress of the disease, were most painful, and that she had a sensa- tion of something grating in the joint when- ever the surgeon, in examining it, moved the arm. The arm is half an inch shorter th^n the other, and is closely approximated to the side : whenever abduction, flexion, or exten- sion of it is attempted by the patient, the scapula invariably moves also. The patient has no power of rotation of the head of the humerus on the scapula, nor can any move- ment of the kind be communicated. The head of the humerus in this case has not been dislocated, but its tendency is certainly backwards towards the infraspinatus fossa, where some fulness is perceived. The par- tial absorption of the head of the humerus, as well as the removal of a portion of the sur- face of the glenoid cavity by caries, which we believe has occurred here, will sufficiently account for the shortened condition of the arm. The most favourable prognosis we can form as to this case is, that a bony anchylosis of the shoulder joint will be established. In the first of these cases (M. Moore) it was very manifest that the limb was elongated; and in this second case (Malloy), when the disease of the shoulder joint had arrived at a much more advanced stage, it was equally evident that the length of the affected ex- tremity v.as diminished. We have adduced these cases as examples of what may be frequently expected to be seen by those who watch the course of articular caries of the shoulder joint; but we must be prepared to meet with examples in which it may be ob- served, that during the whole progress of the disease the length of the limb will be neither increased nor diminished. Varieties analogous to this we notice in the symptoms and [)ro- gress of articular caries when it affects other joints (see Hip Joint); and therefore we need not be surprised, when the shoulder joint is the seat of chronic arthritis, that sometimes the extremity of the affected side is shorter, sometimes longer, and that sometimes during the whole course of the disease but little al- teration as to increase or diminution of length is appreciable. Anatondcal characters of chronic arthritis of the shoulder.—The specimens we have an opportu- nity of examining anatomically, which show the ultimate effects of chronic arthritis on the se- veral structures composing the shoulder joint, cannot be considered very rare ; but it must be confessed that we seldom can ascertain the condition of the different structures of the shoulder joint which have been affected by chronic arthritis, excepting in cases in which the disease has arrived at its last stage, and has been the cause of the death of the patient. On making the post-mortem examination of the affected shoulder in cases where the dis- ease has arrived at its last stage, we usually notice that the skin has been perforated by numerous fistulous openings; these are some- times to be seen in the axilla, or ranged along the line of the margin of the deltoid muscle, perhaps at points more distant from the joint, as on the lower margin of the pectoral muscle near the mamma (case of Malloy). The subcu- taneous cellular structure we have not found infiltrated, as it is in cases of white swelling of the knee, or of the other joints, with a ge- latinous glairy matter; on the contrary, the cellular structure itself has always seemed to us to be in a wasted condition, containing no adeps; the deltoid as well as the arti- cular muscles have been found in a state of atrophy. The bursa underneath the deltoid muscle has been observed to have been the seat of an effusion of fluid, quite distinct from that contained within the capsule of the joint; the internal surface of the bursa as well as the synovial lining of the fibrous capsule have been also found coated with lymph. Sometimes in advanced cases the fibrous capsule has been found much contracted as well as thickened, and having numerous per- forations in it, which had been the internal orifices of several fistulous canals, which having opened externally had acted as ex- cretory ducts, as it were conducting purulent matter from the different points of the carious surfaces of the bones of the joint, and even from the centre of the diseased head of the humerus. In all of the advanced cases that we have examined, the tendon of the biceps, so far as its intra-articular portion is concerned, has been removed. The articular surfaces have been always divested of their cartila- ginous incrustations, and the reticular struc- ture of the head of the humerus, and of the scapula where it forms the glenoid cavity, usually exposed and bare sometimes coated with a layer of puriform lymph. Part of the head of the humerus has been removed, and in what remains of it deep digital depressions have been observed,and foramina, which pene- trate even into the centre of the head of the bone. M. Bonnet, of Lyons, states, "that on making (he post-mortem examination of one