327 RESPIRATION. Y 4 weight, in the 1000. The air collected in the pit of the Opera Comique a short time before the termination of the performance contained 2 3; while in another experiment the air from one of the boxes contained 43, by weight,^ of carbonic acid gas in the 1000. In one of the stables at the Ecole Militaire, the air collected after it had been kept closed for a night yielded 1'05 in the 100 ; and the air from another which was better ventilated yielded about 2 parts in the 1000, by weight.* If, according to the opinion of Leblanc and others, carbonic acid gas exerts a prejudicial effect upon the vital actions in the human species when it has accumulated to the extent of 1 per cent, in the air to be breathed, the above facts, to which many others might readily have been added, point out the im- portance of securing sufficient ventilation both in our private and public buildings. As the gases held by water in solution sup- ply the means of aquatic respiration to many animals and plants, a knowledge of the quan- tity and composition of these gases is also necessary for the full comprehension of the fimction of respiration. Humboldt and Gay Lussac state that the water of rivers, and dis- tilled water well aired, hold in solution about J^-th of their volume of air composed of about 32 of oxygen and 68 of azote, by volume.f Morren J concludes from his experiments that sea-water contains in solution between ^^^th and -J^th of its volume of air, a quantity sen- sibly less than that obtained from fresh-water, which usually contains from -g-V^^ ^V^h, or even ^V^h of its volume.ยง He found that the air obtained from fresh-water under ordinary circuinstances, whether distilled and again perfectly aerated, or the limpid water of a moderately rapid stream, contains 32 parts of oxygen, and from 2 to 4 of carbonic acid, by volume, in the 100; while the air obtained from sea-water yielded 33 of oxygen and from 9 to 10 of carbonic acid in the 100. The relative proportion of the gases obtained both from fresh and sea-water varies considerably under certain conditions. In fresh-water ponds abounding in plants or green animalculas, and in shallow parts of the sea, where numerous * According to the experiments of M. Lassaigne (Comptes Rendiis, 13th Juillet, p. 108. 1846) the carbonic acid gas, formed by respiration in apart- ments where the ventilation is very imperfect, is not confined to the parts nearest the floor, but is diffused nearly in equal proportions through every portion of the mass of air in the apartments. t Journal de Physique et de Chimie, par Dela- mitherie, torn. Ix. p. 158. The percentage of oxygen from the air of water of the Seine was 31*9; of dis- tilled Avater which had again absorbed air, 32-8; and of rain water, 31 0. (p. 159.) X Annales de Chim. et de Phys., torn. xii. 1844. I M. Lewy (Comptes Rendus, 28th Sept. 1846) states that, in his experiments, one litre (61'027 cubic inches English) of Seine water pelded about 40 cubic centimetres (2-440 cubic inches) of air, and the same quantity of water from the ocean furnished only 20 cubic centimetres (1*220 cubic inches). The water of tlie ocean, in consequence of the salts it holds in solution, absorbs niuch less atmospheric air than fresh water. algae flourish, the proportion of oxygen gas may be considerably increased during sun- shine, especially if the water be at the same time still. Morren analyzed, in a bright day in July, the gas dissolved in the water of a fish-pond of a green colour, chiefly from the numerous animalculag it contained, and found in that procured in the morning 25, at mid-day 48, and in the evening as much as Gl of oxygen in the 100 parts.* Similar changes, but to a less extent, were detected by Morren in the air of sea-water, and they are chiefly dependant upon the action of the algae. In one experiment, performed on a fine sunny day, when the sea was at the same time calm, the air obtained from the water yielded 40 per cent, of oxygen in the early part of the day, and 53*6 in the evening. The total quantity of air obtained from both kinds of water varied at different times of the day ; and its increase was chiefly dependant upon the addition of oxygen, the carbonic acid at the same time suffering a decrease, but not in the same pro- portion, while the nitrogen "j" seemed to sufler little change. This increase of oxygen will partly contribute to the supply required for the respiration of the numerous aquatic ani- mals which usually frequent the localities where it is evolved, and be partly given off to the superincumbent air, and thus assist in maintaining the purity of the atmosphere. Notwithstanding the large quantity of oxy- gen daily removed from the atmosphere by the respiration of animals and other causes, yet from the great extent of the atmosphere, and the rapid mixture of its different parts, a long period of time must necessarily elapse before it suffers any marked deterioration, even were there no compensating operation in the vege- table kingdom. The oxygen gas in the atmo- sphere is equal in weight to a column of 7'8 feet of water pressing upon every part of the earth's surface : and it has been stated that it would require 10,000 years, supposing the earth peopled with 1,000,000,000 of men to produce a perceptible effect upon the eutlio- meter of Volta, even though vegetable life was annihilated ; and that to suppose a/l the animals on the surface of the earth could by * Opus cit. p. 9. Wohler (Poggendorff's Annalen der Physik und Chemie, band Ivii. S. 308. 1842) analyzed the gas exhaled from the grej^ish yelloAv mass, consisting in a great measm'e of li\ing infu- soria mixed with some conferva?, which collects in a salt spring at Rodenberg in Hesse, and found it to be composed of 51 per cent, of oxygen, and 49 of nitrogen. t M. Le^y (Comptes Rendus, 28th Sept. 1846) has observed similar changes, but not to the same extent, in the relative proportions of oxygen and carbonic acid in the air of sea-water under the cir- cumstances mentioned by 3Iorren. AccorcUng to the results of LeA\y, the waters of the ocean contain a small quantity of sulphuretted hydi'ogen gas, ap- parently evolved from the bodies of certain mollus- cous animals, which may be imparted to the air resting upon the surface of the water; and Dumas, in his report upon Lewy's Memoir, throAvs out some remarks on the possibility of the sulphur contained in this gas serN-ing an important purpose in the nutrition of plants.