251 REN. plexus; which they would fail to do if they entered it in any other part." " I have described the renal artery as being spent upon the Malpighian bodies ; but in the hilum of the lobe it gives otf, as in the higher animals, a few slender twigs to the coats of the excretory ducts, and of the larger vessels. The capillaries of these twigs are easily seen, and, in all probability, dis- charge themselves into the branches of the portal vein." It will appear on referring to the plan (fg. 161.), that there is a direct relation between the size of the Malpighian bodies and the width of the lobe. At the apex of the lobe, where the uriniferous tubes are com« paratively short, the Malpighian bodies are of small size, while at the base of the lobe, where the tubes are longer, the Malpighian bodies present a corresponding increase of size. It will presently be seen that this and other facts in the anatomy of this form of kidney, afford very important evidence as to the nature and office of the Malpighian bodies. Mr. Bowman thus draws a comparison be- tween the circulation through the kidney of the Boa and that through the liver : — " The circulation through this form of kidney may be aptly compared with that through the liver, as described by Mr. Kiernan in his invaluable paper on that gland. The plexus surrounding the tubes corresponds with the portal-hepatic plexus, which, in the lobules of the liver,invests the terminal portions of the bile-ducts. Both these plexuses are supplied with blood by a portal vein, derived chiefly from the capillaries of distant organs, but in part from those of the artery of the respective organs them- selves. The only difference seems to be, that, while in the liver the branches of the artery are entirely given to the larger blood- vessels, ducts, &c., in the kidney a few only are so distributed, the greater number go- ing through the Malpighian bodies, to per- form an important and peculiar function. In both glands, however, all the blood of the artery eventually joins that of the portal vein. The emulgent vein of the kidney answers to the hepatic vein of the liver." " The comjjarison between the hepatic and the renal portal circulation may be thus drawn in more general terms. The portal system of the liver has a double source, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself; so the portal system of the kidney, in the lower tribes, has a two-fold origin, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself. In both cases the extra- neous source is the principal one, and the artery furnishing the internal source is very small. But in the kidney of the higher tribes the portal system has only one internal source, and the artery supplying it is proportionably large." Mr. Bowman has ascertained that in all the vertebrate classes the Malpighian bodies have essentially the same structure ; the capsule being formed by the dilated extremity of a uriniferous tube, into which a single mass of blood-vessels is inserted. But in some orders of animals there are modifications which merit notice. The most consitlerable of these re- gard the size of the Malpighian bodies. The following table from Mr. Bosvman's paper ex- hibits their size in a few species, and subjoined to each measurement is that of the tube soon after its emergence. It will be seen that the diameter of the tubes varies far less than that of the Malpighian bodies. Table of the Diameter of Malpighian Bodies, and of the Tubes emerging from them, in fractions of an English inch. Man Badger Dog Lion Cat Kitten Rat Mouse Squirrel Rabbit Guinea Pig Horse Parrot Tortoise Boa Frog Eel Diameter of Malpighian Bodies. Max. 130 Too 2I0 Mean. Min. Tot ih T33 g'u 205 26TJ lb _ I •2-io 257 _j_ lob' 205 ■70 1_ T30 2)0 TOO 230 207 Tn I T.55 T35 2b I 3T2 TTS dOO 3|2 580 TOOO tIs 7^0 ih 623 Boo I TTS BOo^Otm T50 3T0 According to Professor Mliller* the kid- ney of the myxinoid fishes has a very simple structure. Before the publication of Mr. Bowman's paper Miiller described the kidney of these fishes, as consisting of a long ureter extending on each side of the intestine, and sending off at intervals a small sac which terminates in a second closed sac, the junction of the two sacs being marked by a constric- tion. In the cavity of the closed sac there is a globular tuft of vessels, which is free on all sides except at one point, where the vessels pierce the investing capsule ijig. 162.). Prof. Miiller, from a comparison of his own obser- vations with those of Mr. Bowman, infers that the short tubes proceeding from the ureter in these fishes are analogous to the uriniferous tubes in the more highly organised kidneys, while the closed sac at the extrennty of the tube is analogous to the Malpighian capsule ; so that each j'cnciilus in the myxinoid fish consists of an exceedingly short uriniferous tube terminating in a capsule, in which is sus- pended a globular tuft of vessels. The arte- rial branches which come directly from the aorta terminate, as in the higher animals, by piercing the capsule and forming a globular tuft within it. Miiller had not an opportu- nity of tracing the exact distribution of tlie * Untersuchungen uber die Eingeweide der Fische. Berlin, 1845.