SEMEN. 481 tilia with scales. Lizards, snakes, and tor- toises uniformly possess, like most birds, a simple and straight body {Jig. 338.), which, however, is occasionally rather pointed towards the anterior part. This occurs, for instance, in the snakes. The only difference consists in the difference of breadth of body and tail. In the snakes (Coluber), in which the Fig, .338. Fig. 339. formation, which is assumed to be seated on the body lenj^thwise, and which is said to be bent in a zig-zig manner to the right and left. It is true that this fibre is frequently only seen to rise on one side of the sperma- tozoon, and in a shape which would encounige the conjecture just now alluded to (^^g. 340.); Fig. 340. Part of Spermatozoon of Triton. a, body of the spermatozoon; h, spiral windings of the delicate tail. Spermatozoa of Lacerta Spermatozoon of Rana agilis. temporaria. spermatozoa measure about the length of the body amounts to only ; in the lizards (Lacerta), on the other hand,in which the spermatozoa are smaller {-io'"—-so'"') about ^^o"'- The differences of the form of the sperma- tozoa are however much greater in the group of the Batrachia, which Hkewise distinguish them- selves in other respects by various deviating circumstances. A staff'-hke body with a very thin and proportionately short tail charac- terise the spermatozoa of Rana and Bufo (Jig. 339.). The length of the spermatozoa here amounts to about J^^''^—^o'^^, of which the body occupies more than the anterior third. Among the Salamanders the body is likewise cylindrical, but much longer i^J'^), bent in the shape of a sabre, and thickest at its pos- terior end.* Towards the anterior part it becomes gradually thinner, and (in Salamandra at least) furnished at the point with a very small globular knob. The tail is likewise of a considerable length. In the anterior part, which passes into the body, it possesses a not inconsiderable thickness. Towards the posterior part it becomes finer and thinner, until at last it can only be traced with diffi- culty. The end of the tail is, however, not straight, nor curved like the anterior part, but turned up in a remarkable manner, and wound in very numerous narrow spirals round the commencing part of the tail, and even round the body. At least so we may ex- plain the peculiar structure of the spermatozoa of Salamandra, and in this we agree with V. Siebold.f Others, especially French na- turalists, as, for instance, Pouchet, merely suppose the slender fibre, which is so twisted round, to be the contour of a ridge-hke * Vide copies in R. Wagner; Fragment. Tab. II. t Froriep's Neueu Xotizen, vol. ii. S. 281. No. xl. VOL. IV. but in other cases thetwistings are so distinct that they are not to be denied. We are of opinion that, whenever the tail has been lying only on one side of the spermatozoon, a partial twisting off" has taken place. This notched appearance may be attributed to the tail fibre retaining its spiral tvvistings. It is, however, remarkable that the tail never moves further from the trunk of the body, constantly main- taining only a certain distance from it. We do not venture to decide the cause of this, yet we cannot see in it a positive proof of the correct- ness of Pouchefs view. The length of the spermatozoa is very con- siderable. From the anterior point of the body down to the region where the tail bends itself, they measure in the Salamander ^V'^^ Triton even The spermatozoa of the Proteus seem to possess a still greater length, according to an imperfect statement of Valentin.* Fig. 341. Spermatozoa of Bomhinator igneus. The spermatozoa in Bomhinator igneus (Jig. 341.) are of a structure quite similar to those of the Salamander, only smaller. The body of the former is staff'-shaped, tolerably long, and getting thinner towards both ends. The point is again rather enlarged, and flat- * Repertorium fur Anat. &c. 1841, S. 356. I I