PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 102 for this reason that chemical change is in some measure worked out by (and, infer- entially, that chemical differences exist nh origine in) blastemata themselves ; but, even thus, the cells must have an influence second- ary only in time, not in importance. Like all membranes placed between fluids of different nature (the surrounding fluid and that con- tained within them), the cell-wall must be the seat of endosmosis and exosmosis, and the chemical result must be regulated, on the part of the cell, not only by the nature of mem- brane or cell-wall to be permeated, but by the nature of the fluid contents of the cell. (c.) That the potential qualities of different blastemata differ is perfectly obvious ; exist- ences (such as cancer, pus, tubercle) must be formed from materials endowed with different vital tendencies. Concerning the nature and essence of this potential difference nothing is known with certainty. As respects the pro- cess by which its own special character is impressed on each blastema, and the locality in which that process is accomplished, three cases are possible : either the special character is given while the elements of the blastema are still circulating with the blood ; or while those elements are undergoing filtration through the walls of the vessels ; or at both these periods. Now, though it is probable that the filtration process exercises some in- fluence of the kind under consideration, yet it is next to certain that the main influence is exercised on the blastemal elements within the vessels by the constitutional state of the indi- vidual,— that upon this constitutional state, and not upon any local process whatsoever, mainly depends the issue of a blastema, whether it shall be evolved, for instance, into cancer or fibrous tumour, pigment-cells or pus, fat or enchondroma. The blood being the source from which blastema is derived, there are three distinct situations in which it may, n priori, be sup- posed to undergo evolution into structure : (rt.) within the vessels: {h.) in the substance of the vascular walls : (c.) outside the vessels. Whether evolution does occur in ah these situations requu'es to be examined into. (ff.) Certain adventitious formations are unquestionably found occasionally in the in- terior of the veins, and their presence can only be accounted for in one of two ways, either as the result of the absorption and subsequent germination of certain elements of growths pre-existing elsewhere, or of primary evolution of blastema which had never escaped from the vessels. There can be httle doubt that in the great majority of cases intra-venous Forma- tions are produced by evolution of absorbed elements; but it appears probable that they may sometimes spring from retained or 7^072- exnded blastemal elements. It is true, the embryonic production of a fragment of natural tissue within the vessels is an anomaly of nutrition of which no example has, as far as we know, been witnessed; analogy is conse- quently opposed to the admission of a germi- nating force in non-exuded blastema. It is likewise true that, in respect of the simplest form of blastema (the inflammatory) escape from the vessels appears essential to evolu- tion as a general fact; nevertheless, it is to be remembered, inflammation-products are evolved within the vessels in cases of arteritis and phlebitis, and in the healthy state epithe- lium is constantly being produced on the internal vascular surfaces. Hence the possi- bility of retained blastema germinating within the vessels must be, at least provisionally, conceded ; and such germination may be imagined most readily to occur where pecu- litu-ities of texture interfere (as in structures of the erectile class) with the process of exudation.* {b.) Nodules of adventitious structure have sometimes been met with in the actual sub- stance of the parietes of the veins. The locali- zation of these nodules becomes intelligible on the supposition either that blastema, furnished by the blood circulating in their interior, has germinated during the process of filtration through the vascular coats ; or that the blas- tema was originally supplied by the vasa vaso- rum. The fact that the nodules in question have been principally met with in veins of a certain size (where exudation does not habitu- ally occur) makes it probable that, in some cases at least, the vasa vasomm are the source of supply. (c.) But both localities, so far considered, are rare, though possible, seats of germination ; hence it follows directly that the common site of the phenomenon must be outside the vessels, and indirectly that the process of filtration through those tubes is commonly a necessary element in the generation of a blas- tema apt for evolution. Hence it is that exudation Jiuid has been employed as a sy- nonym of blastema in general. Now the possible positions outside the vessels are : — the intervascular interstices of the various tissues and organs; the free (or sub-epithe- lial) surfaces, mucous, serous, and cutaneous ; the surface (and, mediately, by imbibition, the substance) of the extra-vascular tissues ; and, lastly, adventitious surfaces, produced by wounds and other agencies. Now observa- tion (while it has decided that germination does actually occur in all of them) has proved the first-named of these situations to be by far the most common seat of the pheno- menon. , In those cases, unfortunately restricted in number, in which observation has succeeded in establishing the chai'acters of blastema (as in the instances of induration-blastema and pus-blastema) this fluid has been found homo- geneous, almost perfectly transparent, slightly * It is clear that what has been spoken of by writers as the " conversion of blood " into the sub- stance of certain Adventitious Formations can be nothing more than an appearance proiluced by the evolution of primary- blastema or of absorbed blas- temal elements in "the interstices of a coagulimi: the idea of an actual change of either blood corpuscle into the cell of an Adventitious Formation is wholly inadmissible.