130 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. *' become cancerous," in the erroneous lan- guage of their describers ; v>e have never seen or read of a satisfactory example of cancerous formation, from a basis of lipoma. Fibrous thickening of the cellular septa of the growth is not uncommon ; but a true fibroma is never evolved from a lipomatous tumour. Absorption of the fat may be effected by arti- ficial pressure; the residual cellulo-fibrous structure forms a more or less dense mass. Lipoma with excess of cellulo-fibrous stro- ma, much firmer than the simple variety, and more frequently invested by a pseudo-cyst, has been described under the names of Adipose Sarcoma, and Lipoma Mixture. Lipoma has sometimes a semi-transparent almost gelatiniform look, the cause of which is not clear. Mliller proposes the title of lipoma arbores- cens for certain rare adipose formations, found in the joints. They originate behind the free part of the synovial membrane, pro- trude into the joint, and form tufts, nodulous at the ends. They are said to be most com- mon in the knee-joint. Tiie pleural lipoma, just referred to as having occurred in our own practice, might be accredited to this variety. § 2. STEATOMA. There is a variety of fatty growth of greater density and solidity than lipoma, close in grain, inelastic, opaque, having the aspect of suet or sometimes of putty, wholly unlike natural adipose tissue. Such tumours, to which the name of steatoma is given, are composed of fat, soluble in boiling alcohol, non-vesicular, granular, and amorphous, and aggregated into masses without the interven- tion of cellular tissue. These accumulations sometimes acquire great bulk ; we have seen them in the mesentery, testicle, and mediasti- num. § 3. CHOLESTEATOMAi^^J^^X^ See Cholesteric Fats (p. 94), Of Gelatin Basis § i. fibroma. Fibrous Growths appear naturally to affect the spherical form : they may, however, be accidentally flattened (as in the walls of the uterus, during the advance of pregnancy, Univ. Coll. Mus.) ; pedunculated (seep. 122) under the mucous membrane of the nose and uterus ; or nodulated from having two or more centres of development. They may be smaller than a pea (in the dura-mater for instance); or, especially w^hen developed under the peri- toneal coat of the uterus, exceed the head of an adult in size : tumours of this kind have been known to weigh 25, 30, 35, and 39 pounds. Their external surface is naturally smooth and even ; loose filaments of cellulo- vascular tissue form their common material of union with adjoining textures; in some cases the connection is rendered unusually intimate by exudation-matter. (See p. 125.) On section the colour of these grow ths is generally found to be greyish-white,—thegrey- ish colour being thatof the intrastromal matter, the white (which may be dull or ghstenini:) that of the stromal. Less commonly fibroma has a reddish hue. The consistence of the mass varies with its colour : the greater the white- ness, the greater the density, specific gravity and tenacity of the tumour ; the reddish coloured growth is comparatively soft and yielding. The constituents of fibrous tumours visible with the naked eye, are white bands ; a ma- terial interposed between them of darker colour, less opaque, less dense, and less manifestly fibrous ; and, in comparatively rare cases, vessels, — congregated in the main to- wards the peripliery of the mass. The arrange- ment of the white bands and of the enclosed darker substance is peculiar: the bands follow an irregularly curvilinear direction ; the loculi hence affect the spheroidal or oval shape. This character helps to distinguish fibroma from scirrhus with great excess of fibrous stro- ma; in such scirrhi the fibres always exhibit a tendency to rectilinear arrangement. By firm pressure a transj)arent, pale straw coloiu-ed (never lactescent), and glutinous fluid may be forced from a fibrous tumour : its quantity is very small, and it may be infiltrated through the growth or accumulated in spots. Microscopically these growths are found to consist of fasciculated and intertwined fibres, less undulating in direction and less clear in outline than those of natural fibrous tissue, arranged parallel to each other, and studded or not with minute inequalities, produced by the still remaining nuclei of original cells. In the soft fibrous tumour this filamentous ele- ment is the same in character as in the hard; but it is less abundant, less closely set, and scarcely fasciculated : in this variety, too, it is more common than in the hard, to find cells with granular contents, some of them assuming the fusiform shape. We have oc- casionally seen fat-granules in these tumours ; but fat is never one of their predominant ele- ments. When submitted to ebullition, the entire mass of a fibrous growth is converted into a jelly (glutin), w ith the exception of a very minute quantity of protein substance, derived, pro- bably, f rom associated blood : the walls of the few cells, such tumours contain, are insuffi- cient to account even for that minute quan- tity. Their saline constituents are, in various proportions, those of the blood. Valentin attempts to show that fibrous tumours of the uterus are sometimes coniposed of fibrin: doubtless, as we have already explained (p. 126) hasmatomata of the uterus occur, and may undergo evolution into fibrous tumours: but we altogether discredit the alleged fact, that tumours exhibiting the microscopical constitution of fibroma, are ever of protein- basis. The nature of fibroma leads it simply to enlarge, without change in, or around, itself. Some alterations of texture are so common,