PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. The various appearances of pus have yiven rise to its classification into the creamy, curdy, serous, and slimy varieties (Pearson) ; one obviously unfit to represent the existing state of knowledge. It seems better to con- sider pus as of two kinds : I. Simple; II. With added characters, — the added character being derived either from (A) Substances of known nature, natural or morbid ; or from (B) Sub- stances of unknown nature, called viruses. The pus-corpuscle has uniformly the same character in all descriptions of pus. The dis- tinction of the varieties above enumerated, therefore, can only be microscopically effected (if it can be effected at all) by means of su- peradded elements ; and most valuable these are as diagnostic of its seat and production in many instances. The varieties of pus comprehended in the class (B), differ from those in the class (A), in being inoculahle, — a character dependent not upon any peculiarity of their cell, but upon the associated intangible " virus." Some of the varieties of the class A possess, how- ever, what may be called pseudo-inoculabilitj/, namely, those in which certain parasites are present. The pus of scabies is thus to be propagated by means of its entozoon ; that of porrigo by its entophyte ; but it is clear that the associated pus has in reality nothing to do with the transmissibility of the diseases.* There are three semi-fluid matters, which it is important to distinguish from pus, namely, mucus, softened Jibi-in, and fluid holding epithe- lium in suspension. The distinctive characters most to be relied on are as follow: (a) Mucus. (1.) Pus mixes with water, being at first equally diffused through it, so as to give it a yellowish tinge ; subsequently, the corpuscles fall to the bottom, and leave the supernatant fluid clear and colourless. Mucus does not mix with water, but eventually renders it slimy. (2.) Pus forms an emulsion Avith acetic acid, from which, after a time, the nuclei of the corpuscles are thrown down as a yellow sediment, while the involucra are dissolved. Mucus is coagulated by acetic acid, and forms a membranous flocculent mass ■without mixing with the acid; at the same time it becomes less slimv and more con- sistent. (3.) Pus forms a ropy mass with the caustic alkalies, or with their carbonates. (B. Babington.) Mucus, on the contrarv, is rendered thinner, and partially dissolved by them. (4.) Pus contains fat removeable by ether, sometimes in such quantities as * Donne describes an animalcule, under the name of Tricomonas vaginalis, as peculiar to the female s}q)liilitic discharge, and constituting the infection- agent. But it is not found in the male, and is often absent in the female ; its powers in the latter quality may be more than doubted. Froriep (Xotizen, 1837, No. 25. p. 40.) thinks the animalcule, peculiarly connected with the female genitals, but not specially with syphilis ;^ and regards it with Ehrenberg (No'- tizen, 1837, Xo. 28. p. 88) as a species of acarus. This matter requires revision ; it has even been sug- gested that Donne and his followers have mistaken ciliated epilheUum-scales (to which indeed the figure of the former bears much resemblance) for animal- cules. to render it inflammable; mucus contains none. (5.) Air bubbles in pus collapse the moment they are formed ; in mucus they re- main for a time — for days even—unaltered. (6.) Equal parts of concentrated sulphuric acid and pus form a dull brown-red solution, becoming paler and turbid by the addition of water ; mucus, on the contrary, forms a pale brown fluid with this acid, w hich remains clear and becomes colourless on the addition of water. (Brett and Bird.) (7.) According to Preuss, pus (as also tubercle) is distin- guishable from mucus by containing iron (which may be shown by inceration and di- grating the ash in gum, hydrochloric acid, di- luted with five parts of distilled water, and then adding a few drops of ferro-cyanide of potassium) : but in point of fact the presence of iron is due to accidental admixture with blood. (8.) Pus pressed between two plates of glass and held before a candle, presents an ii-idescent appearance ; no such effect is ob- served with mucus, (Young ) The state of knowledge concerning the two alleged prin- ciples, mucin and pyin, is too unsettled to allow of just inferences being drawn from the presence or absence of either. Various attempts have been made to dis- tinguish pus and mucus by means of the proper corpuscle of each. The difficulty experienced in the detection of distinctive characters gra- dually led to the suspicion that the corpuscle of both fluids might be one and the same thing; and the inquiries of several competent persons appear at length to have distinctly established the fact, that healthy mucus contains no special corpuscle, but that, under the very slighest irritation of a mucous sm'face, pus, with its special cell, is thrown out, which cell had been mistaken for one peculiar to the natural secre- tion of mucous membranes. The presence of a bougie in the urethra for a very short time suffices to cause the production of muco-pus.* The abundance of epithelium-scales in mucus is sometimes a useful aid in the diagnosis: the nuclei of these scales set free may, doubt- less, also have been sometimes mistaken for special corpuscles. (b.) Softened Fibrin.— The semi-liquid matter frequently found in the centre of co- agula in the veins and heart, was long con- founded (from its colour, consistence, and easy miscibility with water,) with pus ; noto- riously so by MM. Gendrin, Andral, Cruveil- hier, and Magendie. It had been more or less confidently affirmed, however, by MM. Dupuytren, Burrows, Davy, and others, that this matter really consisted" of softened fibrin, and not pus, when Mr. GulUverf gave support to this notion by pointing out the following peculiarities, distinguishing the substance in question from pus : 1. It is not rendered ropy by caustic volatile alkali. 2. It presents no iridescence when pressed between plates of glass before a candle. 3. Under the micro- * That is as far as the generation of pus-corpuscles is concerned; the production of liquor puria is a more elaborate process. + Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxii.