PlIODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 105 (2.) Infiltrated tubercle has been described principally in the lung, and is here said to ex- hibit two kinds of appearance; {a) the gret/, and (b) the geJatinifurm. (a) There are oc- casionally found in the lungs irregular masses of variable and, it may be, considerable size (five inches in diameter even) of greyish semi- transparent aspect, homogeneous, shining, and without distinct structure ; such appearances are generally seen to^vards the apex of the organ, and may exist in very rare cases inde- pendently of any acknowledged form of tuber- culous deposit; slices of texture thus affected sink in water, are moist on the surface, dense, and compact. In the midst of such masses it is sufficiently usual to discover a number of small specks of yellow opaque tuberculous matter; these increase in number and size, and thereby gradually cause the disappear- ance of the grey matter. Now it is admitted on all hands that the characters of this alleged tuberculous infiltration are extremely like those of chronic pneumonia; and in our mind it is extremely doubtful whether the morbid state be anything more than a particular form of that inflammation. M. Louis draws at- tention to the following points as distinctive of chronic pneumonic induration:—1. Instead of being transparent, the affected tissue is opaque; 2. instead of being homogeneous, it is traversed by thick white septa; 3. the in- durated parts are mere compact than in the presumed tuberculous infiltration. But in ac- knowledged chronic pneumonia all these cha- racters are subject to a great variation in amount; and the formation of yellow tu- bercle proves nothing in either direction, as there is no reason why such formation should not occur in a tissue infiltrated with indu- ration-matter, (h) Of the gelatiniform tuber- culous infiltration of Laennec, it is sufficient to say that no doubt can be entertained as to the fact of his having described, under this name, infiltration of common exudation matter with excess of serosity, sanguineous or not. Tubercle does, however, occur in the endosteal texture of bone in the infiltrated form. The microscopical constitution of yellow tubercle may be described as follows, at least according to the observations we have our- selves made. (1.) Granular substance exists in abundance in tuberculous matter; large masses of soft consistence sometimes consist almost solely of it; and, as the process of softening advances, it abounds likewise; when of well-defined characters and abundant, it constitutes a very distinctive element of tu- bercle. The granules are dark, of yellowish brown tint, heaped up in masses, varying in size from about l-4th or l-5th of that of the red blood corpuscle (say i ^ioo oi' t^ooo of ^'^ inch) to the merest points. Some of them, undissolved by acids, alkalies, or ether, are of modified protein-basis; others, soluble in hot ether, are of fatty nature: the latter are sometimes, though rarely, absent altogether. (2.) Cells.—Cells, though probably always ex- istent in tubercle at some stage ofits develop- ment, are not always to be found, or to be found in very minute proportion only, in specimens examined. In some cases they apparently con- stitute the entire tuberculous mass. We have found them sometimes of circular form, and rather flattish ; sometimes irregular in shape and with rounded angles, never caudate, and nearly averaging in size that of the white blood- corpuscle. They contain a variable number of granules scattered without order through their substance, but generally leaving a free circlet at the periphery. We have never seen a dis- tinctly defined nucleus within them ; acetic acid simply renders the cell-wall more trans- parent, and exhibits the granules more clearly. (3.) Irregular particles. Shapeless particles, flat, pale, and on an average of less size than the cells, are sometimes seen. These are pro- bably, in part at least, the walls of disinte- grating cells ; whether they eventually go to form granular matter is a point open to inquiry, but appears to us probable. With these the substantial constituents of tubercle, are sometimes accidentally associated. (4.) large fat globules; (5.) /j/cr/c5 of cholesterin ; (6.) amoiyhous saline paiiicles; (7.) melanic cells and granules. Nothing having the attributes of a stroma can be detected in tuberculous matter; but a semi- transparent substance, more or less solid, slowly soluble in acetic acid, absolutely structureless and amorphous, holds its elements together. Neither does tubercle ever contain vessels of new formation ; and the imprisonment by tu- berculous deposit of natural capillary vessels, still pervious, is comparatively rare and acci- dental ; there is a tendency, constant in action, and eventually irresistible, to obhteration of the vessels around and amid which the blastema of tubercle is thrown out. A new vascular system, we are aware, has been found to originate in the vicinity of tubercle ; but this development takes place within common in- flammatory exudation matter. In the same way there may be found on the confines of tuberculous matter compound granule-cor- puscles, pus-corpuscles, with, of course, the ultimate elements of the tissues implicated. In the same natural texture with such tuber- culous matter as we have now described, are very frequently found certain small bodies vary- ing in size from that of a pin's head to a very small pea, of greyish-white or greyish tint and glistening aspect. These bodies are known as the semi-transparent grey granulation; and their affinities to yellow tuberculous matter have been a theme of constant disputation from the period at w hich tubercle first became the subject of close study. While some regard them as products of common inflammation (Schroeder van dcr Kolk, Andral) ; while visionaries are found (Kuhn*) to maintain that their relationship is closest to the Nema- zoa of Gaillou (a class of beings forming a link between vegetable and animal existences) ; while a reasoner habitually most cautious (Carswell) regards them in some situations — the lung — as an admixture of mucus and true * Gaz. Med. de Paris, t. ii. p. 342. 1834.