392 RODENTIA. The cerebellum is of moderate proportions, and is scarcely at all overlapped by the pos- terior lobes of the cerebrum. Fig. 278. Upper surface of the brain of the male Agouti {After Serres.) «, the medulla spinalis; b, posterior pjTamid; c, median lobe of the cerebellum; d, hemisphere of cerebellum; e, cerebral hemispheres; /, olfactory- lobe of the brain. On separating the hemispheres, the tuber- cula qiiadrigemina (^g. 280. 8, 9) are seen to be of very large size ; and, what is re- Fig. 279.] Saseof the brain of the male Agouti. (^Afler Serves.) p, pons Varolii; h, lobe of the hippocampus; g,f, lateral portion of cerebral hemisphere; k, anterior part of the lobe of the hippocampus; e, olfactory lobe; u, infundibulum. The nerves are indicated by corresponding numbers. markable, the anterior pair (nates) are of a roundish form, and much larger than the pos- terior pair (testes) (8) ; a circumstance which is the converse of what exists in carnivorous quadrupeds. In other respects the structure of the brain in the Rodentia offers no pecu- liarity worthy of special notice. The organs of the senses conform strictly in their anatomical structure to the general type common to mammiferous quadrupeds, and consequently need not occupy our attention in this place. Fig. 280. Interior of the brain of the same animal. (After Serres.) a, medulla spinalis; b, restiform body; c, arbor vitte cerebelli; 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, ramifications of ditto; d, superior peduncle of the cerebellum; 7, nervus patheticus; 8, posterior quadrigeminal tubercle; 9, anterior quadrigeminal tubercle; 11, optic tract; 12, posterior pillar of the fornix; 13, corpus stria- tum ; n, corpus callosum; i, f, g, horizontal section of the hemisphere on a level A\'ith ditto; Z, ?», lateral portion of the cerebral hemisphere. The structure of the hdnet/s, and the gene- ral disposition of the urinary apparatus afford nothing deserving particular description. Alale organs of generation. — The Rodentia are amongst the most prolific of all quadru- peds ; a circumstance which may, perhaps, account for the extraordinary development of the appendages to the male generative system, which are met with throughout the order. It is, indeed, difficult to identify the precise ana- logies of some of the accessory genital organs, which are much more complex in structure than those of other Vertebrata. In the greater number of Rodents, as for instance in the rats, the Guinea-pigs, the agoutis, the porcupines, the beaver, the onda- tra, and the squirrels, the testicles are not contained in a scrotum, but during the season of impregnation are lodged beneath the skin of the perineum, which is tightly stretched over them. In the hares, however, two dis- tinct scrotal pouches exist (Jig. 281. k, I), situated in the vicinity of the anus, in which