ROTIFERA. 404 Although, at first sight, this might appear a very natural group, a little examination of their so-called rotatory organs will^ suggest the propriety of separating from the rest the genera Floscularia and Stephanoceros. The organs which are called rotatory in those ge- nera are evidently, as Dujardin has pointed out, more like to the bristles or setae of the lorica of other species, than to the true rota- tory organs. The cilia, as they are called, of Floscularia, do not move at all. The bristle- like organs of Stephanoceros are covered with cilia, which appear to be vibratile. The lo- ricae of these animals also consist not of the integument rendered horny, but of a case secreted from the outside of the body of the animal. The animal has the power of retiring into this case, and in Stephanoceros this habit, combined with its structure, give to it a strong resemblance to some of the Cilio brachiate Bryozoa. This external resemblance is so great, that many of the earlier observers re- ferred it to the Polypifera. Oken referred it to the hydroid polyps, and placed it between Hydra and Tuhularia. Goldfuss referred it to a position in the same class between Coryna and Cristatella. In the genus Ladnulariay the same ten- dency to association exists, as is found in Conochilus. The genera Floscularia and Stephanoceros constitute the first family of Dujardin. The remaining genera, previously noticed in this and the other families, are referred to his second family. Family 5.—HydatiNjEA. Character. Na- ked Rotifers, with a many-parted rotatory organ. All the species of this family agree in the divided condition of their wheels, which do not consist of a circular or semi-circular row of cilia, but of several distinct rows or circles of such cilia, which are distinctly separated from each other. All the three forms, except Polyarthra, have an elongated pincer-like pro- cess, proceeding from the abdomen, which resembles a tail, but is no proper continuation of the dorsal integument. In many species, a muscular apparatus is visible, by which the form of the body is changed. The nutritive organs in all cases are very obvious. It is mostly a simple conical intestine, which, in the great proportion of species, is without the constriction, which forms a kind of stomach (Jig. 293. d). Tiiarthra longiseta (Jig. 297.) is, however, an exception, and exhibits a stomach formed by the constriction of the alimentary canal; whilst Notommata myrmeleo {Jig. 303. c) with some other species have a kind of gastric enlargement, terminated by a narrow anal ori- fice. The commencement of the alimentary canal, with one or two exceptions, in all the genera, is supplied with jaws and teeth. Pancreatic glands are constantly present. The reproductive system is hermaphrodite. The ovarium {Jig. 303. 0 is elongated ; the eggs few. The male organs consist of two filiform elongated glands {Jig. 303. g), and two contractile vesicles. The ova appear under two forms, one smooth and soft, the other hard and spinous. Kotommata bracliionus, and the genera Polyarthra and Tnarthra, bear their ova, like the Crustacea, attached to their sides. In several of the genera a vascular system has been observed (fg. 293.//,/,/), in the form of transverse and longitudinal vessels, the latter supplied with the tremulous organs called gills ( fig. 303./, /). With this system, a kind of tap, or simple opening, in the neck {Jig. 293. g) is connected. In fifteen of the genera, the two eyes, with their accompanying nervous ganglia { Jig. 293. c), indicate the exist- ence of a sensationarv system. In Hydatina and other genera, nervous ganglia are seen in other parts of the body. Eyeless. "With eyes. No teeth. With iP9ih |Teeth many. With teeth.i^gg^j^ single. Eye frontal. Analysis of the genera. One eye. Two eyes. Three eyes. Eye in neck. Eyes frontal. Eyes in neck. Eyes sessile. Two frontal pedi- culated, neck sessile. Eyes more fin single heaps, than three. [In two heaps. ital pedi-l I, one inl jssile. J Foot styliform. Foot furcated, f^lj^^^^i^; rilifl frontal i With hooks. ciha trontal. ^ Without either. No foot, divided! fins. J TA furcate foot. fstylifonnfoot. {™ded. Foot furcate. In neck. Two frontal, in neck. one I Enteroplea. Hydatina. Pleurotrocha. Furcularia. Monocerca. Synchceta. Scaridium. Notommata. Polyarthra. Diglena. Triarthra. Rattulus. Distemma. Triophthalmus. Fosphora. Otoglena. Cycloglena. Theorus. This family contains a larger number of very generally diffused ; and Ehrenberg, in his species than any of the others. They are microscopic labours, in many parts of the