652 SKELETON. asternal, that is to say, falling short of sternal junction. A comparison held between these seven sternal and five asternal ribs, must lead the reason to draw the conclusion that the difference between both orders of these ribs is caused by the subtraction of a certain osseous quantity from tlie asternal ribs, which circumstance has dissevered them from the sternal median line ; and hence follows the relationary inference, that if this osseous quan- tity had not suffered subtraction or meta- morphosis from those ribs which are now in asternal character, these would have per- sisted in their original archetypal or plus quantities, and would thereby have joined a sternal median line, just in the same way as the seven true ribs still do. In this cise, we should have had twelve true or sternal ribs forming the human thoracic cavity. In the same way, again, I may remark, that if the five ribs which are now lost to the lumbar vertebrae, and which loss has rendered these bodies in the lumbar fashion, had still per- sisted in their original archetypal proportions, these ribs would also have joined a sternal median line, and would have thereby com- pletely enclosed ventral space. In such case we should have had seventeen true or sternal ribs. Again, if the original or archetypal costo-vertebral osseous quantities, from which the sacro-caudal series of vertebrae have been metamorphosed, had still persisted, these also should have joined a sternal median line, and completely enclosed space. In this case we should have had twenty-eight true or sternal ribs. And if the original archetypal osseous quantities, from which the seven cervical ver- tebrae have been metamorphosed, had also still persisted, we should then have had thirty- five true or sternal ribs. In which case the human skeletal axis, instead of numbering, as it does, thirty-five spinal segments of variable proportions, such as those of cervix, thorax, loins, sacrum, and caudex, would have pre- sented to us, in its original or archetypal quan- tity, the number of thirty-five sternal costo- vertebral spinal segments. In such a form, I imagine that the sternal median line would range from one extremity to the other of the serial spinal axis. And now let us examine, w hether this ideal archetype coincides with all natural evidence derivable from general com- parison. Not only does a numerical variation occur in human species as to the true or sternal ribs (for I have seen them counting from 7 to 10), but I will venture to predict, that we should find this numerical variation, as to sternal ribs, happening amongst the indi- viduals of any other species of the four classes, if we dissected them as frequently, and with as much interest, as we do the human body. In the human skeletal form, we are accustomed to name the seven sternal ribs as normal to this type ; and all excess of costo-sternal union as abnormal or anomalous. The like variation, from normal to abnormal, occurs amongst the individuals of every known species of skeleton ; and the reason which I assign for this variety of infinite account is, that all such variety, whether normal or ab- normal, is but a minus condition, degraded from a plus or archetype condition of skeletal form, which latter has all the vertebral pieces holding homologous series behind, all the costal pieces holding homologous series late- rally, and all the sternal pieces holding their own order anteriorly. In such an archetypal skeleton there could be no such hiatuses or gaps, in series, as those of the cervix and the venter, &c., where, be it remembered, all variety and " anomalous" creation occurs. Now is there not every good reason to be- lieve that the contrast, which the normal con- dition of any one species bears to the abnormal condition of that same species in respect to the number of ribs meeting at a sternal median line, is only a part of that general contrastive condition which all species bear to one ano- ther, in respect to this same costo-sternal union or non-union? Let us examine this truly marvellous law, whereby all contrasts of formation result, not only for the one spe- cies, but for all species : for it is this law which I conceive to be the proper aim of the osteologist. Let us not weary patience with recounting the facts that skeletal forms do differ, but let us rather furnish imagination with the one over-arching fact, as to how they are differenced, each one to each, and all to archetypal uniformity. All individuals of one species will, when viewed collectively, manifest the normal and abnormal contrasts to that same species, in respect to variation in the number of sternal, and the number of asternal ribs. All species, viewed collectively, will manifest the same, only in a greater degree, and in broader con- trast. When I compare the normal and the abnormal conditions of costo-sternal union in individuals of the same species, and also the numerical variety as to the number of sternal and asternal ribs, I find that the abnormal is to the normal condition of the one species, nothing more than what the normal condition of one species is to the normal condition of another; hence, I say that it is the same law which produces, in the one case, the normal and abnormal castes of form in the one spe- cies, and the normal castes of form in diverse species. If one human skeleton differs from another, as to the number of sternal ribs and of asternal ribs, and that in one we find the cervical ribs, in another the lumbar ribs, and in all some number of ribs or other, what is this variety, and whence has it occurred, but by the operation of that same law of metamorphosis which fashions the skeletal axis of a baboon of one number of ribs, that of a horse of another number, that of a sloth of another number, that of a cetacean of ano- ther number, that of a bird of another number, that of a reptile of another number, that of a fish of another number ? Is it not this same law which has fashioned all individual species of mammals of variable numbers of ribs ? all individual species of birds of variable numbers of ribs ? all individual species of reptiles of