PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 86 bile-pigment 10.81. Bertazzi* maintains cop- per to be a constant ingredient of biliary calculi, having found it in every one of fourteen speci- mens, apparently to an amount varying directly as the quantity of colouring matter present. Heller f confirms the statement of this chemist. Bertazzi failed in detecting copper in the bile collected from the gall-bladders of ten persons. In very rare instances calculi have been found composed of inspissated bile. Mr. Taylor J discovered a calculus in the collection of the College of Surgeons, pre- sumed to be biliary, and composed of the stea- rate of lime. It floated in water, and had a lamellar structure ; the lamellae being easily separable and alternately of white and reddish yellow colour. In the centre was a small cavity. The analysis, justifying the above view of its composition, is given in full. This rare description of calculus appears to signify a stage of transition from the common cases to those instances in which the biliary passages contain masses composed essentially of car- bonate and phosphate of lime, especially of the former salt. Richter describes a case in which the liver contained a multitude of such bodies varying in size from a pea to a cherry. Matter of this kind is occasionally found coat- ing the gall-bladder and ducts ; and in the interior of cysts in the substance of the organ. (Baillie and Zannini.) (/.) Pancreatic.— Calculi of the pancreatic duct have been observed in rare instances by Matani, Eller, Bium;, Galeati, and others. Baillie found some as large as a hazel-nut, of white colour and irregular surface, which Wol- laston ^ showed were composed of carbonate of lime. Fig. 88. represents a portion of a dilated pancreatic duct, which contained an enormous number of small calculi (such as are seen within it in the sketch) of dull white colour, perfectly round, varying in size from that of a pin's head to that of a small pea, elastic and hard. Fis. 88, Pqincreatic calculi, natural size. ( Univ. Coll. 3Ius. Pancreatic calculi have not, as far as we are aware, been found in the intestine in transitu outwards. (m.) Seminal. — Calculous masses have oc- casionally been detected in the vesiculae se- jninales and ejaculatory ducts.|| Collard de Martigny found some composed of mucus and coagulated albumen chiefly, with a small quan- * Polii, Annali di Chemica; Milano, Juglio, 1845 t Archiv. vol. ii. p. 228. j Lond. and Ediiib. Phil. IMag. 1840. § Pemberton, Diss, of the Abdom. Viscera, p. 68. II Hartmann, De calc. in vesic. seminal. Erfurt, 1765. tity of calcareous salts.* These calculi some- times accumulate in vast numbers ; thus two hundred were discovered in the right vesicula seminalis of a man aged fort3-five-f; no symp- tom had occurred during life connected wath the organ. (??.) Mammary. — The lactiferous ducts are occasionally the seat of minute calculous bodies ; Gooch, Haller, Reil, and others report cases of the kind. Morgagni alludes to their existence in the breast of a gouty person. The history of the case generally connects their production with the function of suckling, and sometimes with obstruction of the flow of milk. (o.) Vagijial and pudendal. — Calcareous ac- cumulations in these parts are not extremely rare. They originate in a deposition of phos- phates around some foreign body; a pessary for example, or around a nucleus of thickened mucus accumulating either from habits of un- cleanliness or from malposition of the uterus. Kohler discovered five large chalky-looking masses, weighing together more than seven ounces, in the vagina of a woman, aged forty, affected with prolapsus uteri. (/?.) Uterine.—The internal surface of the uterus is in rare instances found more or less extensively lined with, or studded with rounded masses of, saline matter of variable consistence. This condition has been observed in cases of deviation of axis of the uterus; the saline matter is in all probability composed mainly of phosphate and carbonate of lime. (B.) Concretions or Pseudo-calculi.— Concretions are masses composed of saline materials deposited in a pre-existing organic basis,— the former, as they increase, gradually encroach on and, as it were, dispossess the lat- ter, until eventually, in many instances, all ob- vious traces of its existence have disappeared. The saline matters are commonly deposited punctatim; and the organic basis, in which they accumulate may be non-stromal (as, for example, tuberculous matter, atheromatous matter, &c.), or stromal (as, for example, fibrous tumour, &c.) And, again, the natural textures (as, for instance, cellular tissue, tendon, &c. in the case of tophaceous con- cretions) ; the solid elements of the cir- ^ culating fluid (as the fibrin of the blood in ' the case of phleboliths) ; and, lastly, various adventitious]substances (as those mentioned ) above), may severally act the part of that organic basis. {a.^ Elementary cell. — Perhaps the sim- plest form of true concretion is that in which an epithelium-cell becomes coated or studded with saline material. We have seen this con- dition in the epithelium lining adventitious cysts, in the epithehum floating in pleuritic efllisions, and occasionally in that discharged with the urine. The concretions, not very un- commonly found in the choroid plexus, con- sist of round cells coated with calcareous salts. Flakes of albuminous substance may some- * Journ. de Chim. INIed. t. iii. p. 133. t Archives de Me'decine, Juin, 1831.