426 SALIVARY GLANDS. slightly viscid saliva by their orifices, which are visible to the unassisted eye. We have already stated that the posterior part of the sublingual gland is occasionally represented by one or more distinct glands in juxta-position, each furnished with a very short excretory duct. These distinct lobes of the gland are in every way analogous to one of the molar glands or larger labial. It will thus be observed that the transition of the primary to the subsidiary glands is by no means rapid, but that they run the one into the other by insensible gradations, the sub- lingual gland passing from the one series into the other. A molar, labial, or buccal gland, with its excretory duct, might then be not inaptly compared, according to its size, to a secondary or tertiary lobule of the parotid, or submaxillary. The labial glands form a series of closely packed small spheroidal glands, of consider- able density, situated in the areolar tissue between the mucous membrane of the mouth and the orbicularis oris muscle, and in relation above and below, consequently, with the upper and lower lip. They are not of uniform volume or number. Sebastian* has observed as many as fifty-seven in the lower lip, and in other instances from thirteen to twenty- one, their size increasing in the inverse ratio to their number. They are more nu- merous in the infant than in the adult. Their excretory ducts open perpendicularly or ob- liquely into the vestibule of the mouth on the posterior or free surface of the labial mucous membrane. They are not visible to the eye when the lips are in their natural lax position, but when the latter are everted, so that the mucous membrane is rendered tense, they form considerable projections. The buccal glands are exactly analogous to the labial glands in form and position, being irregularly spheroidal, and placed between the buccinator and mucous membrane, and open by the orifices of distinct ducts on to the free surface of the latter. They are, however, smaller. The molar glands — two, three, or four in number—form an exception as regards their situation to the above glands, being placed between the buccinator and masseter muscles. They are also larger and more dense, being composed of several lobes. The ducts ter- minate by opening on to the mucous mem- brane at the posterior part of the cheek. In a subject we recently examined, their ter- minal orifices were arranged horizontally at unequal distances from each other, on a level with the orifice of Steno's duct, but more than half an inch behind it. They were five in number. We have not succeeded in observ- ing the communications which the ducts of one or more of these glands is stated by some anatomists to estabhsh with the duct of the parotid. The 'palatine glands are very numerous and * Sebastian, Reclierclies sur les Glandes Labiales, Annales de la Chirurgie. Paris, 1842. t. vi. small, and situated partly between the mucous membrane and the palatine arch, and partly between the mucous and muscular layers of the soft palate. The former are situated on either side of the median line, and form a thick layer, being more closely aggregated together in the front and behind than in the middle, opening on to the mucous membrane by distinct orifices. The latter, smaller than the former, exist both on the upper and lower surface of the velum, and are continuous below, where they are more numerous than above, with the glands of the hard palate. The posterior lingual glands are placed at the back part of the tongue, directly behind the large papillae, which form a distinct pro- minence at this part. They are spheroidal, and have remarkably short excretory ducts, the circular orifices of which, however, are distinctly visible. The last glands to which we would direct attention are two in number, and from their situation may be appropriately termed the anterior lingual glands. They have been re- cently described by Blandin, Nuhn*, and Schlemm, as being situate below the apex of the tongue, between the lower longitudinal and transverse muscular fibres, and pouring their secretion during the movements of that organ on to the mucous membrane beneath the tip. They have only as yet been disco- vered in man and the ouran-outan. We have observed them on the inferior surface of the tongue, half an inch behind its anterior border, immediately above the longitudinal muscular fibres, one on either side of the median line, and about two-thirds of an inch long. Broad behind and narrow in front, they are separated from each other in the former direction by an interval of about half an inch, in the latter are almost in mutual contact. Their direction therefore is obliquely from behind forwards and inwards {Jig. 305, b). Each gland is fur- Fig. 305. a. Bristles in the orifices of the ducts of the left anterior lingual gland, b. The right anterior lin- gual gland, c. The raphe of the tongue. nished with three or four delicate ducts, given off from its lower surface, and which perforate the mucous membrane obliquely parallel to the long axis of the gland 305, a). These glands are of less consistence than the molar or labial. We have met with one instance in * A. Nuhn, iiber eine bis jetzt noch nicht naiher beschriebene Drtise im Innern der Zungenspitze. Mannheim, 1845, quoted by Valentin in Physiologic der Menschen, 1847, zweite Auflage.