621 SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES. rotation, as was mentioned to be the case in the former example. We must agree with the author that the phenomena noticed in this rare and remark- able case originated neither in disease, nor were they the result of accident. The com- plete absence of a glenoid cavity in the nor- mal situation for it, the existence of the malformation on both sides, the perfect resemblance to each other of the abnormal sockets, in form, size, and position, the in- tegrity of the tendon of the biceps and of the capsular and glenoid ligaments, and the pe- culiar form of the head of the humerus, as well as of the acromion process of the sca- pula on each side, all support the opinion that the malformation was intra-uterine and con- genital. (^Robert Adams.^ SIXTH PAIR OF NERVES. Le Sixieme Nerf, Fr. ; Sechster Nerv, Germ. According to the enumeration of Willis, this name is bestowed upon a single soft round cord, which is, with the exception of the fourth, the smallest of the cranial nerves, and which, passing forwards from the medulla oblongata to the external rectus of the eye, finds its distribution in this muscle. The anatomy of this nerve is readily sub- divided into three portions. The first of these extends from its apparent origin to the point where it enters the cavernous sinus ; the second includes its course in that cavity ; and the third, commencing at the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anticus, contains the course of the nerve in the orbit, and is terminated by its distribution. The visible origin of the nerve is by one or two bundles from the medulla oblongata, from the anterior pyramid of which it ap- pears at its upper part, or in the transverse depression immediately behind the posterior border of the pons varolii. By careful dis- section, the nerve can be traced into the sub- stance of this anterior column, and, appa- rently, it passes through it towards the grey matter which more deeply surrounds this tract of the medulla. Further than this it is impossible to follow it satisfactorily, although some anatomists have, with Mayo, assigned to it a yet deeper origin. In the first part of its course the nerve passes forwards, upwards, and outwards for a very short distance, from near the median line to the posterior extre- mity of the cavernous sinus which forms the commencement of the inferior petrosal sinus. In this course it Hes upon the concave basilar surface of the sphenoid bone, and is covered above by the projecting pons varolii ; and at the front, where it leaves the interior ol the skull, the arachnoid membrane is reflected around it. It next passes through an opening in the dura mater, and enters the cavity of the sinus. This aperture is situated just in- ternal to the tip of the petrous bone, and is about one-third of an inch anterior to the orifice of the fifth nerve, bnt on a rather lower level. On entering the sinus, it is somewhat curved or bent into a more horizontal direction, and crosses over the posterior or vertical part of the carotid artery, which here experiences its sigmoid bend by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. It next lies parallel to, but beneath, the horizontal part of this vessel, and passes almost directly forwards, through and amongst the numerous reticulations which occupy the cavity of the sinus, but it is covered by its lining membrane. At the anterior extremity of the cavernous sinus it enters the orbit by passing between the two heads or processes of origin of the external rectus muscle. Since the nerve in this course lies within the sinus, it is internal to the three nerves, viz. the third, fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth, which are situated in the dura mater forming its outer wall. Poste- riorly, the lowest of these, or the ophthalmic nerve, lies on much the same level, but nearer to the sphenoidal fissure. The latter nerve having passed upwards, the sixth is left again occupying the most inferior and internal position of all the nerves w hich pass through this orifice, the lower division of the third being to its inner side, and somewhat superior to it, whilst above this is the nasal branch of the fifth. Below the sixth nerve, the oph- thalmic vein perforates the dura mater of the sinus by a separate aperture, In the cavernous sinus, the following branches are connected with, or come from, this nerve : — 1. It is connected with the sympathetic nerve by several filaments. Two of these are of considerable size, and may be traced back- wards at rather an acute angle from the trunk of the nerve, to join those numerous rami- fications of the sympathetic which constitute the carotid plexus surrounding the artery in this venous cavity. 2. An anastomosis, or junction with the ophthalmic branch of the fifth, is described by most anatomists, and may be readily verified in the recent subject. One or more branches, having very much the same direction and ap- pearance with the preceding to the sympa- thetic, pass backwards from the sixth nerve, in the anterior part of the sinus ; leaving it at a very acute angle, inclining outwards as they go, and finally, entering the wall of the sinus to join the ophthalmic branch, not far from the Gasserian ganglion. These branches also exist in the sheep, and some other of the lower animals.* * A very similar description might be extended to the analogous junction of the fourth nerve with this division of the fifth. Thus, in the sheep, three or even four considerable branches leave the ophthal- mic nerve at an acute angle to join the fourth nerve. They effect this junction very obliquely, and may be traced forwards (distad) for at least some distance. May not some of these filaments, traced backwards from the fourth nerve to the wall of the cavernous sinus, which they enter to join the ophthalmic division, have been the ^entormZ branches of Bidder, which he describes as coming from the former nerve to be distributed to the dura mater of the tentorium ?