121 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. Growths seem to exercise a very distinct in- fluence on the structural character of the mass as visible to the naked eye. The locular aspect of their divided surfaces, for instance, we fully believe to be dependent on such influence. In the case of Growths enlarging on the endogenous plan, it is obvious that the juxtaposition of successive round cells within a containing or parent cell must cause this to retain its spherical outline, until it has en- larged sufficiently to become visible with the naked eye; and further, that if several of these enlarged ceils be placed round a common centre and beside each other, the general form of the area they cover must be spherical. And so we find that it is precisely in enchon- droma and in colloid cancer, distinctly en- dogenous formations, that sphericity is most decided. The thickening and fibrous depo- sition, which take place both in the walls of enlarged cells and in the interceli substance, contribute further to the deceptive appear- ance of encysted structure. In masses which enlarge on the exogenous plan, the spherical character in the loculi is much less apparent. In scirrhus, and in many specimens of ence- phaloid, it is not to be clearly descried ; the pre- dominance of straightly-fibrous arrangement of the stroma, produced by the presence of real fibrous tissue, of fusiform corpuscles, &c., accounts for this. But even in Growths of this class, the original rounded form of the elementary constituents tends to impress upon their larger divisions, as these do upon the entire mass, the spherical shape. Accidental circumstances, of course, are liable to affect this ; but the internal locular arrangement of fibrous tumours shows that those circum- stances may be only partially effectual. The locular character (under the title of "encysted") has been put forward as an evidence of "malignity" on the part of the structure exhibiting it. Experience proves the notion to be untenable. Sphericity of the loculi is most obvious in enchondroma, one of the most intrinsically innocent Growths known ; such sphericity is, on the other hand, totally, or almost totally, wanting in scirrhus and many specimens of encephaloid. Again, the least deleterious form of cancer — col- loid, exhibits it in an especial manner; and, though modified, it is evident in those pecu- liarly benignant structures (considered in their essence) fibrous tumours. The decay of Growths is preceded by soften- ing of their substance; this softening, indeed, by its increase actually constitutes their de- cay. The change is effected by infiltration of serosity, interstitial haemorrhage, by satura- tion with inflammation-products and by gan- grene, either of inflammatory or simply mechanical origin. Or, there is an important class of cases, in which the softening of Growths seems analagous to that undergone by stagnating fibrin, and probably depends on chemical decomposition. The removal of Growths (fibrous, cancerous, and others,) is sometimes effected by a spon- taneous process, commonly comprising at- tenuation and rupture, or ulceration of the investing natural tissues, and gradual liquefac- tion of the morbid matter, which is poured through the opening ; or, in less common cases, consisting of sphacelus, whereby the mass, in whole or in part, is separated from its connections. Cicatrisatioyi of the ulcerated surfaces of Growths is occasionally witnessed. We have ourselves seen this change occur on the proper surface of formations possessing all the cha- racters of scirrhus. Growths of all descriptions are liable, when removed spontaneously or by art, to be repro- duced in the spot they previously occupied, if the removal have not been absolutely com- plete. The particles left behind act as at- tractive forces for new blastema convertible into cells, similar to those of which themselves are composed. This mode of reproduction (as it is erroneously called, for it is nothing more than enlargement, facilitated by removal of pressure of pre-existing substance) occurs with Growths of all kinds, cancerous, sarcoma- tous, fibrous, fatty, enchondromatous, erect- ile, &c. But it would appear that in some cases of surgical removal, when the whole mass has, as is presumed, been extirpated, a new growth vegetates in its place. The dif- ference of the cases is often rather apparent than real: we have distinctly found the ger- mina of cancer in tissue, reputed healthy, surrounding a cancerous mass ; and it is manifest that such germina, though invisible to the naked eye, ma}^ quite as readily as a fragment of diseased tissue of even consider- able size, act as the efficient agents of new development. When, independently of this mode of generation, the disease returns in the seat of its former growth, the occurrence must depend upon the continuance of that depraved state of the blood which is fitted to supply the necessary blastema, and likewise, possibly, upon some peculiar state of vessels of the part favouring its exudation liere rather than elsewhere. o i\y ^ ""^-^ In other cases, hardly has^^-gi^Qwth been removed from one place, when a mass of the same kind appears in some distant and appa- rently unconnected part of the body : this occurrence, which is especial!}'" observed in the case of cancer, is termed its " distant repro- duction," and is explicable in two ways. The newly discovered growth may have existed previously to the extirpation of the old one, and having simply acquired additional activity, so become obvious, after that extirpation. Or the new growth may really have first appeared subsequently to the removal of the old (this we believe to be rare) : in this case the simple explanation is that the vitiated state of the blood, proper for the supply of the neces- sary blastema, continues ; and this blastema is poured out in some other part of the frame, the original tumour no longer existing to attract its deposition within or around itself. § 5. The chemical study of Growths is yet in its infancy. Miiller's division into three chemi- cal classes, the albuminous, the gelatinous, and