ROTIFERA. 397 of their ciliated rotatory organs. They were formerly classed together with the polygastric animalcules (Polygastria), under the com- mon name of Infusoria, on account of their frequent presence with these animals in vege- table infusions. Recent researches, more especially those of Ehrenberg, have shown that the Rotifera possess a much higher and more complicated organisation than the Poly- gastria ; so much so, that in any linear arrange- ment of the animal kingdom, if the Polygastria were regarded as the lowest beings, several classes might properly intervene between them and the Rotifera. We shall, however, see that there are transitionary forms from the lower to the higher family, sufficiently indicative of their relations and the common circumstances under which they are produced. For the discovery, and our knowledge of the structure, of the Rotifera, as well as the Polygastria, we are almost entirely indebted to the use of the microscope. Although, gene- rally, the former creatures are much larger than the latter, they were not discovered till after the Polygastria. We are, however, in- debted for the first observation of both the one and the other to the sagacity of the same great observer Leeuwenhoek, who, in 1675, first saw the Vorticella convallaria^ and, in 1702, described the Roiifer vulgaris. Pre- vious to this period, no accurate knowledge of creatures so small existed, although the specu- lations of Plato and the older Greek philoso- phers, subsequently followed up by Descartes, on the doctrine of living atoms, indicated that the human mind had already felt the possibility of the existence of such conditions of organic matter. Aristotle, too (Hist. Anim. v. c. 19.), as Ehrenberg has pointed out, was not un- aware of the fact, that coloured water was produced by worms of some kind, which would seem to indicate a knowledge of the existence of some of the forms of Infusoria. As the discovery of the first Rotifer must be regarded as an era in the history of zoology, we give it in the words of Leeuwen- hoek himself:—" On the 25th of August I saw in a leaden gutter, at the fore part of my house, for the length of about five feet, and the breadth of seven inches, a settlement of rain water which appeared of a red colour. ... I took a drop of this water which I placed before the microscope, and in it I dis- covered a great number of animalcules. Some of them red, and others of them green. The largest of these viewed through the micro- scope did not appear bigger than a large grain of sand to the naked eye, the size of the others was gradually less and less : they were for the most part of a round shape ; and in the green ones the middle part of their bodies was of a yellowish colour. Their bodies seemed composed of particles of an oval shape ; they were also provided with certain short and slender organs, or limbs, which were pro- truded a little way out of their bodies, by means of which they caused a kind of cir- cular motion and current in the water : when they were at rest, and fixed themselves to the glass, they had the shape of a pear with a short stalk. Upon more carefully examining this stalk, or rather this tail, I found that the extremity was divided into two parts, and by the help of these tails, the animalcules fixed themselves to the glass ; the lesser of these appeared to me to be the offspring of the larger ones." This animalcule, which was the Rotifer vulgaris^ is so accurately described by Leeuwenhoek in the same paper, as to leave little to be added by future describers. Sub- sequently to the time of Leeuwenhoek, who in addition to the Rotifer vulgaris discovered the Melicerta ringeus, a number of species were described by Joblot, Hill, Baker, Rose), Brady, and others; so that, in 1824, Bory St. Vincent was enabled principally, from the writings of others, to describe eighty species. Up to this time no distinction had been made between the wheel and other animalcules as a class. This separation was effected by Ehrenberg, who has not only examined the structure of these creatures with great care, but has added many new species to the list. In his work on infusory animalcules, he de- scribes 189 species in fifty>five genera and eight families. The Rotifera, undoubtedly, deserve to be called Infusoria as much as the Polygastria, as they are found very generally with the latter in various kinds of infusions. There are some circumstances, however, under which the Polygastria are developed, in which no Rotifera have yet been found: thus the Polygastria have been found inhabiting water, containing sulphuretted hydrogen and other gaseous constituents, where no Rotiferous ani- malcules have been found at all. As a general statement, it is true that the Rotifera are the last to appear in infusions ; but there are many instances in which Polygastria are developed without the subsequent appearance of Rotifera, and they disappear from infusions sooner than the former. Of the 722 species of Infusoria, described by Ehrenberg, he found that forty - one only were commonly present in the various artificial infusions, which he made in various parts of the world. Of these only three species belonged to the class Rotifera, viz. Co- lurus uncinatus, Ictht/diinn podura, and Lepa- della ovalis. It is the appearance of these animalcules in infusions, which among other things have led to the question of equivocal ge- neration (Generation); but whateverground the low organisation of some of the Poly- gastria might afford for a belief in this doc- trine, the Rotifera have an organisation too high to allow of doubt on this point. The fact of creatures so highly developed being produced in infusions, would create a doubt with regard to the whole theory of equivocal generation, which only positive observation could set aside. The Rotifera, although classed with the Po- lygastria as *'infusory animalcules," must not be regarded as performing a common function with them in the economy of creation, for not only are there fewer species of Rotifera, but they also exist in much smaller numbers.