SEMEN. 484 Fi2. 353. enclosed by a lesser or greater number of but here, as well as in the Lacerta, &c., the cyst-like mother cells {Jig. 350.). The size of formation of the spermatozoa only takes place each of these cysts amounts to about wherever the number of the enclosed cells is small; but in the reverse case it may in- crease to -io"^. The cells of developement dissolve after the formation of the sperma- tozoa, and the latter then get into the in- terior of the cyst {Jig. 351.). The spiral wind- Fig. 351. Spermatozoa in the interior of the cysts {Torpedo Narce'). ings of the body seem to be still wanting at this stage, or, at least, not to be perfectly developed. If the number of spermatozoa is only small in one cyst, they never group together into a bundle, whilst this is con- stantly occurring in the reverse case {Jig- 352.). Fig. 352. Bundle of Spermatozoa in a cyst { Torpedo Narce). We will not venture to decide, however, whe- ther this difference is entirely attributable to the greater number of the cells of develope- ment ; and we are the less inclined to do so, as we have already seen, when investigating the spermatozoa of birds, that, even with an equal number of the formations alluded to, the grouping of the spermatozoa in the in- terior of the cyst may be different. This much, however, is certain, that the num- ber of the enclosed cells is not entirely with- out influence. The fact of the fascicles of spermatozoa always coinciding in one cyst with a greater number of the cells of develope- ment, seems, at all events, to favour this con- jecture. Previous to the period of procreation, we also find, in the testicles of the osseous fishes, that the cells of developement are enclosed in the interior of larger cells {Jig. 1^53.); Spermatic cells from Cyprinus hrama. subsequently to the destruction of the cyst, and to the consequent independence of the cells of developement. We infer this from the circumstance that we have never seen in them any real bundles of spermatozoa. The state- ment of Kolliker that the spermatozoa of Am- phioxus develope themselves from little cells (of ToW —tW). ^vhich lie together in groups of from six to twenty-five, also seems to support the correctness of our conjecture. Each of such groups appears to us to be the brood of a single mother cell. The mother cells themselves, however, are of such a small size, that the formation of such brood in their inte- rior is not to be traced or perceived. It can only be seen that these cells gradually lose their round shape, and that they assume a pear, or spinclle-like form. This, unquestionably, is merely the consequence of the endogenous developement of a spermatozoon, which gra- dually stretches itself, thereby causing (as in Gallus, Rana, &c.) the change of shape of the external enclosure. Thus much of the proportions of form, and of the mode of developement of the sperma- tozoa among the Vertebrata. We have treated this subject somewhat elaborately, partly be- cause the spermatozoa of these animals are those which may be most frequently obtained for observation,—partly also because it is in them that the stages of developement can be better traced and recognised. We have invariably met with in them a common type, not merely in the external shape, but also in the mode of developement of the spermatozoa ; and these are circumstances which will be of importance to us in interpreting the stages of developement of the spermatozoa in the lower animals, in which they are as yet enveloped in great ob- scurity. MoLLUscA. —Among the Invertebrata, the division of the Mollusca uniformly possesses (as in the Vertebrata) filiform spermatozoa, which are enlarged at the anterior extremity. This anterior extremity does not, however, every where form a particular division, as a body, distinct from the posterior thinner part or tail. On the contrary, the one passes in many cases so gradually into the other, that it is im- possible to determine the boundary between the two. The tail then appears to be a mere pointed continuation of the anterior enlarged part. The two thus distinct forms of sper- matozoa are, however, again united with one another in various ways.