RODENTIA. 379 tooth, and is interposed behind, between the maxillary and the sphenoid. In the viscache and the chinchilla, the bones of the nose are oval and elongated; the ascending branches of the intermaxillaries very narrow at their origin ; but they enlarge as they approach the frontal, as in the jerboas. The maxillary, in both, forms the entire pre- orbital ring; but in the viscache the vertical portion of the arch is doubled posteriorly, as in the helamys, by an ascending branch of the jugal, by the lachrymal, and by the frontal bones. At the bottom of the ring there is a deep* groove, almost entirely separated from it by a vertical plate, as in the alactaga. In the chinchilla, the jugal does not reach as far as the lachrymal, and in the pre-orbital ring there is only a very superficial furrow, with no ver- tical plate of separation. In both species the Fig. 261. Base of the skull of the Chinchilla, b, b, tympanic portion of temporal bone; /, occi- pital bone; m, mastoid bone; n, palate bone; o, the sphenoid; p, the superior maxillary bone. palatine is very deeply notched, it articulates with the maxillary, except externally, where a point of the posterior sphenoid touches the latter bone : moreover, on account of the en- tire absence of the external wall of the ptery- goid fossa, the palatine is found to occupy a considerable space in the floor of the orbit, be- tween the orbital alae and the maxillary: it does not, however, mount upwards, as in the kerodon, between the latter bone and the frontal, to become connected with the lachry- mal. The internal pterygoid apophysis is largely connected with the tympaiumi. Bones of the carjius.— Generally, in the Rodentia, the os magnum is divided into two, as it is in the monkeys ; in the porcupine this is not the case, but there is a supernumerary bone interposed between the os pisiforme and the metacarpal bone of the fifth finger con- nected with the OS unciforme. The hare and some other Rodents have one carpal bone more than the human subject ; it is situated between the scaphoid, the trape- zium, and the os magnum, of which last it appears to be a dismemberment; but the beaver, the marmot, the squirrel, the rats, and the agoutis have, like the Carnivora, a single bone representing the scaphoid. The supernumerary bone is as large as the ordinary pisiform, and often much larger. Sometimes, as in the jerboa and the marmot, there are two supernumerary bones, so that, on each side of the wrist, there is a bone of equal size out of rank. In the capybara the scaphoid and the semi- lunar bone are united without any supernu- merary ossicle; a small one, however, exists in the Guinea-pig. The paca, the agouti, and the capybara have the os magnum divided ; these three animals possess, as the rudiment of the thumb, a small bone situated upon the trapezoid, w^ith which it is articulated. In the marmot and the agouti this rudiment is com{)osed of three ossicles ; and there is, moreover, an internal supernumerary bone. Fig. 262. Skeleton of the Hare (^Lepus timidus).