SHOULDER JOINT — (Normal Anatomy). .575 tern consequent on the administration of mercury. Neither must the influence of at- mospheric pressure be forgotten, which, ex- erting as it does a force of nearly fifteen pounds on the square inch, must powerfully contribute to preserve the contact of the articular surfaces. Within the capsular ligament, and at the upper and outer part of the joint, two struc- tures are found, which may, with propriety, be described as inter-articular ligaments; these are the tendon of the long head of the biceps, and the gleno-humeral, or Flood's ligament. The long tendon of the biceps has been de- scribed already, as attached to the apex of the glenoid cavity, and to the fibrous portion of its circumferential fibro-cartilage. Surrounded by synovial membrane, it passes downwards and outwards, forming an arch over the head of the humerus, it then descends in the bi- cipital groove, where it is retained in situ by the fibres of the capsular, and of the accessory (^coraco-lunneral) ligaments. Cruveilhier mentions that in two cases he found this tendon united by a strong adhesion to its groove, *' thus justifying the name of * inter-articular ligament:' the tendon for the long head of the biceps took its origin from the same groove." This condition, Cruveil- hier supposes to have been the result of in- jury; but as the appearance in question has been seen by the writer, as the result of chronic rheumatism, affecting the scapulo- humeral articulation, he is compelled, although reluctantly, to dissent from such high autho- rity, and to express his opinion that this change originated in rheumatism, not in ac- cident; his opinion is farther borne out by the state of the inter-articular portion of the tendon in Cruveilhier's cases, for it is stated, that " the bicipital groove was depressed, and the inter-articular ligament flattened, and, as it were, lacerated." The inter-articular portion of the tendon of the biceps, by itself, could scarcely protect the head of the humerus from displacement upwards, a use very commonly assigned to it, as the smooth convex head of the bone would readily slip from beneath it; but in the interior of the joint, a second band, the " gleno-humeral ligament," cjescribed by the late Dr. V. Flood, is thrown across the head of the humerus, and may contribute to oppose this luxation ; we quote the following de- scription of this ligament from Dr. Flood : — " It may be easily exposed," he says, " by cut- ting through the inferior part of the capsule transversely, and throwing back the arm over the head, you thus expose the interior of the upper part of the capsule, also the biceps tendon. Parallel to the inner edge of the latter, this ligament may be felt and exposed by a little dissection. The tendon of the sub- scapularis in passing to its insertion, rests in a notch in the superior and internal part of the edge of the cavity; from the edges of this notch, the ligament arises broad and flat, then proceeds along the internal edge of the biceps tendon, and becoming smaller and rounder, is inserted into a distinct pit in the anatomical neck of the humerus, at the inner edge of the bicipital groove. In its triangular form, its origin at a notch in the articular fossa, and its insertion into a jjit, it strongly resembles the ' ligamentum teres ' of the hip- joint."* In nearly all the specimens examined by the writer, the upper half of this ligament had both its surfaces invested by the synovial membrane. This enables the dissector readily to distinguish it from the capsule; but in- feriorly, its fibres are generally identified with this structure, and therefore it loses the ap- pearance of a distinct ligament, before ar- riving at the humerus. With the mode of its origin, and its intra- capsular position, all resemblance between this structure and the "ligamentum teres" in the hip-joint, ceases ; the latter has little of the structure, and fulfils none of the uses of a ligament. Not so the " gleno-humeral liga- ment:" its structure is distinctly fibrous, it possesses great powers of resistance, and it is an auxiliary to the tendon of the biceps, so that both together are enabled to restrain the undue ascent of the humerus ; an object which it seems probable neither of them could ac- complish, unaided by the other. Si/novial membrane. — In its arrangement and general characters, the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint differs in no way from that of other articulations. As the fibrous capsule is lax, so the serous membrane, which lines it, presents a cavity of large size. Hav- ing covered the articular cartilage of the head, it passes downwards on the neck and tubero- sities of the humerus, as far as the lower attachment of the capsule, to the inner surface of which it is thence reflected : having fined the capsule, the s} novial membrane arrives at the glenoid cavity, the articular surface of which it similarly invests ; it forms sheaths for the inter-articular ligaments, for the long tendon of the biceps, and for the gleno- humeral ligament : that for the former, as has been already described, extends along the bicipital groove, even be\'ond the limits of the capsule. Internally, where the capsule is deficient, the synovial membrane covers the corresponding portion of the tendon of the subscapularis, and here a communication is established between the cavity of the serous membrane of the articulation and that of the bursa mucosa, which is found beneath that muscle. A similar communication sometimes exists posteriorly between the cavity of the joint and the bursa, which is subjacent to the infra-spinatus muscle. A few fatty folds are generally found attached to the reflections of the membrane. In connection with the scapulo-humeral articulation, the remarkable vaulted arch placed above it remains to be described. This is constituted by the acromion and coracoid processes, and the intermediate ligament. It may be regarded as supplemental to the * Lancet, 1829-30, p. G72.