POLYGASTRIA. tlie family derives its name. These, which may readily be procured in summer time, are sufficiently large to be visible to the naked eye, and when examined with a microscope, even of very humble power, present a spectacle of indescribable beauty ; turning continually upon their axes, and revolving majestically through the drop of water that forms their space, they have the appearance of so many microscopic worlds (fs- 2)- The parietes of these elegant spheres are thin and pellucent as the walls of an air- bubble; and in their interior, which is obviously fluid, may at times be seen rotating on their axes a second generation moving freely in the interior of their parent, and only awaiting the Fig. 2. Volvox Globator^ much magnified. destruction of the original Volvox to escape from their imprisonment. It was Ehrenberg* who first made the dis- covery that these beautiful living globes were not, as had until then been universally believed, single animalcules producing geramules in the interior of their transparent bodies, which on arriving at maturity by their escape through the lacerated integument of the parent termi- nated its existence, but that they formed in reality the residences of numerous individuals living together in a wonderful community. This great observer had long remarked that the Volvoces appeared to take no food, neither were any of those vesicles discernible in their interior which in all other races of Infusoria he regards as the organs of nutrition—a circum- stance which, considering their very great size when compared with other races, was well calculated to arrest attention; and he soon found that the structure of their nutritive appa- tus lies much deeper and is of a far more delicate character than any one could have previously anticipated. On attentively examining with glasses of high power (1000 diameters) the minute green specks which stud the transparent covering of the Volvox, and which he had previously re- garded as the bulbous roots of locomotive cilia, he perceived in each corpuscle a bright red point, and moreover discerned that instead of its being a cilium which was appended thereto, it was a whip-like moveable proboscis exactly similar to that of the Monads described above ; and further observation convinced him that every green point was in reality a distinctly organised Monad, possessing mouth, eye, sto- machs, generative apparatus, and, in fact, all the viscera attributed by Ehrenberg to the free Monadinidae, and that the A^olvox was entirely made up of an association of similar individuals (h- 3). Fig. 3. A portion of Volvox Globator still further magnified. He further observed that in young specimens the component animalcules were perpetually undergoing spontaneous fissure, the result of which was the regular production of two, four, eight, sixteen, thirty-two, &c. distinct animal- cules from one individual, until the resulting globe, i. e. the Volvox, was completely arrived at its natural dimensions. The Volvox Globator may therefore be re- garded as a hollow tegumentary vesicle, the origin of which is due to the incomplete spon- taneous fissure of innumerable Monads, each of which is not more than 1.500"^ in diameter, but all completely organised. FiiT. 4. * Abhandlungen der Konigiichen Academie-^r An individual nwnadine. of Volvox Globator magnifed VVissensthaften zu Berlin, Jahr 1833, p. 328, 1000 diameters.