599 AB^'OIlMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. Q Q 4 arthritis exist in this shoulder joint, but also that the acroniio-clavicular articulation in the same specimen is enlarged externally; and that, on examining it internally, it presents undoubted traces of this chronic rheumatic disease. Upon the whole, therefore, we feel convinced that this specimen produced by Professor Hargrave as an example of a case of partial luxation inwards, the result of acci- dent, does notreallyaffbrdany proof that exter- nal injury was the cau-se of the partial luxation. In thus differing from Professor Harirrave, we would make the same remarks which we have already made in allusi< n to Sir A. Coo- per's case, at page 591. of this article. The pro- gress of science will soon settle the question. Partial displacement of the head of the hu- vwriis doicnwards has been observed to be the result of chronic rheumatic disease of long standing ; but after much diligent inquiry in museums and in books, I can find but two well-marked specimens of this morbid change. The most remarkable of these specimens is a left scapulo-humeral articulation, which is contained in the museum of the College of Surgeons, Dublin. The history of the case is unknown : the preparation formed part of the collection presented by Dr. Kirby to the College of Surgeons in Dublin. The head of the left humerus in this specimen is greatly enlarged, and a proportionate glenoid cavity has been formed to receive it. The head of this bone had descended so much beneath its ordinary situation, that a new glenoid cavity had been formed to receive it on the axillary border of the scapula. The lower part of the old glenoid cavity was still partially occupied by the enlarged head of the humerus, but the new addition to the cavity extends down- wards for the space of an inch and half below its ordinary situation. The new glenoid cavity is enamelled on its surface, and en- larged on its posterior margin by several irregular-shaped bones of new formation. The capsular ligament in this case has been partly ossified.* If we look over the engravings in Sandi- fort's Museum Anatomicum, we shall find, we think, a specimen of partial displace- ment of the head of the humerus downwards, the result of this chronic rheumatic dis- ease. The writer of the catalogue considers the specimen to have been the result of acci- dent, and has appended a history to the case, giving an account of somewhat equivocal symptoms. Whether these symptoms,—such as extensive elfusion into the cavity of the joint, of crepitus having been felt on the mo- tions of the bones on each other,—were the re- sult of accident or of disease, their origin is re- ferred to accident. When we carefully compare the engraving with what we have seen of other specimens of this disease elsewhere, we must, we think, come to the conclusion, that this * See Catalogue of the Museum of the College of Surgeons, Dublin, pp. 406—905. &c. See also plate IX. fig. 7. of a work on clironic rheumatic arthritis, shortly to be published by the writer; illustrated by lithographic dravvings of natural size. example adduced by Sandifort must be con- sidered as the result of chronic rheumatic Fig. 4.31. Scapula and portion of the clavicle connected to it, viewed externally.* a, glenoid cavity; h, a fragment of bone appa- rently of new formation; c, anterior part of acro- mion separated from the spine of the scapula and re- united to it; d, extremity of the coracoid process; e, clavicle adhering to the acromion broken off from the spine of the scapula. The acromion process was depressed, and "omnem motum claviculae seque- batur." (After Sandiford.) arthritis of long standing, with partial displace- ment of the altered head of the humerus down- ivards (fg. 431.). Upon looking at the wood- cut we notice the acromio-clavicular ar- ticulation enlarged as if from chronic rheu- matic disease. The acromion process is divided into two portions: a phenomenon we have so frequently noticed to accompany this disease of the shoulder joint (see p. 587.). We also notice the additional portions of bone of new formation attached to the capsular ligaT.ent so common in this disease, and the addition of an osseous margin to the glenoid cavity ; all these circumstances, so well seen in the origi- nal drawing to be found in Sandifort's work as large as nature, w e have attempted, in a re- duced form, to repeat here. Finally, the head of the humerus may be not only displaced partially upwards as' the result of this chronic rheumatic disease, par- tially inwards, and, as we have just proved, also partially downwards, but the most re- markable abnormal appearances the w riter has witnessed from this chronic disease, has been in two specimens contained in the Museum of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital, in which it will be found that the head of the humerus, w hich had been affected by this chronic disease, w as thrown completely backwards on the dorsum of the scapula. In this case the di>placement was double, and two new glenoid cavities had * Diminished drawing from one in Sandifort's Museiim Anatomicum, vol. iv. table 25. fig. 2.