ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. &18 also slifrhtly adducted towards the middle the head of the humerus passes backwards line. When the shoulder is viewed posteriorly beneath the acromion, and a depression can a depression corresponding to the situation be felt in front beneath the coracoid process, of the posterior half of the glenoid cavity is corresponding to the portion of the abnormal observable : into this depression the finger can articular cavity which the head of the humerus be sunk so far as to reach the surface of the had just before occupied. The muscles of the posterior part of the glenoid cavity. When region of the shoulder are very imperfectly the arm is drawn forwards across the chest, developed, but those of the fore-arm and Fig. 441. Case of 31. H. — Congenital malformation of the left shoulder joint, with lujration of the head of the humerus inwards. hand seem of their normal size. The patient the arm vertically, the joint assumes more of has but little power of moving the affected a natural form. Still, independent of its com- upper extremity. The trapezius muscle of parative diminution of size, it wants the ro- this side is well formed, therefore he can by tundity and fulness of contour ordinarily de- means of its influence elevate on the side of rived from a proper development of muscular the trunk the whole limb. The deltoid and covering. The elbow joint is perfect as to capsular muscles are very imperfectly formed, its form and functions. This patient has and consequently the patient has no power been under the writer's observation for many of abduction, nor of rotation, of the humerus, years, and these symptoms have not varied. The shoulder has not the usual rounded form, Anatomical cha?-acters of congenital malform- but still it does not present the flattened ap- ation of the shoulder joint irith displace- pearance, nor the acromion the angular out- ment of the head of the humerus inivards. — line which characterises the accidental luxa- We may consider the following as a good tion of this joint. Yet the acromion process example, showing the anatomical characters of does project somewhat, and when the arm the congenital malformation of the shoulder hangs by the side, the head of the humerus, joint, icith displacement inwards of the head distinct and prominent, is removed so much of the humerus ; the congenital defect ex- from the under surface of the acromion, as it isted in both shoulder joints, were by the weight of the limb, that the Case.—" A female, aetat 28, who had been for thumb can be easily placed between them, many years a patient in the lunatic department When we take hold of the elbow and raise of the House of Industry, died of chronic in-