650 SKELETON. would not be more like the clavicle (1) than it is in its present situation. In ^or. 476., the pubic bone (2) occurs op- posite to the sacral vertebral rib (1), and the Fig. 476. Tlie sacral vertebrce and pitbic forms of the Crocodiles forming the whole quantity. whole form is thereby com{)leted as the sterno- costo-vertebral-archetypal quantity. The part 2, of ^g. 476., may, therefore, as appro- priately be termed a pubic rib as a costiform pubis. This pubic bone {2, Jig. 476.) is sepa- rated from the sacral rib by an interval equal to the iliac bone, and this latter is regarded by a high authority * to be of costiform cha- racter ; but in the present reading I have no need to view the bone in this regard. Prop. XXXVI. Chevron bones and ribs are identical parts of the costo-vertebral ivhole quan- tities or archetypes. — As every part which shall appear plus upon a cervical or lumbar vertelM'a, such as cervical or lumbar ribs, may be referred to the original whole quantities from which the cervical or lumbar vertebrae have been metamorphosed, and gain their proper interpretation accordingly, so may those parts which now and then appear plus upon the caudal vertebras, such as " chevron bones" (4, of fig. 477.), be likewise referred to the original whole quantities from which those caudal vertebras have been degraded. We have seen reason to interpret the caudal bone as the centrum of the vertebra, — of which vertebra ? Of the thoracic plus vertebra; for why not of this plus archetypal form, as well as of any other form less in quantity than this archetype? If the caudal bone be considered as a part degraded from the equal of the ium- * The author of the " Homologies " entertains the opinion that the iliac bones are the " pleurapo- physeal" (costal) elements of the sacral vertebra, and thereby he connects the pubic arches (his hte- mapophyses) with their proper vertebral pieces in the sacrum. This opinion as to the costiform cha- racter of the ilium or haunch bone, is by no means that Avhich I hold respecting it, nor can I believe that any other anatomist will discover the similitude between an iliac bone and a rib, any more than be- tween a scapula and a rib, or any more than they will find to exist between a sternal piece and a spinal vertebral form, even though the imposing names of Oken, Meckel, and De Blainville intro- duce this latter opinion. bar vertebra, why not also from the equal of the thoracic costo-vertebral archetype ? If the caudal bone gives evidence of the fact that its present condition is owing to the loss of the Fig. 477. The caudal vertebra of the Dugong, Showing that it is not the typical or whole vertebral quantity. neural arch, the spinous process, and trans- verse-costal processes, and if it elicits accord- ingly the interpretation that had those ele- mental quantities still persisted, that which is now the caudal would have been equal to the lumbar vertebra; so, on the like grounds, we may elevate ourselves to the reading, that if the thoracic ribs and ster- num, the neural arch and spine still per- sisted, that which is now the caudal bone would have been equal to the thoracic arche- type. Such a reading I here venture to put forth respecting the caudal bones {fig. 477.), and when these develope the chevron os- sicles (4), I interpret them as being proximal parts of the costal arch (1, 2, 3), left standing after the degradation of the whole archetypal quantities. If a thoracic costo-vertebral archetype, such as fig. 478., whose costal Fig. 478. Tlie caudal vertebra of the Dugong, Showing how the costal quantities are metamor- phosed into the chevron bones. arch is 1, 2, 3, undergoes such an amount of degradation as to sternal and costal quantity, that the proximal or vertebral ends (2) of the ribs (2, 3) alone remain persistent; and if these ends (2, 3) of the ribs, while remaining still articularly appended to the vertebrae, are bent towards each other and to the median line, taking the place of the parts 4, 5, then