SKELETON. regions of the ophidian are thoracic, and there- fore in this skeleton there does not appear a cervical spine, or a lumbar spine, properly so called. If the above observations, respecting the several spinal regions, and the several appa- ratus thereunto appended, be true, then, how- ever harshly it may seem to jar against reason, in asserting that there must exist the same analogy between a hyoid, a thoracic, and a ventral apparatus, as between the cervical, the dorsal, and the lumbar vertebras, still I do not hesitate to make that assertion, under the knowledge that the original whole quantities of each region are of thoracic costo-vertehral proportions. I do not mean to say that the apparatus of the vocal throat {a b of fig. 455.), or the respiratory thorax (8 to 19 of fig. 455.), and the digestive venter (1 to 8 offig. 464.), are identical as osseous quantities, having the same number of elemental pieces in each which we find in one, but what I distinctly repeat is this, namely, that, however broad may be the specific distinctions between the presential characters of a hyoid, a thoracic, and a ventral apparatus, when compared and contrasted with each other, still the law of serial arrangement will, if followed in the one skeletal form, and throughout the whole ani- mal kingdom, prove that they are variable proportional osseous quantities of the same original, viz., the thoracic costo-vertebral con- tinuous series of archetypes : and, therefore, I have united with dotted lines the hyoid apparatus to the cervical vertebrae, and the ventral apparatus to the lumbar vertebrae. Prop. XXXIV. Clavicles^ coracoid bones, and ribs are identical parts of the coslo-vertebral whole quantities or archetypes.—It is impossible to tell which of the two bones named clavicle and coracoid, in a bird, is the counterpart or homologue of the bone named clavicle in man. Anatomists are not agreed upon this point at the present time ; and, I may venture to say, they never will be, for this reason, viz., that they believe these bones to be specifically diverse bodies, and holding a permanently fixed cha- racter in all animals, when, in fact, they ^re identical bodies, being severally subjected to the same modification in two or more skele- tons. Whichever of these two bones (and it may be either one or the other) is made to assume the functions and connection proper to the thing called clavicle in the human ske- leton, will be the clavicle. It is the distin- guishing mark of the human clavicle {a b,fig. 465.), to abut by one end against the sternal piece (r), and by the other end {a) against the acromion process of ihe scapula ; but, btrange to say, we find that both these con- nections proper to the clavicle of the mammal are divided between the two bones named clavicle and coracoid in the bird. The bone named coracoid {d,fig. 466.) in the bird joins the sternum (/), like the bone named clavicle in the mammal ; but it is the bone named clavicle {a fig. 466.) in the bird which joins the acromion process (b) like the bone named clavicle in the mammal. For this reason, I say, that it is not possible to pronounce what bone in the bird is counterpart of the clavicle in the mammal, since, evidently, those very articular Fig. 465. connections which characterise the one bone, called clavicle in the mammal body, are divided Fig. 466. between two bones r.t the same locality in the bird. It is this circumstance which has given rise to so much written controversy* in the school of comparative anatomy. I find that the mammal clavicle (bfig. 465.) joins the first sternal piece (c) by one end * In the writings of Cmier, Geoffroy, Canis, Meckel, and others, I find the following statement respecting the identity of the bones called clavicles and coracoids. By one, the furcular bone, at the root of the bird's neck, is accounted the true ana- logue of the mammal clavicle. By another, this " coracoid " bone, which is behind the furcular, and articulates with the sternum, is called the analogue of the mammal clavicle. By another, this coracoid bone is said to represent the coracoid process of the human scapula. By another, the tAvo bones, furcu- lar and coracoid, are said to be clavicles proper. One states that the corresponding bone, Avhich occurs at the root of the chelonian cervix, is a cora- coid bone; another avers that it is the counterpart of the clavicle ; another that it may represent either. In the tortoise, the bone is clavicle accordmg to one ; coracoid, according to another. In the casso- Avary and ostrich, Avhere one of the tAvo bones is rudimentarj', a doubt arises as to Avhether this be the coracoid or the cla\4cle; some prove one rer^d- ing on the bat, some another on the monotreme, some another on the lizard, others proA'e their own interpretation on the fish ; and Xitsch discoA-ers (?) a small additional rudimentary scapula in the cap- sular ligament of the shoulder of some accipitres, Avhich he saA'S is proper to the furcular bone, and therefore the furcular bone is a claA'icle. I leave the reader to choose his ovm belief out of these, if it be possible Avith him.