310 REPTILIA. brain occupy their usual position, but there is no commissura mollis. The cerebellum is generally extremely small, and in some cases is even reduced to a simple transverse la- mella, which does not entirely cover the fourth ventricle, formed as usual by the separation of the posterior columns of the Fig. 224. c, lateral view of the brain of a turtle; 1, optic tract; 2, eras cerebri. d, the same: a portion of the optic nerve has been removed to show the cms cerebri passing upwards. After Swan.) spinal chord. The inferior surface of the brain is almost smooth, presenting no other ele- vations than those formed by the union of the optic nerves and by the tuber cinereum. As there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum, of course no traces of a pons varolii exist. As in birds, a vascular inflation, which seems to represent the fissure of Sylvius, separates each hemisphere into two lobes, into the posterior of which the lateral ventricle pe- netrates. The pineal and pituitary bodies are met with in all reptiles. In the Chelonian reptiles the cerebral he- mispheres contain as usual a ventricle, in which may be perceived a body analogous to the corpus striatum, presenting an arrange- ment very similar to what is observed in birds, only it is much less voluminous, sd as to occupy a small portion comparatively of the interior of the ventricle. The crura ce- rebri, when they reach the lobes of the hemi- spheres, do not, as in mammalia and in birds, immediately dilate into large ganglia, but curving upwards and backwards, expand on each side into a tubercle, which is the corpus striatum. The optic thalami are very sniali, but the pineal gland which lies upon them is of considerable bulk. The bigeminal tubercles are of a rounded form, and instead of being separated from each other by a slight groove, as in the mam- malia, a deep fissure is interposed between them which penetrates to the roof of the aqueduct, and contains a fold derived from the pia mater. The cerebellum is nearly hemispherical in its form, consisting of an arched layer of nervous substance of equal thickness throughout, which spreads over a portion of the fourth ventricle. The remainder of that cavity is covered by a vascular plexus, derived from the sides of the medulla oblongata, which forms a sort of valve, and by becoming united to the margin of the cerebellum, completes the roof of the fourth ventricle, which is large and prolonged very far back. The anterior columns of the spinal chord form a very distinct projection into the floor of this ventricle, as they advance upwards towards the brain. A similar dispo- sition exists in the crocodiles, and in the Sau-> rian reptiles generally; the principal differences being that the hemispheres are proportionallj larger, and do not separate from each othei so as to display the optic thalami; the olfactory bulbs also are less cfosely approximated to the cerebral hemispheres, with which they are sometimes connected by the intervention of a narrow pedicle, in which, however, a canal is always to be detected, communicating between the ventricles and the cavity of the bulb. The corpus striatum is comparatively larger than in the Chelonians, occupying a considerable proportion of the base of the Fig. 225. Brain and Nerves of Boa Constru ior. {^After Swan.') a, anterior lobe of the brain; b, optic lobe; c, cerebellum ; d, schneiderian membrane of the nose; 1, olftictoiy nerve; 2, optic nerve; 3, third or common oculo-muscular nerve cut short; 4, fourth nerve given to the superior oblique muscle of the eye; 5, first trunk of the fifth; 6, second trunk of the fifth ; 7, third trunk of the fifth ; 8, hard portion of the seventh nerve ; 9, auditory nerve ; 10, glosso- pharyngeal nerve; 11, trunk of the par vagum; 12, ninth nerve; 13, ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, as in fig. 226 ; 14, a branch of the s\Tnpathetic nerve passing to the palatine nerve, as in fig. 226.