REPTILIA. In all reptiles there is but one ossiculum auditus (the colimnella), which is generally of a trumpet shape. Its external extremity is in the Saurians connected to the membrana tym- pani by means of a cartilaginous process ; but in tortoises it is implanted directly into the membrana tympani, which has a cartilaginous texture. The inner extremity of the auditory ossicle enlarges into an oval or triangular disc {Patina), which is applied to the fenestra rotunda, in the same way as the disc of the stapes is in the ears of mammalia. It does not appear that there are any mus- cles implanted into the auditory ossicle of the reptilia. In most reptiles that possess a membrana tympani, it is situated on a level with the general integument. In the crocodile, however, something like an external meatus exists. Organ of Vision.— In all the reptilia the eye resembles, in its general structure, that of birds and quadrupeds : there are, however, certain modifications rendered necessary by the habits of these animals, many of which are semi-aquatic in their habits, which it will be important to notice. The sclerotic coat of the eye is very similar F,g. 227. o, lachrymal gland of a tortoise; h, eye-ball of a tortoise ; c, circle of osseous sclerotic plates, {After JBojanus.) in its composition to the sclerotic of a bird ; and in like manner, in many reptiles, contains in its anterior portion a circle of horny plates, which are enclosed between its laminae with- out being continuous with the substance of the membrane, from which they are conse- quently easily detached. These plates are generally ten or twelve in number, and are constantly met with in tortoises, and also in the crocodiles, chameleons, and many other lizards. In many genera the sclerotic is di- vided into two layers, the external being fibrous and of equal thickness throughout its whole extent; whilst the internal layer is of a cartilaginous texture, and is thicker at the posterior part of the eye than it is in front. This layer in the vicinity of the entrance of the optic nerve is perforated by numerous foramina for the passage of bloodvessels. The structure of the cornea presents no- thing remarkable, but its convexity varies considerably in different genera. The choroid coat of the eye exhibits the usual structure. In lizards and serpents the ciliary processes are scarcely distinguishable; and in the Chelonians their existence would be doubtful were it not for the elegant im- pression left by them upon the vitreous hu- mour. In the crocodile, however, these processes are well developed, and very beauti- ful. The iris, to some extent, resembles that of fishes, having frequently the same metallic splendour. The shape of the pupil varies: in the crocodile it is a vertical slit, like that of the cat; in the tortoise it is round, as likewise in the chameleon and the generality of lizards. The optic nerve enters the eye externally Fig. 228. Section of the Eye-ball of a Tortoise. {After Bojanus.') to the axis of vision, piercing the membranes of the eye, as in the mammiferous classes : ar- rived in the interior of the organ, it forms a small tubercle, from the circumference of which the retina takes its origin. In many reptiles the falciform ligament usually met with in the eyes of fishes is still perceptible; and in some genera, such as the lizards, the iguana, and the monitor, there is a cylindrical membranous process covered with black pigment, which passes fi'om the insertion of the optic nerve to the capsule of the crystalline lens, and which is evidently the representative of the pecten common to the eyes of birds. The aqueous and vitreous humours offer no peculiarity worthy of notice ; and the same may be said of the crystalline lens, which, however, differs in the convexity of its facets in different genera. Ajjpendages to the Eye. — The eye of rep- tiles is moved by the six ordinary muscles, which are disposed as in fishes; but besides these, there are four smaller muscles repre- senting the suspensory or choroid nuiscle of quadrupeds: these latter closely embrace the optic nerve, and spread over the convex por- tion of the sclerotic. In the Chelonian and Saurian reptiles the upper and lower eyelids are completely de- veloped, and accurately close the conjunc- tival cavity. There is also a well-developed nictitating membrane, or third eyelid, which is situated vertically at the inner canthus of the eye, and has a horizontal motion over the cornea. In the crocodiles the nictitating membrane is moved by a special muscular ap- paratus ; its muscle, the nictitator, arises from the inner and upper part of the eye-ball, and running outwards and downwards winds round the optic nerve, and the suspensory muscles of the eye (which latter serve to protect the nerve from the pressure of the nictitator mus- cle), and is inserted into the inferior angle of the nictitating membrane, which it thus draws