159 PROSTATE GLAND. gated by Mr. Quekett, who, on submitting sec- tions of the gland either in a healthy or dis- eased condition, to microscopical examination, has met with them so frequently, that they would seem to be a part of the natural consti- tuents of the gland or its secretion. He de- scribes them as commencing by a deposit of earthy matterinthesecreting cells of the gland ; they increase in size either by aggregation, or by deposition in the form of concentric layers; in the former case they mould themselves to the follicles, in the latter they present the ap- pearance of an ordinary lithic acid calculus on section. Where many cells were together, the parietes of the cells in contact are de- stroyed ; so that by adding dilute muriatic acid, and thus dissolving the earthy matter, a multilocular cavity remains. In consequence of the manner in which they mould themselves to the follicles, they frequently present an appearance externally like nmlberry calculi.* The opinion of Prout that the deposition of earthy salts is the result of a deranged ac- tion in a mucous membrane appears thus fully borne out. In a case which I recently ex- amined with Mr. Quekett the concretions were exceedingly numerous ; and this was especially remarkable in the middle lobe of the prostate. The gland had been removed from a young man who had died of phthisis, and was of the natural size. The middle lobe was much firmer than either lateral lobe They are so- luble in acetic acid by the aid of heat. Prostatic Calculi.—It is most probable that these concretions undergo an early solution ; thus yielding up their granular or amorphous contents to form apart of the secretion of the gland. This is the opinion of Dr. Jones. But if they are not removed in this manner they become the nuclei of prostatic calculi. Prostatic calculi are thus formed in the gland, occasionally in immense numbers ; they are generally rounded in form, and from their pearly semi-transparent appearance. Dr. Wollaston compared them to grains of pearl barley. They become covered with a brownish coating from a deposit from the natural secre- tion of the gland. Continuing to increase in size, they come in contact with one another, and at the points of contact are as it were articulated together. They are smooth upon the surface, and often resemble porcelain from the high polish they obtain. As they increase still further in size they cause absorption of the surrounding glandular substance, and thus convert the gland into a multilocular bag, in which as many as fifty or sixty calculi have been seen. In this condition, if the finger is passed per anum, the prostate gives the feel of a bag of marbles. Sometimes there is only a single large cavity in one lobe filled with a single calculus. The smaller stones often escape into the bladder through the dilated ducts,and are readily extracted by the urethral forceps. When divided they exhibit a radiated and laminated structure; or they are com- pact. * See Guy on Cause and Treatment of Stricture of the Urethra, and Diseases of the Prostate Gland. 1845. From the analysis which has been made of the prostatic calculi in the College of Surgeons, it appears that the relative proportion of phosphoric acid and lime in all the varieties of these calculi appears to vary considerably, although they may, in all probability, be re- duced to two salts, — the neutral phosphate of lime, or the diphosphate, which exists in those varieties that are partially fusible before the blowpipe, and which generally exhibit a crystalline structure; and the basic phosphate of lime which is completely infusible by the mouth of the blowpipe. In estimating the fusi- bility of these compounds, care must be taken that none of the triple phosphate is present.* When they pass into the bladder, they excite irritation of its mucous surface, and become coated with the triple phosphate; or if a large stone remains in the prostatic portion of the urethra, it may cause a deposit of lithic acid on its surface from the urine which is conti- nually passing over it. A single calculus sometimes extends from the prostate into the membranous part of the urethra, which be- comes much dilated. In these cases the cal- culus has usually an elongated, somewhat conical figure, and consists of two or three separate portions, which are closely adapted to each other, and have polibhed articulating surfaces at the point of contact. The rounded extremity of one calculus is often received into a corresponding concavity of another. These calculi almost always contain a larger portion of phosphate and carbonate of lime, tlian those found in any other situation. When the prostate is completely disorganised and converted into a mere cyst, the calculi found in its cavity are of the fusible character, or contain more or less of the triple phosphates. It sometimes happens that the phosphates are secreted by the prostate in immense quan- tities, and are excreted with the urine, giving it a milky aspect. This may be confounded with a sunilar deposit from the urine itself, but it is generally accompanied by symptoms of irritation of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder — as discharge from the urethra ; hence the diagnosis is not difficult. " Vogel, in his pathological anatomy of the human body, has given an account of these prostatic calculi : he described them of small size, not larger than a pin's head, and usually of a brownish, reddish-brown, or yellowish-brown colour, presenting a crystalline or laminated arrangement, with a polyhedric or facetted surface. He says that they are formed by a precipitate of phosphate of lime. " Lassaigne has given an analysis of the quantitative composition of these concretions. Thus in 100 parts there are contained Basic phosphate of lime . . 84'5 Carbonate of lime . . . 0*3 Animal matter (mucus, &c.) . 15'0 It is presumed that they are formed by a de- position of these salts when existing in excess in the prostatic secretion. Similar concre- * Catalogue of Calculi contained in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, 1842.