REPTILIA. 303 empties itself into the principal vein of the corresponding hinder extremity. ^ The l3mphatic hearts are in the snakes situated just above the origin of the tail. They communicate with a branch of the caudal vein, and receive lymphatic vessels from the posterior extremity of the great lymphatic reservoir. In the Pythons, the situation of the lym- phatic hearts is external to the abdominal cavity in a special chamber, which is bounded anteriorly by the last rib ; each heart receives the lymph by three canals that open into its dorsal aspect, and it communicates with the caudal veins by two orifices situated at its anterior extremity. Each of these lymphatic hearts is composed of three membranes; an external one, which is celhilar ; a middle one, vsrhich is muscular, the muscular fasciculi being arranged as in the hearts of the higher ani- mals; and an inner coat, which forms valvular folds, serving to prevent the escape of the venous blood into the lymphatic system. These lymphatic hearts are without peri- cardium, and adhere to the walls of the cavity which contains them, In a Python Tigris of seven feet long, the length of each lymphatic heart was six lines, and its diameter four lines and a quarter. Vejious System. — TJhe veins of reptiles have very thin walls, and Exhibit no fibres in their structure, except in the large trunks of spe- cies of considerable size. In the Chelonians and the crocodiles they are furnished inter- nally with a few valves, but these, it would appear, do not exist in the veins of Ophidians, at least they can be injected with facility in any direction. As in other Vertebrata, the veins of reptiles are more numerous than the arteries, and from the frequency of their anastomoses re- present rather a net-work than an arborescent arrangement. Their circulation, moreover, not being confined to a determinate course through the lungs, as in Mammalia and birds, the venous system in the Reptilia is never overloaded with blood, as must be the case in the two former classes, when respiration is suspended. And it is probably on this ac- count that their veins appear less capacious, as compared with the arteries, than in those Vertebrata which possess a double circulation. For the same reason they are not dilated into reservoirs as they are in Mammalia and diving birds, or as in fishes, where the blood has but one route through the branchiae. The Chelonians have two posterior vencB caves which traverse the liver on each side and receive in their course a multitude of small hepatic veins. Immediately after issuing from the liver, they are each joined by an an- terior vena cava of the corresponding side, or by the connnon trunk of the jugular and subclavian, all of tliem opening into a kind of reservoir, which communicates with the right auricle of the"*heart through a slit-like orifice guarded by t\Vo valves. The two veins called above posterior venae cavae are the umbilical veins of Bojanus, the analogues of the single abdominal or median vein of the Batrachian reptiles, which become confluent by winding towards each other an{l assuming a transverse direction in the isthmus that unites the lateral lobes of the liver : it is into this single transverse trunk that the two abdominal veins open. Each abdominal vein communicates by a pectoral branch with an intercostal vein, and by this intermedium with a cervical branch from the jugular. Each abdominal vein has, moreover, an anastomosis posteriorly with the inferior common intercostal ; it is essentially a con- tinuation from the iliac vein, which receives the blood from the femoral, from the iliac cir- cumflex vein, from the ischiadic, from the caudal, from the hypogastric, and from the renal, through the descending trunk of the vena azygos. This latter, after anastomosing in front of the thorax with a cervical branch from the jugular, seems to convey the blood from before backwards, if we may judge from the gradual dilatation of its calibre, as it re- ceives the intercostal veins, the muscular veins of the back, and the branches of the vertebral veins. Its trunk, as it descends towards the kidney, anastomoses with the vein derived from the generative organs, and joins the hypogastric to form the iliac : here, then, we have an arrangement of the venous system which determines the direction of the blood towards the liver, and makes the ab- dominal vein relatively to the liver what the pulmonary artery is to the lungs. A vein derived from the organs of generation, which, as already stated, anastomoses with the trunk of the vena azygos, likewise runs to the liver, traversing its right lobe like a vena cava, and in the same way receives many small hepatic veins and terminates immediately that it issues from the liver in the great sinus, com- mon to the veins of the body. Arterial Si/sfem.— In reptiles there are always two distinct aortae given off' sepa- rately from the heart, and a third artery destined exclusively to the lungs. ' In the Che/onian order, the two aortae, together with the pulmonary artery, are united together for a little space ; but the former soon separate to take the position and character, one of the right, and the other of the left posterior aortae. The right aorta gives off", shortly after it;:; commencement, a considerable artery, which might be called the anterior aorta, which soon bifurcates ; each division again subdividing into tw^o others, namely, the common carotid, and the sub- clavian. The subclavian gives off almost the same branches as in the mammalia ; namely, — 1. An artery analogous to the inferior thyroid of Mammalia, which supplies a very vascular cavernous little thyroid body, situ- ated at the bottom of the neck. 2. The co??»»o« cervical, which runs forwards under the neck internal to, and beneath the carotid, distributing branches to the muscles and other organs of the throat.