125 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. lieve that, any mode of association of cell and fibril (at least any mode now known and un- derstood) can be considered distinctive of carcinoma. On the other hand, we believe that Growths of evil tendency have a manner peculiar to themselves (ascertainable by naked-eye observation) of accumulating in the tissues. We refer to accumulation by hifiltration. The nature of infiltration is easily explained. The elementary molecules of the morbid matter, instead of accumulating round a central point equally in all directions, and pushing aside the tissues amid which they are deposited, spread between the primary ele- ments of those tissues on every side. In proportion as this extension of the morbid matter is accomplished, interference with the healthy process of nutrition takes place. The elfete particles of the natural tissues cease to be replaced by similar ones; and an appearance of conversion (" transformation " or "degeneration") of a natural into a mor- bid structure is worked out. But if the nature of the phenomenon be simple, its cause is obscure. Why it should occur (as we conceive it does) in the instance of cancer alone, and why peculiarities so important as those of cancer, in respect of general influence on the system, should appear to hat)g upon the existence of a local pathological attribute, in nowise remarkable, strictly considered ^j<?;- se^ is a difficulty which facts are wanting to explain away. Speculatively, as we have formerly said, " we must look elsewhere for an explanation of the evils practically con- nected with infiltration, than to the mere physical phenomenon itself, — in a word, w-e must seek elsewhere some condition of which the process is but a consequence or invo- lution. But the natural place to look for this condition is in the tissues themselves, which undergo infiltration ; and in these — in some special morbid change within them — must reside the source and origin of the process. And this view is confirmed by the fact, that there is nothing in the mode of vegetation of cancer itself to explain why it alone, among vegetating new formations, should possess the power of infiltrating the natural tissues." We are aware that the property of infil- tration has been ascribed to other Growths besides cancer; that fibrous tumours have, for instance, been said to affect circumjacent tissues in this manner. But we are per- suaded, from close examination of such al- leged cases, that infiltration with common plastic matter (the produce of inflammation arising from irritating pressure on the part of the tumour) has been mistaken for infiltration with substance identical with that of the fibrous growth ; and that the distinction i§ nosologically sound. On the grounds just set forth, we propose to divide the order Growths into two sub- orders — the Non-Infiltrating and the Infiltrating. SUB-ORDER I.—NON-INFILTRATING GROWTHS. The genera in this sub-order may be ar- ranged according to chemical composition — the protein compounds, fat and gelatin, being severally the predominant element. Of Protein-Basis. § i. hematoma. Blood effused into the tissues may be either (a) absorbed wholly or partially, or {b) not absorbed. (a) 1. If the blood be absorbed w holly, no vestige of the haemorrhage may ultimately be traceable, even in the condition of the tissue amid which it occurred ; or (as is more com- mon) even after the total removal of the blood- elements, some slight puckering, changed den- sity, or changed position of the proper texture of the organ (of the brain, for instance) re- veals the fact that haemorrhage has occurred. In either case, blood has escaped from the vessels without leaving even the potential ele- ments of a growth behind it. 2. Partial ab- sorption acts commonly upon the watery and colouring matters ofthe blood, the fibrin alone remaining: this fibrin (fibrinous haematoma, from aipLarufxa, blood-tumour), may form a single mass, as is usual in the parcnchymata, or several fragmentary parcels, as happens generally in the serous cavities. Partial ab- sorption, in a class of rarer cases, acts first upon the fibrin ; the effused blood becomes more thin and aqueous, and sometimes (spread- ing by infiltration and endosmosis amid the surrounding textures) is thence eventually absorbed : here no residue, referrible to the present head, remains behind. (/;) When not absorbed, blood either (1) ex- cites inflammation and its consequences ; or (2) remains stationary in a fluid condition; or (3) assumes the characters of dark grumous semi- coagula ; or (4) undergoing inspissation from deprivation of its watery parts, a firm co- agulum, growing daily more solid, remains be- hind : in this last instance we have a coloured haematoma. A haematoma is then a fibrinous mass, coloured or not, arising from haemorrhage. Before us (Univ. Coll. Mus.) lies a colour- less haematoma of the spinal menmges in the cervical region, the result of a blow. Its size is that of a walnut; it is of pale straw-colour, homogeneous on superficial view, but finely granular when closely inspected. Haematoma may, however, be coarsely loculated ; the walls of the loculi being solid, the contents more or less fluid, or gelatiniform-looking. Such tumours (while unchanged in characters) exhibit microscopically the qualities of fibrin, — fibrils gelatinizing with acetic acid,— amor- phous fragments, granules, and molecules. Their colour varies ; it may be of deep yellow, somewhat buff, tint,—and commonly is so, in the spleen and kidney, for instance. Their chemical reactions are those of fibrin. The surface of a haematoma is smooth ; a coating of epithelial structure, rapidly form-