C "J SHELL. 55t whilst they are occasionally found in the deli- cate little Pteropoda, and in the compara- tively gigantic Cephalopoda. In this last class, however, the shells are not unfrequently internal; an approach to this arrangement being seen in certain Gasteropoda and Ptero- poda, in which the shells are covered-in by folds of the mantle, whilst really external to :he body. In the articulated series, the pre- sence of a shelly covering, according to the usual acceptation of the term, is more re- stricted. It is possessed by a few Annelida (e. g. Serpula, Spirorbis, &c.), whose shelly tubes so much resemble those of certain Mol- lusks as to be readily confounded with them. It is usually found, too, in the Cirrhopoda, (a class whose articulated character is now quite settled) ; and it is generally present in the Crustacea, although it is only in the larger and more highly developed forms of this class, that the shell is consolidated by mineral deposit, and really deserves the appel- lation. The external configuration of the principal varieties of shelly covering having been suf- ficiently described under the several heads above referred to, it is not requisite here to revert to that subject ; our present purpose being to give an account of the intimate struc- ture of shell, on which an entirely new light has been thrown by raicrosco[)ical en- quiries. The prevalent doctrine respecting the nature of shell, as expressed even by the most recent conchological writers, has been that it is not only extravascular, but completely inorganic^ being composed of an exudation of calcareous particles, cemented together by animal glue. It may now, however, be stated as an ascertained fact, that shell always pos- sesses a more or less distinct organic struc- ture* ; this being in some instances of the cha- racter of that of the epidermis of higher animals, but in others having more resemblance to that of the dermis, or true skin. The nature of the organic structure is so entirely different in the Mollusca, Echinodermata, and Crustacea re- spectively, that a separate description is re- quired for each ; indeed, even in the subor- dinate divisions of these groups very charac- teristic diversities are frequently observable; so that, as in the case of teeth, it is often possible * The idea that such wotild prove to be the case was expressed by the author of this article in the 2d edition of his " Principles of General and Com- parative Physiology" (published in 1841), as fol- lows :—** The dense calcareous shells of the Mollusca, and the thinner jointed envelopes of the Ciiistacea, have been commonly regarded as mere exudations of stony matter, mixed vrith an animal glue secreted from the membrane which answers to the true skin. The hard axes and sheaths of the Poh-jDifera, hoAv- ever, have been also regarded in the same light; and yet, as ^yi\l hereafter appear, these are un- questionably formed by the consolidation of what was once living tissue. From the analogy which the shells of Mollusca and Crustacea bear to the epidermic appendages of higher animals, there Avould seem reason to believe that the fonner, like the latter, have their origin in cells, and that these ai-e aftenvards hardened by the deposition of earthy matter in their interior." P. 33. to determine the family, sometimes the genus, and occasionally even the species, from the inspection of a minute fragment of a shell, well fossil as recent; whilst the degree ei^^y^ correspondence or difference in the intimate structure appears to be, in many groups, more valuable than any other single character as a basis for classification, because more indicative of the general organisation of the animal. Examples of both these applications will be presently given. Mollusca. — The shells of Mollusca may always be regarded as epidermic in their cha- racter; being formed upon the surface of the mantle, which answers to the true skin of other animals. As might be anticipated from this description, they are essentially composed of cells, consolidated by a deposit of carhonate of lime in their interior ; but, as in other tissues, we frequently find that the original cellular organisation is obscured by subsequent changes, and we sometimes lose all traces of it. We shall first examine it in what may be consi- dered its typical condition, which is most cha- racteristically seen in certain bivalves. If a small portion be broken away from the thin margin of the shell of any species of Pinna, (this margin being composed of the outer layer only, which projects beyond the inner), and it be placed without any prepa- ration under a low magnifying power, it pre- sents on each of its surfaces, when viewed by transmitted light, very much the appearance of a honeycomb; whilst at the broken edge it exhibits an aspect which is evidently fibrous to the eye, but which, when examined under the miscroscope with reflected light, resembles that of an assemblage of basaltic columns. The shell is thus seen to be composed of a vast number of prisms, having a tolerably uniform size, and usually presenting an approach to the hexagonal shape. These are arranged perpendicularly (or nearly so) to the surface of the lamina of the shell ; so that its thick- ness is formed by their length, and its two surfaces by their extremities. A more satis- factory view of these prisms is obtained by grinding down a lamina until it possesses a high degree of transparency ; and it is then seen (^g. 407.) that the prisms themselves appear to be composed of a very homogeneous substance, but that they are separated by definite and strongly-marked fines of division. When such a lamina is submitted to the action of dilute acid, so as to dissolve away the carbonate of hme, a tolerably firm and consistent membrane is left, which exhibits the prisn)atic structure just as perfectly as did the original shell (^g. 408.) ; the hexagonal divisions being evidently the walls of cells resembling those of the pith or bark of a plant, in which the cells are fre- quently hexagonal prisms. In very thin natural laminae, the nuclei of the cells can often be plainly distinguished ; but we cannot expect to find these, when the two ends of the cells (at one of which they are generally situated) have been removed by grinding. By making a section of the shell perpendicularly to its surface, we obtain a view of the prisms cut