47 POLYPIFERA. the interior of which may be observed a ve- sicle that soon becomes organised into nu- merous cells, which constitute the vitelline mass exactly as in the last case. But, arrived It this point, the vitelline mass becomes tu- Derculated, assuming the appearance of a rasp- berry, and, instead of a single vitellus, it is found to be an agglomeration of several, each of which contains in its interior a Purkingean i'esicle from which a young individual is pro- duced, which is of a totally different form from its parent and covered with cilia, by the aid of which it swims freely about in search of a locality where to fix itself. This form of re- production will, however, be more particularly noticed in describing the Sertularian Polypes. Fifth mode, hy free gemmation and ova com- hined. — This last form of the reproductive process is merely a combination of two of the preceding, propagation being effected by the development of a free gemma, in the interior of which there is formed a divided vitellus. In this case a free embryo becomes organised, and takes the form of a young Medusa, accord- ing to the second mode described above, in the interior of which is contained an ovum with a multiple vitellus, from which numerous ciliated embryos are produced, as in the Ser- tularia geniculata hereafter to be noticed. TnbiporidcB. — The pol3'pary of the Tubi- Fig. 52. Tubipora musica. pora (fg. 52.)consists of several stages of cy- lindrical tubes placed parallel to each other, or very slightly diverging. These tubes are sepa- rated from each other by considerable intervals, but mutually support each other by the inter- position of external horizontal plates formed of the same dense substance as themselves, by which they are united together, so that a mass of these tubes exhibits an arrangement some- thing like that of the pipes in an organ ; whence the trivial name musica by which the species is distingu'shed. From the upper ends of these tubes the polypes are protruded, and being when alive of a bright grass green colour they contrast very beautifully with the rich crimson of the tubes they inhabit. The mouth* of the polype is suspended in the centre of the tube by means of the soft mem- brane : it is surrounded with eight tentacula, the margins of which are fringed with two or ' * Anatomie du Tubipore musical par Mons. La- mouroux. Zoologie de Quoy et Gaimard, Voyage de rUranie. three rows of fleshy papillae. Beneath the opening of the mouth is the stomachal saccu- lus, around which arise the eight ovigerous filaments. Those filaments near their origin are loose and floating, but lower down they become connected with the soft membrane {fg. 53. 1, 2,d)^ with which the tube is lined, Fig. 53. 13 2 Tuhipora musica. 1, 2, longitudinal sections; 3, portion of the poly- pary, showing the connecting stage. a, membranous collar, continuous with the tube; b, calcareous tube; c, tentacles; d, ovaries. throughout its whole length, but gradually diminishing in thickness as they descend. These filaments are equivalent to the ovigerous tubes of the other Anthozoa; but the ova are here developed upon their external surface, to which they are attached by short pedicles. Extending between the roots of the tenta- cula of the polype and the margin of the tube is the membrane, which, in the retracted state of the animal, is drawn into the shape of a funnel, the mouth of the funnel being con- tinuous with the extremity of the calcareous tube. The funnel-shaped membrane is in fact a continuation of the calcareous tube, from which it only differs in texture from the cir- cumstance that the latter has become solidi- fied by the interstitial deposition of calcareous matter in its substance, while the former still retains its softness and irritability. The funnel-shaped membrane does not ter- minate suddenly upon the calcareous tube ; the latter, indeed, is a prolongation and pro- duct of it; the calcareous substance is depo- sited in this gelatinous membrane in the same manner as j)hosphate of hme is deposited in the bones of very young subjects, changing its soft texture into hard and solid substance. The manner, therefore, in which this tube is formed cannot be compared to the mode of formation of the cells of Serpulas or the tubes of MoUusca ; in the latter it is a secretion of the skin, almost an epidermic product. In polyparies, on the contrary, there is a real change of soft into sohd substance, which is effected gradually, but the calcareous matter is not deposited in layers.