670 SKELETON. join each other at the common median line («, b). From these laminae we find jutting out laterally the exogenous transverse pro- cesses {(I, d)y each of which is tipped by an epiphysis. The pair of scapulae (o) forms a symmetrical figure : both scapulte (c, c) are evidently similar to each other, and also to the laminge (c, c) of tiie vertebra (a).* From each sca- pula we find projecting laterally an exogenous 489. Showing that the pair of scapulte and the pair of iliac bones, compared with the pair of vertebral laminae, prove a homological relation, and also that the heads of the humerus, the femur, and the rib are similar to one another. process (d^ d\ which is commonly named acromial process, and each is tipped with an epiphysis also. These acromial processes evidently correspond to the transverse pro- cesses {d, d) of the vertebra (a). The pair of ihac bones (c) likewise forms a symmetrical figure when laid crest to crest. These two iliac bones (c, c) are homologous, not only to each other, but to the two sca- pulae (b), and to the two vertebral laminae of A. From each iliac bone there projects late- rally the process rf, d, which answers to the acromion process d of b, and to the transverse process d of a. The process d of c is named anterior inferior process of the ilium, and it is tipped with an epiphysis. The law of symmetry becomes the expo- nent of the structural identity existing between the figures a, b, and c; for we find the com- * If this homological relation which I point out as apparent between the pairs of scapulae and iliac bones, with the pair of vertebral laminae, be true, then the homological relation which Professor Owen describes as existing between the scapulae and the ribs, as also between the iliac bones and the ribs, cannot at the same time be received as a true doctrine. mon median line {a, b) bisecting them through their conjoined bases. The opposite halves of each of these figures form symmetrical figures, but it is also true that the half of each is asymmetrical. Now, as the rib (<?,/) articulates with each side of the vertebra (a), and is overhung by the transverse process (rf), so the humerus (e,f) articulates with each side of the scapular form (b), and is overhung by the acromion process (d). In just the same relations, the thigh-bone (<?,/) of the iliac form (c) is over- hung by the anterior inferior spinous process (d). It becomes evident, therefore, that the heads of the rib, the humerus, and the femur correspond ; and this correspondence is mani- fested, not only by the position occupied by each, but likewise by the genetic character of all three ; for the parts of the rib (e,f) of a are epiphyseal, the same of the parts (e, f) of the humerus of b, and the same of the parts (e,f) of the femur of c. The articular facets (/) of the rib, the humerus, and the femur corre- spond; the tuberosity (e) of the rib, the humerus, and the femur likewise correspond. The spinous borders of the opposite vertebral laminae of a, the basis of the scapulae (b), and