135 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. K 4 of a vertebra destroyed by caries ; sacciform, when investing a soft growth from bone ; warty, when found about gouty joints ; inem- braniform and lace-hke in the cranium of pregnant women. The flat osteophyte (sometimes separable from the subjacent bone) is best exemphfied in nodes, though it forms under the influence of common periostitis or adjoining inflam- mation, as beautifully shown by the ribs of an old sufi^erer from empyema, preserved in the University College Museum. If a node be carefully examined, it will be found in part to consist of hypertrophy with rarefaction of the superficial stratum of the original bone; and in part of ossified subperiosteal exudation. The canaliculi in the latter run at right angles with the axis of the bone,— proving absolutely the existence of a sef arate centre of ossification: the fact is exemplified on a large scale, in jig. 97. And it is further illus- trated by a portion of carious lower jaw-bone (now before us), separated from the face of a dipper of Congreve matches, labouring under the singular disease peculiar to workers with phosphorus. On the inner surface of the ramus of the bone (kindly lent to us by Mr. Quain, whose patient the man was *,) appears a flattish osteophyte, partly fibrillar, partly porous and pumice-stone like, of dark-greyish colour, and easily separable at the edge from the maxillary surface : elsewhere are friable earthy-looking particles. But the most singular of osteophytic pro- ductions is certainly that which forms in menibraniform patches between the cranium and dura-mater of a certain (as yet unsettled) proportion of pregnant women. The natural history of this production (of which a beauti- ful specimen lies before us) has been unravelled with great sagacity by M. Ducrest-I Exuda- tion matter soft, pulpy, and reddish, forms the matrix of the future osteophyte; it soon becomes sandy to the feel ; subsequently hard particles of some size are felt, and these form eventually one, more or less perfectly, contin- uous plate. The frontal regions are its chosen seat, and M. Ducrest shows that its formation occurs symmetrically. Its thick- ness does not exceed a sixth of an inch, and is generally much less ; the specimen before \\% (irregular thickness from point to point gives this a lace-like appearance) forms a coating for the entire base and upper arch of the skull ; but its superfical extent is very rarely so considerable. When fresh it is of red colour ; twice (in jaundiced women) M. Ducrest found it yellow. This production, which entails no symptoms, is more prone to appear in young than in more aged women. id) Osteoma. By osteoma we understand a growth composed of bone, and either (a) altogether free from, or (b) having but very slight, connection with any part of the skele- * This man is now in excellent health, and ma- nages to masticate with the aid of a fibrous represent- ative of his lost jaw. t ^Me'moires de la Soc. Me'd. d'Observation de Paris, t. ii. ton. Tumours of the former kind (a) are of excessive rarity, and are perhaps only met with as results of bony infiltration of a pre- existing i^lastic mass, either of the serous cavities or of the parenchymata; it seems un- necessary to insist upon the greater frequency of calcification than of true ossification of such masses. Tumours of the latter kind (b) are best exemplified by growths from bone, gene- rally termed pedunculated exostoses, in which the peduncle may be so small, and the body of the growth comparatively so large, that a centre of ossification distinct from the original bone appears to exist. Such produc- tions are not very unfrequent about the pha- langes of the toes ^ their texture is generally loose, but may be eburniform from density. (e) Osteoid. — Under the names of osteoid or ossif}ing fungous tumour, Miiller de- scribes a growth of slow or rapid course, generally springing from the surface of bones, sometimes acquiring great bulk, composed of porous or close osseous texture, and of a greyish white, vascular, nodulated substance, of the consistence of fibro-cartilage, the latter lying in the interstices of the former. The softer substance furnishes neither glutin nor chondrin by boiling, and exhibits a dense fibrous rete under the microscope, containing a few nucleated cells in its meshes. The for- mation of osteoid growths seems dependent on a peculiar diathesis ; they generally appear at first on one bone, but may eventually in- vade several bones and certain soft parts — the lungs, great vessels, &c. The removal of a primary growth by amputation does not pre- vent the development of others internally. Cruveilhier's osteochondrophyte (Anat. Path, livrais, .34), is a production of this class ; this writer calls the soft part of the tumour carti- lage, but gives no proof of its being so. (/) Bone formation in the interior of new products (exclusive of osteophytes springing from some part of the skeleton) is very rare. We have never seen such bone in cancer or in fibroma; but there is sufficient evidence that it has, in some rare instunces, been ob- served. Of Undetermined Basis. COLLOMA. Perhaps the word CoUoma will not be objected to as a pro tempore name for the gelatinous-looking matter, which is of common occurrence in the interior of cysts, and occurs less frequently, unprotected by such invest- ment, in the hmbs and elsewhere. Tremulous and soft, sometimes sufficiently so to be almost poured from the part containing it; generally amorphous, sometimes fibrillar, never stromal, as seen with the naked eye, this substance appears transparent and amorphous under the microscope. It contains no interstitial vessels. This substance yields no gelatin by boil- ing ; nor is it composed of albumen (though it may fiirnish traces of this principle): it^^is therefore chemically difl^erent from the jellv-