49 POLYPIFERA. permeates the stem, which thus seems to be nourished by the hundreds of little polypes that are constantly fishing for food. At certain periods of the year, besides the polype-bearing cells, other horny receptacles are developed, called the ovigerous vesicles {Jig. 55, h), in which the ova are produced. The ovigerous vesicles are differently dis- posed according to the species, sometimes arising from the branches of the coralline, at others from the axillae formed by their sub- divisions ; their shape likewise is very various, and sometimes they are covered with a little operculum, or lid, which closes the orifice of the vase-like vesicle during the maturation of the reproductive gemmules, and at last opens so as to permit their escape. These gemmu- liferous urns are, however, deciduous, and fall off after the development of the germs of reproduction is completed. Such being the general structure of the Sertularidae, we must now proceed to examine more minutely their intimate organisation. The stem of the Sertularian is composed of two layers, of which the exterior (Jig. 55, b), Fig. 55. Diagram of Sertularian. a, inner or nutritive layer ; b, outer or tegu- mentary layer; c, oral tentacles of the polype; d, e, gemmules; /, polypiform external capsule; h, ovi- gerous cell. or tegumentary layer, is of a dense horny tex- ture, while the internal, or nutritive layer (Jig. 55, a), is of a soft pulpy character according to the pattern peculiar to the species; the tegu- mentary layer expands at appointed distances into the polype-cells (Jig. 55, g) ; and it is from this layer likewise during the reproductive season that the ovigerous vesicles are deve- loped. The nutritive layer (fg. 55, a), it will be seen, not only lines the stem, but likewise penetrates into the polype-cells, where it be- comes continuous with the body of the con- VOL. IV. tained polype, the structure of which closely resembles that of the Hydra; it seems, in fact, to consist of nothing but a stomachal sacculus, the mouth of which is surrounded with con- tractile tentacles, which are never, as errone- ously stated by some writers, provided with vibratile cilia, such as are possessed by some more highly organised polypes. The nutriment elaborated in the digestive sacciili passes into the central cavity of the stem, in which an evident circulation of globules is apparent, somewhat analogous in its appearance to what is perceivable in the Chara and other transpa- rent vegetables. It is from the nutritive layer which lines the ovigerous vesicles likewise that the repro- ductive gemmules are developed. These (^g. 55, d), as they gradually become separated from the nidus in which they are formed, retain their connection with the vital tissue of the nutritive layer, by the intervention of a kind of umbilical cord, until they are suffi- ciently matured to allow of their escape. When this period arrives each gemmule is found to be covered over with vibratile cilia, by the action of which it detaches itself from the umbilical filament, and, escaping from the reproductive cell, swims away into the sur- rounding element. Here, by means of its cilia, it swims about, having much the appearance of a polygastric animalcule, until it finds a fit locality for its development, when it settles down, and, losing its locomotive organs, spreads out like a film of jelly upon the supporting body. The formation of its horny envelope then begins, fibres of which are first extended like the spreading root of a tree, so as to give a firm hold upon the basis for support; and then the stem itself begins to shoot upwards, deve- loping, as it ascends, the nutritive polypes and the horny cells in which they are individually lodged. In order to understand how growth is ac- complished in these tube-clad zoophytes,it will be necessary to refer once more to the preced- ing diagram (Jig. 55). The tegumentary layer of the zoophyte (^g. 55, b) is at first quite soft and expansible, the hard corneous matter by which it is consolidated being afterwards superadded to its texture. Whilst growth is in progress, therefore, this outer layer shoots upwards in conformity with the pattern to which it belongs ; but whilst the top of the tube retains its softness and power of growth it is continually fortified below by the depo- sition of the horny matter which gives it solidity: growth can therefore only proceed at the extremity of every branch where this layer remains capable of further development; for no sooner is it solidified than it remains permanently unchangeable. Hence it is that these zoophytes differ so remarkably from plants in the character of their arborescence: in the latter the stem is increased by constant additions to its thickness, but in the case of the Sertularia no such thickening is possible; so that both stem and branches retain the sa^ne diameter throughout, however much their