52 POLYPIFEHA. portion of the tegumentary membrane, which, by the molecular deposit of earthy matter in its tissue, becomes ossified, something like the cartilage of the higher animals, with- out ceasing to be the seat of nutritive move- ment. It is evident likewise that what is usually called the body of the Bryozoon constitutes, in fact, but a small portion of it, principally consisting of the digestive appa- ratus. As to the operculum, destined to close the entrance of the tegumentary cell, it is merely a hp-like fold of the skin, the marginal portion of which acquires a dense consistency by in- terstitial deposit, while at the point where it is continuous with the general envelope it remains sufficiently soft and flexible to form a sort of hinge. The tegumentary sac, deprived of its car- bonate of lime, seems to be formed of a to- mentous membrane, covered, especially upon its inner side, with a multitude of cylindrical filaments, disposed perpendicularly to its sur- face, and closely crowded together. It is in the interstices left by these fibres that the calcareous matter appears to be deposited; for if a transverse section be examined with the microscope the external wall is seen not to be made up of superposed layers, but of cylinders and irregular prisms arranged per- pendicularly to the axis of the body. But the above are not the only arguments adduced by Milne Edwards in proof that these polyparies are maintained in vital connection with the animal. On examining the cells at different ages it is found that after they are completely calcified they undergo material changes of form. This examination is easily made, seeing that in many species the young sprout from the sides of those first formed, and do not separate from their parents ; each skeleton, therefore, presents a long series of generations linked to each other, and in each portion of the series the relative ages of the individuals are indicated by the position which they occupy. It is sufficient, therefore, to compare the cells situated at the base, those of the middle por- tion, those of the young branches, and those placed at the very extremities of the latter. When examined in this manner it is seen that not only does the general configuration of the cells change with age, but also that these changes are principally produced upon the external surface. For instance, in the young cells of Eschara cervicornis, the subject of these observations, the walls of which are of a stony hardness, the external surface is much inflated, so that the cells are very distinct and the borders of their apertures prominent; but by the progress of age their appearance changes, their free surface rises so as to extend beyond the level of the borders of the cell, and defaces the deep impressions which marked their respective limits. It results that the cells cease to be distinct, and the polypary presents the appearance of a stony mass, in which the apertures of the cells only are visible. Fig. 59. Portion of a branch of the polypary of Eschara cer- vicornis, viagnified 20 diameters to show the form and arrangement of cells. (^After jyiilne Edwards.') Muscular system.—The muscular system of Bowerbankia is described as follows. For the process of retraction two distinct sets of muscles are provided; the one acting upon the animal, the other upon the flexible part of the cell. The muscles for the retraction of the ani- mal are contained in the visceral cavity, and consist of two bundles of delicate thread-hke chords {Jig. 56, 8 and 9); the one set, arising from the bottom of the cell, to be inserted about the base of the stomach ; the other, also arising from near the bottom of the cell, though generally at the opposite side from the former, and passing up free by the side of the pharynx, to be inserted around the line of junction of this organ with the base of the tentacula. The muscles provided for the retraction of the opercu- lum, or flexible portion of the cell, have their origin from the inner surface and near the top of the stiff" part, and are inserted into the flexible portion on which they act. They are most distinctly seen when the flexible operculum is completely drawn in, at which time the latter is folded up so as to occupy the axis of the upper part of the cell, and to it the muscles are seen extending from the oppo- site sides of the cell from which they have their origin. They consist of six flattened bundles of fibres, having a triradiate arrange- ment. The upper three sets {fig. 60, a, 3) act upon the upper part of the cell, and are in- serted into it. The low er three {fig. 60, c, 4) are smaller, and are for the purpose of re- tracting the bundle of setae with which it is crowned. These fasciculi afforded Dr. Farre an ex- cellent opportunity for investigating the struc- ture of this form of muscle. It would appear as if muscular fibre were reduced to its sim- plest condition. The filaments are totally disconnected, and are arranged the one above the other in a shigle series. They pass straight and parallel from their origin to their inser- tion, and have a uniform diameter through their whole course, except that each filament generally presents a small knot upon its centre, which is most apparent when in a state of contraction, at which time the whole filament also is obviously thicker than when relaxed.