108 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. factory. Our own belief (which is firm) in its occurrence rests upon the following facts and arguments. 1. Rabbits submitted to influences which, experience has proved, unfailingly lead to the development of tubercle in the liver and elsewhere, have subsequently been placed in conditions favourable to health,eventually been killed, and no traces, or the merest traces, of tubercle been discovered in their bodies. (Jen- ner, Baron, Carswell.) 2. Miliary tubercles, developed in the substance of pleural or peri- toneal false membrane, disappear in cases where the latter becomes cellulo-serous in texture. 3. Tuberculous matter disappears from the substance of enlarged strumous glands. 4. We have seen and satisfactorily observed cases of tuberculization of the bron- chial glands in children, in which (while the local and general symptoms of phthisis were fully developed, and the physical signs of marked enlargement of the bronchial glands were no less distinct) recovery in respect of symptoms has occurred, coevally with modi- fication and ultimately disappearance of those physical signs. Such cases are unfortunately rare. o. And, again, we have found the phy- sical signs of induration at the apex of a lung in "persons labouring under the local and general symptoms of phthisis, and belonging to a tainted family ; and these signs have totally disappeared in company with the train of local and general symptoms. The event is, no doubt, singularly rare ; and the disappearance of induration-signs may, by the sceptical, be referred to the cessation of congestion. But congestion has its special signs, which were not present in the cases we refer to ; and con- gestion at the apex is, in the very great ma- jority of cases, of tuberculous origin. 6. Andral and Reynaud attempt to trace certain furrowed and excavated appearances of pul- monary tubercles to a process of absorption, but they do this dubitatively, and the point has not been investigated by others. (b.) Of the removal by absorption of the animal ingredients of tubercle, while saline particles are deposited in abundance (so- called '^transformation"), no doubt can be entertained. The gradual change of the tuber- culous matter may be traced from a condition of mere desiccation with greasiness to the feel, to that of osteo-petrous substance. The traces of animal material may eventually almost wholly, if not wholly, disappear ; for Thenard found'that while " crude" tubercle contained 98.15 per cent, of animal and 1.85 of saline matters, cretaceous tubercle furnished but 3.0 per cent, of the former and 96.0 of the latter. The production of this change in tubercu- lous matter is very frequently (but certamly not always — witness the case of the mesen- teric glands) connected with the presence of common plastic exudation in the surrounding natural texture. This exudation-matter gra- dually hardens, eventually assuming the fibrous condition, and possessed (like all similar exu- dation) of strong contractile properties, pro- bably facilitates the absorption of the enclosed tubercle by the pressure it exercises. But absorption may proceed further. The cretaceous, calcareous, or osteo-petrous sub- stances, representatives of bygone tubercle, sometimes totally disappear; and, at a later pe- riod still, the plastic fibrinous substance is itself removed. The part where all these changes have occurred (in the lungs for example) may even appear healthy; but on close examination puckering (parenchymatous, we mean, not pleural) is discovered in a spot, where obhte- rated vessels and bronchial tubes converge, as the indelible evidence of the morbid con- ditions that have preceded. This puckering and obliteration have (as we believe errone- ously) been ascribed to the cicatrization of cavities. (c.) The elimination of tuberculous matter by excretion is effected from free surfaces, or from the stroma of parts and organs. 1. Excretion of tuberculous matter, without breach of surface in the part supplying it, oc- curs in the uterine, renal, and pulmonary pas- sages,—never, so far as we have ourselves observed, in the intestines. The occurrence is, under all circumstances, rare. 2. The elimination of tubercle from the stroma of parts involves the destruction of tissue by an ulcerative or gangrenous process. Such elimination takes place either when the cretaceous change has occurred, or independ- ently of any such change. Of the former (the rarer of the two) the escape of cretaceous masses from the bronchial glands through an ulcerated opening in the trachea, furnishes a striking example; the expectoration of such masses from the lungs themselves is extremely rare, while, on the other hand, these organs supply the most important illustration of eli- mination of unchanged tuberculous substance. Softening of tuberculous matter being com- plete, the natural textures contained within the area occupied by that matter have likewise lost their consistence, as a result of infiltration with morbid fluids and of imperfect nutrition. Ulcer- ative destruction readily sets in; minute bron- chial tubes are in consequence opened ; through these the softened matter and (as is proved by microscopical examination) fragments of the parenchymatous fibrils and capillaries of the lung are evacuated. An excavation (cavity or cavern) in the pulmonary substance is the result. When a cavity is of recent date, its walls, smooth and even, are commonly lined, more or less completely, with plastic exudation, fragile, whitish, and opaque ; but the pulmonary tissue is in some instances bare and unprotected. The walls of cavities of old date, firm and resisting, are lined with a membrane, divisible into two strata—the external dense, greyish, and fibrous, the internal soft and velvety, deposited conti- nuously or in patches on the inner surface of the former. Or (as existed in one-fourth of the old cavities examined by Louis) the walls may be totally free from any membranous in- vestment. The walls are uneven, irregular, and coated commonl}' by bands composed of pulmonary substance (rarely containing per- meable vessels) studded with tuberculous