SEMEN. 489 number and size of the latter is generally much smaller than in the lower part. It fol- lows, of course, that the size of the mother cells themselves is influenced by the size and number of their contents: wherever the number of the enclosed vesicles is small, the cyst never attains a considerable size. In Culex, for instance, it seldom exceeds 1 /// 1 /// Too T5 • The vesicles surrounded by the cyst are as clear as glass, and, when uninjured, contain an entirely homogeneous material, which, how- ever, appears granulated on being treated with water, and then also it sometimes forms a Fig. 368. Developing cells of the Spermatozoa of Culex. large nucleus-like body in their interior. In each of these vesicles, as V. S'lebold'^ has shown, a single spermatozoon is usually produced {fig. 368.). It attaches itself in numerous windings to the inner surface of the cell wall, until it has reached its full develope- ment. In the mean time the vesicle loses its original round shape, becoming stretched, and assuming the most various forms {fig. 369.). At last the vesicle bursts at some place, and allows the spermatozoa to come forth. ( Fig. 370.) The spermatozoa having thus become free, group themselves together into regular bun- dles, still enclosed by the mother cell of the vesicle of developement. This at least seems to be the case invariably wherever the cyst persists long enough. It, however, some- Fig. 369. /' Spermatozoa in tlie interior of the vesicles of develope- ment of Nepa cinerea. times disappears at an early period, as, for instance, according to Kolliker, in Musca, in * Uber (lie S^jermatozoiden der Locustinen, A. a. 0. S. 1. which case the vesicles of developement form loose groups, as in Amphioxus. Fig. 370. Spermatozoa partially expelled from the^vesicles of developement of Nepa cinerea., The bundles in many cases disperse as soon as the mother cells are destroyed. But it still more frequently occurs that these bundles survive the existence of the cyst, the remainder of which then covers for some time to come (as in the singing birds, &c.) the anterior end of the bundle in a cap-like form. (Instances — Coleo[)tera, Neu- roptera, &c.) In this part, which is ge- nerally lengthened, the separate spermatozoa lie together in a remarkably dense manner, being almost united together into one com- mon mass. It is different, however, in most cases with the posterior division of the bundles {fig. 371. A.), where the separate fibres start away from each other. In this way the usual pear, club, or retort shape of the spermatozoa bundles is produced.* It is but rarely the case that the spermatozoa present, in their whole length, an arrangement similar to that which is usual at the anterior end. The whole bundle of spermatozoa then appears as {fig. 371. b) a homogeneous structure, and might Fig. .371. Bundles of Spermatozoa, A, from the testicle of Sta- phylinus erythropterus; B, of St. cyajieus. {After Siebold.^ readily be taken for a single colossal sperma- tozoon, if the observation of the develope- ment had not taught us otherwise. Of this, however, we may convince ourselves by ma- * We are inclined to regard as bundles of sper- matozoa of this kind, those formations from the testicle of Paludina vivipara, which V. Siehold de- scribed as a second form of spermatozoa. MUller's Archiv. 1836, S. 246.