ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 591 cavity in the cervix scapulae, which received the head of the bone. At the upper and back part of the joint there was a large /jicce of the cartilage which hung loosely into the cavity, being connected with the synovial menlbrane at the upper part only by two or three small membranous bands. The long head of the biceps muscle seemed to have been ruptured near to its origin at the upper part of the glenoid cavity, for at this part the tendon was very small, and had the appear- ance of being a new formation.' — Signed, James Patey. "This accident," adds Sir Astley, "hap- pens from the same cause which produced the dislocation forward. The anterior part of the hgament is torn, and the head of the bone has an opportunity of escaping forwards to the coracoid process." * The foregoing dissection, which is illus- trated by an engraving in Sir A. Cooper's work on Fractures and Dislocations, should not, in our opinion, be considered in any other light than as an excellent specimen of the anatomical appearances to be found in those who have had chronic rheumatic ar- thritis of the shoulder joint; for we consider that these appearances were not the result of an accidental luxation, but the true effects of this slow chronic disease. If Sir A. Cooper had known any thing of the history of the case during life, we might hesitate to call in question the opinion of so eminent an au- thority on such a subject ; but as the only grounds he possessed for forming any opinion were derived from the mere anatomical ap- pearances observed in the shoulder joint of the subject in the dissecting-room, we con- ceive that every one who studies the report of this dissection, accompanied as it is by an engraving, is at liberty to draw his own con- clusion as to what was the real nature of the case ; and to us it seems quite clear that the appearances observed in the examination of the case referred to by Sir A. Cooper were exactly those most frequently found to be the result of chronic rheumatic arthritis as it affects the shoulder joint. The new form assumed by the head of the humerus, the fact of the cartilage having been removed, and its place supplied by an ivory enamel — the piece of cartilage which hung loosely into the cavity being connected with the synovial membrane, at the upper part only, by two or three small membranous bands — the attachment of the capsular liga- ment to the coracoid process — all these cir- cumstances related in the above-mentioned case strongly remind us of what we now know to be characteristic marks of the disease we have denominated chronic rheumatic arthritis, as we have so often met with them. Add to this, the observation that the intra-ar- ticular portion of the long tendon of the biceps muscle did not exist ; or, as is pre- sumed, to have been " ruptured " at its origin. * See Sir A. Cooper on " Dislocations," p. 449. Plate 21. fig. 2.; also octavo edition of this work by Mr. B. Cooper, p. 401. In all these details we find a very complete account of the anatomy of the shoulder joint which had been the seat of chronic rheumatic arthritis. On the other hand, such appearances afford no evidence whatever that an accidental luxa- tiori*was the cause of them ; certain it is that appearances exactly resembling those de- scribed in Sir A. Cooper's case have been met with in cases in which their cause could not be attributed to accident, because no in- jury had been received; while in others it was useless to refer to accident, inasmuch as the morbid action had similarly affected both shoidder joints ; so that by the dissection of such cases we have convinced ourselves that disease^ not accident, was the source of the morbid appearances. If the reader will com- pare the woodcut 429.), which is designed to represent the anatomical appearances pre- sented by the examination of a case (J.Byrne) already detailed, of chronic rheumatic ar- thritis of the shoulder, with the engraving of Sir A. Cooper's case of partial luxation of the head of the humerus, he will, we think, agree with us that the writer, in believing that whatever causes influenced the produc- tion of the morbid appearances in the one were identical with those which produced them in the other. Sir A. Cooper, in our opinion, somewhat gratuitously supposes that his specimen was the much sought-for ex- ample of the anatomy of the accident called partial luxation. We say gratidtoudy, because the previous history of the case he alludes to was unknown, and the accident siijiposcd to have occurred. In the case the writer has adduced (J. Byrne, (^fig. 429.), the history was known, and has been preserved, with the account of the post-mortem appearances which the examination of the shoulder joint presented. At the meeting of the British Association at Bristol in September, 1836, the author gave an account of this chronic rheumatic disease, as it engages most of the joints. When speaking of its effects on the shoul- der, he alluded to this case published by Sir A. Cooper ; and then demonstrated, as he thought, to the satisfaction of the meeting, that the specimen {Jig. 429.) of this chronic rheu- matic disease which he then laid before them for inspection, corresponded exactly to the ap- pearances found in the supposed case of " par- tial luxation of the humerus " delineated in Sir A. Cooper's work. The opinion which he at that time expressed (now twelve years ago) has since been amply confirmed by his subsequent experience *, and by the opportu- nities he has had of further investigating the nature of this disease. In the Museum Anatomicum'\ of Sandi- fort, 1827, we find dehneated the bones of the shoulder joint which present all the cha- * See Athenaeum, September 10, 1836 ; also Pro- ceedings of the Dublin Pathological Society, Dub- lin Joiu'nal, vol. xv. p. 502. t Vol. iv. tab. 24.^5. 1, 2, 3.