ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 594 relaxed :—" The shoulder joint presented a remarkable degree of mobility in this case ; and the head of the humerus of the affected side could be pushed half an inch higher than its fellow." The great peculiarity in this case Dr. R. Smith thought consisted in the cir- cumstance that the tendon of the biceps was not, as it usually is in cases of this chronic disease, absorbed, but was in a perfect state of integrity as to structure. This tendon having been thrown off the head of the humerus, and displaced inwardly, its normal function to restrain the ascent of the humerus, through the mediuin of its mus- cular connection, was as much annulled as if it had been removed altogether, as it usually is, under the influences of this chronic dis- ease. Questions here naturally arise : Can the tendon of the biceps be dislocated from its groove by accidental violence ? and if so, Shall the consequent dislocation of the head of the humerus be in the direction upwards, exactly as it was in the preceding case, which was evidently an example of the displacement of the tendon from disease. Mr. John Soden, junior, of Bath, has pub- lished a case, accompanied by some interesting remarks, the objects of which are to prove that the tendon of the biceps may be dislocated by accident, and that a partial displacement of the head of the humerus upwards must im- mediately follow. Mr. John Soden''s case. — Partial disloca- tion 2ipwards. — " Joseph Cooper, aged 59, was admitted into the Bath United Hos- pital, November 9, 1839, on account of a compound fracture of the skull. His death afforded an opportunity of examining an old injury of the right shoulder, the symptoms of which had been always involved in great ob- scurity, and which occurred in the following manner: — *' In the month of May, 1839, the deceased (six months before his death) was engaged in nailing down a carpet, when, on rising sud- denly from his occupation, his foot slipped, and he fell backwards on the floor. In order to break the force of the fall, he involuntarily placed his arm behind him, and by so doing received the whole weight of the body upon his right elbow ; that joint, the only one struck, received no injury, for the shock was instantly transmitted to the shoulder, and there the whole effects of the accident were sustained. Acute pain was immediately ex- perienced, and the man supposed he had either suffered a fracture or a dislocation, but finding that he cotdd raise the arm over his head, he felt reassured, and endeavoured to resume his work. The pain, however, com- pelled him to desist, and he went home." " When I saw him," says Mr. Soden, " on the following morning, the joint was greatly swollen, tender to the touch, and painful on very slight motion. There was then no pos- sibility of his placing his arm over his head, as he had done immediately after the acci- dent. I satisfied myself that there was nei- ther fracture nor dislocation of the bones, and not suspecting the existence of a more specific injury than a severe sprain, I set down the case as such, and avoided the un- necessary pain of further examination. Un- usually active means were necessary to sub- due the inflammation, and at the end of three weeks, though the swelling was much reduced, the tenderness in the front of the joint, and pain on certain motions of the limb, were scarcely less than on the day after the occurrence of the accident. " On comparing the joint with its fellow, now that the swelling had subsided, a marked difference was observable between their re- spective outlines. The injured shoulder was evidently out of drawing, but without pre- senting any glaring deformity : when the man stood erect with his arms dependent, the dis- tinction was very manifest, but difficult to define. There was a slight flattening on the outer and posterior part of the joint, and the head of the bone looked as it were drawn up higher in the glenoid cavity than it should be. Examination verified the appearance in two ways : first, on moving the limb, with one hand placed on the shoulder, a crepitating sensation was experienced under the fingers, simulating a fracture, but in reality caused by the fric- tion of the head of the humerus against the under surface of the acromion : secondly, on attempting abduction, it was found that the arm could not be raised bej'ond a very acute angle with the body, from the upper edge of the greater tubercle coming in contact with that of the acromion, and thus forming an obstacle to all further progress. The head of the bone was also unduly prominent in front, almost to the amount of a partial dislocation. For all useful purposes the arm was power- less. The pain caused by the action of the biceps was acute, extending through the whole course of the muscle, but felt chiefly at its extremities. When the joint was at rest the pain was referred to the space in front, be- tween the coracoid process and head of the humerus ; which spot was marked by extreme tenderness and some puffy swelling. *' The patient being of a rheumatic habit, in- flammatory action of that character was soon established in the joint, so that the peculiar symptoms of the injury were marked by those of general articular inflammation, which added greatly to the man's suffering, and to the dif- ficulty of diagnosis. On examining the joint the accident was found to have been a dislo- cation of the long head of the biceps from its groove, unaccompanied by any other injury. The tendon was entire, and lay enclosed in its sheath, on the lesser tubercle of the hu- merus ; the capsule was but slightly ruptured; the joint exhibited extensive traces of inflam- mation ; the synovial membrane was vascular and coated with lymph ; recent adhesions were stretched between different parts of its surface, and ulceration had commenced on the cartilage covering the humerus, where it came in contact with the under surface of the acromion ; the capsule was thickened and ad-