QUADRUMANA. 201 manous type is manifested still more strongly by the narrowness and length of the saa^um, its smaller curvature, and its parallelism with the spine. A peculiarity is observable in the position of the last lumbar vertebra with rela- tion to the iliac bones ; these rise on either side to, and are partially joined with that ver- tebra, so that it might almost be reckoned as belonging to the sacral series. The false vertebrcB, viz. the sacral and coc- cygeal, are seven in number. Of these, only the first two have their transverse processes fully developed, and united to the iliac bones ; and hence the trunk is less firmly connected with the pelvic arch, and is consequently more in need of additional support from the anterior extremities than in man. This pecu- liarity, together with the general disposition of the vertebral column of the Chimpanzee, shows that the animal is not designed to walk, as the human subject, on his hinder legs, but that it is chiefly a quadruped. Fig. 122. Skeleton of the Mandrill. (^Origin In the same way, the pelvis of the CMju- panzee differs from that of man in all those particulars which characterise the Qnadruivnna, and which relate to the imperfection of their means of maintaining the erect position. The ! iliac bones are long, straight, and expanded i above the outside, but narrow in proportion I to their length ; the posterior surface is con- cave, for the location of the glutaei muscles ; the anterior surface nearly flat, and stretching outwards, almost parallel with the plane of the sacrum. The whole pelvis is placed more I in a line with the spine, than in man ; its su- :i perior aperture is elongated and narrow, so ■j that the whole of the sacrum and coccyx is |i visible on a front view. The tuberosities of ij the ischia are broad, thick, and curved out- \\ wards. The pubic bones are broad and deep, ^1 but flattened from before backwards. In this general conformity with the quadru- I manous type, there is, however, a provision I for a more extended adherence of the glutaei il, Mus. Zool. Soc. Amsterdam.') muscles in a greater breadth of the ilia, be- tween the superior spinous processes, which also incline forwards more than is observable in the lower genera of Simice; and it may thence be inferred that the semi-erect position is the most easily maintained in the Chim- j)anzee. In the Mandrill the general disposition of the vertebral column is much more remote from the form of man, and approximates to the form of the Carnivorous Mammalia. In the cervical vertebrae, the transverse pro- cesses have a triangular form, and offer an- teriorly a vertical ridge similar to that which appears in most of the Mammalia as a distinct apophysis. In the dorsal vertebrae, the spinal processes of the nine anterior are inclined backwards, of the three posterior forwards : consequently they offer an opposite direction, which is wanted in the vertebral column of the human subject and in the higher genera of monkeys, but which exists generally in the