RESPIRATION. 325 Y 3 in a similar manner to the next'ring, and so on throughout the series, the posterior two-thirds of each ring being embraced by the following, so that of the three prominent rings that project from each piece the anterior only is visible, the two posterior being contained in the next ring, with the exception of the ulti- mate one. The two last rings of each piece thus en- closed in the two first of the succeeding retain it in its place; but as the diameter of the former is less than that of the latter, each piece is quite loose and plays freely about upon that which it envelopes. None, except the first, are connected with the skin of the animal by any muscle, nerve, or vessel. It is, therefore, merely an external appendage, moved, as any foreign body would be, when the end of the tail is agitated. The pieces of the organ are formed suc- cessively on the skin of the tail, receiving from it the materials necessary for its de- velopment, and adhering to it until its growth is complete. A second piece, entirely similar to the first, is formed under it, and detaches it from the end of the tail. It is pushed backwards, leaving between its edge and the skin of the tail an interval occupied by the first ring of the new piece, of which the second and third rings are covered by the first piece. The latter is retained by this connexion, but plays freely round the first piece. A third piece is formed under the second, as that was under the first; pushing the second backwards, but retaining it by its two posterior rings being included in the cavity of the second piece. If the vertebrae of the tail continue of uniform diameter, all the pieces will be of the same size, and the rattle, consequently, is of one breadth throughout. On the contrary, if the vertebras grow while the rattle is being formed, the pieces increase in size, and thus the rattle tapers to its end. . It is evident from the preceding description that one piece only can be formed at each partial moulting of the end of the tail ; but as we do not know whether these moultings coincide with the general separation of the epidermis from the body, nor the period of their recurrence, the number of pieces not only affords no proof of specific difference, but also indicates nothing about the age of the animal.* Musk-gland of the Crocodile.— In crocodiles there is a peculiar gland lying under the skin of the lower jaw, on each side about its middle. It is small, of a homogeneous whitish tissue, and is covered by a tendinous sheath. It secretes an unctuous blackish-grey fluid, smelling most strongly of musk, which accu- mulates in a small bag that opens externally by a wide orifice. Anal glands have also been observed in the crocodile and alligator, as well as in several serpents: they are of considerable size in female colubers, and are situated under the * Laccpede, Hist. Nat. des Serpens. tail, behind the cloaca, near the part occupied by the penis of the males. They contain a thin yellow substance of a very peculiar odour. Bojanus (Lud. Hen.), Anatome Testudinis Euro- pe«. Fol. Viln. 1819—21. Mohring (C. A.), Diss, inaug. zoot. sistens Descriptionem Trionichos ^gyptiaci osteologicam. 4to. lierol. 1825. Tiede- mann (F.), Anatomie und Naturgeschichte des Drachens. 3 Kpfn. 4to. NUrenb. Tyson (Ed. M. D.), Anatomy of the Rattlesnake. 4to. Lond. 1751. Hellman (Aug.), Ueber den Tastsinn der Schlangen. 12mo. Gotting. Cloquet, Me'moire sur I'Existence et la Disposition des Voies lacrymales dans les Serpens. 4to. Paris, 1821. Cuvier, Re- cherches sur les Ossemens fossiles. 4to. Paris, 1821—24. Home (Sir Everard), Lectures on Comp. Anat. 4to. Lond, 1814—28. Sdmmering (Detmar. Guil.), De Oculorum Hominis Animalium- que Sectione horizontale Commentatio. Fol. Gotting. 1818. Brandt (J. F.) und Ratzburg (L F. C), Dar- stellung und Beschreibung der Artzneygewachse, welche in die neue Preussische Pharmacopje auf- genommen sind. Cams, Lehrbuch der vergleichen- den Zootomie. 1834. Owen, Odontography. Wagner, Prodromus. Fol. Cuvier, Anatomie Comparee. Last edition. 8 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1840. Schiegel, Essai sur la Physiognomic des Serpens. Amst. 1837. Meckel, Syst. der vergleichenden Anatomie. Perault, Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, tom. iii. (T. Bymer Jones.^ RESPIRATION (Germ. Athmung^ fore the nutritious juices of organized bodies can be properly elaborated and rendered fit for maintaining the vitality of the tissues through which they move, it is indispen.sable that certain chemical changes take place between them and the atmospheric air. All organized bodies, therefore, vegetable as well as animal, require a supply of atmospheric air for the continuance of life, and the amount of this is proportionate to the number and energy of their vital actions. These chemical changes between the nutritious juices of organized bodies and the atmospheric air constitute the important function of Respiration. In studying the chemical actions that occur in respiration in different organized bodies, it is necessary to keep in mind the constitution of the atmospheric air, both in its free state and when dissolved in water. The atmo- spheric air, in its free state, is, as is well known, chiefly composed of nitrogen and oxy- gen, in the proportion of about 21 parts of oxygen to 79 of nitrogen by volume ; or by weight, in the proportion of 23*1 of oxygen to 76'9 of nitrogen. Dumas and Boussingault, in their accurate experiments*, found the average proportion of these gases to be, by volume, 20*81 of oxygen, and 79" 19 of nitro- gen I ; or by weight, 23*01 of oxygen, and 76*99 of nitrogen. The quantity of carbonic acid gas in the atmospheric air is very much smaller than that of the oxygen and nitrogen. Theod. De Saussure J, in his experiments, * Annales de Chimie et de Physique, troisieme serie, tom. iii. p. 257. 1841. f Or, what would be sufficiently accurate, 20-8 oxygen and 79*2 nitrogen. I Annales de Chimie et de Physique, tom. xxxviii. p. 411. 1828.