SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 323 vaginales. Thus they are connected with the organs of respiration, circulation, diges- tion, generation, and innervation. Perhaps, under this accurate allotment of serous mem- branes to these several functions, many im- portant analogies lie hidden, but the inter- pretation of these hieroglyphics of nature scarcely belongs to the present elementary sketch ; and it will be both safer and more profitable to regard their relations to the three first of these functions as being deter- mined mainly by the necessity of movement which a high development of any one of them implies, although the general protection which mobility affords must not be lost sight of. The relation of a separate membrane to the function of generation seems, as it were, the accidental result of position : the tunica vaginalis, an offshoot of the perito- neum, is prolonged from it by the testicle in its descent from out of the abdominal cavity, and is subsequently isolated by a degene- ration of the serous membrane into areolar tissue along the spermatic cord which con- nects this gland with the interior of the belly. So the arrangement of the arachnoid around the nervous centre is, perhaps, more related to the comparative delicacy of its structure, and the movements inseparable from circulation, than to the function of in- nervation itself. A prominent feature in the anatomy of all these structures is the remarkable continuity of surface which they exhibit. With a single exception, indeed, their interior surface, like that of the subcutaneous bursae, is everywhere a continuous one ; and hence the definition of a serous membrane always includes the statement, that it is " a shut sac," while this peculiarity of arrangement is constituted their " morphological character." A complete description of the serous mem- branes would comprise two chief divisions of the subject. One of these would include the relative situation and arrangement of the neighbouring textures, as well as the various folds or processes by which the membranes preserve their continuity in the intervals between the viscera which they cover and the cavities which they line. The other would limit attention to their general structure ; and to any variations in the nature, pro{)ortions, or arrangement of their constituent tissues, which may be obtained by a comparison of the several membranes with each other. In the present instance, the latter only of these divisions will be briefly attempted ; for the former of the two, the reader is referred to the articles under the several headings of Pleura, Peritoneum, Heart, Nervous Centres, Testicle, &c. The epithelium of serous membranes con- sists of flattened cells. The shape of most of these is roundish-polygonal, and many of them closely approximate to the hexagonal form : and they are arranged in a single layer, so as to form a tesselated pavement, which everywhere constitutes the free sur- face of the membrane. Their diameter varies considerably, but, generally speaking, is about one lOOOth of an inch. Their depth ig nearly one-fourth of this width; but it tapers away towards the edge of the particle, and is greatest at its centre, where it is usually somewhat bulged by the presence of a tole- rably large nucleus, which is contained in the cavity of the cell, but is placed nearer its inferior or attached surface than the opposite or free one. This nucleus is of an oval or spheroidal form, and contains a sm^)e bright refractile spot or nucleolus ; but not unfre- quently there are two of these. Besides the nucleus, the cell includes a small quantity of contents, which are of somewhat viscid consistence, and are usually almost trans- parent, but sometimes, and especially after exposure to the action of water, become mottled or fliintly granular. The attachment of these cells to each other is very remark- able, but their adhesion to the textures on which they are placed is much less considera- ble ; and this preponderance of their adhesion in the horizontal direction renders it very easy to strip off a number of them, and ex- hibit the layer which they form by their union. In this circumstance they offer a marked and probably imj)ortant difference from the cells which clothe the interior of bursae and synovial membranes. Acetic acid exerts its ordinary effects, causing the cells to swell out, and thus defining their polygonal shape more accurately than before. The exceptions to these general cha- racters are few. In one instance, namely in the peritoneum of the female, the form of the cellular covering is said to differ from the above; the ciliated epithelium, which lines the Fallopian tubes, being con- tinued for an exceedingly short distance over the margins of their fimbriated extre- mities. The size of the cells also expe- riences slight variations: thus, they are largest in the peritoneum, and smaller in the pericardium, especially in its visceral layer. Their arrangement as a single cellular stratum is also interrupted in some parts: thus, the arachnoid exhibits one or two layers, the outer of which is composed of cells which are more flattened and elongated than usual. Basement membrane.—The existence of a basement membrane immediately beneath these cells is still a matter of doubt. It rests chiefly on the affirmation of Professors Todd and Bowman, and Goodsir — high authorities on such a question. By the first of these ana- tomists it is regarded as " a continuous trans- parent membrane of excessive tenuity," and "homogenous, or nearly so."* The latter describes it in much the same terms, but considers it sometimes, or generally, separable into component cells, which are of a rhom- boidal and extremely flattened shape ; and it has been named by him as the Germinal Membrane.\ As somewhat corroborative of these statements, it may be urged, that such a structure is easily seen to exist in the very * Op. cit. p. 130. t Ibid. p. 41.