RODENTIA. 391 c c 4 through an ascending canal, which enters the cavit} of the skull close to the sella •turcica, arriving at the brain much in the same manner as the internal carotid of the human subject. This branch is smaller than the vertebral artery. The other or external branch enters the cranium through a canal that opens upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone, and divides into the middle meningeal and ophthal- mic arteries. In the dormouse the distribution of the internal carotid very nearly resembles what is described above, as occurring in the squirrel and in the marmot. In some genera of Rodents the internal condyle of the os humeri is perforated by a canal through which the ulnar artery passes in company with the median nerve : this arrangement exists in the squirrel, the hamster, and the helamys. Venous system. — In most of the Rodentia, instead of a single anterior vena cava, there are two principal anterior trunks of the venous system, one of which, namely the right, occu- pies the usual position of the vena cava anterior, whilst the left runs along the furrow that separates the base of the ventricle of the heart from the left auricle, to reach the right auricle, into the upper and left side of which it opens. In those genera which hibernate the exter- nal jugular vein likewise presents a very remarkable arrangement. This vein receives a considerable proportion of the blood de- rived from the brain through a wide canal, situated between the os petrosum and the temporal bone, into which the anterior division of the transverse sinus opens, so that it is only the smallest moiety of blood derived from the vein which escapes through the jugular for- amen into the internal jugular. The vertebral vein likewise communicates with the external jugular, carrying off its share of the blood from the interior of the cranium. Fig. 276. Upper surface of the brain of the Porcupine. (After Serres.) a, medulla spinalis; b, hemispheres of cerebellum ; c, median lobe of the cerebellum; d, e, h, I, cere- bral hemispheres. Although this disposition of the cerebral veins is common to all hibernating animals, as Cuvier very justly remarks, it is by no means peculiar to quadrupeds that pass the winter in a state of torpor; on the contrary, it is met with in many Rodents that do not hibernate; as, for example, in the rats ; it also occurs in the horse, as well as in many Edentata, Ru~ mhiantia, and Carnivora. Cuvier believes this arrangement to be in relation with the situ- ation and direction of the head, the differ- ence between these quadrupeds and man rather depending upon the position of the latter standing on four legs, than upon any cause connected with the habit of hiber- nation. Nervous si/stem. — The brain in the Rodent order of quadrupeds presents two principal forms ; in the feebler, and more strictly her- bivorous species, such as the hare, the rabbit, the agouti, paca, «&c., it presents a great re- semblance externally in its shape to that of birds, the cerebral hemispheres being broad behind, and gradually tapering towards the anterior lobes. In others, such as the beaver, porcupine, capromys, &c., the contour of the brain is nearly circular {fig. 276.), as in car- nivorous quadrupeds. Between these extreme forms there are, however, intermediate grada- tions, such as are met with in the squirrel, the marmot, the water-rat, and others. Fig. 277. Base of the brain of the Porcupine (Histrix cristata). (After Serres.) a, anterior pjTamid, exhibiting the interlacement of their internal fasciculi; o, olivary bodies ; t, tra- pezoid bodies; p, pons Varolii; ti, the lobe of the hippocampus ; g, middle portion of the hemisphere; r, olfactory tract; x, external root of olfactory lobe; 2/, internal root of ditto. The nerves are indicated by corresponding numbers. The most striking circumstance presented by the brains of these animals is the almost complete deficiency of cerebral convolutions. The hemispheres are almost completely smooth upon their surface, presenting only a few shallow lines instead of the numerous sulci which characterise the brain of the Car- nivora.