605 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. a distinct crepitus could be perceived. The head of the bone could be felt in the glenoid cavity, and when the shaft of the humerus was rotated no motion was communicated to the head. On the seventh day after the accident all swelling had subsided, and the appearances noted were as follows : — On viewing the shoulder in front, a very remarkable angular projection of bone forwards is observed. This prominence is very near the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, and near the centre of a line drawn from the scapular end of the clavicle to the margin of the anterior wall of the axilla. This projection is evidently the abrupt termination of the upper extremity of the lower fragment of the humerus; every movement communicated to the shaft of the bone also moves this projecting point, a little below, and to the outside of which, an indent- ation or slight puckering of the skin is observ- able. This last we can readily suppose has been produced by the lower fragment having perforated the deltoid muscle, and engaged itself in the deeper layer of the integument. " On viewing the joint sidewise or in pro- file, the posterior angle of the acromion pro- jects much behind, while the abrupt promi- nence already mentioned, formed by the shaft of the humerus, is very salient in front; so that in this side view, the antero-posterior diameter of the joint is seen to be much in- creased. The long axis of the arm is di- rected from above downwards and backwards, very slightly also outwards. By measurement from the acromion to the external condyle of the humerus, the injured side is found to be a quarter of an inch shorter than the oppo- site. The patient cannot himself perform any of the movements of the shoulder joint, ex- cept that of rotation to a small extent, but can permit the humerus to be freely moved by another. Although crepitus was evident at first, now, seven days having elapsed since the accident, it can no longer be elicited. May Yith. — Nearly a month has passed since he received the fall ; he has regained considerable power of motion over the left arm, can even raise his hand to the top of his head. On the Cth of June he left the hospi- tal, being able to use his arm ; the deformity, consisting in the abrupt projection of bone, was somewhat reduced." 4. Fracture of the surgical necJc of the hu- merus below the tuberosities and original line of junction of the epiphysis with the shaft of the lone.—In this case there is much de- formity to be observed. The head and tuber- osities form the superior fragment, which in general remains in its natural situation, while the upper extremity of the lower fragment, which last is constituted b}^ the principal part of the shaft of the humerus, is drawn upw^ards and forwards under the pectoral muscle. When the arm is grasped at the elbow by the surgeon, and pushed upwards, the upper ex- tremity of the broken shaft of the humerus is made to project at the inner side of the coracoid [)rocess of the scapula, and is felt to roll whenever the arm is rotated. Fracture of the humerus in its surgical neck occurs at different heights in this bone. The most common situation for the fracture is where the spongy portion of the bone unites with the rest of the shaft; and here it is that the humerus, considered anatomically, would seem to be tlie least capable of resist- ing external violence. The direction of the fracture is generally transverse, more rarely is it oblique, and, in this last case, the ob- liquity is generally in a line from without in- wards, and from above downwards, parallel to the line of the anatomical neck of the hu- merus, but below it, and the nature of the displacement is variable. Most frequentlv the inferior fragment is drawn inwards towards the axilla; but the inferior fragment has been also observed to be displaced and become prominent in other directions. Desault has seen it thrown backwards ; Dupuytren, Pa- letta, Duret, and others, have seen it raised up, and even perforate the deltoid muscle outwards ; finally, it more frequently still has been observed to become prominent in front towards the coracoid process. Mons. Gely has, in the Journal de Chi- rurgie, mentioned a case of fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, in which the fracture was oblique, the obliquity running parallel with, but below, the anatomical neck of the humerus. The inferior fragment had perforated in front the deltoid muscle, very near to the interstice which separates the deltoid from the pectoral muscle; the arm was shortened an inch. These observations refer to the altered position of the inferior fragment, resulting from a fracture through the part of the humerus called the surgical neck. It is said that usually the superior fragment remains in its normal position in these fractures, but this is not always the case. Malgaigne narrates a case of a man, aged 78, in whom the humerus was fractured transversely in its surgical neck, about an inch and a half above the folds of the axilla. There was an overlapping of the bones; the in- jured arm was consequently one inch and a half shorter than the other. The fracture during life could not be reduced; he died on the twenty-sixth day after the injury. The inferior fragment was drawn inwards and for- wards, and indeed during life had raised up the soft parts towards the union of the del- toid and pectoral muscles, more internally than the situation of the coracoid process; the over- lapping of the fragments was to the amount already mentioned. The fracture through the humerus was beneath the tuberosities, the longitudinal axis of the lower fragment was in the direction upwards and inwards, and the longitudinal axis of the upper fragment was directed downwards and outwards. In a word, the superior fragment was in a pos'- tion which would correspond to the highest elevation of the arm in the normal state; and the inferior, on the contrary, was in a position which corresponded to its greatest depres- sion. Dislocations.—The head of the humerus