326 RESPIRATION. found the maximum quantity of carbonic acid gas in 10,000 parts of atmospheric air to be 6'2, the minimum 3*7, and the average 4*9 or nearly I part, by volume, of carbonic acid gas in 2000 parts of atmospheric air. Results similar to those procured by Saussure, who experimented at Geneva, have been obtained by Boussingault* and Thenardf at Paris, Brunner:}: at Berne, and Verver^^at Gro- ningen in Holland, so that we have the strongest grounds for believing in their general accuracy. The variable quantity of watery vapour that exists in the atmosphere must also be taken into account in examining the function of respiration. A quantity of ammo- nia, so small however that its usual pro- portion cannot be ascertained, is constantly present in the atmospheric air, which, when it descends to the earth dissolved in water, serves, according to Liebig, an important purpose in the nutrition of vegetables. There are, besides the above substances, numerous others in the gaseous form, exhaled from the surface of the earth, too minute to be detected by analysis, but sometimes recognised by their effects upon the living organism. No doubt the miasmata and effluvia, which can inflict such disastrous evils on the human race, are diffused through the atmospheric air. Though the proportions of the three gases, viz. nitrogen, oxygen, and carbonic acid, usually regarded as forming the constituent parts of our atmosphere, are not quite uniform at all times and in all places, chiefly from local disturbing causes, yet these differences are to a small extent, when its free circulation is permitted. Dalton || maintained, that in ele- vated regions the proportion of oxygen to azote is somewhat less than at the surface of the earth; but this is not confirmed by the more recent experiments of Dumas, Boussin- gault, and Brunner. In the experiments of Lewy H and Morren **, the composition of * Annales de Cliimie et de Physique, torn. x. p. 456. 1844. t Referred to in opus supra citatum, torn. x. p. 463. 1844. Tlienard's experiments were made prior to those of Saussure. X Opvis svipra cit. torn. iii. p. 313. 1841. ยง Referred to in opus supra cit., torn. x. p. 462. 1844. II London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science, vol. xii. p. 406. 1838. ^ Annales de Chimie et de Physique, torn. viii. p. 425. 1843. Lewy found the quantity of oxy- gen in the air near the surface of the North Sea on an average 22*6 by weight in the 100 of air, while the air over the land contained 23 of oxygen in the 100. ** Annales de Chim. et de Phys., torn. xii. p. 5. 1844. Morren states that the air resting upon the surface of the sea, in calm weather, may contain from 23 to 24 parts, by volume, of oxygen instead of 20-8, the usual quantity; and this increased quan- tity of oxygen, under the circumstances mentioned, is connected, as we shall see immediately, Avith the action of the marine vegetation upon the atmospheric air. The experiments of Lewy and Morren are not contradictory; for in those of the former the air was taken from the surface of the deep sea at some dis- tance from the shore, and in those of the latter the air analyzed had been resting for some time over the air near the surface of the sea differed in its amount of oxygen from that over the land. Saussure detected a somewhat smaller quan- tity of carbonic acid gas in the air during the day than during the night *, and a larger quantity in the air of the town of Geneva than in that taken in the country three-fourths of a league distant, in the proportion of 100 to 92 ; and Boussingault and Lewy, in their later experiments, observed a similar dif- ference between the air taken from the densest parts of Paris and that of the country, "f" Lewy detected a considerable increase of carbonic acid gas, no doubt of volcanic origin, in the air of Guadaloupe, but without any diminution in the usual relative proportions of the oxygen and nitrogen.;}: As a portion of the oxygen of the atmospheric air is com- bined with carbon to form carbonic acid gas in the respiration of animals, in ordinary combustion, and in numerous other chemical processes going on at the earth's surface, it is obvious that when individuals of the human species are surrounded by a limited quantity of air which is not renewed so rapidly as it is vitiated by respiration, the proportion of oxy- gen gas will be diminished and the carbonic acid increased, and this the more rapidly if any other process of deoxidation of the con- fined air be at the same time in operation. Dalton analyzed the air of a room where 50 candles had been kept burning and 500 people had been collected for two hours, and found that it contained I per cent, of carbonic acid gas. ยง Leblanc made a number of analyses of the air taken from the rooms of some of the public buildings in Paris. || He collected some of the air of one of the wards of La Pitie, the area of which was 70,632 cubic feet, containing 54 patients, after it had been shut during a whole night, and procured from it 3 parts of carbonic acid gas, by weight, in the 1000, or about 5 times as much carbonic acid as is usually present in the atmosphere.lT The oxygen gas had suffered a corresponding diminution. In one of the sleeping apart- ments of the Salpetriere, the carbonic acid gas amounted to 6 parts, by weight, in the 1000 parts of the contained air, and in another sleeping apartment to 8 parts in the 1000.** In the Amphitheatre of Chemistry at the Sorbonne, the air collected at the end of the lecture furnished 10"6 of carbonic acid, by pools of sea-water abounding in algfe, exposed to the sun's rays. * Boussingault (opus cit. tom. x. pp. 464, 465) obtained similar results; but he admits that more extended observations are required on this point. t Annales de Chim. et de Phj-s., tom. x. p. 470. 1844. X Idem opus, tom. viii. p. 450. 1843. ยง London and Edinbiu-gh Philos. Mag., vol. xii. pp. 405, 406. 1838. II Annales de Chim. et de Phys., tom. v. p. 223. 1842. ^ If the usual quantity of carbonic acid in the atmosphere be from 4 to 6 in the 10,000 parts by volimie, that is equal to from 6 to 9 of carbonic acid gas by weight. ** 'Opus cit., p. 233,