PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. 145 very closely with the serum of the blood,— its essential protein-ingredient being albumen in the state of albuminate of soda. As various degrees of inspissation of the fluid occur, the ratio of the solid ingredients to the water varies within rather wide limits. Accidental constituents are bihphaein, urea, and haematin. Fat is always present ; and scales of choles- tein (visible to the naked eye) are not very unfrequent, especially in dropsy of the tunica vaginalis. Epithelial cells are to be seen in small quantities (and we have found these calcified) : there is no reason to believe that an excessive quantity of epithelium is necessa- rily a part of the disease, though in some cases milkiness or a puriform look may be caused by their extreme abundance. Pus and blood corpuscles may be accidentally present. The fluid of true dropsy is distinguishable by the deficiency of developmental power: it never forms a blastema for cell-growth ; nei- ther is it capable of spontaneous coagulation. "But in some rare instances fibrin escapes along with the serum of the blood, — and this in notable quantity. The fluid then becomes coagulable; but it is a mystery why (some- times occurring within the body) its coagu- lation sometimes does not occur until some hours after its removal from the body. We have seen the contents of the plem-a, perfectly fluid when first exposed, become distinctly clotty within an hour and a half: similar oc- currences have been witnessed by others. When coagulation takes place within the body, the coagulum may probably act as abkistcma. The cause and mechanism of this escape of fibrin from the vessels, and its relationship to inflammation are utterly unknown. In a former place (p. 93) we have spoken of the occasional excretion of fibrin w ith the urine. GROUP III. GASEOUS ADVENTITIOUS PRODUCTS. If the precise signification given to the term Adventitious Product be considered, it will be seen that gaseous matters are only truly ad- ventitious when foreign in nature to the textures producing them. Air entering veins lying within the suction-influence of the chest; air swallowed; air entering the uterus and blad- der from without; and air difiiised through the cellular membrane, serous cavities, or paren- chymatous organs, and derived from the air passages or alimentary canal, through a wound, ulceration, perforation or rupture of these ; consequently find no place under the present head. We shall here confine ourselves to a notice of gases produced by (a) local or ge- neral anti-cadaveric decomposition, and (6) an alleged process of secretion. (a) A man, aged twenty-five, died on the sixteenth day of continued fever (Peyerian type), and was examined by M. Bally eight hours after death. The body was soiled with blood, which had transuded through the skin of the thighs and scalp, and thei^e was uni- versal emphysema. The mesenteric glands contained gas which, like that in other parts VOL. IV. of the body, took fire and exploded, when brought in contact with the flame of a taper ; in burning it formed a tuft with a blue base and white apex, and appears to have consisted of proto-carburet of hydro- gen, one of the ordinary products of putre- faction, and is presumed to have been formed before death. (Art. Emphysema, Cyclopaed. of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 85.) Dr. Mouat (Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. liii. p. 427. 1840) has published a case in which gas was found in the cellular tissue of the right thigh, on the surface of the pericardium and pia mater, and in the right side of the heart and femoral vein. Accumulation of gas from de- composition of fluid in the pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, joints, and tunica-vaginalis, has been described by various persons: hydro- pneumothorax, however, it is to be remem- bered, without perforation of the lung, is cer- tainly of excessive rarity. {b) It occasionally happens, as was first, we believe, noticed by Dr. Graves, that at a certain period of the progress of pneumonia, the percussion-siizns of pneumothorax may be discovered. Within the last year we have had in our wards a most interesting case of pure and simple pneumonia, unattended with the formation even of dry plastic matter in the pleura, during the progress of which a perfect tympanitic note (quite distinct from an amphoric or tubular one) continued for some time producible over the affected lung. The only mode of accounting for it seemed by admitting the presence of air in the pleura, — and if such were the fact, that air must have been the produce of secretion. A sin- gular case is recorded by Sir F. Smith*, in which a secretion of gas from the skin ap- pears to have taken place. (c) It is not uncommon to find bubbles of gas in the veins of the pia-mater, and their presence is not easily explicable. If the gas be regarded as of putrefactive origin, the dif- ficulty is to explain why it occurs in bodies perfectly free from ordinary evidence of pu- trefaction, and why it is limited to those par- ticular veins. If it be regarded as natural gas of the blood extricated during life, how comes it, that the blood in that particular part only should present it after death, and how comes it that, if really extricated therey it had not been carried on with the circulating fluid to the heart? The quantity of gas is too small in such cases to admit of analysis, — else perhaps a comparison between it and the giises of venous blooti might throw some light on the matter. But next comes the curious fact that where there is least blood there is most i!)tra-venous air, — that is, where there is most of the pre- sumed cause, there is least of the presumed effect. It is, in fact, in persons, who have died from haemorrhage, that air has been found in greatest abundance in the veins. Lieutaudf relates the case of a girl who died * Dub. Med. Journal, vol. x\'iii. p. 457. t Hist. Anat. Med. Obs. o5. L