520 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. brane, and with which its areohir tissue is mingled, passes to the side of the articular cartilage, and immediately becomes inextri- cably interlaced with its fibrous tissue or pe- richondrium. The plexus of capillaries, some- what more tortuous here than on the plain surface, runs up to the edge of the cartilage, or may even advance a very short distance over it, where it is not exposed to friction during the movements of the joint. Its various branches then suddenly stop short, and each taking a looped course, returns upon itself in the same tortuous manner. This distribution is represented in fg. 400. The layer of epithelium offers equally re- markable appearances ; a few of its particles are very slightly flattened, but most of them are spherical, and of very various sizes, of which some are extremel}' large. All of the larger contain a pale and rather flattened nucleus, which is in contact with a part of their inner surface. The cells are also of singular delicacy and transparency, and are, to all appearance, distended with a fluid, the refractility and colour of which closely ap- proximate to that of water. The areolar tissue which forms the foundation of the membrane being diverted at this point to join with the ligaments and perichondrium, the vessels are left comparatively naked; and so far as I have been able to make out, upon these bare capillaries the cells are seated, without the intervention of any membrane. They thus form what is indeed a covering for the vessels (since there is no part of them upon which large or small cells or cytoblasts are not placed) ; but, as is evident from their shape only, they constitute a layer in a very diflferent sense from those in which the epi- thelium of the serous membranes does so. In some of the more complex joints, another modification occurs, which is in many respects very similar to this, viz. distinct folds or invo- lutions of synovial membrane, which project into the cavity of the joint. The best in- stances of this are seen in the knee-joint, where they form what are called the "mucous" and " alar ligaments," The folds which con- stitute these come off horizontally from the synovial membrane in the front of the articu- lation, but with a considerable interval be- tween their upper and lower layers, which is filled with adipose tissue. They contain besides, a plexus of vessels, of which some, lying immediately beneath the membrane, ramify in the flexuous manner described ; while the deeper are distributed to the fat vesicles, throwing loops around each in the manner peculiar to this tissue. A very small quantity of fine areolar tissue is present, chiefly as a covering and protection to the vessels. Gradually going backwards, they lose their adipose tissue, and taper to an edge, which accurately fits into the interstice be- tween the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia. Here the upper and under layers come into contact, and in the middle line pursue their way backwards as the ligamen- tum mucosum, a flat, thin duplication of the membrane ; until, finally, at the anterior ter- mination of the notch between the condyles, they terminate by joining the synovial cover- ing and fibres of the neighbouring crucial ligament. On either side of the middle line, the process of synovial membrane terminates, by a convex margin, a httle beyond the point where it ceases to contain fat: these are the " alar ligaments.." On the ligamentum mucosum, the cells are of a similar appearance to those of the general surface of the membrane, though they seem rather more dehcate and transparent. The projecting edge of the so-called alar ligaments offers still more marked characters. Owing to the congestion of its vessels from some unknown cause, it is frequently seen after death of a bright red colour, its surface is minutely rough or velvety, and its consist- ence soft or almost pulpy. On examining it with the microscope, many minute and villiis- like processes are seen studding its border, and directed backwards towards the commis- sure of the femoral and tibial articular sur- faces. These processes appear to consist chiefly or entirely of two structures, viz. bloodvessels and cells. The vessels are nu- merous long tortuous capillaries, which pass to the margin of the villus, and then, taking an arched or looped course, return upon themselves, and pass, with few anastomoses, into the general plexus of the fold. The cells, equally with the vessels, resemble those al- ready described as existing at the border of the articular cartilage. They are of various sizes, the more numerous and larger ones are spherical, transparent, and contain a tolerably large nucleus : they are distended with fluid, and the slightest pressure on their singularly delicate cell-wall bursts the cell, and causes the fluid to exude. In this condition, the action of the surrounding water seems to impress on it something like a partial coagu- lation, giving it a mottled or minutely granular appearance. The smaller cells exhibit the same shape and general appearances, except that the nucleus is proportionally larger ; a few cyto- blasts are also present, and a granular blastema comj)letes the covering of the vessels. One would fancy this to be a favourable situation for verifying the existence of a basement membrane, did such a structure exist here; but I have been unable to detect it. On the contrary, I have often seen the curved border of a large cell seated directly on a capillary, the dark line of the wall of this tube alone separating its cavity from the delicate sphere in contact with it. Fig. 401. represents such a villus-shaped process. The relation of the synovial membranes to the diarthrodial cartilages, or the question of " Whether the membrane is continued over the articular surface of the cartilages, or not?" has been long a matter of dispute among anatomists. But a resume of the history of this discussion having been already given in an earlier part of the work, the reader is