Ill PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. Pus consists of a liquid part (liquor puris) holding in solution organic principles and in- organic salts ; and of a solid part (corpuscles) held in suspension in the Hquor puris. These constituents separate spontaneously, after re- moval from the body, with a degree of slow- ness increasing as the purity of the pus ; when the liquor puris is in excess, the corpuscles sink rapidly. The corpuscles are not sepa- rable from the liquor puris by filtration. Pus does not naturally contain gas of any kind (J. Davy). Its specific gravity ranges between 1042 and 1021, the weight most commonly- observed being about 1030. Four kinds of organic corpuscles are found in pus : (1.) Proper pus-corpuscles ; (2.) Py- oid corpuscles; (3.) Granules ; (4.) Compound granule-corpuscles. (1.) The proper pus-corpuscle is a body of tolerably spherical outline, unless when acci- dentally flattened or otherwise altered in shape by the pressure of adjoining corpuscles ; its edge, slightly dentated, as we have commonly seen it, may be perfectly even ; its surface finely granular-looking. The corpuscle is (commonly, but not always,) moderately trans- parent, subjacent bodies being visible through it, as is particularly obvious when a weak iodine-solution has been added to the fluid. The diameter of the corpuscle varies from the to the y-jjVo inch,—averaging about the -^-oV-o* substance is somewhat elastic. It never, as far as we have seen, presents a narrow edge to the eye, in the manner of the red corpuscle of the blood. The contents of the corpuscle are semi- fluid and solid. The semi-fluid substance seems of slightly gluey consistence. The solid contents are the nucleus or nuclei. It was long taught that if the pus examined be recent, and chemically unchanged, the nucleus is not perceptible even with strong magnifying powers. This is now known to be erroneous ; we have, with a glass magnifying only 400 diameters, detected a nucleus in laudable pus of neutral reaction, immediately after removal from the body.* But, under the influence of dilute acetic acid, the nucleus is more fully brought into view, and is seen close to the cell-wall, in the form of a bipartite, tripartite, or quadripartite body (more rarely a single one), all the divisions of which he nearly on the same plane side by side. Each division of the nucleus is smooth, circular, or slightly oval, and biconcave. The central depression, which exists as a conse- quence of its biconcave form, either appears opaque, while the surrounding part is clear and transparent, or the former is transparent and the latter opaque,— ditferences depending on variation of the focus of the microscope. The surface of the nucleus is very finely granular ; its diameter varies from the o-Vo to the «oVo inch. * The facility of its discovery depends upon the transparence and thinness of the cell-wall; and the amount of these, upon the youth of the corpuscle. In our work on Cancer (Jig. G) are figured nuclei visible without the aid of acetic acid. (2.) Under the name of pj/oid, M. Lebert* distinguishes a corpuscle smaller than that just described ; spherical in shape, tolerably trans- parent, rather of solid than liquid consist- ence ; containing from four to ten granules or more in their interior, and wholly unprovided with nucleus, acetic acid simply rendering the corpuscle more transparent. These bodies, resembhng most closely the cells of tubercle (p. 105), are larger and more spherical than these : so great is the similarity, that M. Lebert was at first led to consider the pyoid cor- puscle peculiar to tuberculous pus; but, sub- sequently finding it (as we have also done ourselves) under circumstances excluding the idea of tubercle, has relinquished this notion. (3.) The elementary granule seen in pus is of spherical shape ; it is never cupulated, so far as we have seen, and is less than half the size of the nucleus of the pus-corpuscle, ave- raging the Y44o-o of an inch in diameter. These granules are obviously not, as was once maintained, detached nuclei floating in the liquor puris. They are either single and soli- tary, or (less frequently) collected in irregular groups. Their composition varies, as they are sometimes soluble in aether, and sometimes exhibit the reactions of a protein-compound; this chemical difference is not always con- nected with any physical peculiarity, which the eye at least can detect. (4.) The compound granule-corpuscle (com- pound inflammation-globule; Gluge) does not occur in large numbers in pus ; many drops may be examined without a single one pre- senting itself. This corpuscle is of spherical, and slightly irregular, form, ranging from rsVo to TrVij of i"ch in diameter (fig. Fig. 92. Compound granule-corpuscles (magnified 400 diams.). a, in the natural state, diam. =1330 to of an inch ; h, corpuscle about to undergo rupture, the invoiucrum being more transparent, and the gra- nules larger, darker, and more prominent ; c, a cor- puscle treated with dilute acetic acid, the invoiucrum being rendered transparent, and several nuclei ap- pearing in its interior. 92) ; and composed essentially of granules and an invoiucrum. The invoiucrum is not dissolved by water, and simply rendered trans- parent by acetic acid ; the granules vary from ten, to twenty or thirty, or even many more in number. Occasionally the action of acetic acid discloses a single, double, or multiple nucleus lying close to the invoiucrum. The granules are likewise kept in situ by a fluid of thickish consistence, in which, if few in num- ber, they may be seen to move. The course of formation of these corpuscles seems to be, — agglomeration of granules from exudation matter, investment with a membranous wall, production of a nucleus. * Physiol. Patholog. t. i. p. 46. 1845.