ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. 579 p p 2 ever she moves her arm in the gree the scapula follows the Fw. 427. slightest de- humerus, so Case of M. Moore : Articular caries of the shoulder joint; second stage of the disease. fight that in the voluntary movements of the upper extremity really no motion takes place in the shoulder joint; but if we grasp the scapula, and thus firmly fix it, and at the same time move the humerus, a distinct crepitus is oc- casionally elicited, of which the patient her- self also is conscious. When the arm is per- mitted for a moment to hang down by her side unsupported, she has great pain, and she feels the advantage of keeping it constantly in a sling, with her hand as high as her oppo- site collar bone. The muscles surrounding the right shoulder joint were observed to be in a wasted condition ; this shoulder seemed higher up than the other, and the clavicle of this side to have a corresponding obliquity. The history she gives of the origin and progress of this disease is, that she has had a certain degree of pain and uneasiness in the articulation for the last four years, but that it never swelled much nor became in- flametl, nor did it prevent her from follow- ing her occupation as housemaid, until three months ago, when she felt compelled to give up her situation. She referred the aggrava- tion of her distress latterly to an injury the joint received from a severe fall she got down an entire flight of stairs. The latter circumstance in the history of her case made us more particular in our inquiries as to whether any fracture or dislocation could have occurred at the moment of this accident, and have been left unreduced. We were readily satisfied that there had been no frac- ture, as the affected arm was longer than the other. The deltoid muscle was flattened and the acromion was seen presenting an angular projection as in an old luxation ; yet the head of the humerus could be felt below the acro- mion; the anterior fold of the axilla was deeper than natural, but the elbow in this woman was placed habitually close to her side, and the long axis of the humerus could be traced by the eye to run nearly perpendi- cularly upwards towards the site of the gle- noid cavity, and not more inwards towards the axilla, as in the case of luxation. The atrophy we observed to affect the muscles in the vicinity of the diseased shoul- der joint in this case, was not confined to the deltoid and capsular muscles ; but the great pectoral was so much wasted that tlie ribs and intercostal interstices were seen con- spicuously on the right side, while the cor- responding spaces on the left side of the front of the thorax were sufficiently covered by muscle, &c. The right arm and forearm were more wasted than the left or unaffected limb, while the former extremity, measured from the acromion to the outer condyle of the humerus, shows an addition of length, or rather a descent of the humerus from the glenoid cavity, for the space of one inch. This woman has been subjected to the ordinary treatment for such cases ; she feels the necessity of supporting her arm, and not allowing it out of the sling during the day, while she walks in the open, air. The foregoing case presents us, as we have said, with a good specimen of the simple chronic arthritis, or articular caries of the shoulder in the second stage of the disease. It is probable that a slow process of bony an- chylosis will be ultimately established ; and the woman after a time may lose all pain, regain her general health, and ultimately recover, but with the impediment which must ever attend an an- chylosed shoulder joint. The course of the disease is not always so fav,ourable ; on the contrary, when the disease has arrived, as in the case of Moore just related, at the second stage, the pain is in some instances increased, the head of the humerus becomes wasted by caries as well as the surface of the glenoid cavity, when it will be found that the affected extremity, which was really longer than the other, shall have become shorter. This shortening, which marks the third stage of the disease, is frequently thought to be the result of complete dislocation ; but this occur- rence, the possibihty of which we do not deny, we believe, however, to be exceedingly rare. The shortening may be the consequence of caries and absorption of the head of the humerus, as well as of the surface of the gle- noid cavity. Under such circumstances the head of the bone may lean towards the axilla and subscapular fossa, or backwards to- wards the dorsum of the scapula ; or it may be elevated, so as to reach the concavity of the coraco-acromial vault, and be maintained there by the tonic force of the elevator nuiscles ; but we have not found it com- pletely dislocated as a result of caries. Case 2. Articular caries at the shoulder joint in the fourth stage of the disease, — Mary Ann Malloy, iet. 21, servant, admitted into the Richmond Hospital 25th July, 1847, under the care of Dr. Hutton. She has been now (June, 1848) eleven months