KEN. 231 Q 4 muscles that effect pronation, fix the condyles of the humerus by any means, and then re- peat the examination of these angles. Pronation and supination may, however, be carried far beyond this limit of the radial motion ; aided by powerful rotation of the humerus inwards and outwards respectively, the surfaces will attain to complete opposition of direction, or 180 degrees of intervening angle, and even to a variable distance beyond this which is, on an average, almost another quadrant. It deserves also to be noticed, that these movements are often converted into rotation around the axis of the lower part of the forearm and wrist, by a somewhat similar humeral movement. For example, simul- taneously with pronation, the lower end of the humerus is carried outwards and upwards, and a similar deviation is thus impressed on the ulna articulated with it, which extending to its lower extremity, results in the rotation of this part of the limb; i. e. in the completion of pronation, without the usual advance of the inner border of the forearm towards the median line of the body. Dislocations of these joints. — At the upper of the two radio-ulnar articulations either bone may be thrown out of its place in several directions. Displacements of the ulna, how- ever, chiefly aiTecting the elbow joint into which it so largely enters, are included amongst those of this part; and though those of the radius are, both in nature and effects, accidents of the radio-ulnar articulation, in practice it is very difficult to avoid considering together injuries which have so close a re- lation, albeit, strictly speaking, an accidental one. Hence the reader is referred for these to the article " Abnormal Conditions of the Elbow-joint." At the lower joint the radius and ulna may be displaced from each other by external force, or by the violent action of the muscles in extreme pronation or supination : but the latter is a very rare occurrence. Looking to this articulation only, it might be difficult to define which bone was dislocated : whether, for in- stance, the ulna was " dislocated backwards," or the radius *' dislocated forwards," since, in such a case, either of these phrases would equally express their altered relation to each other. It is most convenient to consider this question determined by the condition of the neighbouring wrist joint, and to instance those cases as dislocations of the radius where the extremity of this bone is located unnaturally forwards or backwards, both as regards the carpus and head of the ulna. And, similarly, where the wrist and radius preserve their ordinary relation, but the lower end of the ulna is displaced with respect to both ; here it will be better to consider the ulna as the luxated bone, even though the accidents might sometimes resemble each other in their causes as well as mode of production. The dislocation of the radius forwards is easily recognized by the styloid process of this bone and the trapezium no longer lying in the same vertical line ; and by the situation of the extrennty of the radius in front of the bones of the carpus, causing an unnatural prominence there. The luxation backwards would appear to be almost unknown, a reversal of these signs would indicate it. In both, the relative position of the ulna and wrist is little affected. In the dislocation of the ulna, the ordinary connection of the hand and radius being kept up, the pronation or supination of the limb becomes a feature of a very striking kind. The signs of the luxation backwards are ex- treme pronation, the head of the ulna pro- jecting beneath the skin at the back of the forearm, and the styloid process of this bone occupying a line posterior to the border of the wrist or the cuneiform bone. The dis- location forwards is of extreme rarity, but the above marks, nmtatis mutandis, would leave little room for doubt as to the nature of the accident. The diseases of these articulations offer no peculiarities which deserve a separate de- scription. {William Brinton.) REN* —THE KIDNEY (Gr. v^<ppor Germ. Niere; Fr. Rein; It. Ren).—The kidney is a double gland, having for its office the secretion of a liquid which in common language is called urine. Since the time of Malpighi, the structureof this organ has excited in a more than ordinary degree the interest of the anatomist and the physiologist ; but this interest has been much increased by the re- searches of Mr. Bowman, whose admirable paper on the " Structure and Use of the Mai- pighian bodies of the Kidney "j"," while it has placed the kidney in the list of those organs whose anatomy is most clearly demonstrated, has acquired for its author a reputation which will endure so long as anatomical science is cultivated. This article is divided into three parts ; the first part, containing a brief account of the general form and structure of the renal organs in the lower animals, as introductory to the second part, which contains an account of the anatomy and physiology of the human kidney, with references to such facts in the minute structure of the kidneys of some of the lower animals as will serve to throw light upon the structure and office of the organ in man. The third part contains an outline of the pathology of the kidney. * In explanation of the use of the Latin word Ren as the heading of this article, the Editor deems it necessary to state, that the article was undertaken some years ago by a gentleman who failed to com- plete his engagement in time for its publication under the title Kidney ; it was found necessary, consequently, to postpone the subject, and to adopt the present title. The article was subsequently committed to other hands, in which it shared a simi- lar fate to that which it experienced at first, and it ultimately fell into the hands of its present able author. — Ed. f Philosophical Transactions, 1842.