SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 533 To these physical differences accede equally important patliological grounds of discrimina- tion. The effusion of the fibrinous fluid is usually attended by more or fewer of those symptoms, the aggregate of which is known by the name of injlammation ; and in the few instances where these external indications are absent, the presence of the fluid is itself con- sidered sufficient evidence of the previous oc- currence of the inflammatory process ; while the mechanical causes, which often appear mediately or immediately to determine the occurrence of the simply albuminous effusion, seem to have no influence in the production of these phenomena. Lastly, the fibrinous effusion is distinguished by this important quality, that it is susceptible of organization, or capable of an apparent conversion into tissues, the structure of which closely approxi- mates to that of some one or other of the normal and permanent textures of the human body. The class of effusions characterised by the possession of the common properties of fibri- nous composition, inflammatory origin, and susceptibihty of organization, is a very large one, and includes a great variety of fluids. The extremes of these numerous gradations offer some contrast; in one the symptoms of inflammation are well marked, and the effusion chiefly consists of matters which are plastic ^ Le. which pass rapidly from a fluid state, through that of an uniform pasty mass, into a solid form; and which for the most part ex- perience a rapid and CG>mplete organization, being converted either inio pus or into some more permanent structure. In the other sub- division, the symptoms of inflammation are usually less marked, the fluid contains less fibrine, is less susceptible of organization, and not only remains chiefly fluid, but, in a large number of instances, does not deposit any part of its contents in a solid form until sub- sequently to its removal from the living body, or after the death of the patient. In the earliest stage of inflammation, and before eflTusion has yet occurred, the morbid appearances of the serous membranes are limited to an injection, or active congestion of their vessels. Most of these, it will be recol- lected, are arranged as a flattened plexus in the areolar tissue which forms so large a part of the membrane ; and the injection of this plexus, at first in isolated points, and after- wards in larger patches, gives to these parrs of the free surface a heightened red colour, which is clearly visible through the thin and almost transparent layer of cells, alone inter- vening between the capillaries and the interior of the membrane. But although a superficial, patchy, and well-marked redness, dependent on congestion of the minutest vessels, con- stitutes a tolerable presumption of the presence of inflammation, yet such a state can be so closely imitated by conditions which are not inflannnatory, — such as a merely passive ve- nous congestion, due to position of the body, mode of death, and a variety of other causes, — as to be, in a majority of cases, of little value as evidence of this process. And even in instances where the symptoms during life have rendered the existence of inflammation probable, an examination after death has often detected no such appearance ; whence it would seem that this vascularity is capable of dis- turbance or removal, either during the phe- nomena of death, or after that event has hap- pened. And it is also to be noted, that the different serous structures seem liable to this appearance in a very different degree : some, as the arachnoid, scarcely ever presenting any trace of such a suffusion ; while in others, as the pleura, it is much more frequent. So that, on the whole, it may be stated that neither does its presence affirm, nor its ab- sence deny, the occurrence of inflammation j still less, where present, is its amount to be considered any measure of the intensity of ths process. An alteration in the texture of the mem-' brane itself is probably immediately subsequent to this injection in the order of time, and is generally seen in connection with it. Ita surface, instead of the smooth and shining appearance which it ordinarily possesses, be* comes dull and dim, while it is dry and almost rough to the touch ; and at the same time the thin and transparent expanse of its texture acquires a milky opacity, and an increased thicknesSy which in the more delicate serous membranes is especially well marked. The former of these appearances probably indicates some affection of the epithelium, which clothes the free surface of the membrane ;. but the latter is due to the commencement of effusion. This process begins where we should natu- rally expect it, viz. in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the vessels, or in the subserous and neighbouring areolar tissue in which they ramify ; and by the filling and distention of the meshes of this net-work, it gradually com- municates its own appearances to the sur- rounding tissue generally. The next stage is constituted by the ap- pearance of the products of inflammation on the inner or free surface of the membrane, or the effusion of a plastic fluid into their cavity. This effusion is at first a clear transparent fluid, of a tolerably hmpid consistence. It is true that we are rarely able to verify this transparency in the exsudation of the larger serous membranes ; but the condition of the blood plasma from which it is derived, and the similar appearance which is visible in the case of fluid effused into the inflamed anterior chamber of the eye, together leave no doubt of the fact. In a space of time which is a very short one, this uniformly fluid state usually gives place to a greater or less opacity and solidi- fication; and in this, the earliest stage in which the effusion is generally recognized, it offers the appearance of a milky semifluid substance, which either forms the whole of its mass, or is mixed with a variable quantity of serum, from which it has thus already begun to separate. The covijwsition of this effused fluid exhibits M M 3