636 SKELETON. vertebras of B,Jig. 457,, produce the costae a b of greater dimensions than ordinary, these segments of the spinal axis are but resembling somewhat more completely the thoracic costo- vertebral archetypes (such as 8, c, d, of b, Jig. 457.) ? Whenever, therefore, the sixth or seventh cervical vertebra produces the cervical ribs, I may interpret the occurrence of this " ano- malous " fact in this way, viz. that a greatei proportional of the archetype costo-vertebral quantity (such as 8, c, d, of B^JigAol.) re- mains to the sixth and seventh spinal segment than is generally the rule. Cervical vertebrae, therefore, whether with or without the plus cervical ribs, are still the proportionals of full thoracic costo-vertebral forms ; and the number of cervical vertebrae simply depends upon the number and degree of metamor- phosis to which thoracic costo-vertebral forms have been subjected. When the cervix de- velops seven vertebrae of those proportions, such as we ordinarily find in the mammal body (a, Jig. 456.), all we can say of it is, that seven thoracic archetypes have suffered metamorphosis of the ribs to the cervical degree ; and when the mammal cervix ex- hibits only five or six vertebras of cervical degree (B,Jig. 457.), this occurs by reason of the fact that the seventh vertebra of b is not metamorphosed to cervical degree, but still retains a large proportional of the rib (b). When the mammal cervix {a, Jig. 457., or b, Jig. 456.) produces nine cervical vertebrae, then the simple interpretation is, that nine quantities, equal to those of the thorax, and which I have represented in dotted outline, have had the original plus costo-sternal quan- tity subtracted from them. Prop. XXV. T//e presence of cervical ribs subtracts from the number of cervical vertebrce, and adds to the number of thoracic archetypes. —Whenever cervical ribs (/?, b of B,^g. 457. and 458.) are produced upon the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras, the numerical length of the cervical region of the mammal spine is diminished to the serial line of five cervical segments, which v/e call cervical ver- tebrae ; and there and then by the occurrence of this fact, which subtracts from the cervical vertebral numbers, the thoracic costo-ver- tebral spinal region is added to and becomes numerically greater than we ordinarily find it. By as much as the ordinary cervical re- gion is lessened, owing to the presence ot cervical ribs, by so much is the thoracic region increased owing to the same cause, viz. the presence of cervical ribs. The con- verse of this condition would happen if ribs were subtracted from the thoracic spinal re- gion ; and we would then find that by as much as the thoracic region was lessened by so much would the cervical region be in- creased. What other rational interpretation can be given of this condition of balancing between the cervical and the thoracic spinal regions except this, namely, that the nu- merical difference of both regions occurs by the presence or absence of full costal forms ; and that the condition of either region of the spinal axis is influenced by the simple law of subtracting the ribs from whole thoracic costo-vertebral quantities.* Prop. XXVI. The length of the thorax depends upon the number of persistent costo^ vertebral archetypes. — When I say that the numerical length of the cervix depends upon the number of costo-vertebral archetypes which have undergone a metamorphosis of osseous quantity down to cervical degree, it will fol- low that the numerical length of the thoracic region must depend upon the number of those original archetype costo-vertebral figures left standing in spinal series. That same law of formation which influences the numerical length of one spinal region must also influence the numerical length of the adjacent spinal regions, and so we invariably find this to be the case. Wlien the cervix of Jig. 458. pro- duces cervical ribs a on the vertebr - 6, md Fig. 458. the next succeeding, the thorax is increased. When the loins produce lumbar ribs, suc- ceeding the vertebra 19 6, the thorax is still increased. When the thorax is numerically lessened, by subtracting the ribs a b from the vertebrae 6 19, the cervical or lumbar spinal regions are numerically increased. Now all this variation in the spinal regions no doubt depends upon the number of per- sistent ribs, whether normal or abnormal. The degradation of the costo-vertebral ar- chetype whole quantities, is the law which produces all minus or special variety, and * As it seems that the presence or absence of the costal pieces varies the quantitative character of the vertebrae, making them thoracic bv their phis pre- sence, and cervical by their almost total obliteration, so the reader will, from this expression of the fact, readily gather the tendency of my remarks, which is this, namely, that the archetypal quantities of the cervical spinal region are equal to those which are still persisting for the thorax in full sterno-costo- vertebral proportions. This, be it right or wrong, is