SENSIBILITY. 610 ment which is necessary to give precision to our muscular efforts. This sense comes greatly in aid of that of touch, and of those powers which we derive from the sense of touch. It admits of question whether this sense really requires the presence of true nerves of sensation in the muscles, and whether it may not be due to the reaction of the muscular force upon the proper muscular or motor nerves, through which, by reflection at the centre, the centre of sensation becomes affected. (See Nervous Systeji, Physiology of.) All nerves of sensation are excitors of mo- tion under certain circumstances, but especi- ally when they are organised at their periphe- ral distribution in a peculiar manner. Objective and subjective sensations. — In the ordinary mode of exciting sensations the pre- sence of an object is necessary. This object creates an impression on the peripheral parts of the sensitive nerves ; and the change caused by this impression, being duly propagated to the centre of sensation, is perceived by the mind. Thus is produced what some meta- physicians call an objective sensation. Such sensations are durable or transient, according to the force of the primary impres- sion. The mind may continue conscious of the sensation long after the exciting object shall have been withdrawn ; or the sensation having ceased, the mind may recall it, with more or less exactness, without the renewal of the original stimulus. This is one form of subjective sensation, in which a mental act can develope a sensation independently of any present object, but resembling a previously experienced objective sensation. Other forms of subjective sensations are caused by phy- sical changes in nerves themselves, or in those parts of the centres in which they are implanted. These changes are caused by alterations in the quantity, but more fre- quently in the quality, of the blood, the deficiency in some of its staminal principles, or the presence of some abnormal element in it, or by modifications in the nutrient actions of the nerves or nervous centres. Subjective sensations of this kind are those most com- monly met with. As examples of them we may refer to the motes or flashes of light occasioned by disturbed conditions of the retina, mechanically or otherwise ; or of the optic nerve; or of those parts of the en- cephalon in which the optic nerve is im- planted ; tinnitus aurium, or singing in the ears, resulting from some analogous affections of the auditory nerve, or of the parts of the brain with which it is connected ; pains, or feelings of tingling or creeping in the limbs (formication). Reflex sensations. — The physical change developed in the production of an objective sensation at one part may give rise to what may be compared to a subjective sensa- tion in another and a remote part of the body. The irritation of a calculus in the bladiler will give rise to pain at the end of the penis, or to pains in the thighs. The ob- ject by which the irritation of the bladder is excited cannot exercise any direct influence on the nerves of the penis or of the thigh; through the nerves of the bladder it excites that por- tion of the cord in which both the vesical nerves and the nerves of the penis and of the thigh are implanted, and thus the latter nerves are stimulated at their central ex- tremities through the influence of the peri- pheral stimulation ; in other words, the phy- sical changes excited in the first are reflected into the second. Sometimes distant and apparently wholly unconnected parts may be affected in this way. Thus irritation of the ovary will cause pain under the right or left mamma ; stimula- tion of the nipple, whether in male or female, gives rise to peculiar sensations referred to the genital organs; ice suddenly introduced into the stomach will cause intense pain in either supra-orbital nerve ; acid in the sto- mach is apt to cause a similar pain, which may be very quickly relieved by the neutrahsation of the acid. Phenomena of this kind imply some closeness of connection between the nerves of the sympathising parts in the centre, probably by means of commissural fibres con- necting the respective points of implantation of the nerves with each other. For further remarks on the subject of this article see Nervous System, Physiology OF ; and the articles on the Senses, — Hearing, Smell, Taste, Touch, Vision. {R. B. Todd.) SENSIBILITY.—(Fr. SensibiUte ; Germ. Empjindlichkeit). — This term, like Sensa- tion, should be limited to signify the power which any organ or tissue of the body has, of causing changes inherent or excited in it to be perceived and recognised by the mind. The greater this power is in any tissue or organ, the more sensitive it is, — the greater the sensibilitj/ of the organ or tissue ; the less this power is, the less the sensibility of the organ, &c. Sensibility, like Sensation, involves the power of affecting the mind through the body; but as the mind, of its own mere motion, may excite the centre of sensation, so, by directing the attention specially to some particular tissue or organ, it may create a sensation which, will be referred to that part, and which, by frequent repetition, may assume the nature of pain. No doubt many instances of hys- terical pain are greatly aggravated by the mind being constantly directed to, and dwell- ing upon, tiie painful part. The term Sensibility is sometimes con- founded with Irritability, especially by Psycho- logical writers. Haller has, with great pre- cision, laid down the distinction between these two properties of tissues in the following words : — " Irritabilem partem corporis humani dico, quae ab externo aliquo contactu brevior fit; valde irritabilem, quce a levi contactu, parum quae a valente demum causa in brevitatem cietur. Sentientem partem corporis humani