624 SKELETON. passes with me to my task of comparison, I warn him that he should feel within himself a full conviction of the truth, that in order to gain a fair insight of the law of formation, he must not suffer names of different significa- tions to hide the common analogy or sitnilitude which the things themselves manifest. He must have fully freed himself of the barbarisms of the nomenclature which the unreasoning human anatomist still makes use of; he must not suppose that because one spinal piece is named sacrum, it is therefore absolutely dif- ferent to another spinal piece named vertebra. And even in respect to the name vertebra*, which applies alike to all spinal segments, however quantitatively different these may be, he should not think these the same things in form and dimensions, and elemental consti- tuents, simply because they bear the same name. For in reality this name vertebra attaches to bodies which are quantitatively different, and is, therefore, a name as truly misapplied to generalise not only over the spinal units of the skeletal axes of the four classes of vertebrata, but even over those of the human type; as if, \Ahile viewing a series of circles, semi- circles, and segments, we called it a series of segments of semicircles or of circles, which it evidently is not. We would not call the two quantities, viz. circle and segment, by the same name ; neither should we name such different quantities as cervical, dorsal, and coccygeal forms under the common title " vertebrae." If we fully ackowledge to this first truth, truth will be begotten of it; but if we still begin the calculation with the error, error will spring from out of it, and defy all mathematical computation. Proposition I. VcrtebicB are unequal quan- tities.—In the human spinal axis I find that those bodies which the human anatomist terms vertebrae are not quantitatively similar, equal, or homologous.f The cervical vertebra (a,^^. nature des choses." Esprit des Lois, lib. i. eh. 1. Montesquieu. * Lamarck originated the name vertebrated, as characterising one great division of the animal kingdom,—" Les animaux vertebres," from the other " Les animaux sans vertebres." But comparative osteology, as studied in the present time, has ahiiost rendered this name obsolete, incapable, as it evi- dently is, to be the instrument where^vith to gene- ralise the skeletal frameworks of the four classes of animals. Even the originator himself seems to have entertained a doubt as to the efficiency of the name, or any mode of classification, or method, or nomenclature used in subdividing the continuity of the chain of nature. He writes, " Mais j'ai deja montre qu'il est un produit de Fart, et que malgre' les apparences contraires il ne tient reellement rien de la nature." See Philosophie Zoologique, torn. i. chap. V. t This term " homologous," as used by the geo- metrician, means corresponding. Figures are called similar or corresponding whose sides and angles are homologous. Quantities having the same manner or proportions are homologous. Quantities, there- fore, which are not equal to one another are not homologous; but such quantities, though being un- equal, may still possess the correspondence Avhich we see apparent in the proportionals of a whole quantity j thus a segment of a circle or a semicircle, 4 1 k) differs in this respect from the dorsal ver- teora (c) ; this from the lumbar vertebra (e); Fig. 444. Vertebres of the human spine. Showing a quantitative difference. The similar parts of each bear the same figures. this from the sacral vertebra (h); and this from the coccygeal vertebra (i). In all ani- mal spinal axes 1 see that those bodies which the comparative anatomist names vertebrae are likewise quantitatively different. The several classes of vertebrae termed cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and caudal, are actually deve- loped of unequal quantities. And it is, more- over, most true that even the vertebrae of any one class, whether of the cervical class, the dorsal, lumbar, sacral, or caudal, are not quantitatively similar or equal. In animal cer- vices, thoraces, or loins, the vertebrae consti- tuting any of those regional divisions of the spinal axis are not equal quantities. Even in though not equal to the circle, manifest a propor- tional correspondence all three; and in the same way, vertebral quantities which manifest to each other a similar degree of proportional correspond- ence, seem to point to some unknown whole quan- tity of which they are the parts. Philosophical anatomists seem to have all agreed upon the point, that the name vertebra attaches to certain osseous forms arranged along the spinal axis, Avhich, in fact, are proportionally diverse bodies, and being so acknowledged, they have directed comparative re- search to determine the quantitative form of the " typical vertebra." The difficulty of this inquiry into the form and quantitative character of the typical vertebra may be learned from the fact, that science has not, as yet, determined it upon the finn basis of demonstrative evidence.