646 SEVENTH PAIR OF NERVES. guished, from its lesser size, as the " small petrosal nerve." From the hiatus it is con- tinued forwards and slightly inwards for about half an inch, running along the same surface of the temporal bone, but placed a little ex- ternal to the preceding nerve. Arriving at the greater wing of the sphenoid, it perforates the bone by an oblique and minute orifice, which is situated between the foramen rotim- dum and ovale : and appearing on the inferior surface of the base of the skull, it immediately unites with the otic ganghon which lies on the inner surface of the third division of the fifth. During the latter part of this course it is ac- companied by a filament from Jacobson's nerve of the glosso-pharyngeal. This branch, however, leaves the tympanum by a special canal, and is next placed externally to the lesser petrosal nerve on the petrous bone ; but, finally, it joins or runs with it to enter the same ganglion. A branch to the membrane ivhich closes the fenestra ovalis is sometimes described as coming from the facial, where it passes, in the aqueduct, above this orifice. The minute filament to the stapedius muscle is the next branch of this nerve. It leaves the portio dura and aquseductus Fallopii at about the middle of their second or vertical curve, or nearly on a level with the base of the promontory ; it next enters a small canal in this prominence, which conducts it to the proper osseous cavity for the muscle: it then breaks up and is lost in its substance. The chorda tympani, the next connection of the portio dura, is a much larger nerve than any of the preceding branches; it leaves the trunk of the facial at a distance of about the third of an inch from the stylo-mastoid fora- men. Tracing the portio dura in the upward direction, it is first seen to experience a slight thickening, and gradually, by the increasing laxity of the connecting areolar tissue, a to- lerably large branch seems to extricate itself from the trunk at a very acute angle. Di- verging still more, it now altogether quits the aquaeductus Fallopii, and enters a short canal which is appropriated to it, and which is placed anteriorly and externally to the former cavity, occupying the base of the promontory. While yet at a considerable distance from the apex of this eminence, the nerve emerges from its canal by an orifice very near the osseous ring to which the tympanic membrane is fixed. It now crosses the tympanum from its an- terior to its posterior part, and lying close to its outer wall, but covered by a reflection of its mucous membrane, and ascending as it goes, it passes between and at right angles to the long process of the incus and the handle of the malleus, to reach the processus gracilis of the latter bone ; along this process it con- tinues during the remainder of its course in the tympanum. It next leaves the anterior wall of this cavity, and occupies a minute canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; but it is still in close proximity to this process of the malleus, being only separated by a small interval of bone from the Glasserian fissure which contains it. It is next seen ex- ternal to the cranium, after coming through the aperture of this canal anteriorly and in- ternally to the fissure. In the remainder of its course it hes deeply in the pterygoid fossa beneath the ramus of the inferior maxilla, and is directed for about an inch downwards, for- wards, and inwards, beneath the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the internal la- teral ligament of the lower jaw attached to it, to join, at an acute angle, the outer side of the gustatory branch from the third division of the fifth. Very near the termination of the aqueduct of Fallopius, a minute twig connects the facial and vagus nerves. Following it from this cavity, it is seen to enter a small pore on its anterior surface, which conducts it by a short canal to the under surface of the petrous bone, where it emerges a very short distance in front of the stylo-mastoid foramen, and be- tween it and the jugular fossa. The nervous filament now turns inwards and forwards in front of the jugular vein, and terminates by connecting itself with the pneumogastric, just below its ganglion in the dura mater of the foramen lacerum posticus. Besides these branches of the facial within the aqueduct, it appears pretty constantly to give off, while yet contained in this canal, a filament which passes inwards behind the jugular vein, and joins with the glosso-pharyn- geal just below the ganglion of Andersch. Longet states that this branch, after its junction with the glosso-pharyngeal, may ge- nerally be tracetl to the digastric or st\ lo-hyoid muscle, in which it often unites for the first time with this nerve by a kind of plexiform arrangement. External to the cranium. — On leaving the Fallopian canal, the facial nerve immediately enters that portion of the parotid gland which dips downwards behind the styloid process to reach the structures lying deeply at the base of the skull. The nerve next continues through the substance of the gland, bemg directed for- wards and inwards to about its middle, where it divides into its temporo-facial and cervico- facial portions, the ramifications of which cover the whole side of the face, with part of the neck below and the head above. In its short course previously to this bifurcation, it gives off three branches, the posterior auri- cular, the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid nerves. The posterior auricular, the first branch of the facial without the skull, passes upwai'ds from the trunk of the nerve, and turns round the front of the mastoid process, lying at first rather deeply in a depression between the au- ricle of the ear and this prominence, and being enveloped in a dense cellular tissue. Having gained the side of the head, it divides into two branches; one of these continues back- wards in the horizontal direction, above the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, and crossed by the lesser occipital nerve of the cervical plexus, to reach the posterior belly of the occipito- frontahs muscle, which it supplies : in this course it is covered by a dense fascia, and is