6^7 SKELETON. I T 4 process produced to sternal junction ; and I shall hereafter prove that the coracoid process of the mammal scapula is as distinct a piece from the coracoid bone of the bird, as the centrum of a vertebra is from the costa. In order to understand aright the law of formation, it is as necessary to know what parts are identical and different in two or more skeletons, as it is to know what parts are identical and different in two or more verte- brae ; an error in the one or in the other is fatal to a proper understanding of the law which governs the development of both. While we view the clavicle {b,fg. 470.) in connection with the cervical rib behind («), we then find that the entire of Jig. 470. repre- sents a quantity equal to the thoracic arche- type, inclosing a visceral or haemal space ven- trad, and a neural space dorsad. This same whole quantity of the archetype is also seen in Jig. 471., where {b) the furculum joins c, the sternum, and points dorsad to a, the cervical Fig. 470. The cervical vertebra, with the rib, a, the clavicles, b, and first sternal piece, c, of the crocodile, form- ing, in their connected totality, the sterno-costo- vertebral whole quantity. rib of the cervical vertebra. In like manner Jig. 472. shows the dimensions of a thoracic Fig. 471. The cervical vertebra, with its rib a, pointing to the furcular bone h, and the sternal junction c, which parts in their totality form the stemo-costo-ver- tebral quantity in the albatross. whole quantity when we take (a) the cervical rib with {b) the coracoid bone (so called in tiie bird) and joining (c) the first sternal piece. Fig. 472. The cervical vertebra, with the rib a, the cora- coids h, and the first sternal piece c of the albatross, forming the whole quantity. When the whole quantities of the sterno- costo-vertebral circles suffer a dismemberment of their integral [)arts, then it is that special or diversified objects first appear—then it is that clavicles become special to coracoid bones, and both to ribs—then it is that the anatomists pursue, with special distinctions, fragmental plurality, and lose sight of the intelligible form of unity on the whole. Osteogenic is constant to the law of serial order. As rib follows rib in serial order—a cir- cumstance which indicates the homological cast of both—so rib, and coracoid, and clavicle, which take serial order, indicate by this same fact their own identity or homological relation. But the mammal's coracoid process is a part distinct from the bird's costiform coracoid bone. The former never takes place of the latter, but is a part proper to the scapula alone.* * Professor Owen's idea of the relationship of the mammal scapulary member and its coracoid element to the occipital vertebra, must imply that the cora- coid clavicle of the bird is (if the mammal coracoid pi'ocess and the bird's coracoid bone be considered by him to be homologous parts) also referable to the occipital vertebra. This homological relation, I am bound to say, I could never discover; and if the asserted relationship between these parts shall be ever received as an opinion true to nature, the learned author is certainly the discoverer. For my own part, hoAvever, I must confess myself no convert to the belief that so large an amount of displace- ment between any two numbers of a whole quantity, such as that which, according to the author, is instanced in the totality of the occipital vertebra, taken with the scapulary limb, ever occurs, but I am rather impressed vnth. the opinion which the im- mortal Goethe advanced respecting the fixity of place which osseous pieces of the endo-skeleton in- variably hold: " L'oste'oge'nie est constante, en ce qu'une meme os est toujours a la meme place." CEuv. d'Hist. Nat. p. 41.