REN. 257 Disease of the hidney from external violence— is not of common occurrence. One case of the kind has occurred to myself. A strong man in robust health received a violent blow on the loins from a bludgeon; he suffered much pain, and within a short time after the receipt of the injury he had haematuria. The bleeding recurred at intervals during several months, and was succeeded by a discharge of purulent matter with the urine. The purulent discharge continued for a period of more than a year, when the poor man died much emaci- ated. On a post mortem examination, the right kidney was found completely destroyed by suppurative inflammation ; there was no stru- mous deposit in the kidney or in any other organ. There was no calculus. The left kidney was quite sound. Extension of disease from other organs to the kidney. — The kidney sometimes becomes in- volved in malignant or other disease affect- ing the intestines and other adjacent viscera. Allusion has already been made to a prepa- ration in the Museum of King's College, in which there is a communication between an abscess in the psoas muscle and the canal of the ureter. Diseases resulting from a constitutional cause. —Scrofulous disease of the kidney occurs in the form of small scattered deposits of tuber- cular matter, or it presents itself in the form of a thick curdy deposit which leads to the formation of a large scrofulous abscess, the cavity of which is subdivided by septa formed by the thickened interlobular cellular tissue. (Jig, 166.) The scrofulous deposit commonly Fig. 166. Scrofulous abscess in the kidney. The cavity of the abscess is divided by septa, which are formed by the interlobular cellular tissue, thickened by an in- terstitial deposit of stmmous matter. The glandular structure has been destroyed by suppurative inflam- mation. extends over the mucous membrane of the ureter, which becomes much thickened. Acute suppurative nejjhritis is not a common disease, but it is a very serious and a very 1 fatal one. In one case it supervened upon ! VOL. IV. chronic disease of the kidney, in consequence of the intemperate use of fermented liquors by a man whose general health was much dis- ordered, and who had been subject for several months to successive crops of boils and car- buncles about the neck and shoulders. He died in about a week after symptoms of sup- purative nephritis had manifested themselves. The nature of the disease was detected at the very commencement by a microscopical exa- mination of the urine (JigAQl). Both kidneys Fig. 167, Deposit in the urine of a patient labouring imder acute suppurative nephritis, a, crystals of triple phosphate; b, c, d, moulds from the tubes of the kidney, the last entangling pus corpuscles. Some free pus corpuscles are scattered about the field. Magnified 200 diameters. were much enlarged, evidently from a recent attack of acute inflammation, numerous small points of suppuration were scattered through them, and the left contained two large recent abscesses. This case occurred in King's Col- lege Hospital, under the care of Dr. Todd. Acute desquamative nephritis.—This form of disease occurs very frequently as a conse- quence of scarlatina, and is occasionally pro- duced by other animal poisons, as for instance that of typhus fever, small-pox, or measles. The same condition of kidney very commonly occurs amongst the poor in large towns and elsewhere, as a consequence of that deterior- ated condition of the blood, which results from an insufficient supply of animal food ; and it sometimes occurs as a consequence probably of a similarly deteriorated condition of the blood in persons who are much reduced by long-continued disease, as for instance secon* dary syphilis or chronic abscess. The kidney in these cases is enlarged, ap- parently by the deposit of a white material in the cortical substance; the vessels in the cortical portion where they are not compressed by this new materia', are injected, and of a bright red hue ; the medullary cones are of a dark red colour, in consequence of the large veins which occupy these portions of the gland being distended with blood. The ap-» s