SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 531 order, and of weightier influence upon its termination. Here, an accompanying dropsy of the areolar tissue is less frequent and prominent, but it still generally follows at a certain stage of duration and intensity : it is usually ascribed to the pressure of the dis- tended belly acting upon the vena cava, and producing a secondary dropsy from the branches of the systemic circulation which join that vein. In another class of cases, the serous effu- sion is still common to the areolar tissue and the serous membranes, but it arises from a different cause ; one which is no longer a mechanical impediment, but a chemical altera- tion. The dropsy of chlorosis is a good example of this species of effusion, and to it may probably be also referred that seen in the latter stage of phthisis and other ex- hausting disorders. Analysis shows, that in these ancemicE the blood is rendered much poorer by the loss of a considerable propor- tion of its albumen, and the serum of the thus diluted fluid possesses a greater tendency to transude the membranous walls of the vessels, and pervades the surrounding struc- tures in an undue quantity. Below a certain percentage of albumen, Andral afhrms the occurrence of dropsy to be tolerably constant. To these two classes may be added a third, in which serum is found in these structures without any sign or symptom of its presence having been detected during life. These eases are so numerous, that, even after sub- tracting a considerable number as possibly due to neglect or difficulty of recognition during life, a large number still remain, in which the effusion may be fairly presumed to have taken place after death. And in many instances, they are not only affected by gravi- tation, but, like the very analogous condition of the areolar tissue, their occurrence seems to be favoured by it. Yet, as such appear- ances are absent from a large majority of post-mortem inspections, it will follow, that the effusion of this fluid is to be ascribed, at least in part, to some conditions other than mere gravity. These are probably similar to the circumstances which conduce to the pro- duction of the preceding class of effusions, a deficiency of the albuminous constituent in the blood, or, with lesser hkelihood, the condition of the walls of the containing vessels themselves. They thus appear to be due to both a mechanical and chemical affec- tion of the blood, and so seem to offer an union of the two causes to which the pre- ceding classes have been severally ascribed. Many of the serous fluids which are found in the ventricles of the brain and beneath its arachnoid membrane, offer sufficient distinc- tions in their nature and causes to merit recognition as a separate variety. They are alike independent of physical obstruction of the vessels, or of a qualitative alteration of their contents ; while their quantity, which is frequently a considerable one, and the corre- sponding diminution of the size of the brain, together clearly indicate that they are not due to mere post-mortem phenomena. But while, on the one hand, they are unattended by these, the ordinary causes of such effii- sions, and are devoid of all symptoms which would indicate them as in themselves mor- bid ; so, on the other, they are not present in the healthy subject. Hence we may deduce, first, that they are related to some abnormal condition ; and secondly, that this relation is not an immediate one. This may be confirmed by considering that the organ bathed by these fluids is one which, from its physical and physiological properties, its soft consistence and important functions, is both peculiarly susceptible of disturbance from pressure, and ready to give signs of such disturbance ; so that the absence of these indications betokens a nicety of adaptation of the fluid to the cranium and its contents which is hardly to be explained in any other way than by sup- posing that this adaptation is itself the ob- ject which the presence of the serum fidfils,. or that the want of it is the condition which necessitates the effusion, if indeed it does not more immediately give rise to it. In the cerebro-spinal fluid itself, we are pre- sented with a more normal counterpart of this scarcely morbid effusion ; since a fluid of similar constitution, in lesser quantity, is here a constant phenomenon. In tlie loose and vascular areolar tissue between, the arachnoid and the spinal cord, this perpetual dropsy is the natural condition of the part; and is perhaps due to the greater mobility enjoyed by the vertebral colunui where it surrounds these parts of the nervous centre, a freedom of movement which requires that they, in their turn, should be more carefully protected from external violence. Fliysical and chemical properties. — The appearances of the fluid found in the cir- cumstances above mentioned are tolerably uniform, and the few variations that occur are chiefly of an accidental nature. It is usually a limpid, colourless, and transparent fluid, of a faintly alkaline reaction ; and, in a state of purity, it offers no trace of organiz- ation, either to the naked eye or the micro- scope. In its consistence, however, it is susceptible of great differences. It varies from the hmpidity of water to the viscidity of synovia ; and when containing very much albumen, is sometimes even thicker and more tenacious than this liquid. Its colour is very frequently and greatly affected by admixture with blood, bile, and other matters; or by the partial precipitation of its albumen ; or, more rarely, by the solidification or crystal- lisation of fatty constituents. Many of these causes also affect its transparency, giving it more or less opacity, as well as colour. Its alkalinity is less liable to variation ; but occa- sionally it is neutral, and very rarely acid. Its unorganized character is only interfered with by accidental impurities similar to those above noticed. The chemical composition of these fluids is much more variable; indeed it is very pro- bable that scarcely any two of them are