SECRETION. 458 provision which is thus made for their re- moval. The first product of the decay of all or- ganised structures is carbonic acid; and this is the one which is most constantly and rapidly accumulating in the system, and the retention of which, therefore, within the bodv, is the most injurious. Accordingly, we find two organs, the lungs and the skin, specially des- tin'ed to remove it; and their action is so contrived, that whilst eliminating a noxious product, they shall be subservient to the in- troduction into the system of the vivifying element, oxygen, without a continued supply of which the animal functions cannot be long kept in activity, nor the heat of the body sus- tained. The skin, again, is one of the organs for the removal of the superfluous ivater from the body ; and the exhalation from its surface, the amount of which varies with the degree of external heat, serves the additional purpose of keeping down the temperature to its nor- mal standard. The lungs also regularly throw off a considerable quantity of water, of which the amount is but little subject to vari- ation, and of which some portion may have been actually generated in the blood by the union of hydrogen and oxygen. And the kidneys, the structure of which is beautifully adapted to eliminate the superfluous fluid by simple mechanical transudation, draw oflT the residue ; the amount of water which they re- move being the complement of that exhaled by the skin. All azotised substances have a tendency, during their decomposition, to throw off ni- trogen ; and in the animal body this element is for the most part eliminated by the kidneys, entering largely into the composition of the urinary secretion. Thus we find urea to con- tain a larger proportion of nitrogen than exists in any other organic compound; and uric acid, hippuric acid, kreatine and kreatinine, and other compounds, which are charac- teristic elements of this secretion in different animals, are all rich in nitrogen. But it is not only by the kidneys that azotised substances are' thrown off, for the solid matter exuded from the skin closely corresponds in composi- tion with that of the urinary secretion ; and urea has been detected in it. The biliary secretion is peculiarly rich in hydrocarbon, and may probably be regarded as the complement of that of the kidneys ; it having been shown by Liebig, that if the em- pirical formula? for the bile and urine be added together, the result comes very near to the enTpirical formula for blood. Of this secre- tion, a part is certainly destined to be imme- diately carried off through the intestinal canal; but another part seems to be re-absorbed, in combination with the fatty matters of the food, and to be subsequently thrown off by the respiratory process. What proportion is ap- plied to each purpose cannot be definitely stated, and probably varies much with circum- stances. But besides the metamorphosis of the or- ganised tissues, and of the organic elements of the blood, into the definite (generally crys- talline) compounds, which arelhe character- istic elements of the secretions already men- tioned, it would seem that a portion of the effete matters take on a 2yut}'esce?it state ; and that for the elimination of these a special and most appropriate apparatus is provided, namely, the extensive system of glandulae in the wall of the intestinal canal. As this point has been much less attended to than its im- portance deserves, it seems desirable to dwell upon it here in some detail. It has been too much the custom to regard the fiecal evacua- tions as httle else than the indigestible re- sidue of the food, mingled with portions of the biliary and pancreatic secretions ; where- as we think that a little consideration will show, that the peculiarlyy^z'cfl'/ matter is a real excretion, which must have been eliminated from the blood by the intestinal glandulae. The undigested residue of the food may form a greater or a smaller proportion of the bii/k of the evacuation, according to the nature of the ingesta and the completeness of the digestive pro jess. When the alimentary canal is in an irritable state, and the aliment is hurried through it without time being allowed for the proper action of the gastric secretions, a con- siderable part of it may be recovered from the faeces in an almost unchanged condition. It has been found that even starch vesicles, if not ruptured by the masticating process, or by the heat employed in the preparation of the i'ood, resist the digestive process so com- pletely as not to give up their contents ; being readily detectible in the faeces, in an en- tire state, by the assistance of the microscope. Further, there is no evidence whatever, that the undigested residue of the food cou/d ac- quire the faecal character, during the short period which sufUces in the state of health for its transmission along the alimentary canal ; and there is every reason to believe the contrary, since the substances which re- sist the action of the gastric solvent are pre- cisely those which have the least tendency to this kind of decomposition. ^Moreover, in purely Carnivorous animals, and in Man when he adopts the same diet, faecal matter is still voided, though in smaller quantity than in Herbivora. The case is still stronger in re- gard to sucking animals ; since the milk by which they are supported is pure nutriment, of which no part can be supposed to pass di- recth' into the fceces. The continued evacu- ation of faecal matter when little or no food has been taken in, the large quantity brought off by purgative medicines after the bowels have been completely emptied of their solid contents, and the colliquative diarrhoea which so frequently occurs at the close of exhaust- ing diseases and previously to death by starvation, are so many obvious confirmations of the same view. And Dr. Williams* has pointed out many pathological phenomena, which indicate that tlie inflammation and ul- * Principles of Medicine, 2d ed. p. 248. note.