SKELETON. 676 of the dorsal fin, since they are denizens of the world of waters. The tribe of fishes known as Pleuronectid^ is bordered dorsad as well as ventrad by the locomotive pahn- organs, and therefore they simulate the series of fig. 494. more closely than any other class of animals. The Pleuronectidae are the most archetypal class of animals in Nature ; for the first step of the law of formation in the meta- morphosis fig. 494. is to create a cephahc end (y7g.492.) and a caudal end {fig. 493.) to this series of whole quantities, by a modifica- tion of a certain number of the archetypes at either end ; and thus the animal of the class Pleuronectidae is fashioned, having the con- tinuous palmed or fin-organ still persisting dorsad and ventrad on those spinal arche- types which stand in series between the cephalic and caudal extremes. The structural composition of the head will vary according to the number of those serial archetypes which suffer metamorphosis for its creation. For if we suppose that the six quantities which are included within the circle q c r {fig. 494.) should be subjected to cephahc metamorphosis, we still can assign no reason why Nature should limit herself to the number six, or any other number, if ne- cessity required the metamorphosis of agreater number for one species of cephalic apparatus and a less number for another. Although in a former place I have numbered six segments as proper to the composition of the human head, still I am by no means of opinion that Nature limits herself to number six in the creation of all other species of cephalic appa- ratus ; on the contrary, I shall not hesitate to assert it as a fact, that {fig. 492.) the head of the plaice may be taken as an instance in which fourteen dorso-ventral archet\ pes have sufJ'ered cephalic modification.* The alternate fin-organs at the back and venter occur by the alternate metamorphosis of certain members of the palms of the conti- nuous series of archetypal quantities. In the Pleuronectidae, the dorsal and ventral palmed fins are continuous for the entire length of the spinal axis, as in fig. 494.; but in other classes of fishes we find the fins occurring isolated at certain regions of the spinal axis: such, for examj)le, as the fins called dorsal, jugular, abdominal, anal, and caudal; and this alternation may be explained by referring to fig. 494. If the palms which I have included in the semicircles k i,, m n happen to be metamorphosed or subtracted, then the iso- lated dorsal fin (m o l) will remain as we find it presenting in many of the class Pisces, and even in some of the cetaceans. The fin- * Professor Owen enimierates four vertebral seg- ments as composing the heads of all animals of the four classes. For my own part, I see no reason to entertain the opinion that Nature limits herself to a fixed number in the segments of the head, any more than she does in constructing the cervix, the thorax the loins, the sacrum, or the caudal region of the spinal axes. Carus and Oken speak of the number j^ije, as though Natm-e limited the openition of her law in patronage to this magical qu'mque in vertebrate creation. organ is composed in all cases of a plural number of palms; the number always corre- sponding to the dorsal rays of the archetypes. The palm is a hand, while the fin presents as a series of hands. When the series of archetypal quantities suffers metamorphosis at certain lines which the creative hand of Nature draws through it, the animal design or species is struck out accordingly. When all quantity lying external to the converging lines o d, p d undergoes metamorphosis or subtraction, then the series of quantities which happens within these lines will exhibit the condition of proportional and progressional quantities, such as we find standing in the caudal region of many animals. When Nature draws the right line a b through this region of the serial archetypes, and at the same time metamorphoses all quantity above or dorsad to this line, she creates the dorsal region of the spinal axis of all terrestrial animals, to which are remaining those parts which we name the neural arches, sufficient for the protection of the S{)inal cord. The quantity which occurs within the lines A B, F G answers to the thoracic ophidian skeletal axis, whose ventral or opposite costal arches occur by a bicleavage of the azygos ventral rays. The thoracic series of each skeletal axis is formed after the same manner as that of the ophidian. The numerical length of every thorax varies according to the number of those serial archetypes of fig. 494. which suffers thoracic metamorphosis ; and its position in spinal series varies also ac- cording to the numerical position of those archetypes which undergo a thoracic modifi- cation ; for if they be the segments which hold serial order between that which numbers (infig. 494.) as 13, and that which numbers 30, then the thoracic length will correspond to these numerical segments. When the head is fashioned of the six quantities included in the circle Q c r, while the neck is proportioned by the line e d, from six, or seven, or more of those quantities which succeed the head, viz. those segments between 7 and 14, 15, or 16, then the neck will number accordingly; and when the tliorax is to succeed the cervix, then the twelve or more segments which succeed those of the cervix are proportioned thoracically by the lines F G. When, lastly, the lumbar, sacral, and caudal regions are to succeed the thorax, it is the line f d which gives to these regions their several quantitative characters. The law of "unity in variety" appears therefore to be plainly demonstrable as an archetypal plus series of quantities, undergoing a graduated metamorphosis ; and if, by the order of the foregoing remarks, I have left upon the reader's nund the idea that the pro- portional variety constitutes the species of one form of skeleton compared to another, and to all others of the four classes of vertebrate animals, then my object has been attained by the course of argument which 1 have pursued. {Joseph Maclise.)