SKELETON. 622 3. Avery fine filament from the sixth nerve to the ciliary or lenticular ganglion has been described by several authors. Subsequently to the cavernous sinus, the course of the nerve is but short. Arriving at the posterior extremity, or apex of the orbit, the nerve lying to the outer side of that part of the third which supplies the inferior rectus and oblique muscles, runs slightly upwards, and turning oiitw-ards, continues for a very short distance along the inner surface of the external rectus. It finally breaks up into numerous minute filaments, which enter the ocular surface of this muscle to be distributed to it. Physiology of the sixth nerve.—The function of the nerve is, perhaps, sufficiently indicated by the preceding tletails. Since anatomy shows that its terminal distribution is exclusively to a muscular surface, w^e should on this ground alone be tolerably entitled to predicate its motor function. The little that is known of its comjjarative anatomy confirms the inference. In all the higher vertebrata it is distributed to the ex- ternal rectus. In some, however, it experi- ences an enlargement, and a further distribu- tion. The muscle which sweeps the broad nictitating membrane over the bird's eye, and the funnel-shaped, or choanoid muscle which surrounds the 0{)tic nerve and eyeball of many mammalia, are both supplied from this nerve. So also one or two cases are recorded, in which an injury of this nerve from disease in the neighbourhood has produced paralysis of the external rectus, and an inward squint. While, vice versa, the experiment of galvanising the nerve has been accompanied by violent contractions of the muscle, and an external strabismus. The insensibihty of the nerve is, perhaps, less certain than might at first appear, though Longet* distinctly states that pinching the nerve at its origin is unattended by signs of pain. The branch of junction with the oph- thalmic nerve seems to be, from its direction and appearances, much more like a filament from the sensitive to the motor nerve, than from the latter to the former. If this be the case, they would seem to be somewhat ana- logous to the junction of the numerous branches of the fifth with the portio dura on the face. And in the absence of direct ex- periment upon the nerve beyond the seat of this union, one might conjecture it as possible, that the sixth nerve was possessed of a slight sensibility similar to that of this portion of the seventh. Concerning the import of the junc- tion with the sympathetic, little can here be said ; for although, as compared with the size of the communicating nerves, this union is larger than most others, yet there does not seem any sufficient reason for supposing other differences. The distribution of a branch from the sixth to the ciliary ganglion has been thought by Longet and others to explain the persistence * Sur le Systeme Xen'eux. of movements of the iris after paralysis of the third nerve. But besides that the constant existence of this filament seems hardly veri- fied ; perhaps the interposition of a ganglion between the paralysed nerve and the ciliary filaments might alone be thought a sufficient explanation of the inconstancy or imperfec- tion of the result, without requiring the ex- istence of another and an uninjured channel as the cause. Bibhograj)hy.—See *' Nerve." (JVilUam Brinton.) SKELETON. — The name skeleton, cxe- \sTov, formed from (r^f^Xw, to dry, is, in anatomy, ordinarily applied to denote that assemblage and arrangement of all the osseous pieces of an animal framework in such con- nection and relationary order as the hand of nature has disposed them for fitting operation in the living body. The less the name skeleton impresses the mind with the configuration of any particular form of the osseous machines, the better is it fitted as an abstract general title, under which to give a comparative survey of all figures of the osseous system, whatever be their special characteristics; and this abstract survey being my present purpose, I find that the name skeleton, devoid as it is of any direct and inconvertible meaning, conveniently ex- tends itself over all varieties of the osseous fabrics of the four higher classes of animals ; from the mutual comparison of which I shall strive to elicit the law which creates them in the character of a tmity in variety *, a condi- tion of form by which the many species gather themselves together naturally into a circle and point to some unknown oneness of character which enchains them the one to the other. This law of unity in variety is still uninter- preted ; and though it formed the moving theme of the great Grecian naturalist f three thousand years back, and afterwards lay in cold obstruction till resumed in later times by Leibnitz, Newton, Buftbn, Cuvier, GeoffVoy St. Hilaire, Oken, Goethe, Carus, Owen J, * Leibnitz makes use of this phrase as being the general expression of his ideas of that condition of development manifested throughout the animal kingdom, namely the condition of an all-encom- passing structural analogy which relates organised beings more or less closely to one another. His " loi de continuite " is founded likewise upon the same general fact. He defines the universe as " I'uuite dans la varie'te," and of the animal king- dom he writes, *' tout va par dcgre's dans la nature, et rien par saut." See (Euvres Philosophiques de M. de Leibnits, liv, p. 440. t Aristotle, the great founder of generalisation in the physical sciences, Avas strongly impressed with the common resemblances or analogies of ani- mals, and expresses the tact as follows: — "But some animals neither have parts specifically the same, nor the same according to excess and defect, but according to analogy." History of Animals, book i. p. 4. trans, by Taylor. X The late work of the leamed Himterian profes- sor, entitled " Homologies of the Vertebrate Skele- ton," contains, in addition to his own especial Anews, a complete account of all that has been AATitten upon the subject of skeletal analogies by the leading com-