196 QUADRUMANA. other species, I followed the direction given by the said authors. d. Fourth Genus, Colohus Illiger. This genus represents in North Africa the Semnopitheci of South Asia, and seems only to differ from them by the rudimentary con- dition of the thumb, and, in one species, C. verus Van Beneden *, by the total want of it. By this disposition the Se77mopitheci and Colobi may be compared with the genus Ateles from the New World, in which some species want the thumb, and others possess it : they seem, in fact, to represent that genus in the Old World, having a great deal of conformity with it in structure, manners, and character. RuppELL-f- has proved, by dissection of the Colohus guereza, that in this genus the stomach approaches to that of the Semnopitheci, by its extension and the exist- ence of separate cells. The teeth are the same as in the Semnopitheci, viz., with an additional tubercle to the posterior molar of the lower jaw. The first molar of the lower jaw on each side is inclined backwards, and gives also room for the canine of the upper jaw. In both the Semnopitheci and Co/ohi, detrition of the molar teeth seems to take place in a longitudinal direction, as has been shown by Ogilby, indicating a corresponding motion of the jaws, something similar to what takes place in the Rodentia. They have cheek- pouches and ischial callosities. Spec. — Colobus polycomos^ C. ferrughieus^ C. guerezuy C. verus. e. Fifth Genus. Cercopithecus, Monkey, Engl. Guenon, Fr. Prominent jaws ; cheek-pouches ; naked callosities on the buttocks, and long but not slender tail; arms much shorter than the pos- terior limbs, by which disposition the Cerco- pithed climb with much agility, but walk with more difficulty : consequently they are syl- van in their habits, and confined in general to the woods of Africa. They possess in general a laryngeal pouch, and their posterior molar of the lower jaw wants in general the ad- ditional tubercle proper to the Semnopitheci. The first molar of the lower jaw is disposed as in Colobus. They are quick, capricious, choleric, cunning, and very teachable. They are a pre-eminently sylvan race, and live in the forests in society, under the guidance of the old males. Each tribe or family has its own particular district, into which individuals of other tribes or species are not allowed to intrude. So strongly is this propensity im- planted in the Cei-copitheci, that they carry it with them even into our menageries. They feed indiscriminately upon wild fruits, the seeds and buds of trees, insects, birds' eggs, &c., but appear on the whole to be less car^ * P. S. V^VN Benedex, Notice sur une Xouvelle Espfece de Singe d'Afrique, torn. v. n. 6. Bull, de I'Acad. Royale de Bruxelles. •j- E. RupPELL, Neue Wirbelthiere zu der Fauna von Abyssinien. Erankf. a. M. 1835—1840. nivorous in their appetites than either the Apes or Cynocephali. Spec. — Cercopithecus ruber, C. ^thiops, C. J'uliginosus, C. Sabceus, C. griseo-viridis, C. melarhinus, C. fannus, C. pygerylhrus. To this genus are also referred the C. mono, C. cephus, C. petauristus, C. nictitans, and C. Diana, which, according to the observa- tions of F. Cuvier, form a separate group, distinguished by their elegance of form and gentleness of manners and character. All these and the preceding Cercojntheci inhabit chiefly Africa. I intend also to introduce, upon the authority of Ogilby and Schlegel, in this genus three Asiatic and chiefly Indian species, which are referred by others to the genus Macacus, viz., C. cynomolgus, C. radi- atus, and C. jjileatus, Ogilby. Thev have an additional tubercle on the posterior molar of the lower jaw, and differ by it from the other species of the genus Cercopithecus; but in their general form, external aspect, and man- ners, they offer the greatest analogy with the Cercopitheci, constituting a natural group with them, and forming, at the same time, a transition to the genus Inuus. I am fully convinced, that in forming a natural system, it is very wrong to be led by a single ana- tomical character. This additional tubercle of the molars is unquestionably a subordi- nate character, insufficient of itself to in- duce us to separate animals belonging to the same natural group. Geoffi'oy St. Hilaire seems to have had the same views, by the formation of his genus Cercocebusy in which he places the above-named three species, and Ogilby says that he found in the 2Ian- gabey and in the Collared Mangabey, which every one refers to the genus Cercopithecus, the tubercle in question; a proof that it is not an essential character. Recently I. Geoffroy St. Hilaire has separated the C. melarhinus or Talapoin from the other Cer- copitheci, and has formed of it a new genus Miopithccus. The principal character is the existence of only three tubercles on the pos- terior molar of the lower jaw. But 1 am of opinion, that this is not sufficient for the formation of a separate genus. If such merely anatomical characters are admitted for the classification of animals, there will be within a short time as many genera as there are ani- mals. f. Sixth Genus^ Inuus Schlegel. Macacus Cnv. Macaque^Vr. Laponder-aap^Dutch. Upon the authority of my distinguished friend Schlegel*, curator of the splendid museum at Leyden, I am induced to unite the genus Ma- cacus Cuv. with the genus Inuus Schlegel. They form together a natural group, in which the tail becomes gradually shorter, and finally disappears, in the Inuus sylvanus or ecaudatus. An elongated muzzle, much more prominent than in the Cercopitheci^ with nostrils opening * Ogilby seems to agree wntli these \news, by the formation of his genus Papio, which is much similar to my genus Inutis.