SALIVA. 416 globules are remarkably transparent, and smaller than the more opake. Specific gravity. — The specific gravity of healthy saliva is about 1007*9, according to the experiments of Dr. Wright. It is denser after food has been taken. Mitscherlich gives the specific gravity of saliva at 1006" 1 to 1008*8, which agrees with Dr. Wright's ob- servations. Some discrepancy of opinion exists as to the reaction of saliva in respect to alka- linity or acidity. Tiedemann and Gmelin, and also Schultze, state fresh saliva to be alkaline. The latter chemist, has, indeed, attempted to define its saturating power. He also considers that it may become acid if retained long in the mouth, and that its alka- linity when fresh is dependent on ammonia. This is denied by Mitscherlich, who says that no ammonia is given off when fresh saliva is heated, and that the alkalinity depends on the presence of a fixed alkali. I have myself found that saliva, so far from losing its alkalinity by evaporation, has this quality increased, and am inclined to re- gard the reaction as dependent on the pre- sence of tribasic phosphate of soda (a salt re- acting on test paper as an alkali), as has been stated by EnderUn. Chemistry.—Berzelius estimates the solids of saliva at about 1 per cent. From the solid re- sidue he extracted osmazome, an alkaline lac- tate, and chlorides of potassium and sodium by digestion with alcohol. That portion which the alcohol left undissolved consisted of soda, mucus, and a peculiar animal matter, which has been called " salivary matter," or " ptyalin." The mucus can be separated from this salivary matter and soda by digestion in cold water, which dissolves the two latter. The mucus thus separated by Berzelius yielded on in- cineration a large proportion of phosphate of lime. The following is his analysis of saliva : — Water 992*9 Ptyahn 2*9 Mucus - - - - - 14 Animal extractive matter and al- kaline lactates - - - *9 Chloride of sodium - - 1*7 Soda > - - - - "2 1000*0 Tiedemann and Gmelin obtained from 1*14 to 1*19 per cent, of solid residue by evapo- rating saliva. From this, 0*25 parts of ash were obtained, of w^hich 0 203 were composed of salts soluble in water, the remainder con- sisting of earthy phosphates. The following is a list of the constituents of the saliva, according to the above-men- tioned chemists : — 1. Water. 2. A substance soluble in alcohol, and in- soluble in water (fat containing phosphorus). 3. Matters soluble both in alcohol and water (osmazome, chloride of potassium, lac- tate of potash, and sulpho-cyanuret of potas- sium. 4. Animal matter soluble in boiling alcohol, but precipitated during cooling, with sulphate of potash and some chloride of potassium. 5. Matters soluble in water only (salivary matter with abundant phosphate, and some sul- phate of an alkali, and chloride of potassium). 6. Matters soluble neither in water nor in alcohol (mucus, probably some albumen, with alkaline carbonate, and phosphate). Mitscherlich gives the following analysis of the saline ingredients of saliva; Chloride of potassium - percent.0*18 Potash (in combination with "1 ^.^^, lactic acid) - - . I 0 09-* Soda 0-024 Lactic acid - Soda (combined with mucus) - 0*164 Phosphate of lime - - - 0*017 Silica 0-015 Simon made an analysis of his own saliva, and gives the following as the result: Fat containing cholesterine - 0*525 Ptyalin with extractive matter - 4*375 Extractive matter and salts - 2*450 Albumen, mucus, and cells - 1*400 Water 991*225 Simon* adopted the following process in order to complete the above analysis. A known weight of saliva was first evaporated to dryness ; the loss of weight thus indicated the proportion of water. The residue was treated with ether, which extracted the fats. The solid mass remaining was next treated with water, which dissolved out the ptyalin, extractive matters, and salts, leaving behind mucus, albumen, and cells. Dr. Wright has experimented on saliva most industriously, and has entered at some length on the peculiarities of ptyalin, but evidently speaks of a very different constituent to that described by Berzelius and Simon. Accord- ing to the mode of analysis adopted by these two latter chemists, the ptyalin of Wright will be estimated with the fatty constituents, among which it most probably holds its proper place. His process of extraction is as follows:—" To pass saliva through ordinary filtering paper, and after filtration shall have been completed, to exhaust the residue with sulphuric ether ; the ethereal solution contains a fatty acid and ptyalin. It is to be allowed to evaporate spontaneously, and the residue left by evapo- ration is to be placed upon a filter and acted upon by distilled water, which dissolves the ptyalin and leaves the fatty acid. If the aque- ous solution be carefully evaporated to dry- ness, the salivary matter will be obtained in a pure state. Ptyalin, thus prepared, is a nearly solid matter, adhesive, and of a yellowish co- lour ; it is neither acid nor alkaline, readily * In framing this article, much valuable informa- tion has been derived from Simon's work on Phy- siological and Pathological Chemistry, translated by Dr. Day for the Sydenham Society.'