SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. The conjecture just mentioned derives con- siderable support from a comparison of their structure in the adult with their younger and fcetal conditions in the same animal. In the latter especially, the quantity of cell-growth on the surface is so great, as, in respect of mere continuousness, almost to merit the appellation of an epithelium. But though its constituent cells lack the angularity, and somewhat the size, of those which belong to the inferior strata ; yet, like the same cells in the adult, they are quite distinguishable from the epithehal covering of the bursa, not only by their appearances with and with- out acetic acid, but by the distance to which the shifting focus follows them. At successive depths, they are seen to become somewhat larger, more angular, and wider apart ; and the same process of fissiparous multiphcation may be detected in them as in the adult cells. We shall see that these differences at the different stages of the animal's life experience a close parallel in articular cartilage. In a few instances, I have witnessed another form of cell-multiplication in this tissue. It occurred in one or two cats of a few months' age, but I cannot say whether it is limited to any particular period of their life. It is represented in Jig. 398, and con- Fig. 398. Compound Cells of Bursal Fibro-cartilage. From the young Cat. (^Magnified 400 diameters.) sists of an oval or elongated vesicle or cell of limitary membrane, which is filled with, and usually more or less bulged by, a number of cytoblasts. These compound vesicles were sparingly scattered through the carti- lage-like tendon and periosteum ; similar masses of cytoblasts, of a spherical form, may occasionally be seen in young articular carti- lage ; and, indeed, instances of this form of cell-multiplication might be adduced from many structures, temporary, permanent, and morbid, but their introduction would be foreign to the province of this article. The constitution of the synovial sheatJis of tendons resembles that of these bursge in many respects ; and, on the whole, offers a still closer approximation to the structure of a joint. In many places, the sheath consists only of a delicate transparent membrane, the tenuity of which approaches that of the serous membranes, and which, like them, rests on a stratum of loose areolar tissue, and is reflected from the parietes of the cavity to the tendon w'here it enters it. Here they possess an oval or slightly angular epithelium, which constitutes only one layer. But almost every such tendon, in some part or other of its course, offers an alteration of direction implying considerable friction, and effected either by a projection of bone, or by a pulley of thick and strong fascia. Such are the grooves and posterior carpal ligament for the extensors at the back of the wrist. And here is again discovered the condition which was previously stated of the obturator tendon, but with some slight modifications; firstly, that the approximation to the structure of cartilage, here visible to the naked eye, affects equally the whole periphery of the tendon, instead of being limited, as heretofore, to one of its surfaces ; and, secondly, that the cell- growth is more plenteous, sufhciently so as to offer scarcely a point of the surface unoc- cupied by cells ; of which the shape, size, and disposition almost exactly resemble those of the surface of articular cartilage in the young mammal or the adult reptile. In the cartilaginous-looking portions of the sheath, a similar, but less extensive depth of cell-growth obtains ; and I believe I have recognised the same condition in the surface of the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint. The vessels of these synovial sheaths are very numerous, and their capillaries exhibit a tortuous arrangement which is identical with that witnessed in the articular synovial mem- branes hereafter to be described. But this copious supply of vessels is limited to the delicate membranous portions of the sheath, and to those mesentery-like reflections which here and there pass from the parietes to the contained tendon. Wherever the tendons are subject to much friction, and evince the partially cartilaginous structure already de- scribed, there the vessels are absent from those superficial and cell-containing strata, and, so far as I know, are limited to the deeper and non-cellular parts of the tendon. Synovial Membranes. — The synovial membranes are structures exceedingly analo- gous to the preceding, and consist of a layer of cell-growth, which covers the inner surface of the ligaments that connect the different segments of the skeleton in the diarthrodial joints, and which thus partially lines the " cavity " or interior of these articulations. They have been usually described as re- sembling the biirscB mucosce both in the nature and consistence of their secretion, and in their constant adherence to the morphological character of a shut sac ; while the absence of epithelium predicated of these bursas, has been laid down as the chief anatomical dis- tinction between the two structures. And, on the other hand, they have been likened to the serous membranes by the common pos- session of a tesselated epithelium, and by their continuit}- over the whole surface of the cavity and its contents; while they have been severed from them b}' the difference in the composition and consistence of their secretion, — a viscid alkaline fluid, instead of a more limpid and neutral one. Most of these statements can only be received with some modification.