RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. 228 crease of one is a diminution of some other vessel — or vice versa. The directness of these inosculations, and the frequency of these resulting irregularities together exert an important influence on sur- gical practice, which may be regarded in three points of view. Firstly, it necessitates unusual care in the ordinary operations ; since we may open an artery of dangerous size, where we least expect it. Secondly, it renders opera- tions undertaken on the vessels themselves liable to immediate non-success; for we may find only a twig where we expect an artery of influential magnitude. Thirdly, it may also cause their mediate failure; the width and number of the anastomosing chan- nels rendering deligation of a trunk useless, by filling it in a very short space of time below the ligature. Fortunately, however, the same position that renders them more liable to in- jury affords somewhat of a substitute for the operation by also exposing them more directly to external pressure. T/ie diseases and injuries of the radial and ulnar arteries scarcely offer peculiarities suffi- cient to demand a special notice. Aneurism as the result of disease, an ex- tremely rare occurrence in the brachial artery, would appear to be here still more infrequent; and this remarkable immunity as compared with the lower extremity has been differently ascribed to a supposed greater vitality of the vessels nearer the heart, or with better reason to the less exposure of the arm to strains or shocks. Even this explanation, however, has so much imperfection about it, that it seems better to avoid theorising on the subject until more is known both of the physical relations of the different tubes to their central engine, and of the differences in the nature and ra- pidity of the nutrition of their coats, which may be presumed to exist. False aneurism may occur in any part of their course as the result of puncture or inci- sion of their coats; the sac of the tumour being formed by the nearest investing fascia, and lined by the areolar tissue of the neighbour- hood condensed by the pressure of the con- tents. These consist of blood, which is usually in considerable quantities, and has experienced more or less coagulation subsequently to its discharge from the opening of the artery which occupies some part of the inner surface of the cavity. But neither in these points, nor in the treatment usually adopted is there an3- thing which requires particular specification. The disease of the arterial system generally, which constitutes so frequent and important a part of the series of changes included in the term " old age," of course includes these ves- sels. Ossification of the radial artery is by no means rare, although in this extremity it is very unusual to find it occluding the tubes or leading to senile gangrene. Here, from the superficial position of this vessel, it is often a valuable index by which an insight is afforded into the condition of other and more important arteries. In this latter stage of the change the vessel is rather larger than normal, very hard, thick, and tortuous : while the impulse of the heart communicated to it by its contents, and tending to efface these abnormal curves, often almost lifts it from its situation at each stroke. In an earlier stage of the affection it is much less easily recognised, but even here the tactus eruditus may sometimes appreciate the change ; and though it is perhaps difficult to translate the sensation into words, such a pulse might be paradoxically described as being at the same time hard to the touch, and comparatively soft and yielding to the 2^ressure, while its beats are associated with unusually little ex- pansion, though they strike the fingers with more force. {William Brinton). RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. {Articidations radio-idnaires—Verbindungen des Ellenbogenbeins mil der Speiche.)—Wherever the anterior extremity is modified to serve as an instrument of prehension, one chief part of the provision for greater freedom and facility of movement occurs as the correlative modifi- cation, not only of the two bones of the fore- arm, but also of the articulations which mutu- ally connect them at their upper and lower extremities. In man, in whom the arm, losing its locomotive, attains its most complete pre- hensile development, the radius enjoys a very considerable degree of motion around the ulna by means of these joints. And by the alternate preponderance of either of the two bones in the wrist and elbow joints which are situated at their opposite extremities, this mobility of the radius is increased, while the freedom of movement predicable of it becomes ex- tended to the hand which occupies its distal termination : and thus the rotatory movement which is gradually superadded to the ordinary flexion and extension of the limb finally reaches its maximum. In each of these articulations we shall separately describe, 1. Its anatomical consti- tuents—the several structures which serve to allow of, or to limit, motion. 2. The result of their functions—the movements of the joint. (1.) The upper radio-ulnar ai'ticidaiioii— whose elements are the head of the radius, the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the annular ligament, and a synovial membrane. The round head of the radius — represents in shape the upper part of a cylinder, or rather a horizontal segment of an inverted cone, which becomes continuous below with the shaft of the bone by means of a constricted neck. It thus offers two articular surfaces: one, a shal- low cup-shaped cavity which plays on the radial tuberosity of the humerus : another, the side of the cylinder, which has a linear mea- surement of about a quarter of an inch at its deepest part, where it corresponds to the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and ends below in a prominent margin ; elsewhere it is nar- rower ; and subsides more gradually into the neck of the bone. These two smooth surfaces merge into each other at the angle where the base and circumference of the cylinder meet,