SKELETON. 633 of uniformity throughout the serial line of spinal segments such as they are, we must submit them to a mental process of com- parison which is to tell us what they once were. For as it is evident that these seg- ments are only proportionally various, so is it equally evident that their plus originals must be uniform and absolutely similar. When I compare a caudal, a lumbar, or a cervical segment with a sternal costo-vertebral seg- ment, I must acknowledge to a specific dif- ference existing between these bodies ; but then I also have every reason to believe that this specific difference is only a proportional difference.* If, then, the cervical, lumbar, or caudal segment shall severally prove to be parts or proportionals when they are com- pared with a sternal costo-vertebral segment standing at the thorax, it cannot be errone- ous to read them as having been meta- morphosed from Vieir oiun originnln, such as those of tha thorax^ and hence 1 conclude that uniformity alone characterises the series of such originals.f Prof. XVIII. Every spinal segvient irhich is lesser, refers to every spinal segment ivliich is greater; and all lesser segments refer to that ivhich is greatest.—If it be easy to conceive that the last caudal bone (i,J%.+44'.) is a lesser quan- tity metamorphosed from such another quantity as the penultimate caudal bone (ii, fig. 444.), where can be the difficulty in rationally inter- preting both to be as quantities metamor- phosed or proportioned from such quantities as lumbar vertebrge (e, fig. 444.), and hence from such segmental quantities as sternal costo-vertebral plus forms (such as fig. 453.). I could not entertain this idea of a caudal bone, if I found that it were an ens holding within its dimensions any elemental part which may not also be found to be contained in the plus form of fig. 450. ; or if it were not the fiict that the archetype (fig. 450. or 453.) could undergo a simple graduated metamorphosis of its parts (1,2, 3, 4, 6), so as to simulate any other segment of the spinal axis lesser than itself J A caudal ossicle, * The number of proportionals capable of being struck from a whole quantity being of infinite amount, it -will be also seen that the number of species wliicli those proportionals themselves i-epre- sent are likewise infinite. " Species autem ilia ab- scissio infinite recte vocari possit." Bacon, Nov. Organon Scientiarum, Aph. 26. t The series of the archetypal sterno-costo-verte- bral circles constitutes absolute uniformity ;and when w^e contrast with this quantitative uniform line this other line of graduated proportional serial quantities, such as the present state of the mammal skeletal axis exhibits them, Ave are enabled to estimate the law which has created the line of proportional quan- tities such as we find it. When the special or pro- portional thing is contrasted with the uniform Avhole or complete quantity, the contrast gives the inter- pretation. If species arise from the infinite sub- division of the line of Avhole quantities, then this latter, as perfect quantitative uniformity, may be defined as follows : — " Unitas (uniformitas) est sine commissura (sine hiatu) continuatio." Seneca, Na- tur. Qua}st. lib. xi. X " The great advantage of this idea of a whole is, that a greater quantity of truth maybe said to be such as the centrum (fig. 453. 5), reminds me as strongly of its original whole quantity, viz. fig. 453., from which it has been meta- morphosed as a dorsal spinous process (I, fig. 450.), separated from that thoracic seg- ment, reminds me of the whole of such seg- ment. If it be true that I could never thus interpret the caudal ossicle, if I had not seen the thoracic archetype, this can be no argu- ment to show the error of my interpretation ; for it is equally true, that I could never know of what whole figure the dorsal spinous pro- cess was a part, if I had not seen the thoracic segment named costo-vertebral.* Prop. XIX. Structural uniformity cannot characterise such spinal segments as are pro- portionally or quantitatively various. — A cer- vical segment differs from a thoracic seg- ment by existing quantity ; and the like dif- ference prevails between all other segments of the spinal series, therefore those segments cannot be termed uniform. But though these segments are not uniform by reason of their being unequal things, still it is most true, that they are only diversified by reason of their quantitative inequality. In fig. 455. all the spinal segments are rendered plus and equal, by supplying in idea the osseous quantities lost at neck and loins. Prop. XX. Specific variety is none other than proportional variety.—A cervical, a lum- bar, a sacral, or a caudal spinal segment is various to a thoracic segment, forasmuch only as the former fall short of those parts which are proper to the latter figure, and therefore I say that specific variety is none other than proportional difference. iFor when, as in fig. 455 , w^e equate those segments which are proportionally difllerent, we re-establish uniform series. Prop. XXI. The Jcnoivledge of the differ- ential quantity between all spinal segments renders them exactly uniform in idea. — Upon holding comparison between one spinal seg- ment and another, when I find that certain persistent parts of the segment of greater dimensions, viz. that of the thorax (fig. 455.), are those which are subtracted from the segment of lesser dimensions, viz. that of the neck or loins (fig. 455.), this is tantamount to the knowledge that the lesser segment has lost those parts which are persistent for the greater. And therefore I say, that in the knowledge of those parts which are wanting contained and expressed in it." Sir Joshua Rey- nolds' Discourses, Discourse xi. * The self-evident truth which attends the geo- metrical axiom, that tlie whole is greater than its parts, needs no comment to sustain it; but that the part stancbng alone per se still refers to the whole quan- tity of which it is the part, requires to be insisted iipon much oftener, for at first sight Ave are apt, Avithout reflection, to regard it as it is in the light of a perfect figure. Hoav many anatomists are there A\-ho neA'er Avaken to the idea, that CA-ery lesser seg- ment of the spinal axis refers to the greater Avhole quantity; and yet in this interpretation the Liav of formation enshrines itself. "L'ensemble de tons les ordres de perfections relatiA-es, compose la perfec- tion absolue de ce tout." Bonnet, Coutemp. de la Nature, part i. chap. iii.