499 SEMEN. K K 2 seems rather to indicate a gradual elonga- tion of the cells. The spermatozoa He to- gether in bundles, either enclosed by the cysts or free. Acalephcs and Anthozoa.—The Acalephaeand Anthozoa exhibit quite a similar series of phe- nomena. The bodies of the spermatozoa are usually round, frequently however, especially among the Medusae (^g. 394.), oblong, cy- Fig. 394. Spermatozoon of Pelagia denticulata. lindroid. Little is as yet known respecting their developement. The spermatozoa have generally a fasciculated style of grouping together, and mostly so at a j)eriod when they are still enclosed by cyst-like cells. Pre- vious to the maturity of the generative capa- city, these cysts contain, as has been proved with regard to the Medusae, numerous small vesicles, which subsequently pass through ap- parent prolongation into spermatozoa. Infusoria. — The Infusoria are especially distinguished by the want of a sexual mode of propagation. There is no trace of either spermatozoa or ova to be discovered in them. Ehrenherg, it is true, describes in these animals particular organs of procreation, both male and female; but there is no foundation for the assignment of such an import to these particular parts of their structure, it being altogether an arbitrary one. The proof of the existence of spermatozoa and ova — the ' characteristic structures—is indis- pensably necessary to prove the embryo-pre- paring function of certain parts, and to justify their being interpreted as generative organs. Goieral conclusions respecting the morphology and developement of the spermatozoa.—A re- view of the description now lying before us, of the form and developement of the seminal ele- ments in the several divisions of the animal kingdom, and of the mutual relations of the respective formations, must unavoidably lead us to claim for them a different morphological value. By far the greater part of the spermatozoa, — all the so-called seminal fibres, which are distinguished by the linear form of the body,— are produced in an endogenous way, and that (with the exception of the spermatozoa in the Decapoda) separately in the interior of vesicular elements. KolliJcer* was the first who directed attention to the wide exten- sion of this mode of production f, hav- * Die Bildung der Samenfaden. t Tlie doubts which Reicliert recently raised against the correctness of the statements and obser- ing claimed it likewise for such animals, in which appearances are rather in favour of an immediate metamor()hosis of the vesicles of developement into seminal fibres (by means of elongation, growing out, &c.). The laws of auc.logy certainly justify us in drawing the same inference as KoUiker; the more so, as observation has proved that many animals, the developement of whose spermatozoa was formerly accounted for by the latter me- thods, evidently also follow the endogenous It IS difficult to trace the intimate develope- ment of the spermatozoa in the interior of these vesicles; but it appears probable that it is brought about by the junction of molecular corpuscles, which join each other linearly, and which have been deposited from the con- tents of the vesicles. Indeed, such a mode of procedure does not seem to be at all sin- gular in the history of developement of organic tissues. By saying this, we do not exactly mean to allude to the mode of formation of the muscular fibrils in the interior of the sarcolemma of a so-called primitive fasciculus, since at present we know too little about it; yet, we cannot help reminding our readers of the process of lignification in the vegetable world, or of the production of the so-called spiral vessels, which essentially seem to be founded on a perfectly analogous deposit of a firm substance, from that which was at first fluid. The decision of the question respecting the histological significance of the vesicles of de- velopement is much more difficult. In many cases, especially when they are situated sepa- rately or in small numbers in the interior of the spermatic cells, they have evidently the value of nuclei. Whether this however is always and every where the case, as Kollikei- supposes, we would not assert ; the less so because the appearance and the vesicular form of these structures do not by any means enable us to distinguish them properly from cells void of nuclei. By the laws of analogy, we are, however, perhaps justified in forming a judgment on the nature of the respective elements even in such doubtful cases. We ourselves might perhaps even venture to pronounce that the vesicles of developement of the spermatozoa are in all cases nuclei. The unity in the mode of developement of the spermatozoa which would thus be established is certainly very attractive; but we dare not conceal it from ourselves that this inference from analogy is the less to be depended upon, since the genesis of the spermatozoa in the Decapoda furnishes us with a proof that the formation of these elements may also take place imme- diately in the interior of cells, without the nuclei at all participating in it. We are confirmed in this opinion from the circum- stance that in many Decapoda, for instance in Mysis, it is not the cell itself in which the spermatozoa are produced. The cylindrical vations of Kolliker we certainly must consider as entirely unfounded.