301 REPTILIA. direction transverse, whilst in the latter the canals are smaller, and their course longitudi- nal. In the small intestine, likewise, there are two layers of lacteal vessels, one superficial (the peritoneal), and the other deep-seated. There is, moreover, a third stratum, composed of very fine lymphatics, which penetrate as far as the viUi of the mucous membrane of the intestine. In the stomach they are com- paratively few in number. The lymphatics of the lungs form a net- work, the meshes of which are scattered and are irregular ; upon the heart they are very numerous, inclosing rhomboidal spaces. In the green Uzai'd the lymphatics form a beautiful plexus around the corpus caver- nosum, and a complicated net-work upon the cloaca ; but it is remarkable that Panizza was not able to inject the lymphatics of the limbs, nor those of the testicles or kidneys. In Ophidian reptiles, the whole extent of the alimentary canal, with the exception of the oesophagus, is covered with lymphatic vessels, which are disposed in two layers, one deep-seated, made up of very delicate tubes, the other superficial, the vessels of which are larger. The kidneys also are very rich in lym- phatics. The central parts of the lymphatic system of reptiles, corresponding with the rcceptacii- lum chyli and thoracic duct of mammalia, are extraordinarily capacious. They resemble, in fact, great serous cavities which are never entirely filled with lymph, but which establish a communication between the lymphatics of the viscera and other organs, and the veins situated in front of the heart. These reser- voirs embrace the principal arteries, and even the veins that they encounter in their passage, covering them as with a sheath {Jig. 219, c). The lymphatics from the different organs, as they run towards these receptacles, form plexicose chains or detached branches, which are more or less knotty in their calibre. In the Chehnian reptiles, according to Hewson, all the lymj)hatics derived from the hinder part of the body terminate in a plexus which surrounds the right aorta, and from thence open into a reservoir situated further forward beneath tiie left aorta. This latter Viscera of the European Tortoise lyi situ, seen from behind. E, the trachea; c c, great central reservoirs of the lymphatic system surroiinding the principal arterial and venous trunks ; f f, subclavian vessels divided ; b b, h h, i i, tnmks of the large vessels derived from the arches of the aorta; ii, lateral margins of the liver; z z, the lungs; o o, the kidneys; N, external iliac artery; u u, lateral supplementary bladders; v v, urinary bladder dilated transversely; H, the penis retracted into the cloaca; k, termination of the urethral groove. {After Bojanus.)