428 SALIVARY GLANDS. studded at intervals with elongated or rounded nuclei, which present a great analogy w'ith the fibres of organic muscle, if they be not completely identical witli it. We are at pre- sent, however, in doubt as to whether the intermediate membrane of small glands, and of the terminal portion of the large, be really a simple transparent membrane, or whether it acquire, as the tubes which it envelopes en- large, cellular and muscular fibres externally, whilst the previously transparent membrane disappears or remains as a basement mem- brane towards the epithelium ; or whether a separation or splitting of the transparent membrane into fibres takes place. In the opinion of Henle, all the true glands having a vesicular termination, from the smallest to the most complicated, have an intermediate mus- cular tunic, with a series of longitudinal fibres situated within, and circular fibres without, the former being much more highly developed than the latter, and entirely absent in the more delicate ramifications of the duct. Miiller, admitting the great difficulty of determining by the microscope the muscular character of the intermediate coat, is nevertheless of opinion that such is its nature, and appears inclined to believe that the frequent sudden expulsion of the saliva is attributable to it. The cellular or areolar tissue forms an in- tricate network throughout the whole struc- ture of the saUvary glands, and can be dis- tinctly traced to proceed along the course of the duct and its primary, secondary, and ulti- mate subdivisions. It unites together, more or less firmly, the different lobes and lobules, ultimately expanding over the primary aggre- gations of the vesicles of the gland, where it is lost to observation, not appearing to extend between each individual vesicle. The spaces, then, between the lobes and lobules are filled up with areolar tissue, which forms a kind of rete for the ramifications of the arteries, veins, and nerves. The vascular sujipJy.—This is derived from Fig. 306. Capillaries of Parotid of Pig. small branches which penetrate the areolar tissue at different points of the surface, and are conducted, as it were, by this tissue through the interlobular spaces as far as the primary aggregations of the vesicles, where they form a network, which is distributed over the elementary parts of the gland, as seen in ^g. 306, the vascular arrangement in the parotid of a pig, from a preparation of Mr. Quekett's, and in which the capillary vessels range from the -^^n to ttho of an inch. The nervous supj)li/. — The nerves are de- rived partly from the cerebro-spinal, and partly from the sympathetic system, and form a plexus around the arteries, which is ulti- mately lost in the interior of the gland. Their exact distribution, however, has not yet been accurately determined. The arrangement and course of the lym- phalics have yet to be made the subject of investigation. The salivary glands are particularly called into play during mastication; and in order clearly to understand their relative import- ance, it will be necessary briefly to consider the nature of that process. The food having been taken into the mouth, is, in the first instance, coarsely divided by the incisor teeth ; and this divi- sion takes place by the alternate elevation and depression of the lower upon the upper jaw. This having been accomplished, the food is next submitted to the action of the molars, reaching the back part of the dentar arches, where the rotatory or grinding movement, brought about by the pterygoid muscles, is peculiarly exerted. Here its ultimate mechanical reduction and intimate admixture with the saliva from the parotid takes place in the following manner : — By the elevation of the jaw and the rotatory move- ment of the above muscles, it is alternately passed from between the two sets of teeth to between the latter and the cheeks on the one hand, and the tongue on the other. The buccinator contracting, urges it again between the two sets of teeth, from which it passes between them and the tongue, and is pushed, by the contraction of the muscles of that organ, again to its original position, between the den- tar arches. These different movements are alternately kept up until the entire mass of food has assumed its requisite state of me- chanical reduction, and during them the saliva flows down from the orifice of Steno's duct, becoming intimately incorporated with it, and aiding most materially in its integral sub- division. It is worthy of remark, that the position of the terminal portion of Steno's duct, or rather that part of it which passes between the fibres of the buccinator muscle, is such that it must be pressed upon during the contraction of the muscle at that parti- cular time when by the same action the food would be placed between the two sets of molar teeth, and the saliva not be immediately required. During the relaxation of the buc- cinator, on the contrary, and when the food