POLYPIFERA. 24 Fig. 27. Hydra fusca — end of a tentacle extended, magnified, a, investing membrane; h, nodosities; c, prehen- sile darts; d, tactile cilia; e, longitudinal, and f, transverse muscular fasciculi. (After Corda.) Fig, 28. Hydra fusca. 1, 2. Tactile cilia and their sacculi highly magni- fied ; p, first sac; q, second sac; r, minute cavity; s, cilium. 3. Prehensile apparatus highly magnified; h, apertui-e; i, epidermis of the tentacle ; h, first sac; /, second sac; m, saucer-like body (vesica); n, oval basis (hastifer) ; o, dart. 4. Intestinal villus highly magnified ; /, foramen; g, cavity of the villus. 5. Particles of fat or oil. {After Corda.) the sagittae are empoisoned, as an animal once laid hold of by the Hydra very speedily dies. At the base of the tentacula, the open- ing of the mouth is surrounded with lips capable both of inflection and protrusion. This lip is similar in structure to the ten- tacles themselves, and is in like manner provided with tactile appendages, and with prehensile sagittae upon its external surface. These lips, by their contraction, shut and open the mouth at the pleasure of the Hydra, and, when the size of the animal is taken into the account, appear to be endowed with ex- traordinary muscular force. The rest of the body is quite devoid both of sagittae and of tactile organs. The body of the Hydra, according to Corda, is covered externally with a membrane that consists of two layers, of which the exterior (Jig. 29, a) is composed of large cells, whilst in the inner layer are contained the gennina, of which we shall immediately have to make further mention. Between the skin and the alimentary canal Corda announces the existence of a muscular layer (Jig. 29, b), composed of dense cells, which are coloured, and appear to be filled with minute granules. The innermost layer of all (fig. 29, c), from its position and texture, ought, accord- ing to the same author, to be called the villous coat (tunica villosa). This stratum lines the entire alimentary tract, from the margin of the labial processes as far as the anus, being divided at intervals by folds into numerous compartments. The villi of which this stratum consist are intimately connected with the muscular layer ; their shape is cylin- drical, but they are of two kinds, some being perforated at their apex by a foramen, whilst the others are close. Each of these villi (Jig. 28, 4) is a rounded, pellucid vesicle, the walls of which are thick, and probably con- tractile, and in those which are perforated the perforation would seem to convey nu- tritive matter into their interior. Behind the anal orifice there is a small, hollow, and contractile membranous pro- longation (Jig. 29, c), which constitutes the sucker, or foot. ANTHOZOA. Ai.cvoMD/E. — The races of polypiferous zoophytes which next offer themselves for our examination may be described as consisting of a common body or central mass, over the surface of which are disseminated numerous polypes, ali of which contribute to the nutri- tion of the community to which they belong. In the first family, Alct/oniiim, examples of which are abundant on our own shores, the substance of the polypary or general body, which may frequently be picked up upon the beach, appears to be a shapeless lump of a tough gelatinous substance, upon which, to an ordi- nary observer, no indications of its wonderful organization are apparent; so that we cannot wonder at its being so frequently passed by as an object devoid of interest. On putting one of these amorphous masses into a glass of sea-