517 SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. gress towards the trochanter of the femur, is a convenient one for examination. On making a thin section parallel to the osseous surface, it is found that the bands of the white fibrous element which constitute the periosteum are considerably changed where they line the bursae. They are much less wavy than usual, and, at the same time, have become much more brittle and transparent. Besides be- coming more linear, the markings have altered in another respect, viz. they are much less frequent, and are placed at more regular dis- tances. The ordinary epithelium which else- where lines the cavity has disappeared, and, in its stead, we recognise a great number of cells irregularly scattered over the surface of the specimen; although even now one may perhaps trace an approach to a longitudinal arrangement in their greater proximity in this direction. These cells, in respect of their solidity, their somewhat angular shape, their colourless transparency, and refractility, greatly resemble those seen in articular cartilage. They are, in fact, cartilage corpuscles. But although exactly on the surface these cells are somewhat flattened, and scattered with com- parative irregularity, this appearance by no means extends any depth in the tissue. A slight alteration of the focus shows that, im- mediately beneath the surface, corpuscles are not only less numerous, but also assume a dis- tinctly linear arrangement; and form somewhat interrupted longitudinal rows, which chiefly occupy the interstices of the altered bands of white fibrous tissue. The corpuscles them- selves are here more angular and elongated. By further altering the focus, and obtaining a deeper view, the lines marking these sur- faces are seen to be crossed by others; and a closer inspection reveals the existence of two strata : one, the superficial layer just ex- amined, of which the lines are in the direction of motion, or transverse to this border of the ischium ; and another deeper layer, which lies at right angles to the preceding, and im- mediately covers the bone. In the latter, the same corpuscles exist, but in rather fewer numbers. The apphcation of acetic acid slowly swells and dissolves the intercellular sub- stance, and renders the cells more distinct, but does not deepen their colour. After a considerable interval of time, it attacks the corpuscles themselves, and renders them in- visible ; apparently more from its effect on their relations to the refractility of the surrounding substance, than from a real so- lution. In like manner, the under surface of the tendon offers a similar cellular structure, and a corresponding, but much less considerable, modification of the fibrous tissue itself But this change, which, on the surface, is so well marked, gradually diminishes as one examines successive and deeper horizontal sections; and, finally, at a certain depth, the intercellu- lar substance altogether loses its cartilaginous characters, the cells themselves vanish, and the tendon completely resumes its ordinary structure. The crossing of two strata at right angles to each other, which is witnessed in the modified [)eriosteum, is a frequent anatomical peculiarity of the original tissue, and not essential to the modification. And something very similar is seen in the tendon. The tendinous bundles to which the several mus- cular fibres are attached, are successively received into the border of the oblique ten- don; and very frequently, in joining it, a Fig. 397. Under or Bursal Surface of Obturator Internus Ten- don. From the Cat. a, superficial stratum; b, deeper layer lying at an oblique angle to the preceding. (^Magnified about 180 diameters.^ certain proportion of their fibres swerve aside from its track, scatter themselves, and strengthen the cord as a whole, by cross- ing its surface at a varying angle, and form- ing a thin stratum superficial to it. Where the tendon assumes the peculiarities just al- luded to, the markings and corpuscles of this superficial layer are seen decussating those of the larger and deeper mass which take the direction of the tendon. This crossing of two strata is indicated in fig. 397. The chief differences between the cells on the surface and those at a greater depth have been already indicated ; viz., that the former are more numerous, flatter, and more oval. But the shapes and ap()earances of the deeper layer deserve further consideration, since they present the phenomena of a fissiparous genesis of cells, which the upper stratum does not; so that it is perhaps difficult to avoid attributing the increase of numbers and alter- ation of shape which is seen near the surface to the gradual advance of the nuiltiplied cor- puscles in that direction. The stages of the process are the same as may be observed in other tissues. An elongation of the nucleus is followed by an hour-glass constriction of its middle; a dark line across the corpuscle then testifies to the fission of both cell and nucleus ; and, finally, the two new cells separate, and their walls surround the nucleus at a more equal distance in every part. Most of these steps may be observed in fig. 397. L L 3