RESPIRATIOxV. 358 blood, mentioned above. Michaelis *, and Marcet and Macairef, in tbeir ultimate or elementary analyses of both kinds of blood, found more carbon and less oxygen in ve- nous, and less carbon and more oxygen in arterial blood; but Berzelius has adduced sufficient reasons to induce us to doubt whe- ther, in such investigations, at least as at present conducted, the distinctive characters of the two kinds of blood can be preserved during the analysis, and that they are de- serving of any confidence. J A larger quantity of fixed carbonic acid has been obtained from venous than from arterial blood by Mitscherlich, Gmelin, and Tiedemann.^ It is now placed beyond dispute that free gases exist in the blood, and it be- comes a point of great importance in de- ciding upon the true theory of respiration to ascertain their nature, quantity, and rela- tive proportions in the two kinds of blood. Four methods have been followed in pro- curing the free gases from the blood. 1. By the application of heat. 2. By the use of the air-pump. 3. By agitation of the blood with other gases. 4. By the respiration of other gases than atmospheric air. The first of these methods is imperfect, as the albumen coagulates when the temperature is raised towards the boiling point, and may retain gases present in the blood. The se- cond method is also liable to lead to negative results, unless the air-pump employed be of the best construction, for, according to Mag- nus, it is not until the pressure of the air •within the bell-glass is reduced to one inch, that the gases begin to escape from the blood. In such experiments it is also necessary to employ blood from which the fibrin has been removed, for coagulated blood will retain the free gases, and prevent their escape. Sir H. Davy stated that by raising the temperature gradually to 200 Fahr., he ob- tained from 12 cubic inches of the arterial blood of a calf I-l. cubic inch of carbonic acid gas, and -^-^ of a cubic inch of oxygen jj; and that he procured carbonic acid gas from human venous blood heated to 112 Fahr.t Enschut assures us that, by subjecting blood to the temperature of boiling water, he ob- tained carbonic acid gas both from venous and arterial blood, and a greater quantity from the former than the latter kind of _ * Diss. Inaug. de Partibus Constitutionis singiila- rium Partimn Sanguinis arteriosi et venosi. Berolini, 1827. t Aiinales de Chimie et Physique, torn. li. p. 382. 1832. X Lehrbuch cler Chemie, Band iv. S. 99, 100. Dresden, 1831. § Zeitschrift fiir Physiologie, Band v. 1833. Mit- scherlich, Gmehn and Tie'demann, by the addi- tion of acetic acid, and the appHcation of heat, ob- tained from 1000 parts of venous blood at least 12-3 parts, and from the same quantity of arterial blood 8-3 parts of combined carbonic acid. II Beddoes' Contributions to Physical and Medical Knowledge, p. 132. 1799. ^ Idem opus, p. 134. blood.* It is alleged that Brande obtained carbonic acid gas both from venous and ar- terial blood in considerable quantity by the use of the air-pump-j-; and Scudamore states that he procured it by the same means in variable quantities from venous blood.J Col- lard de Martigny^ and Enschut || procured carbonic acid gas both from venous and arterial blood, by placing them in the Torri- cellian vacuum, and a larger quantity from the former than from the latter. Nasse, sen.1I, Stevens**, Dr. G. Hoffman ff, Enschut i|, Dr. Maitland and BischofF|| ||, obtained carbonic acid gas from venous blood on agitating it with hydrogen, or by allowing this gas to stand over the blood for several hours. The existence of free carbonic acid gas in the blood was still, however, regarded by some physiologists as very problematical, since se- veral trust-worthy and careful experimenters, such as Dr. J. DavylfH, Mitscherlich, Gmelin, * Dissertatio Physiologico-Medica de Respira- tionis ChjTnismo, p. 96 to 99. 1836. Enschut, in one set of experiments, obtained in this manner from 40 cubic centimetres (2-440 English cubic inches) of each kind of the blood of the calf, 2 to 4 cubic centi- metres (-12205 to -24410 English cubic inches) of cai-- bonic acid gas from venous blood, and 1 to 2-5 cubic centimetres (-061025 to -15256 English cubic inches) of the same gas from arterial blood, p. 99. Enschut points out various precautions necessai-}' to be ob- served to secure accuracy in such experiments, a want of attention to which, he beheves, was the cause of the failure of Dr. J. Da"\-^-, Miiller, and others, in their attempts to obtain carbonic acid gas from blood by heat, p. 100—104. t Sir Everard Home, in London Philos. Trans, vol. xxix, p. 172. 1818. It is stated by Sir Everard (p. 181), that Mr. Brande obtained carbonic acid in the proportion of 2 cubic inches for every ounce of blood, — a quantity so large, and obtained apparently with such facility, as to raise insuperable suspicions regarding the accuracy of the experiments. Sir Everard Home (29th vol. Philos. Trans, p. 189) and Scudamore state that they obser\-ed the escape of free carbonic acid gas from the blood during its coagulation, — an obsen-ation not confirmed by others. It appears that Yogel also obtained carbo- nic acid from venous blood by means of the air- pump. (Schweigger's Journal, Band xi. S. 401, as quoted bv Bischoff.) X An Essay on the Blood, p. 108. 1824. The largest quantity of carbonic acid gas that Scudamore procured from venous blood, was half a cubic inch of gas from six oimces of blood. § Magendie's Journal de Physiologie, tom. x. p. 127. 1830. II Opus cit. p. 115. ^ Meckel's Archiv, Band ii. 1816. Nasse al- lowed the hydi-ogen to stand over blood from 24 to 48 hours. ** Philos. Transact, vol. xlvi. p. 345. 1835. ft Medical Gazette, for 1832 — 1833, vol. xi. p. 881. XX Diss, de Eespirationis Ch^Tnismo, p. 124 to 126. Enschut obtained carbonic acid by this means also from arterial blood, but in smaller quantities than from venous blood. §§ Experimental Essav on the Physiology of the Blood, p. 52. EcUnburgh,^1837. nil Conmientatio de Xovis quibusdam Experi- mentis Chemico-Physiologicis ad illustrandam Doc- trinam de Respiratione institutis, pp. 17, 18. Hei- delberg, 1837. Bischoff also procured carbonic acid gas from arterial blood by means of the air-pump, pp. 11, 12. Philos. Trans, vol. xxxiv. p. 500. 1823.