612 SKELETON. and enclosing thoracic space completely, ap- special design of an ophidian hyoid apparatus, pears the new apparatus named hyoid. The By an actual necessity, therefore, and in the absence of the sternum and sternal ends of relationship of cause and effect, it appears the ribs becomes the presence of the simple that the presence of a hyoid apparatus (1, 2 Fig. 463. TTie cervical spine of the osseous Fish, Exhibiting the hyoid apparatus 1, 2, 3, 4, as being the original costo-stemal quantity proper to those vertebrae which immediately succeed the occiput. In both figs. 462. and 463. the parts indicated in dotted outline are those quantities of the archetypal series of stemo-costo- vertebral circles which, being subtracted, give to both forms their class characters. If such parts still existed for both fomis, these woiild approach the original character of plus xmiformity, and thereby would leave no distinction between the hyoid apparatus, 1, 2, 3, 4, and the thoracic apparatus, 5, 6, 7. In both figures it will be marked that the variable number of hyoid circles depends upon the variable number of those cost£e which have suffered metamorphosis. of Jig. 462.) must be the metamorphosis of a the thoracic apparatus (5—10, 463.), and both the same apparatus existing in a mammal costal apparatus at those spinal segments which immediately succeed the occiput, and the same appears true of every other special apparatus produced upon the skeleton form. The appearance of any or all kinds of special apparatus implies the metamorphosis of all or some of the costal and sternal quantities. Consequently, therefore, it must follow that as the original costo-sternal apparatus of the cervical spinal segments may be regarded as homologous with the thoracic costo-sternal apparatus, so v/ill the hyoid apparatus (1, 2, 3, 4, Jig. 463.), which is constructed of the cervical costo-sternal quantity, bear some analogy, more or less, to the thoracic appa- ratus (5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,/o-.463.). In all ske- letons T see an analogy, more or less strongly marked, between not only all hyoid apparatus as special designs (Jig. 462, 463.), but between these and the thoracic apparatus. The source of this structural analogy, no doubt, is, that the hyoid apparatus (1, 2 ofjig. 462., and 1, 2, 3, 4 of Jig. 463.) is speci:dly modified from the original structure at the cervix, which structure is costo-sternal proper to the cervical spinal region, and, as such, is the true structural homologue of that apparatus which elsewhere constitutes the thorax. The hyoid apparatus, at one spinal region, is not the thoracic appa- ratus at another spinal region ; for to assert this would be as absurd as to say that the thorax of one skeleton was the thorax of another; in other words, as to assert that duality was unity. How can the hyoid appa- ratus (1,2,3,4 of Jig. 463.) be rationally named the thoracic apparatus, when both ap- paratus may exist at the same time in the same skeleton ? When I see the hyoid apparatus (I, 2, 3, 4) of a fish (Jig. 463.) existing with skeleton (a, b, 8—19, Jig. 455.), why should I therefore say that the hyoid apparatus of the fish was the thoracic apparatus of the mammal pushed upwards into the fish's throat ? If the hyoid apparatus of the fish were the thoracic apparatus of the mammal, then, strictly speak- ing, the fish could have no hyoid apparatus at all, and wherefore should we still continue to call that hyoid wh'ch in reality was thoracic ? Evidently anatomists are only disputing about the shadow of nomenclature in their ignorance of the real entity of form, and the law which modifies to infinite variety. Evidently, while they record how unity or uniformity is varied, they cannot describe or figure the character of unity, and they never will, so long as they chspute about variety without first ascertain- ing the source of this variety. What is the truth concerning the source of this remarkable analogy between all hyoid apparatus as such (in Jigs. 462, 463.), and all thoracic apparatus as such ? 1 believe the source of the analogy to be this, namely, that the thoracic apparatus happens at variable locahties of the spinal axis, according to the position whereat sterno- costo-vertebral archetypal structure persists, as from 8 to 19 offg.io'o., and 5 to 10 of/g-.463. This thoracic apparatus ma}', according to ne- cessity, persist at any region of the spinal length, or at all regions, because the original archetypal skeletal axis is one of a continuous series of thoracic segments. Where it docs persist, as in ^o-. 463. from 5 to 10., there no new apparatus can recur ; but where the tho- racic apparatus has undergone metamorphosis, as at cervix 1 to 7 of Jig. 455., and I to 4 of Jig. 462. or 463., there and there only a new special apparatus, such as the hyoid, can happen.