SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. 530 vessels at the osseous suruice (the vessels to which in the first instance the formation of the tissue was due) seems to constitute an effectual barrier to the performance of its absorption by them. And since the process no doubt occurs, the only remaining vascular surface, or that of the synovial membrane, is clearly indicated as the agent by which it is effected. Hence, the synovial membrane possesses, so to speak, a double absorptive function: one, which is essentially its own, counter- balancing the active progress of secretion, of which it is the seat ; another, which is, as it were, delegated to it by the cartilage, and is the result of the physical incapacity of the latter tissue. And in a sketch of the morbid anatomy of these structures which occupies the subse- quent part of this article, it will be seen that the mutual dependence thus supposed to exist between the articular cartilage and synovial membrane in health, finds, in all probabihty, a close parallel in some forms of disease. The chief difference noticeable here is, that the preliminary breaking up of structure which appears to be chiefly physi- cal or attritional in the normal cartilage, is a vital process which is inherent to the diseased texture. The subcutaneous and subtendinous bursce present a similar fluid, which is usually in much smaller quantity. They seem, in most of the preceding respects, placed midway be- tween the serous and synonal membranes ; but many of the preceding remarks, mutatis mutandis, are applicable to them. The close resemblance of the choroid jjli'xus to the synovial fringes was pointed out in speaking of the former structure: but it is obviously almost impossible to conjec- ture a similar mechanical import of its secre- tion ; nor, indeed, have we any reason for asserting the separate existence of a fluid secreted by it. In respect of their internal situation, all the preceding tissues resemble that recondite class of structures, the glands without ducts; and their similarity of form has also a physio- logical parallel; — viz. that all their consti- tuents are returned into the b'ood, either unchanged in their composition, or elabo- rated, or effete. They differ from them, however, both in the greater perfection or maturity of their cell-form, and in the lesser activity of their secerning power. In the degree, and perha|)s in the nature, of this resemblance, some distinctions may be drawn. Thus, the serous membranes, in the possession of a solid attenuated epithelium, and in the probable absence of a secretion, are at the lowest or most distant extremity of the scale ; raised very little above areolar tissue. The si/novial membrane, with its much more active cell-growth, and its fluid secretion, comes somewhat nearer; albeit, the secretion seems mainly developed in answer to the mechanical requirement of a lubricating fluid. Still, the possibility of a less physical function of both these tissues must not be lost sight of. In the choroid j^lexus, the approximation is made yet more close by the negation of this mechanical import; and we are left in complete doubt, whether it is a provision for quantitative or qualitative fluc- tuations in the blood which supplies it ; whether, in either of these cases, the cell- growth operates a chemical change or elabo- ration on the materials submitted to its action ; or, finally, whether it returns these to the circulation, or surrenders them at once to the neighbouring nervous tissues. Morbid Anatojiy of Serous and Sy- novial ^Membranes. — The following sketch of the diseased appearances of these tissues is necessarily limited to their more general features. At present, it is scarcely pos^^ible to discriminate between the very analogous pa- thological conditions of the two classes of serous and synovial membrane ; although it is probable that an advance of knowledge will at no distant date enable us to do so. And even where the distinctions of appearances are sufficiently palpable, our ignorance of their general nature allows few inferences to be drawn from these varieties. Thus, the remarkable immunity from me- chanically-produced effusions which the syno- vial membranes enjoy is little understood, although one may perhaps doubt whether it is quite so complete as it is generally sup- posed to be. The only conjecture that seems at all probable is, that the nature and activity of the cell-grow th which covers their surface may have some relation to the diffi- culty with which such fluids transude. So, also, the comparative infrequency of adhesion in their inflammations is, at present, a vague fact, the cause of which is unknown; — it may either be referred to an explanation similar to the preceding, or may, as Profes- sors Todd and Bowman suggest*, depend upon the presence of a viscid secretion in their interior. Sei'ous or dropsical effusions. — One of the most frequent of the morbid appearances seen in these tissues is the presence of a serum-like fluid in their cavity. It occurs in a very large number o: deaths from various diseases. In most instances, however, the serous membrane only shares in a dropsy which is common to other structures, and especially affects the areolar tissue. Thus, for instance, where death has resulted from some mediate or immediate obstruction to the passage of blood through the right cavi- ties of the heart, and has been preceded for some time by general anasarca, it is usual to find a considerable quantity of fluid occupy- ing the pleura, peritoneum, and other serous membranes. In other diseases, as in cirrhosis, the serous effusion is not only a more direct result of a greater venous obstruction, but it also assumes a higher import than in the previous instance, and becomes both of earher occurrence in the history of the dis- * Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, vol. i. p. 131.