38 POLYPIFERA. must be the feelings excited in the mind capa- ble of appreciating the result of the labours of these silent agents in the economy of our world ! Let us imagine for a moment the stupendous scene which the mental e3e may view at the bottom of the ocean. Vast dis- tricts of the globe spread over with a carpet of this living crust, studded, as thickly as are our fields with grass, with hungry flowers of every various hue — all actively employed in carrying on the great progressive work — de- positing, with unobtrusive diligence, from age to age, the chalky masses we have been de- scribing—slowly, but unremittingly, the mighty fabric grows, until at length it peers into the world above the waves which nourished it, and forms a land where all before was sea, soon to be peopled with fit occupants, or pos- sibly by the volcano's breath upheaved into the clouds, to become the nucleus of a country like our own, from which intelligence may pour forth to irradiate the world I Pexnatulid.e. — The Pennatulae, or Sea- pens, are distinguished by Cuvier from the other families of cortical polyps under the title of " Polypiers nageurs," or swimming Poly- paries, and are remarkable from the circum- stance that, although they possess an internal calcareous support, they are not attached to foreign bodies, but seem at hberty to swim about in the sea. The Pennatulae, properlv so called, several species of which are met with on our own shores (Jig. -i-i), have a Fig. 44. Peniiatula grlsea. (After Bla'uivlUe.) central stony axis, coated over its greater part with a thick living cortex, the sub- stance of which presents a somewhat fibrous arrangement, and is capable of movements of contraction sufficiently forcible to permit of locomotion. The lower portion of the stem, which strikingly resembles the barrel of a quill, is entirely denuded of this living crust, and when found in th.e bays upon our coast, this part is generally stuck into the mud at the bottom like a pen into an inkstand, whilst the two upper thirds of the stem are furnished on each side with broad lateral appendages, com- parable to the barbs of a quill, from the mar- gins of which are protruded the rows of polypes which minister to the support of the common body of this compound animal. The lateral barbs are supported by calcareous spicula de- veloped in their interior and imbedded in their fleshy substance, but having no other connec- tion with the central sten). In other genera the alary appendages are without any internal spines, or sometimes en- tirely wantmg, in which case the polypes are situated upon the stem itself. In Rtiiilla the body consists of a broad kidney-shaped disc without any barbs, the polypes in this case being distributed over one surface of the disc, and in J'eretil/ivii the polype- bearing part is a cylindrical finger-shaped mass. The central axis in both the last-named genera contains but little calcareous matter, and in the whole family the individual polypes closely resemble those of the Alcyonidae in their or- ganisation. In Vert'tiUum the substance of the general mass is excavated into wide canals that extend in the direction of the central axis of the body, and terminate in wider cavities within the lesser obtuse extremity. INIany of the PennatuUdae are eminently phosphorescent. The polypes of this group of cortical zoo- phytes have eight pinnated arms, and seem to be organised upon the same plan as those of the Corallidae. AcTiMAD^.— The Acthu(E, or Sca-ane- monies, so common on our coasts, known also by the name of " fleshy polypes," are evidently nearly allied to the preceding family, but in- stead of secreting a calcareous polypary have their bodies entirely composed of a fleshy sub- stance which, in appearance at least, is not very remote from muscular fibre. The ordinary Actiniae are of a conical form, the base of the cone forming a strong sucker, whereby they attach themselves to foreign bodies, while, at the opposite extremity, which is truncated, is the opening of the mouth, surrounded with several rows of retractile tentacula, wherewith they seize their prey. They often elongate their bodies, and, remaining fixed by their base, they stretch from side to side as if to seek for food at a distance, and when tlms stretched out they are very flexible and trans- parent, but shrink on being irritated, and contract themselves so firmly that it becomes almost impossible to distinguish them from the surface to which they are attached. Accord- ing to sonie writers they can change their place by gliding upon their base; or detaching themselves entirely, they become swollen by the imbibition of water, and thus being rendered nearly of the same specific gravity as the sur- rountling element are driven about in the sea until they choose to fix themselves again, when, by expelling the fluid from their bodies, they sink again to the bottom, and settling down become again fixed. It is even asserted that having detached their suckers they can turn