565 SHELL. o o 3 posed of thin laminae placed side by side, which separate from one another in the planes of cleavage when the shell is fractured. As first pointed out, however, by Mr. Bowerbank, each of these laminae really consists of a series of cells in close apposition ; and the plates are disposed alternately in contrary directions, so that each series of cells intersects the one beneath it nearly at right angles, as seen in j^g. 420. Although the intimate structure of Fig. 420. 07'tion of fractured surface of middle layer of Cyprcta mauritiana, shoiving laniince composed of prismatic cells obliquely crossing one another. MagnifiQd 235 diameters. (After Bowerbank.) each of the three layers of the shell is essen- tially the same, yet the disposition of the laminae is not the same in any two adjoining ones, — an arrangement which adds greatly to the strength of the shell. The planes of the laminae are always as nearly as possible either parallel or at right angles to the lines of growth; those of the inner and outer layers always having the same direction with each other, but those of the middle layer being set at right angles to them. When, therefore, a section is made parallel to the surface of the shell, it will cut the edges of the laminae of which the layers traversed by it are composed; but if the section be made in a direction per- pendicular to the surface, and pass through the middle layer in the plmie of its laminae, it will cut through the edges of the laminae making up the interior and exterior layers; whilst if the section traverse the two latter in the plane of their laminae, it will cut across the laminae of the middle layer. The principal departures from this plan of structure are seen in Patella, Chiton, Ha- liotis, and Turbo and its allies. In Patella, the inner and outer layers are composed of large and irregular laminae, by no means firmly adherent to one another; but the middle layer is made up of tolerably regular polygonal cells, which form only a thin stratum in some parts, whilst in others they are elongated into prismatic cells; and the directions of the laminae, of which the inner and outer layers are composed, instead of being conformable with each other, are at right angles. In Chiton^ the external layer, which seems to be of a delicate fibrous tex- ture, but which is of extreme density, is per- forated by large canals, which pass down obliquely into its substance, without pene- trating, however, as far the middle layer. The middle layer, as in Patella, is distinctly cellular; whilst the internal has the same nearly-homogeneous texture as the external, but shows no trace of perforations. The peculiarities of structure presented by Ha- llotis have been already described. In Turbo and its allies, the inner layer is nacreous, and the middle one is made up of large cells: the cellular structure is also very evident in the solid operculum of Turbo, when reduced to sufficient thinness. That the shell-substance in Gasteropoda is formed in the first instance by the agency of cells, however indistinct their traces may subsequently become, is further apparent from the researches of Mr. Bowerbank on the growth of the shell of the common garden-snail (/7tV2.r aspersa); and his obser- vations further confirm the opinion already expressed, that the formation of each layer of shell is a progressive operation ; new matter being added to its interior after the exterior has been consolidated. Passing by the Ptero])oda, whose delicate membranous shells present no very distinct structure, we come to the testaceous Cephalo- poda, of which there are but few species now existing. The shell of Nautilus pompilius bears more resemblance to that of bivalves in its intimate structure, than to that of the Gasteropodous univalves ; the three layers of perpendicular laminae, so characteristic of the latter, not making their appearance here; and of the two la} ers of which the shell is com- posed, the inner one being nacreous, whilst the outer one is made up of an aggregation of cells of various sizes, those which are nearest the external surface being generally the largest. In the thin shell of Argonauta^ the same kind of irregular cellular structure can be easily distinguished, as in the outer layer of the shell of Nautilus; but there would seem to be nothing comparable to the inner layer of the latter. The shell of Spi- rula must be cons dered to bear a greater re- semblance, as regards its relation to the ani- mal, to the Sepiostaire of the Cuttle-fish, than to the chambered shell of the Nautilus : although it so closely approximates the latter in its own conformation. This being the case, it is interesting to find that the intimate structure of the shell has a much greater resemblance to the Sepiostaire than would be supposed from its general aspect. For al- though its texture seems uniform, and its minute parts are composed of an aggregation of calcified cells, yet its surface is marked by sinuous lines, closely resembling those which are seen upon the transverse plates of the Sepiostaire ; and these lines or bands project in such a degree, that they might be con- sidered as rudiments of the vertical partitions