POLYPIFERA. 36 early state, when the radiating i)lates are first developed. At this time their upper discs are scarcel\^ larger than the stem, but they soon begin to spread, and show indications of tbeir characteristic form. There are many instances of smaller individuals remaining fixed to large ones in a living state, and such specimens are not unfrequent in coliections of corals. But in all cases that I have seen, the younger ones are attached to the under side of the old one, and I believe them to be cases of accidental attachment." "In Ellis's Zoophytes (p. 146) is the fol- lowing passage, quoted fi-om Rumphius, in regard to the animal of i^. agariciforuAs. ' The more elevated folds or plaits have borders like the denticulated edge of needlework lace; these are covered with innumerable oblong vesicles, formed of a gelatinous substance, which appear alive under water, and may be observed to move like an insect.* 1 have ob- sen^ed these radiating folds of the animal, which secrete the lamellie, and which shrink between them when the animal contracts itself on being disturbed. They are constantly moving in tre- mulous undulations, but the vesicles appeared to me to be air vessels placed along the edges of the folds ; and the vesicles disapp.eared when the animal was touched." " This arrangement of air vessels would very materially assist in keeping uppermost tlie convex disc of the coral, and be of vital im- portance to the young polype at the time of separation, and subsequently in keeping it upon the surface of its sandy bed ; or if they were moved by a sudden roll of the sea, which would lift even the most ponderous and possibly convey them a considerable dis- tance, they would be ag;iin deposited in their natural position. That they have no power of turning themselves I proved, during a sojourn of six weeks at Tahiti, by placing a healthy specimen with its upper surface downwards, during which time it remained in the position placed, and the vitalitv of the points of con- tact with the rock upon which it was laid was destroyed. In Yuv.gia limac'ina I have seen instances where the coral, having been accidentally placed and permanently fixed in such unusual positions, has adapted itself to its new situation, by increasing upon its edges, and forming a new convex surface." " As long as the young Tuiigm retains the form of a Caryophyllia, it is entirely enveloped by the soft parts of the animal ; but as the upper disc of the coral spreads and it assumes its characteristic form, the pedicle is left naked, and the soft part extends only to the line where the sej)aration afterwards takes place." " I consider the cases in which young Fungis are found fixed to the under side of others of the same species to arise from the accidental attachment of the young polype when de- tached from its parent, and by the motion of the w aler floated underneath a larger one of its own species, the edges of which were not so even as to touch the rock or coral on which it rested at every part_ of its surface. In such cases the soft pnrts of the older spe- cimen would continue to cover the short stem of the younger individual, and hence its se- paration from its pedicle would be prevented." The genus Poli/phyUia is, in its essential structure, closely allied to theFungiae described above, but the upper surface of its stony poly- pary, instead of being furnished with lamellae, all diverging from the same centre, is covered with numerous smaller lamiuEe, diverging from differ- ent centres, but generally arranged perpendicu- larly to the long axis of the polypary. In the living state all the superficies of a Polyphyllia are covered with numerous polypes, the bodies of which are confluent at their margins. Their mouths are placed without any regular order, but open here and there in the depressions that separate the numerous laminae ; they are of an oval or roundish form, and slightly fringed around their margins, but without any tentacula. These latter are distributed over the whole upper surface of the compound animal, and seem to be formed by prolongations of the fleshy substance which covers the more prominent lamellae, but present no appearance of being arrangeii round a given centre. ^^ hen taken out of the water they disappear, shrink- ing between the laminje. The polypes them- selves in their structure resemble those of the other Anthozoa, presenting the usual arrange- ment of a stomach and ovigerous filaments. Very nearly related to the Fuhgiae are the McandiincE { Jig. 40), the polyparies of wliich Fig. 40. A. Meandrina cerebriformis. B. A portion magnified, showing the pol\'pes oc- cupWug the bottom of the furrows, i-^fter Quoi/ tt Gaimard.) are globular, their surfaces being grooved with sinuous furrows, the meanderings of which give name to the genus. The Meandrinae have all a determinate growth which they do