RODENTIA. 394 likewise the terminations of the two vasa defe- rentia. In the lagomys (Lepus piisillus, ogotonusy and alphmsy Pall.) the vesiculae seminales are double and separate. In the common squirrel each seminal vesicle consists of a short canal folded upon itself. This approximates its fellow on the opposite side between the prostate and the canal of the urethra ; and, contrary to what is usual in this order, internal to the vasa deferentia. The prostate glands. — The name of pro- state gland is restricted by Cuvier to those glandular masses of analogous structure to the human prostate, the excretory canals of which open by one or several orifices into the com- mencement of the muscular portion of the urethra, or into the first portion of that canal. In some cases, however, the representatives of the prostate are made up of numerous rami- fied and complicated tubes, in which case they are called tubular prostates. In the hare and the rabbit, this gland is represented by the glandular mass, which, as above described, forms a portion of the walls of the vesiculae semi- nales, and which extends for some distance upon the muscular portion of the urethra {fig. 281. c). Fig. 283. 3Iale organs of the Water Vole {Arvicola amphibius). a, glans penis; c, the urinary bladder; d, e, the testicles ; /, g, epididymis, situated at some distance from the testes; k, I, vesiculae seminales; m, n, o, p, q, r, the prostates; s, the rectum, the extremity of which is suiTounded by a glandular mass, t, from ■which a milky fluid is povu-ed into the rectum in the vicinity of the anus, v. In the Alpine marmot it forms a consider- able mass situated above the commencement of the urethra, divided posteriorly into two roundish lobes. In the squirrel the prostate gland is as long as the muscular portion of the urethra, to which, however, it is only adherent at the two points where its excretory ducts penetrate that canal; in this animal its shape is oval, flattened above, and bilobed posteriorly. In the agouti the prostates {fig. 282. e, e) assume the tubular form, each gland being composed of a common trunk, divided into branches and ramusculi, ending in vascular enlargements. In the numerous family of rats, the pro- states are represented by several packets of ramified tubes, situated around the com- mencement of the canal of the urethra. Two others are connected with the inferior surface of the vesiculae seminales : these consist of a principal trunk, which has but few ramifica- tions. These latter organs exist likewise in the lagomys, and may perhaps be considered accessory seminal vesicles. The Guinea-pig is furnished with numerous ramified and convoluted tubes, connected to- gether by a loose cellular tissue, which occupy the situation of the prostate gland ofother quadrupeds. Fig. 284. Generative organs of the male Beaver. a, opening common to the rectum and the urethral canal; h, the prepuce; c, glans penis enclosed in the prepuce; d, body of the penis; e,f,g,h,{,k, preputial glands; I, bifurcation of corpus caverno- sum foruiing the bulb ; 7ti, n, Cowper's glands ; o^p, vesicular seminales ; q, urinary bladder; r, s, testicles; t, V, vasa deferentia. Cowper's glands. — Most of the Rodentia are provided with accessory glands, which, in situation at least, correspond with those called the glands of Cowper in the human subject. In the male Agouti, these glands are two round, flattened, and very vascular bodies {fig. 282. o), which open into the bulb of the urethra by separate ducts (p). In the Guinea-pig their structure is similar, as likC'