241 REN. empty, they cannot be distinguished from the fibrous tissue in which they are imbedded; it Fig. 151. Section of the kidney, showing the relation of the tubes and blood-vessels to the fibrous matrix, a, portion of a tube; b, section of a blood-vessel; c, fibrous matrix. Magnified 100 diameters: from a specimen prepared by Mr. Bo-^TOian. is only by the contrast of their colour when filled with blood, or with injection, that it can be ascertained that, in addition to the capil- lary vessels which surround the tubes, there is a connecting fibrous tissue, the office of which appears to be to support and retain in position the various complicated parts — tubes, Malpighian bodies, and blood-vessels — amongst which it is placed.* TubuU Uiiniferi. — The tubuli uriniferi are so intimately connected with the Malpighian bodies, that it is not possible to give a com- plete description of one of these structures without an occasional reference to the other. The general course and mode of division of the tubes, as well as their connexion with the Malpighian bodies, is best ascertained by the examination of specimens in which the * Mr. Toynbee, in a paper " On the Minute Structure of the Human Kidney," i alludes to the presence of " parenchymal cells " in the kidney, to which he assigns an important function in preparing the blood for further changes in the tubuli, in which he says " cells of a character not very dissi- milar are seen." He considers that "the relation in which the parenchymal cells stand to the ner- vous system is a subject of great interest;" and he arrives at the conckision that the nervous filaments " end by becoming continuous with the parenchyma of the organ precisely as he has observed those in the tail of the tadpole to become directly continuous with the radiating fibres of stellated corpuscles, and the filaments from the corpuscles to communicate with each other." He further states that in certain diseased states of the kidney, " the parenchymatous cells will be found not merely increased in size, but acUpose depositions will be visible throughout them." The account which Mr. Toynbee gives of these so- called parenchymal cells is not such as will enable me to state with confidence to what particular ap- pearances his description of them applies; but as I have never been able to satisfy myself of the exist- ence of any such cells as those referred to by him, and as I am not aware that they have been recog- nized by those anatomists who have most carefully studied the structure of the kidney, I cannot con- firm Mr. Toynbee's observations as to their func- tion, their connexion with the nerves, or the patho- logical changes which they undergo. tubes have been filled by injection ; but our knowledge of the essential structure of the tubes, and particularly of their epithelial lining, would be very incomplete without a careful examination of uninjected specimens with a high magnifying power. Mode of injecting the Tubes. — The tubes may be more or less completely injected in two modes: 1st, by a liquid thrown into them from the pelvis of the kidney ; and 2dly, by the extravasation of materials forcibly in- jected into the blood-vessels of the Malpighian bodies. By the first mode the injected ma- terials are made to enter the open mouths of the tubes at one extremity, and to pass towards the other, which, as will presently be shown, is a closed extremity ; while by the second method the injection is admitted into the closed extremities of the tubes, whence it flows towards their open mouths, and so in some instances escapes into the pelvis of the kidney. By the last mode the tubes are often completely filled fr^ one extremity to the other, while by the first method of injection they are generally very imperfectly filled, and this even when the air-pump has been used to aid the flow of the injection into the tubes. A consideration of the structure and relation of the tubes will show that this result is a neces- sary consequence of the anatomical dispo- sition of the parts. Mr. Bowman remarks *, " To those who are acquainted with the practical difficulties of the injection of the ducts of glands in general, and especially of those which are very tortuous, the following considerations on this subject will probably appear conclusive. Even of the testis (where the tubes are far thicker and stronger in their coats, and much more capacious than in the kidney), there are not ten specimens that can be pronounced at all full in the museums of Europe : and there is no evidence that, even in the best of these, the injected material has reached the very extremities of the tubes. In the kidney, the tubes are exceedingly tor- tuous after leaving the Malpighian bodies, and only become straight, in most animals, in pro- ceeding towards the excretory channel to discharge themselves. The way towards their orifices is so free in a natural state, that their fluid contents exert no distending force upon their walls. Accordingly their walls are ex- ceedingly feeble; the basement membrane on which their strength mainly depends is very delicate, and easily torn. They are therefore incapable of offering much resistance to a fluid impelled into them from the pelvis, but burst easily if it be forcibly urged. But were the coats ten times as tough as they really are, injection could not penetrate far into their convoluted portion, unless pushed with much force; and this for two reasons : 1st, the fluid which the tubes already contain has no means of escape before the injection, since these canals end by blind extremities in the Mal- pighian bodies ; 2dly, the layer of epitheHum is, immediately after death, very prone to separate ' Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xxix. VOL. IV. * Philosophical Transactions, 1842. R