REN. 258 pearance of the entire organ is quite that of a part in a state of acute inflammation. When the kidriey has been in a softened condition before the occurrence of the inflam- matory disease, as often happms in elderly persons, the lobules on the surface appear larger and coarser than natural ; the veins being less compressed than when the natural texture of the kidney is firmer and more un- yielding, are much distended with blood, so tliat the entire organ is of a dark slate colour. On a microscopical examination the con- voluted tubes are seen filled, in different de- grees, whh nucleated cells, difTering in no essential character from those which line the tubes of the healthy gland (fg. 168). The Fig. 168. Section of a portion of inflamed kidney. The tubes appear as if divided into distinct globular and oval portions; this appearance results from the man- ner in which the tubes are packed in the meshes of the fibrous matrix, so as to be concealed where they are crossed by the fibrous tissue, and visible in the intervals. The tubes are rendered opaque by an accumulation of epithelium, the outline of the cells being invisible on accoimt of their being closely packed. A Malpighian body in the centre of the mass appears transparent and healthy. Magnified 200 diameters. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx. Malpighian bodies are for the most part trans- parent and healthy, but the vessels of the tuft are sometimes rendered opaque by an accu- mulation of small cells on their surface. Some of the tubes contain blood, which has doubt- less escaped from the gorged Malpighian vessels. There is no deposit exterior to the tubes. The condition of the urine in these cases is clearly indicative of the process going on in the kidney. After it has been allowed to stand for a short time, a sediment forms ; and on placing a portion of this under the microscope, there may be seen blood-cor- puscles, with e()ithelial cells in great numbers, partly free and partly entangled in cylindrical fibrinous casts of the urinary tubes*, and very commonly numerous crystals of lithic acid are present {Jig. 169). As the disease subsides, which under proper treatment it usually does in a few days, the blood, fibrinous casts, and epithelial cells di- * The fibrinous moulds of the kidney tubes, as seen in albuminous urine, were first observed by the late Dr. F. Simon of Berlin. minish in quantity, and finally disappear; but traces of the casts may be seen some days after the urine has ceased to coagulate, on the application of heat or nitric acid. Fig. 169. Portion of a tube much dilated and di^^ded by septa which correspond with the rings of fibrous tis- sue in the microscopic specimen. See fig. 149, h. The cluster about h includes tAvo fibrinous moulds of the urinary tubes, entangling epithelial cells and blood corpuscles, two free epithelial cells, and three crystals of lithic acid from the urine in a case of " acute desquamative nephritis." c, A mass of oily matter from the urine. d, A cluster of octohedral crystals of oxalate of lime. Magnified 200 diameters. Med. Chir. Trans. voL xxx. The changes above described as occurring in the kidney are the result of a modification of the natural process of secretion produced by the presence of abnormal products in the blood. These products are eliminated by an excessive development of epithelial cells which are thrown into the tubes and washed out with the urine. The desquamation from the inner surface of the tubes is analogous to that which occurs on the skin subsequent to the eruption of scarlatina. I have, therefore, pro- posed to apply the term " acute desquamative nephritis" to this form of disease.* Chronic desqiiamaiive 7iephritis is essentially of the same nature as the acute form of the disease. Its most frequent cause is the gouty diathesis, and it very rarely occurs except in those who are addicted to the use of alcoholic drinks.f In the earlier stage of the disease the kidney is of the natural size, or very slightly enlarged, and the structure of the organ appears confused, as if from the ad- mixture of some abnormal product; there is * See the author's paper on this subject in the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx. t This form of diseased kidney was first described by Dr. Todd, under the name of gouty kidney, in a clinical lecture which was delivered in June 1846, and published in the Medical Gazette for June 1847. In this lecture Dr. Todd alludes particularly to the destruction of the secreting cells, and the consequent deficient excretion of the solid constituents of the urine.