53 POLYPIFERA. E 3 The filaments have a watery transparency and smooth surface, and under the highest powers of the microscope present neither an appear- ance of cross-markings, nor of a hnear arrange- ment of globules. These muscles, though apparently attached to the inner walls of the cell, must yet have the membranous parietes of the body interposed between their inser- tions and these walls. In the lower part the integument is only occasionally seen separate from the walls of the cell, but above it may be easily discerned in the expanded animal, passing up to be inserted around the tenta- cular ring, and thus distinctly bounding this part of the body, which is always free within the expanded operculum. The operation of this mechanism in retract- ing the animal within its cell is as follows. The tentacula, from being expanded in the form of an inverted cone, are brought together into a straight line, and immediately begin to descend (^Jig. 60, d). Their descent is Fig. 60. Boicerbanhia densa. magmfied 80 diameters. A series to show the mode in which the opercidum and upper part of the body is unfolded. The same animal is represented in four different stages. a. First stage: the top of the cell completely closed; the seta^ folded up in the centre (1), with the flexible portion of the cell (2) inverted and closely siirroxmding them; the muscles contracted (3, 4.) b. Second stage: the bvmdle of the setae (1) rising from the centre of the cell being forced up- ward by the pressure of the tentacula; the flexible portion (2) rolling from aroimd the setae, and the muscles (3) put upon the stretch. c. Third stage ; the flexible portion (2) completely everted; the setie (1) still hang together; the tentacles just appearing between them. d. Fourth stage: the tentacula appearing above the margin of the operculum; the integument of the body, which forms the tentacular sheath, half everted (3); the operculimi completely expanded. (These stages are taken arbitrarily, the process being continuous.) The animal is sho'wn completely extended at fig. 56, a. {After Farre.) effected by the contraction of the muscle (Jig. 56. 9) which passes from the base of the cell to the tentacular ring, whilst at the same time the stomach is drawn down by its retractor (fg. 56. 8). The whole body, how- ever, does not descend in a mass, but must be folded up in a somewhat complicated manner, in order that the cell may completely enclose it. For this purpose the oesophagus sur- mounted by the tentacula descends first, whilst the integument of the upper part of the body begins to be inverted at the point where it has its insertion around the tentacular ring. As the descent of the tentacula proceeds, the inversion of the integument continues forming a sheath around them (Jig. 60, c), until the extremities of the arms have descended to a level with the top of the unyielding portion of the cell. The animal is now drawn com- pletely in, the stomach brought close to the bottom of the cell, and the oesophagus bent in the form of the letter S; the tentacula lying straight in the axis of the cell, enclosed in their tegumentary sheath, and so sepa- rated from the fluid in the general visceral cavity, the centre of wdiich they have the appearance of occupying, while in fact they are external to it. The animal being thus re- tracted, the next step of the process is to draw in the upper lutrt of the cell after it. This process, however, always commences before the retraction of the body is com- pleted, and by the time that the ends of the arms are on a level with the base of the setae, the latter are brought together in a bundle, and begin to descend apparently by the action of the lower of the two sets of opercular retractors above described. Their descent, like that of the tentacles, takes place exactly in the axis of the upper part of the cell, and is accompanied by an inversion around them of its flexible portion, similar to that of the integument of the body around the tenta- cula during their descent (Jig. 60, b). Whilst the lower set of muscles are drawing down the setce, the upper set complete the retraction of the flexible part, and the whole operculum is thus packed closely in the upper part of the cell, the end of which now presents a triangular indentation, corresponding with the triangular arrangement of the opercular re- tractors (fig. 60, a). Thus the whole pro- cess of retraction may be easily accounted for, and the office of each set of muscles satisfactorily explained ; but the protrusion of the animal is effected by a totally different mechanism, viz., by the action of a set of transverse muscles acting upon the lining membrane of the cell, so as by their contrac- tion to diminish considerably the diameter of the visceral cavity, and consequently exercise a pressure upon the fluid which it contains. The effect of this will be to elongate the body in the direction in which it is most free to move; but Dr. Farre supposes that the act of protrusion is materially assisted by the co- operation of the alimentary canal, which un- doubtedly has the power of straightening itself from the sigmoid flexure into which it is thrown when the animal is retracted ; and that this is the case appears the more pro- bable, when we reflect that in the case of the simple hydriform polypes the advance and receding of the animal in its cell is entirely effected by the action of the parietes of the body, which are analogous to the alimentary canal in the present case, the hvdriform po-