596 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. has been altogether confined to his bed, as he could not stand upright, much less walk, when the writer visited him in August, 1847. His hips, knees, and elbow joints were semiflexed and rigid, his wrist extended, his fingers and toes presented the ordinary characteristic distortion belon<:ing to rheumatic gout, or chronic rheumatic nrtliritis.* Although the shoulder joints in this case had lost much of their muscular covering, the deltoid and cap- sular muscles being in a state of atrophy, yet the bones of the articulation seemed much enlarged, and the heads of both humeri were evidently situated much above the level of the coracoid process. He did not complain of much pain in the shoulders ; the constant torture he endured in the right hip and both his knees quite distracted his attention from all minor suiiering. He stated that he had a " crackling " sensation in all his joints when- ever they were moved; that his sufferings were influenced by the weather, and that he endured more pain during the frost of winter than at any other time. The patient died worn out by pain and irritative fever, attended with severe diarrhoea. Post-mortem exam'motion. — Dr. R. Smith assisted the writer in this examination. As the body lay on its back on the table, the hips, the elbows, and knee joints were semi- flexe 1, and could not be extended, but they permitted of flexing to a very trivial degree. AVhen any of the affected joints were moved, the characteristic crepitus, or crackhng, so often alluded to, was elicited now as during life. The head of the os humeri of each side was drawn up much above the level of the coracoid process, and was preter- naturally advanced. LTpon rotating the hu- merus, a marked crepitus was evident in these as well as all the other joints. On re- moving the integument over the right shoul- der joint, the deltoid muscle was found pale, and forming a thin attenuated layer of muscular fibres covering the articulation. When this was removed, the sub-deltoid bursa was seen to be of a yellowish colour, and it had a fibrous appearance externally, like to a capsular ligament. When this bursa was freely cut into by an incision parallel to the margin of the acromion, its cavity was observed to be more capacious than usual. The posterior or inferior wall of the bursa was found to have identified itself with the external and superior part of the fibrous capsule of this articulation, and both seemed here to have become degenerated into thin cellular structure, which adhered to and formed a periosteal covering for the summit of the humerus near to the upper part of the great tuberosity. The capsular ligament was elsewhere somewhat thicker than natural, particularly at the upper and anterior part, where it seemed to have identified itself at its origin with the coraco- humeral ligament, which was much thickened. As to its attachment to the humerus, the * See Haxd, Yol. 11. p. 518. rig. 233. capsular ligament, superiorly and posteriorly, was very siiort, having become adherent to the head of the bone before this capsule had reached its usual point of insertion into the anatomical neck of the humerus. Ante- riorly and interiorly the capsule descended on the neck of the humerus btlow its normal level {fig. 430.). When this ligament was cut into and examined posteriorly, several broad patches of adhesion were found to exist (as in Mr. Soden's case) between its internal surface and the head of the bone pos- teriorly, so that in these parts the syno- vial cavity was completely obliterated by the adhesion of the opposed surfaces of the membrane which lined the capsular liga- ment, and invested the posterior part of the iiead of the humerus, just as we find occa- sionally the pericardium partially adherent to the surface of the heart. When the capsular ligament was fully opened anteriorly, where it is covered by the tendon of the subscapu- laris, it was seen, more evidently than it could have been previously, that the head of the humerus had been placed habitually above the level of the coracoid process and the highest point of the glenoid cavity from which the long tendon of the biceps springs {fg. 430.). The tendon of the biceps lay entirely to the Fig. 430. Case of Charles Mallly.—CJironic rheumatic arthritis. The louci tendon of the biceps dislocated inicards, the head of the humerus partially displaced up- wards, as in Jlr. Soden's case. . inside of the head of the humenis ; indeed, such was its position, that it might rather be said that the humerus was displaced out- wards, and elevated above the level of the course of the tendon of the biceps, than that the latter was dislocated inwards. A semi- circular groove marked the course of the tendon of this muscle as it arched across from the highest point of the glenoid cavity to the summit of the bicipital groove. The portion of the head of the humerus which was situated