116 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. Besides, M. Gendrin has forgotten to explain why, if the pus-corpuscles escape from the vessels, the blood-corpuscles, of much smaller size, as they are, do not follow abundantly in their track. M. Donne* some time since re- vived the idea of conversion, believing that he had seen red-corpuscles changed into puru- lent in a mixture of pus and blood out of the body: he was deceived by the physico- chemical changes already referred to, which pus, like various other fluids, effects in the blood-corpuscles. The true doctrine of pyogenesis is a modi- fication of that of " secretion" taught by Simpson (1722), de Haen (1756), Morgan (1763), Brugmans (1785), and John Hunter. The direct microscopical evidence, upon which it has been finally established, was ori- ginally and mainly sup[)lied by Wood, Gueter- bock, and Henle. This evidence is to the effect that, as a general fact, the generation of the solid materials of pus takes place wholly outside the vessels in a hyaline blastema. In that blastema granules first appear ; subse- quently, bodies of larger size form, either independently of the granules or around them, and, collecting in variable numbers, or remaining single, present the characters of, and actually constitute, the nucleus of the pus-corpuscle. The involucrum, or cell-wall, next forms ; and, at first clear and trans- parent, subsequently grows granular. One of the readiest plans of observing this series of changes, is by using the exudation-fluid from a blistered surface,—but the same phenomena may be traced on wounded surfaces. The elementary tissues of the body are not at first altered in any appreciable manner by the occurrence of suppuration among themf; solution of their substance may at length be, and frequently is, more or less completely effected. This solution-process is of triple nature: it is 'physical, in that mere maceration aids in its production; chemical^ in that in certain unhealthy states of the system, solvent agents, &c. \ are generated in suppuration ; vital, in that the tissues themselves, in certain constitutional conditions, lose partially or completely their force of cohesion. § 4. MELANIC DEPOSIT. Black colouring matter appears under va- rious conditions as a morbid deposit. The only kind strictly belonging to the present head, is true melanic granule or cell-pigment, more or less closely similar to natural pigment. Melanic pigment is essentially composed of extremely minute granules, for the most part contained within cells. The cells are of various shapes, commonly rounded, however; not commonly of caudate form, but often showing a tendency to prolongation in one particular direction. They very rarely con- tain a nucleus. * Arch, de MeU Juin, 1836. f Tfie first cliange discoverable under the micro- scope seems to be loss of elasticity. X Prussic acid, according to Dumas. (Comptes Rendus de I'lnstitut, 1841.) The cells are of blackish, brownish, bistre or yellowish tint, the colour evidently depend- ing on the granules. And these granules are not confined to the cells, but are commonly found, in multitudes, free ; when excessively minute they are the subjects of molecular motion. In some instances cells are not to be discovered at all. Little is positively known concerning the development of melanic pigment,— either of the mode, whether exogenous or endogenous, by which increase of cells takes place, — or of the relationship in which the cells and gra- nules stand to each other; that is, whether the cells are formed around the granules, or the granules generated within the cells. But while it is certain that the cells are deficient in the attribute of permanency, and appear of secondary importance (seeing that the pig- ment character may exist in perfection in- dependently of them through the granules alone), it seems very unlikely that they are truly vegetative. Melanic cells never exhibit any tendency even to cohere — much less to form the basis of a stroma. The chemical composition of this substance is not known with accuracy. Analyses in numbers no doubt have been printed, but none of them are entitled to confidence,— either because they include the composition of associated substances, organic and inor- ganic, or because the black matter analyzed was not really composed of cell-pigment. It is probable, however, that the ultimate con- stituents are the same, and associated in, at least very closely, the same proportions, as of the pigment of the choroid coat. Some of the more important reactions of this sub- stance, as set down many years ago by Henry, may be substantiated readily, and have fre- quently been confirmed by ourselves. A " softened melanotic tumour" was experi- mented on: 1. By filtering through paper, much of the colouring matter remained on the paper, and the colour of that which passed through was rendered much less in- tense ; 2. Boiling does not destroy the colour, not even when a little caustic potass has been added ; 3. It is not changed by acids even when heated, except by strong nitric acid, which turns it yellow ; 4. A stream of chlorine, passed through the liquid, destroys the colour, and throws down light-coloured floc- culi*; 5. A few grains of corrosive sublimate (nitrate of mercury and nuu'iate of tin also, though more slowly,) precipitate the colour- ing matter and leave the supernatant fluid clear. Black cell-pigment occurs under two chief conditions — iinassociatcd, or associated with other materials. The former condition is ex- cessively rare, and we have certainly never seen it in the human subject,— that is, we have never seen a fluid or solid accumulation of cell-pigment utterly unmingled with other fluids or solids, natural or adventitious : it ap- * Chlorine Avater (which we have used) does not actually destroy the colour, but diminishea its intensity greatly.