88 PRODUCTS, ADVENTITIOUS. which have a white and silver}' look (choles- terin). In the third sta<^e depressions with a smooth surface, (except in the points where the lining tunic has undergone fissure for the evacuation of the matter described,) mark the previous seats of tliis matter. The fourth stage is distinguished by the disappearance of the lining membrane in the afiected points, and hence by actual excavation. Neither suppura- tion nor injection attend the changes reviewed. When the atheromatous matter undergoes the calcareous change, a liard but minute point comm.only appears in its centre; this gradually increases, especially in breadth, the middle coat being earlier implicated than the lining tunic, which is occasionally covered with con- crete fibrin. Eventually the lining coat is de- stroyed, and the concretion brought into con- tact with the blood ; the middle coat rarely becomes affected through its entire thickness. The deposition may commence in a multitude of minute points simultaneously, whence the atheromatous matter acquires a gritty feel. The white and cartilaginiform patches are not in any instance the nidus of the saline deposit, according to M. Bizot; at least he has never succeeded in tracing the early pro- cesses of deposition in those patches. Nothing, however, he admits is more frequent than the deposition of atheromatous and subsequently of calcareous matter underneath the "cartilagi- nous " patch, which is occasionally perforated by the calcareous substance, and an appear- ance pro'luced easily explaining the current opinion that the patch in question is the ori- ginal seat of the saline particles. We agree with M. Bizot that the " cartilaginous" patch is altered plastic matter exuded on the inner surface of the vessels. Mr. Gulliver has, it is true, discovered fat-globules and crystals of cholesterin in the " w hite patch " of vessels ; but the circumstance appears explicable in the manner just referred to as resulting from the French author's inquiries. In the arteries of the limbs calcareous depo- sition may likewise commence in the middle coat itself, which becomes harder and thinner as the disease advances. It is important to observe that the close examination of calcareous plates through their various phases of development demonstrates, as we have seen, their independence of inflam- nmtion. Calcareous deposition is remarkably depen- dent upon age. Bichat calculated that the arteries of seven of every ten persons beyond the age of sixty were thus affV-cted ; while its existence is extremely rare in early youth. Writers have indeed maintained the perfect immunity of the vessels of youthful subjects from this change : but Mr. Young found the temporal artery of a child fifteen months old converted into a calcareous cylinder; Otto* once discovered incij)ient ossification of the aorta in a girl of seventeen; Wilson met with a similar condition in a child three years old; Andral in a girl aged eight; and numerous * Patholog. Anat., by Scuth, p. 333. other instances of the kind are recorded. Cal- careous deposition is more common in vessels of a large than of a small calibre, and espe- cially in the aorta; rarer in the upper than the iower extremities ; it sometimes extends through the entire arterial system of the trunk and lower limbs, — we have before us the ves- sels of a subject in this condition, who died with gangroena senilis.* Such disease never occurs, according to Otto, in the arteries of the thoracic and abdominal walls, and perhaps those of the alimentary canal and liver; and is, on the contrary, common in those of the pelvis, of the brain, of the thyroid gland, the heart, the spleen, the kidneys, &c. The pul- monary artery is, comparatively speaking, con- sidered exempt from calcareous deposition : several instances, however, are referred to by Otto, in which it was more or less completely "ossified;" it is not unfrequently so where the right and left cavities of the heart com- municate, (but here the vessel is placed in re- spect of its contained fluid in the state of an ordinary artery). Hope f attended a lady, aged 60, in w hom the " pulmonary artery was found quite ossified where it plunged into the lungs ;" and from our own records of cases we know that slight alteration is not very uncommon. The close comparison of corresponding ves- sels on the two sides of the body has led M. Bizot to the discovery that not only the same vessels, but the same parts of these, are, with the rarest exceptions, affected with the same alterations of structure,—that a law of sym- metry regulates the development of these. Upon this point much curious information will be found in M. Bizot's admirable essay. Calcareous deposition is common in the ar- teries of syphilitic subjects, and of those who have taken mercury to excess. ISIuch fanciful hypothesis has been indulged in respecting the influence of certain kinds of diet on its pro- duction. This morbid state destroys the elasticity of the arteries, renders them fragile, and inter- feres with the circulation ; we have known it lead to rupture of the aortic valves. The cal- careous matter protruding more or less into the vessel affords a centre for the blood to coagulate around, and may lead to its com- plete obliteration,—a result which it would appear may be produced by mere thickening of the coats ; in either case suspension of the circulation and gangrene are the results. " Ossification " of the coronary arteries of the heart has been met with in cases of angina pectoris (recently by ourselves) and of sudden death, — probably rather acting as the occa- sion, than the cause, of both. (2.) Central. (Arterolit/is.) — Calcareous concretions, free in the interior of the arteries, are as rare as the conditions which we have just described are common. OttoJ saw in the Copenhagen Museum " a round stone as large as a pea," said to have been taken from the * Univ. Coll. Mus. t Diseases of the Heart, 3rd ed., p. 589. X Path. Anat., by South, p. 335.