239 REN. while the saine fibrous membrane is prolonged continuously through the substance of the Fig. 147. kidney to the surface ; the septa (c,c,c), which thus divide the kidney into the various closed Fig. 148. compartments, occupy the position of the original interlobular fissures in the embryo kidney, and are analogous to the deep layer of the fascia with its interlo! ular prolongations which exist in the kidney of the porpoise.* In this instance the tissue has been condensed and thickened by disease. At d, d there may be seen the rounded openings through which the apices of the medullary cones projected into the calyces. The lobulated character of the surface of the same kidney is represented in fig. 148; the depi'essions correspond with the fibrous septa, and indicate the position of the original interlobular fissures ; the con- vexities correspond with the lobules, and have been rendered prominent by a liquid accumulation in the closed cavities formed, as above described, in the substance of the organ."}" Reference will hereafter be made to some other morbid conditions of the human kidney which have peculiar characters im- pressed upon them by these interlobular septa, which are in fact the persistent remains of that interlobular cellular tissue, which is per- manently distinct in certain tribes of mam- malia, while in most animals of this class, as in the human subject, it remains as a distinct and easily recognised tissue only during fcetal life. In the completely formed kidney it is blended with and concealed by the surrounding tissues, and manifests its presence as it were indirectly, by the peculiar characters which it impresses on the structure of the kidney as shown by the results of injection or in the course of certain pathological changes. Minute Structure.— In this division of our subject, we have to consider, in succession, the following structures. 1st, The fibro-cellidar matrix; 2ndly, The tubes, their course, division, and termination ; Srdly, The Malpighian bodies, their connexion with the blood-vessels, and with the tubes ; 4thly, The ejnthelium, in different parts of the surface over v/hich the urine passes, com- mencing with that of the Malpighian bodies, and terminating with that of the pelvis and ureter. The fibro-cellular matrix of the kidney has been well and accurately described by Professor Goodsir.J It exists throughout every part of the renal structure. {Fig. 149, c) represents Fig. 149. a, b, renal cells fi-om the urine, distended with oil; c, portion of the fibro-cellular matrix, with one * Vide ante, p. 233. t The drawings are about one-third the natural size; the preparation from which they are taken is contained in the Museum of King's College. X Monthly Journal of Medical Science, May, 1842