SALIVA. 415 apparatus, suppose tliat the spermatic fluid is secreted in the tubes, and passed on to the vesicle, where it is projected into the cloaca, and fecundates the ovum. The constant con- traction of the vesicle seems opposed to the view that its function is that of merely fecun- dating the ovum, and Dujai'din thinks it is connected with the function of respiration. Hitherto no spermatozoa have been found in these organs, although Doyere states that he has found zoospores in the tardigrade In- fusoria. The spermatic tubes are seen in Rotifer vulgaris (Jig. 299. i), in Hydatina senta {fig. 293. A), and Notommata myrmeleo {fig.30^,f,g). After the extrusion of the ova from the cloaca in many species, they are attached to the lorica, as in Brachionus pala (fig. 296,/.), in the same way as in some Crustacea. The rapidity with which the ova are produced is very great; and one individual, in the course of a few days, will be the parent of many mil- lions. Their reproductive powers, however, are small compared with those of Polygastria. In this brief sketch we have occasionally alluded to the affinities of the Rotifera, and we think that there can be little doubt, that these are decidedly with the Articulata, stand- ing perhaps between the ciiio-branchiate Polyps on the one side, and the Cirrhopoda on the other. Ehrenberg has summed up the general relations of these creatures in the following manner. They are Polj/gast/ia, with a single intestinal canal, without the power of spontaneous fission. Acalepha, with a simple intestinal canal, and rotatory organs. Keinatoid ivormSy with rotatory organs and united sexes. Bryozotty without gemmiparous reproduc- tion. Mollmcay without vascular pulsations. Entomostracay without pulsation or arti- culated feet, and hermaphrodite reproduction. Fishes without a backbone or a heart, and with rotatory organs and united sexes. Bibliography. — Leeuwenhoek, Philosophical Transactions, 1701—1704. Baker, Emplopnent of the Microscope. London, 1753. Bori/ St. Vincent, Dictionnaire Classique d'Histoire Naturelle, art. RoTiFERES. jEArenZierp, Infusions-thierchen. Berlin, 1838. Pritchard, Infusoria, li^ang and fossil. London, 1845. Doyere, Memoire sur les Tardigrades ; Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1842. Owen, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. i. London, 1843. Grant, Outlines of Comparative Anatomy. London, 1843. T. Rymer Jones, A general Outline of the Animal Kingdom. London, 1841. Dujardin, Histoire Naturelle des Zoophytes, Infusories. Paris, 1843 ; Report on the Progress of Zoology, 1842, published by the Ray So- ciety. Oken, Phisio-Philosophy, Ray Society, 1847. Mantell, Thoughts on Animalcules. London, 1846. Carpenter, Cyclopaedia of Natural Science. London, 1847. {Edwin Lankester.) RUMINANTIA. (See Supplement.) SALIVA (la Salive, Fr.; der Speichel, Germ.; la Scilivay Ital.). — The saliva is a fluid secreted by a series of glands placed about the maxillary region. These glands. viz. the parotids, submaxillaries, and sub- linguals, pour their secretions into the cavity of the mouth on either side. In consequence of this arrangement, it has always been a matter of difficulty to obtain saliva in a per- fectly pure state, the secretion of the mouth interfering, by admixture, with the exhibition of the natural qualities of the saliva, and more especially with its microscopic characters. It occasionally happens that the fluid can be ob- tained more directly from the gland in cases of salivary fistula affecting the parotid duct, but it is to be doubted whether we ought to look for the secretion in its normal state in such instances. No attempts have, as yet, been made to determine whether or not saliva, as obtained from the different glands, is iden- tical in character; but so far as general ob- servation guides us, there appears no variation in its constitution as secreted from these dif- ferent sources. Quantity.—The quantity of saHva secreted during the day has never been very accurately ascertained. It has been said that about twelve ounces are produced during the twenty-four hours, but it is highly probable that much more than this is excreted by the adult in health. The data for the statement above mentioned are most imperfect. Mitscherlich made expe- riments on a patient suffering from fistula of the stenonian duct, and succeeded in obtaining about 21 ounces troy of saliva from the one parotid in twenty-four hours. The saliva col- lected during the same time from the mouth amounted in this experiment to six times more than that collected from the one gland : we may, therefore, conclude that the subject of this experiment was secreting from 16 to 20 ounces troy of saliva during the twenty- four hours. Mitscherlich observed that when the nerves were not excited by the motion of the muscles of mastication, or of those of the tongue, no saliva flowed, but that motion of these parts induced secretion. The presence of food in the mouth caused a rapid flow of saliva, which was more espe- cially noticed when the first portions were in- troduced. Long mastication appeared to cause excessive secretion, and the more sti- mulating the nature of the food, the larger was the quantity of saliva produced. The uses of the saliva will be best con- sidered when we have described its general quahties. Physical qualities. — The constitution of saliva has been investigated by several che- mists. It possesses the following general physical characters : — When freshly ob- tained from the mouth it is opalescent, vis- cid, and colourless. It separates by rest into an upper stratum of clear fluid, and a lower portion made up of the same fluid in admixture with epithelium scales and mucus. Under the microscope, saliva shows the pre- sence of epithelium scales swollen mucus globules, and substances pf various forms, ap- parently shreds of scales and ruptured cells. There are also fatty particles, varying in size, and bright granules. Some of the mucous