307 REPTILIA. marked by Nitzsch, may be considered a rudi- ment of the left lung. The right, and in this case sole, pulmonary sac is placed immediately below the spine ; it extends posteriorly as far as the region of the kidneys, and in the Coluber natrix is from five to seven inches long, and from one-half to three-quarters of an inch broad. Its parietes are thickest at the point where the rings of the trachea cease, where it is covered externally by a fibrous layer, and lined internally by a fine lattice-like net- workof vessels. More posteriorly the pa- rietes become gradually thinner, and at last are merely membranous, giving to the whole organ still more of the appearance of a swim- ming bladder. In the slow-worm (Angiiis fragilis) there are two lungs, nearly as in the salamander, though the left is still con- siderably smaller than the right. The respi- ratory motion here, as in the amphibia, is unassisted by a diaphragm, and is principally effected by the ribs and abdominal muscles. In Saurian reptiles the respiratory organs are generally formed pretty nearly as in tortoises. The larynx is tolerably simple, without vocal ligaments, and in the chame- leon is furnished with a small sac-shaped appendage: in most Saurians, e.g. the croco- dile, it opens by a longitudinal fissure; but in the chameleon by a transverse one. This opening is always unconnected, being placed far back, and somewhat covered by the pos- terior edge of the tongue in the crocodile, but in other species lying more forwards. Many of the species belonging to this order have the power of emitting a sound by the volun- tary tension of the rima glottidis, as is known to be particularly the case in the Geckos, where the tongue, which can be thrown back like that of the frog, appears to serve as an epiglottis. In the larynx we already find, particularly in the crocodile, a large pointed anterior cartilaginous lamina as a rudiment of the thyroid cartilage. The tra- chea and bronchi are nearly the same as in tortoises, i. e. composed of almost completely circular cartilaginous rings. In the Gecko the trachea is particularly wide and somewhat flattened. The lungs likewise form double cellular sacs, extending downwards far behind the liver; whilst in the crocodile, on the con- trary, they remain above the liver, and, conse- quently, more in the thorax, resembling very nearly, both in their shape and position, the lungs of birds. In the chameleon, the lungs are furnished inferiorly with peculiar finger- shaped appendages. Respiration is effected by the thoracic ribs and their muscles, without the assistance of a diaphragm. The Circulation of the Blood,—In Tortoises the heart is situated immediately above the liver, and close behind the abdominal scutum : it consists of two auricles and a ventricle, the latter being divided into several communicating cells, and presenting a broad circular de- pression, having likewise strong muscular parietes, and being connected at its inferior obtuse extremity by means of a tendinous ligament to the pericardium, as is the case in many fishes. The auricles are extremely capacious, either of them being very nearly equal Fig. 221. Heart of the Tortoise. After Bojanus.) The ventricle opened in front, the left aorta laid open, and a bristle placed in the pulmonary artery. in size to the ventricle : they are divided by a septum, which, however, is perforated in the Testudo scorpioides. The right receives the blood of the body by means of the venae cavae, whilst the oxygenized blood from the pulmonary veins enters the left by a fissure- like valvular orifice. The internal arrangement of the ventricle varies somewhat in different instances ; in some, e. g. the Testudo graeca, it is little more than a simple cavity, rendered irregular by the projecting bundles of fibres of its parietes ; in others, on the contrary, e. g., the T. imbricata, these fibres are so very prominent, and appear to divide the cavity so completely into several cells, that Mery was induced to admit the existence of a ventricle for the pulmonary artery and aorta, in ad- dition to a right and left ventricle. Whether the cavity, however, be simple or compli- cated, the course of the blood through the heart is always such, that the pulmonary blood enters at the left side, is mixed with the blood of the venae cavae rather towards the back part of the heart, and then passes on the right side into the aorta, and anteriorly into the pulmonary arteries. The principal arterial trunks form a circle Fig. 222. Heart of the Tortoise. (After Bojanus^) The ventricle laid open in front, the pulmonary artery slit up, a bristle placed behind a columna camea, which forms an imperfect septum. round the cesophagus, which we must consider as a repetition of the branchial arteries. The aorta, which in the T. imbricata is furnished with two semilunar valves, arises double from