QUADRUMANA. 214 OS clitoridis, which grows larger at its anterior extremity. Rudolphi seems to have been misled by it, in his description of a presnmed hermaphroditical monkey. It is very probable that he did not examine an hermaphrodite, but a female Ccbus cajmcinus* Fig. 134. Vertical section of the hyoid hone and larynx of My- cetes seniculus. (^Afttr Sandifort.') About the embyro-genesis of the Ceblncs "RudolphI published some interesting notices. He observed in the Oidstitis that the ompha- loid vesicle persists till the last period of gestation, and that there are in Hapale^ ^^y- cetes, and Cebus two umbilical veins, which unite near the liver. As an appendix to all these anatomical observations about the CebincB, I join the re- sults of the dissection of Nochthora trivirgata, which I made in the month of Jul y, 1843, in the Zoological Society of London. The sto- mach has the transversely oblong form proper to the monkeys in general, and not the round form of the Slcnops; consequently the coecal sac is not so ample as in Stcnops. The coecum terminates in a more elongated coecal point than in Stenops. It wants cells, as in the greater part of the American monkeys. In the encephalon the hemispheres are larger in their anterior iobes ; they cover almost the whole cerebellum; the fossa Sylvii is trans- verse, and very deep ; the mesial lobes are very distinct ; the asymctry between the two hemispheres is not so distinct as in Stenops, by all which characters the brain of the Noch- thora trivirgata approaches to the monkeys, and differs from Stcmups. The laryngeal ap- * Rudolplii, ueber eine seltene Art. des Herma- phroditismus bei einem Alfe (Simia capucina) in Abhandl d. Konigl. Alcad. d. Wissenscli. in Berlin, in J. 1816—1817; Berlin, 1819, 4to. Pliysik. Classe, p. 119. paratus has a great deal of analogy with that of 77um; the thyroid cartilage is large and prominent, and has almost the same form as in jnan. The epiglottis is much developed, particularly at its base. The arytenoid car- tilages are much elevated. The 7'ima glottidis is wide. The tongue differs from the same organ in Stenops, in which it is sustained by a triangular and flat cartilage. In the Noch- thora, on the contrary, it has the general structure of the tongue of the monkeys, being long and narrow, with isolated papillce. The heart has an oblong form. The first ramifications of the arcus aortas are similar to those of man. The right lung is divided into four, the left into two lobes. II. Lemurin^e. Prosimicc. The second large family of Quadrumana is formed by the Lemurince. They have the general aspect of the American monkeys, but their muzzle is lengthened and pointed, and in the hind feet the first toe is the only one armed with a crooked subulated nail, while the other nails are flat. The four thumbs are opposable ; the teeth differ very much in the different genera, but the molars offer in gene- ral the pointed and alternating tubercles pro- per to the Insectivora. 1. First Genus. OtoUcnus Illig. Galago. The teeth of OtoUcnus are as follows, 4 . 1 — 1 , viz. incisors, — : canines, : molars, 4 1—1 ~—^=z36. The inferior incisors are very 6—6 ^ narrow and compressed ; they resemble much the teeth of a fine comb, and are entirely united together. The tarsus is very long, by which the hinder extremities acquire a disproportionate size, and produce a jump- ing motion. Their tail is very bushy; their ears large and membranous; their eyes very large, and announce their nocturnal habits. Africa. Spec. — OtoUcnus Scnegalcnsis, O. 2Iada- gascariensis. 2. Second Genus. Tarsius. Tarsier. T . 4 . 1—1 , 6—6 Incisors, —; canines, ; molars,- =34 2 1 — 1 '6—6 Has the remarkably long hind legs, the large ears and eyes of the preceding genus ; but the interval between their true molars and their incisors is filled up with short acumi- nated teeth, of which it is difficult to say if they are canine or molar, and the superior middle incisors are very long, and resemble canine teeth. The muzzle is very short. They inhabit the MoUucca islands, and are noc- turnal animals, feeding upon insects. Spec.— Tat'sius spectrum. Third Genus. Stenops Illiger. Loris. Singe paresscux, Fr. Sjwokdier, Dutch. The teeth as in the Lemurince in general, but the external incisors of the upper jaw are very