POLYPIFERA. 58 to consist of a transparent sac, in which are contained generally from four to six of the gemmules, which, as soon as the sac is torn, escape, and swim about with the greatest ac- tivity, affording a most interesting subject for microscopic investigation. When viewed with a power of 40, linear measure, they are seen to be of an oval or rounded form {fig. 63, b), convex above and Fig. 64. Halodactylus diaphanus, a gemmule seen from above; the cilia as when slowly acting round the margin in waves. {After Farre.) nearly plane below, and fringed at the margin with a single row of cilia, which appear to vibrate in succession around the whole cir- cumference. Under an amplification of 120 they assume a different aspect {fig. 64), and their minute structure is clearly discerned. Viewed as opaque objects, both the body and ciha have a silvery whiteness, but by transmitted light the former appears of a dark brown, and the cilia of a golden yellow colour. Upon the most convex part of the body, which is not generally in the centre, but leaning to one side, are set from three to five transparent bosses, surrounded by a circle, and other circles are seen extending to the base of the body, which is bounded by a row of promi- nent tubercles. These marginal tubercles are from thirty to forty in number; and from the circumstance of the cilia arising from them, Dr. Farre considers it probable that they are for the purpose of governing their motions, and therefore analogous to the muscular lobes of Hydatina senta and other Rotfern figured by Ehrenberg. No structure, however, could be detected in these, nor in any other part of the body, beyond a mere granular parenchyma. When thus highly magnified, it is seen that what examined with a lower power appeared to be a single cilium is, in fact, a wave of cilia, and that their motion, instead of being in the direction of the circumference of the disc, is at right angles to it. The ciliary phenomena are the most readily observed when the gemmule is nearly at rest, or has become languid ; it then lies either with the convex or the concave side uppermost, and with the cilia, which are of great length, doubled in the middle upon themselves, so that their extremities are brought back nearly to touch the margin of the disc from which they arise. The whole fringe of cilia is then suddenly unfolded, and after waving up and down with a fannmg motion, they are either again folded up towards the under surface of the body, or they commence their peculiar action. As the cilia have the appearance of moving in waves round the disc {fig. 64), each wave may be thus analysed. From a dozen to twenty cilia are concerned in the production of each apparent wave, the highest point of which is formed by a cilium extended to its full length, and the lowest point between every two waves by one folded down com- I)letely upon itself, the intervening space being completed by others in every degree of extension, so as to present sojinething of the outline of a cone. As, however, the persistence of each cilium in any one of these positions is only of the shortest possible duration, and each takes up in regular succession the action of the ad- joining one, so that cilium, which by being completely folded up formed the lowest be- tween any two waves, now in its turn, by its complete extension, forms the highest point of a wave ; and thus, while the ciha are alter- nately bending and unbending themselves each in regular succession after the other, the waves only travel onwards, whilst the cilia never change their position in this direction, having, in fact, no lateral motion. When the waves travel very rapidly, they appear smooth on one side and fringed on the other. The whole of the ciliary motions are so evidently under the control of the animal, as to leave no doubt on this point. The whole fringe of cilia may be instantly set in motion, and as instantaneously stopped, and their action regu- lated to every degree of rapidity. Sometimes one or two only of the waves are seen conti- nuing their action, while the remainder are at rest, or isolated cilia may be observed slowly bending and unbending themselves, or pro- jecting entirely at rest. The body is generally pointed towards one extremity of the oval, and at this part may be observed a bundle of cilia longer than the rest, and moving very rapidly. Their vibrations were in several instances counted very evenly at 230 a minute, continuing in action when all the others were folded up. These Dr. Farre thinks may be respiratory whilst the others are chiefly loco- motive. Dr. Farre thinks there can be little doubt that this explanation of the action of the cilia in the gemmules is applicable like- wise to those of the tentacula of the adult animal, and not only in the Hylodactylm, but throughout the class generally; for he ob- served that the tentacular ciha are infinitely more numerous when at rest than they appear to be when in motion, and also that they vi- brate, not in the direction of the plane of the arms, but at right angles to it, and with the same hook-like form as in the gemmules. In this way the apparent traveUing of the cilia up one side of the arm and down the other, as the eye is seduced to follow the waves which they seem to produce, is at once ex- plained. It would be impossible to account for the