SALIVA. 419 E E 2 soluble in alcohol contains salivary matter, combined with soda, and its reactions accord perfectly with those of the salivary matter found by Gnielin in human sahva. Phosphate of potash, phosphate of soda, and a small proportion of carbonate of lime, also exist in this saliva. The saliva of the sheep, according to Ber- zelius, is clear, and not adhesive, like that of the dog. It has a feeble saline taste, and a faint alkaline reaction. When dried, it leaves 1*68 per cent, of solid matter, which forms an opaque white membrane, and becomes moist by exposure. Chloride of sodium is extracted from this mass, in octahedral crystals, by di- gestion with alcohol. The salts of iron yield ample evidence of the presence of sulpho- cyanogen in the alcoholic solution. The por- tion of solid matter insoluble in alcohol, when treated with water, yields little else than salts. So completely is this the case, that the eva- porated aqueous solution scarcely gives out an empyreumatic odour while being heated to redness. The mass, which is insoluble both in water and alcohol, is brittle and mem- branous, insoluble in acetic acid, and not gelatinised when moistened by it. The acid, however, dissolves out {ihosphate of lime, after which it is precipitable by the addition either of ammonia or oxalate of lime, but not by in- fusion of galls. The following is an analysis of the saliva of the sheep : — Water 98*90 Matters soluble in alcohol (ex- tract of meat, a matter which crystallises chloride of sodium in octahedra, chloride of so- dium, and a small proportion of sulphocyanide of sodium) . O'll Matters soluble in water only (traces of ptyalin, a consider- able quantity of phosphate of soda and chloride of potassium, and carbonate of soda) - - 0*82 Matters insoluble in water and alcohol (mucus or coagulated albumen, and a small quantity of phosphate and carbonate of lime) 0*05 The pecuhar quality possessed by sahva of becoming mucilaginous and adherent, was at- tributed by Tiedemann and Gmelin to a solu- tion of mucus in alkaline carbonate. This last is present in the saliva of the sheep in such abundance, that when dry it effervesces on the addition of acids. The saliva of the dog, however, contains most, and the saliva of man the smallest quantity of the salt. Ac- cording to Tiedemann and Gmelin, the alkaline carbonate of human saliva is a potash salt, while the saliva of the dog and sheep contains carbonate of soda. The alkaline phosphate contained in saliva exists in larger proportion in tiiat of man, and of the sheep, than in that of the dog. All three contain chloride of sodium in large quantity. The sulphocyanide which exists in the saliva of man and of the sheep cannot be satisfactorily detected in the dog. Ptyalin is almost wanting in the saliva of the sheep, while that of the dog is deficient in animal extractive matter. Lassaigne and Leuret found the same quan- tity, viz. about one per cent, of solid matters, in the saliva of man, tlie horse, and the dog. The saliva of insects has been collected by Reuzzer*, but not in quantity to admit of analysis. It was found, however, to yield an alkaline reaction. SALIVA IN DISEASE. SaUvari/ Calculi. — As the result, in all pro- bability, of some defect in secretion, the sahva occasionally gives rise to the formation of calcu- lous matter. Thus, what is commonly called tartar, tends to deposit upon the teeth. Ber- zelius has examined this substance, and found that water extracted ptyalin from it, and that the remainder was soluble in hydrochloric acid, only a small residue composed of mucus being left unacted upon. Caustic ammonia precipitated phosphate of lime, and ammo- niaco-magnesian phosphate from the acid solution. Analysis yielded the following result: — Ptyalin 10 Salivary mucus - - - - 12*5 Earthy phosphates - - - 79-o Animal matter soluble in hydro- chloric acid - - - - 7*5 1000 Vauquelin and Langier found one of these masses to contain Water ----- 0 07 Salivary mucus insoluble in acids and in water - - - - 0*13 Phosphate of lime, with traces of magnesia - 0'66 Carbonate of lime - - - 0 09 Animal matter soluble in hydro- chloric acid - - - . 0*05 Salivary calculi only occasionally occur in the human subject, but are frequently ob- served in animals. One of these substances from the human subject yielded, according to the analysis of Poggiale, 94 per cent, of phos- phate of lime, the remainder being mucus and other animal matters. Wurzer found, in a concretion from the submaxillary gland of a man, carbonate of lime, earthy phosphates, oxide of iron, and manganese. Calculous concretions, obtained from the salivary ducts of the horse and ass, have been analysed by Lassaigne, Henry, and Caventon, with the following results :— * Physiol. Untersuch. iiber die tliierisclie Haus- haltimg' der lusecteu. Tub. 1817.