181 PULSE. and the neck constricted. The mouth opens upon the summit of the head, and is guarded in front by two longitudinal prominent h'ps {d, d\ beneath which is a pointed, fleshy ap- pendage (e). The fins (f,f), attached to the sides of the neck, are fleshy and much smaller than in either of the preceding genera. The branchiae (g,g) are situated at the op- posite extremity of the animal, and form two prominent lines somewhat in the shape of two capital Cs placed back to back and united by a transverse band. These lines give off from each side small prominent laminse, ar- ranged much in the same way as the leaflets of a pinnate leaf. On the right side of the body, and a little above the branchial apparatus, is seen a simple prominent line (k), which, on opening the animal, is discovered to be the branchial vein opening into the auricle of the heart (i), which, enclosed in its pericardium, is situated upon this side (i). On opening the integument, which is com- paratively soft, the mass of the viscera is found to be enclosed in a muscular envelope, the fibres of which are almost all longitudinal (^g. 115. 4, /, /). The pericardium is not con- tained within this fleshy envelope, which is only adherent to the skin in the vicinity of the branchiae ; for in this place are situated the arterial trunks, which convey the blood of the body into the pulmonary organ. On dividing the muscular layer (^g. l\5. 5 and 6), it is seen that almost the whole space within is nearly equally shared between the liver (?»), the testicle (n), and the ovary (o), the latter being slightly the largest viscus of the three. The ovary occupies the bottom of the visceral sac, the testicle is on the left, and the liver on the right side. The stomach is very capacious, and sur- rounded on all sides by the liver, which pours the bile directly into its interior through nu- merous orifices, exactly as in Conchiferous Mollusks. The walls of the stomach are thin and internally present numerous little cavities, into which the biliary pores open (fg. 115. 7, p). The rectum is short, and opens beneath the right fin (fg. 115. 7,^). The mouth is a fleshy mass of considerable size, from which two fleshy appendages are prolonged backwards (fg. 115. 7, S,rr). The tongue is covered with short reverted spines, the use of which is evidently to assist in de- glutition (fg. 115. 8, s). The posterior part of the mouth, in which the tongue is situated, is separated from the anterior (^g. 115. 7,8, u), which is membranous, by a fleshy construction (Jig. l\5. 8, ttt), upon which are perceived three small tubercles. The opening of the mouth is guarded by two bunches of tentacula (^g. 115. 1 to 8, c), which the animal can, at will, either protrude or retract within the oral orifice. Each of these tentacles consists of a delicate filament, terminated by a minute tubercle excavated in the centre. These organs forcibly remind us of the complicated oral apparatus of the Clio already described, and most probably are in- struments of prehension analogous to those of the Cephalopoda. The salivary glands (/g. 115. 7, 8, v r) are long and ample, and their excretory duct, as it passes above the brain, is obviously dilated (r.r). The brain (Jrg. 115. 9, is a narrow trans- verse band, and among the nerves which it furnishes, two may be observed on each side, which are connected beneath the oesophauus with a group of six ganglia, four of wh;ch are mesial and of considerable s'ze, while the other two placed at the sides are of smaller dimen- sions. There is nothing peculiar in the structure of the generative apparatus, which nearly resembles that of Hyalea and Clio. The penis is small, and situated beneath the mouth. It is protruded between the two little lips situated upon the anterior surface of the head (Jig. 115. 1, 5, d d). The common generative orifice is found immediately in front of the anus, and is prolonged externally into a kind of furrow, which is directed forwards. (T. Rymer .Tories.) THE PULSE (Gr. <7(pxr/uos, acpv^LS, Lat. Pulsus, Fr. Pou/s, Ger. Puis, Dut. Po/s, Ital. Polso, Span. Pu/so). — The nature and cause of the pulse have already been examined in an earlier part of this work.* It is proposed to consider it, in this place, as a separate and independent subject, and to bring together the leading facts which have been ascertained, in reference especially to that property which is most readily submitted to examination, namely, its frequency. Our knowledge of this subject is little more than a century old ; for though Quetelet f at- tributes to Kepler, who was born towards the end of the 16th century, the idea of ascer- taining the number of pulsations in a given time, Floyer, w ho wrote at the beginning of the l&th century, was the first who collected any considerable number of observations. Bryan Robinson j, Falconer 0, Knox [{, Graves'", Nick**, and Quetelet ff followed in the same field of inquiry, and still more recently the writer of this article. The facts which these authors placed on record have not yet been brought together in any standard treatise on physiology ; so that a clear and connected exposition of the frequency of the pulse, as it is affected by age, sex, posture, exercise, food, and other natural causes, and of the relation which it bears to the respiration, is still a desideratum. * Art. CiBcrLATiox, Vol. i. p. 638. t Sur rHomme, voL iL p. 80. t A treatise on the Animal Economv, by Brvan Ko'binson, M.D., 1732. § Observations respecting the Pulse, &c., bv TV. Falconer, M.D. F.E.S., Bath, 1796. jj Ed Med. and Surg. .Journal, voL xL, 1815, and Xo. 131, 1837. % Dublin Hospital Eeports, voL v. 1830. ** Beobachttmgen iiber die Bedingungen, unter denen die Haiirigkeit des Pulses im Gesunden Zus- tand verandert wird. Yon Georg. Heinrich Xick. tt Op.cit. N 3