170 PTEROPODA. in an excess of the former, except the acetic, and insoluble in excess of the latter. If a so- lution of casein be allowed to stand some time, lactic acid is gradually formed, which causes it to coagulate, and putrefaction then begins, which, if any sugar is present, determines in it the alcohohc fermentation. The various forms of protein which are found constituting the muscles, tissues, and solid matters of the blood of animals, are thus evi- dently derived from the vegetable kingdom ; that silent but ever active laboratory in which so much of the chemical economy of nature is carried on. From the gaseous matters of the atmosphere, more especially carbonic acid, ammonia, and watery vapour, the organic ele- ments, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, are derived; and from the various saline ingredients of the soil, those inorganic sub- stances which are essential to the growth and well-being of mankind and of the lower ani- mals are readily abstracted by the absorbent fibres of the roots. Thus formed, plants con- stitute the source from which all living beings obtain the nourishment which is necessary to their existence, and of which the very sub' stance of their bodies is composed ; an arrange- ment which is most strikingly evident in the herbivora, because vegetables are their only food, but not less certainly in the carnivora, since the animal flesh which they consume is either that of the herbivora or of some ani- mals which have fed upon them. It is impossible not to admire the simplicity which pervades the whole of this vast scheme, in which we find so large a portion of the animal body composed of materials almost identical in composition, though differing so essentially in their use and applications. If one of these principles, albumen or casein for instance, be contained in the food in quantity insufficient for the requirements of the animal, it is readily supplied from one of the others by the addition or removal of a minute quantity of sulphur or phosphorus, both of which are always present; whereas, if this beautiful pro- vision had not been made, a large amount of disease and suffering would have almost neces- sarily ensued. Moreover, had the task of ela- borating these highly complex principles from more simple ingredients devolved on ani- mals themselves, much complicated machinery would probably have been requiretl, which w^ould have added unnecessarily to the com- plexity of the body, and consequently to the sources of physical derangement. [Since the above has been in type, some researches, which are still in progress, have thrown a doubt upon the exact composition of protein, and indeed rendered it uncertain whether it can be obtained in a state per- fectly free from sulphur.] Bibliography. — The following books may be mentioned as containing the fullest descriptions of protein and its compomids, together Avith other branches of physiological chemistry :—Simon, Hand- biich der angewandten medizinischeu Chemie, of which a translation has been published by the Sy- denham Society. Liehig, Traite de Chimie orga- nique, tom. i. & iii. Liebig's Animal Chemistry, translated by Gregor}'. Mulder, Chemistry of vege- table and animal physiology, translated'fi-om the Dutch by Fromberg ; and Dumas, Traite de Chimie appliquee aux arts, tom. ^-ii. & viii. Besides these many detached papers of gTeat value will be foimd in the later vohmies of the Annales de Chunie et de Physique ; Annalen der Chemie mid Pharmacie, by Liebig and Wohler; Poggendorff's Annalen der Physik und Chemie; Philosophical Transactions, Philosophical Magazine, &c. (./. E. Bowman.^ PTEROPODA (Gr. irrepov, a wing, iroZs, a foot; Fr. Pteropodes; Lat. Mollusca j^in- nata).—An order of Molluscous animals es- tablished by Cuvier, and named in accord- ance with his arrangement of the Molluscous division of the animal kingdom, from the po- sition of their organs of locomotion, which in the creatures we are about to examine is very remarkable. All the animals belonging to the order are marine, and in some regions of the ocean crowd the surface of the sea at certain seasons in immense numbers, swim- ming by the aid of two muscular expansions resembling fins, which are attached to the op- posite sides of the neck, and serve as paddles, although, in the language of Natural History, named feet. Notwithstanding the multitudes of indi- viduals belonging to this group, which are said to swarm both in the polar regions and in tro- pical climes, the number of genera at present ascertained to exist is very limited, and such is their minute size and the delicacy of their structure, which precludes the possibility of studying them, unless in a fresh state, that, up to a very recent period, their anatomy was imperfectly understood, and, doubtless, much remains yet to be achieved by those who may be favourably situated or investigating them more closely. The characters which they present in common, and by which they are separated by naturalists as a distinct group of Mollusca, are the following : — Their bodies are free, and organized for natation ; they are fur- nished with a distinct head, but possess no locomotive organs, except a pair of lateral fins. Genera. Clio {fg. 108). Hyalea {Jig. 114). Pneumoderma {fg. 115). Cymbulia. LiaiACINA. Cleodora. AtLAxNTA. M. d'Orbigny, in a memoir read before the Academy of Sciences in Paris*, gives some interesting particulars relative to the organi- zation and habits of this remarkable class of molluscous animals. They are met with in all seas, under the equator as well as in the * Vide Ann. des Sciences Xat. for 1835, p. 189.