DIGESTION. 82 pounds of that weight will bo water, and that only leaves 49 pounds of solid matter. In some countries it is the custom to burn dead bodies instead of buiying them. This custom is called cremation. There are now a great many doctors and elever good people in England who much approve of this plan, as they consider the air that comes from a cemetery very unhealthy. It may cause fever, diarrhoea, or common cholera; therefore dead bodies ought to be burned, and not put into the earth. A great part of our bodies turns into different gases, when we are burnt; the part left, that would not burn, is called ashes. The ashes are made of mineral substances, such as phos- phorus, lime, and iron. A French gentleman was once burnt. Enough iron was found amongst his ashes to make into a ring, which a friend wore. At my last lecture I described how the food, when it is put into the mouth, is chopped up by the teeth and made soft by the saliva. The tongue then rolls it into a ball and sends it to the back of the throat. The ball passes over the wind- pipe into the gullet, down which pipe it gradually descends until it gets to the opening through which it passes into the stomach. I described the shape of the stomach, and the coats it has, but I did not tell you what happened to the food when it got into the stomach. To-day I intend to tell you how a wholesome dinner of potatoes and roast beef is turned into good blood. The beef must consist of fat as well as lean meat. I shall take no liquid; that means, neither water nor beer. The beautiful smooth pink skin that lines the stomach is all covered with small spots, the openings of the gastric glands. Directly the food has passed down the gullet, and entered the little opening on the left side of the stomach, these glands pour out a fluid called ' gastric juice.' Tins juice will change the food into a thick fluid called chyme, about the thickness of pea-soup. As the stomach is constantly contracting and moving about, the food is rolled about, as I before said, as if it were being churned. The gastric juice helps to dissolve it and changes it into this thick fluid, chyme. This chyme then passes down to the door at the other end on the right side, to