\ 43 LECTURE VI. THE CIRCULATION (continued). I only described to you in my last lecture how the blood cir- culates through the body, or trunk, and the lower limbs. I must now tell you how it circulates through the head and arms. I will first point out the large arteries that take the blood up to the head. Of course, close by their side will be the veins, their servants, as I have called them, to carry away the bad blood. You all know how many precious organs the skull con- tains—the organs of sight, hearing, taste, and smell. We must not forget the brain, which gives us the power of thinking and doing what we wish to do. All these organs require a great deal of good blood. Directly the heart cannot pump up blood into the head the brain stops working, and then we lose our senses, faint away, and cannot remember anything. When the good blood is pumped from the bottom chamber of the left side of the heart some part goes up into the arteries that branch off into the arms and head and neck, whilst the other part goes into the trunk and lower limbs. After it has nourished the different organs in the head the veins carry away the dirty blood, and bring it all back into tbis large vein that is on the right side of the heart. Then, as you will remember, three ounces of it will flow through into the top chamber, or room, of the right side of the heart. Then it will pass through the little door, or valve, into the bottom room, from which it will be pumped into the lungs, where it will be made cleanj and the colour will become a bright red. The blood will then be taken by arteries into the top room of the left side, where the good blood is kept, flow through the little door into the bottom chamber, where it will be squeezed or pumped out into the big artery called the ' aorta,' when it will fly along to every part of the body at a tremendous rate. This wonderful little organ will keep on working day and night. Should it cease its work for one minute we should die. I said I would tell you in this lecture where the blood runs out of the blood-vessels to feed the body and all the organs (every pipe that carries blood is called a blood-vessel). You