THE NERVES. Hit li. Why are all kinds of soothing syrups very dangerous, and sure to weaken the nerves of a baby? i, Why is it. very unwise to take any quack medicines, particularly those which aro advertised in newspapers or on the walls? 5, Why is it very cruel and foolish to cut off the cars of a dog? G. Describe all you can remember about the sense of hearing. 7. Why is it dangerous to box a child's ears ? LECTURE XXIII. SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. The sense of hearing, which I described in my last lecture, is called a special sense, because the nerves of hearing are only, or specially, made to receive and carry the waves of sound. The sense of sight is also called a special sense, because the nerves of sight are only, or specially, made to carry the waves of light. We cannot see with the nerves of hearing, or hear with the nerves of sight. The nerves of sight and hearing have no feeling, like the nerves that are spread all over other parts of our bodies; even the slightest touch hurts these nerves of feeling, but someone might cut your nerves of sight and your nerves of hearing, and you would feel no pain. I am now going to explain the organ of sight. When I showed you the human skull, you must all have noticed what very deep holes there were in the place where the eyes ought to be. Those holes are called sockets : they are filled with cushions of fat, that have a hole in the middle of them. In these holes the eyeballs rest. The eyeball is round; it has three coverings. I have a large model of the eye, which I will now show you. I can take this model to pieces and show you how wonderfully the eyeball is made, but before I do so let us see what the front part of the eyeball, that we can sec. looks like. First, there is the part called the white of the eye, then in the centre of the white there is a clear glass-like part, behind which is sepn a coloured ring. In some people this ring is blue, in others it is black, and in others grey or brown ; but we all have a little hole exactly in the middle of this coloured ring which always looks black. As all the light