57 THE WINDPIPE. a microscope. They are always waving down and up. These little cilia in the windpipe serve to send up the moist secretion of the air-passages into the mouth. When we have a cold, you know, we cough ; these little brushes keep sending up the phlegm that collects in the windpipe. It is very dangerous to get anything into the windpipe, for there is no way to get it out but through the mouth. The windpipe only leads down into the lungs, and it could not pass through them. Many years ago Brunei, the celebrated civil engineer, while playing with his children, pretended to swallow half-a-sovereign. Unfor- tunately the half-sovereign really did drop down his windpipe, and there it remained for two or three weeks. During that time, the leading doctors in London tried to take it out in vain. As he was a very clever man, and had plenty of time for re- flection, he decided that he would use the following means to extract it : A plank of wood was brought, on to which he was strapped. He and the plank were turned very quickly upside down ; he kept his mouth open, and, as he expected, the quick motion made the half-sovereign fly out of his mouth. In case a child should get anything into its windpipe, one plan is to turn it with its head down, clap it on the back, and shake it. The lungs of a large man can hold above eight pints of air. Of course the more fresh air we can get into our lungs the better our blood will be. When we walk or run we take in a much greater quantity of air than when we are still, because we breathe more frequently. We also become much warmer with exercise, because there is so much more oxygen to unite with the carbon. Girls suffer very much more than boys do from cold hands and cold feet, because they sit still a great part of the day. I am sorry to say that a great many more women and girls die of consumption than men. Dressmakers, milliners, and school-girls not only sit still for hours together, but they frequently sit in bad damp air which gets no sun. Everybody ought to know a most important fact, that when the air is damp the sweat, which is poisonous matter, cannot get freely out of the skin, as the damp air prevents evaporation and also shuts up the pores. This is why people have rheumatic fevers after sleeping in damp beds or damp sheets. The damp bed- • ling prevents the sweat from getting out; the sweat must