MILK AND WATER. and bard as a piece of leather. The doctor at the Scho Medicine kindly lent it me. Persons who drink hard often suffer from delirium tremens, which is the most awful complaint that can befall a human being. The nerves of those who have this disease arc so weakened that they tremble like a leaf at the slightest sound. The mind becomes full of dreadful thoughts. They see, or fancy they see, horrid sights. Sleep brings no rest or comfort, only fearful dreams, from which they awake in such an agony of fear, that though they are afraid to live, they are still more afraid to die. Hunger they never know, only a constant thirst for the poisonous drink that has reduced them to a state much lower than that of the beasts in the field. If spirits have such a fearful effect on the nerves of a strong man, what must their effect be on the delicate nerves of an infant ? I am grieved to say that it is a common practice of mothers to give their babies gin. This spirit causes a constant thirst. A mother could not, therefore, choose a more cruel drink, because an infant cannot say it is thirsty. It is believed that gin stops the growth of all the organs. I dare say you have seen at the Leeds fairs, or feasts, little boys and girls dancing in front of shows, or tumbling and doing all kinds of wonderful feats in a ring. Their masters, it is said, give them gin to keep them small and young-looking. They also keep them up late at night, which is another sure way of making children small, delicate, and unhealthy. I have told you a great deal about the drinks which man has invented for himself, such as wine and spirits. I will now tell you something about the two drinks that God has provided for man: they are milk and water. Water is the most important of all foods. A man might be kept alive for weeks if he took plenty of water and no food, but he would die in a few days if all water were withheld from him. A cup of cold water is the most cooling and refreshing drink you can give a person who is suffering from the thirst