fOO COOKING. R.N., records an experiment tried under his supervision on board the Shannon mail-boat, in which a leg of mutton .weighing 12 lb. was cooked in the ship's oven, and when con- sidered well done was found to weigh 8 lb. On the following day the other leg of the same sheep was cooked in one of Warren's pots, was placed in the ship's oven for a few minutes to be bixnvned, and when taken out was found to weigh Hi lb.' My cook will now make a nourishing cheap sou]) that shall contain both animal and vegetable food without using any butcher's meat. Before she begins to make the soup, pray notice how clean the saucepan is. She will put in a pint of cold water. When it boils, the following vegetables will be added. All green vegetables should be put into boiling water, though they are not to be boiled, or else they will lose their colour. A little sugar also keeps them green. Soyer, the celebrated cook, never made a soup without putting in some sugar, as it is very nutritious. I will now tell you what the quantity of vegetables, &c, ought to be for this soup : two pints of water, two ounces of green paas (carrots or any vege- table tyffl do), one onion, one lettuce. All the vegetables must be'cut up very fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped (carrot soup is the nicest of all vegetable soups). To this must be added two cold potatoes, or uncooked ones, one table- spoonful of flour or oatmeal mixed up with two ounces of dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, some salt and pepper, and half-a-pint of milk—the milk to be added when the vegetables are done. Milk is not necessary for the soup, only it makes it more nourishing. These must all simmer gently for nearly an hour, and then the soup will be quite ready to be eaten. Split or dried peas require a much longer time—about two hours—and this is the most nourishing soup of all. Now we will just see how it is that this soup is made of animal and vegetable food, although it contains no butcher's meat. Well, the dripping is animal food, and so is the milk. What a good nourishing meal this would make if some bread were eaten with it on a cold winter's day. It is also so easily prepared. A mother might make it in the morning early, so that her husband or children could take it with them to the