100 NITKOOUNOUS and liquid foodk. spirits. This heat makes the heart work more quickly and send blood to every part of the body more rapidly. But this heat soon dies away, and the blood becomes colder than it was before the spirits were taken. We learn this fact from Arctic travellers—men who have spent many months in countries where there is nothing but ice and snow. They dare not take spirits there, because it makes them colder after a time. They find they can only keep up the heat in their bodies by eating foods that contain a great deal of carbon, such as oil or fat, which are very properly called body- warmers. There is a complaint called fatty degeneration of the heart. In this disease the muscles of the heart turn into fat, and therefore cannot do their work. The albumen and fibrin are also hardened by spirits. I dare say you have seen men who drive brewers' carts, loaded with barrels of beer, which they leave at people's houses. These men are called draymen. They are generally very fine, fat-looking men. In London, as a rule, they drink an im- mense quantity of beer, which contains spirit. Though they look so healthy they are really not so, because if they cut their flesh very slightly the wound will not heal, and they often die in a few hours after the accident. A woman who came to hear my lectures told me that a friend of hers had married a drayman. He came home one evening with a small cut on his arm. The place began to swell, and he was dead by the morning. You see I have some blood in this bottle that came from an ox; it is the same as human blood. The blood has separated into two substances; the thick part is called a clot, and the thin white part is called serum. The clot, which is the thick part, contains albumen, fibrin, and red corpuscles, those little bodies that carry the oxygen gas. After a bad fever—typhus, for instance—the blood becomes poor ; it will not form into a clot. When the blood is in this state, should the nose or any part bleed, the bleeding cannot be stopped. This hard substance in this bottle is a clot of blood that has been preserved in spirits. It has become almost as tough