COOKING. J 48 matter as it comes from our bodies. Many children have caught diseases by this practice. The slate you used to-day, and cleaned in this dirty manner, will be used by some one else to-morrow, and if you were recovering from scarlet fever, the child who used your slate would catch the same fever. Sore eyes, as well as fevers, have been spread throughout a whole school by this dirty habit. I hope soon to see in all our Boai-d schools that sponges and water are fastened to every desk, and that the children will be obliged to ruse them. Sweat is dead organic matter. People ought never to sleep in clothes they wear by day. Night-clothes should always have fresh air during the day. At our house we always sleep with our windows open about an inch or two at the top. Directly we get up, we have the bed-clothes turned down and the windows opened wide. Then the oxygen comes in and gets into the bed-clothes and purines them. Do yon not know how much sweeter clean clothes smell that have been put out of doors to dry than those that have been dried indoors ? I am surprised to see in many houses that the beds are made directly we leave the bedroom. They ouR'ht never to be made until the beds and the clothes have been well aired. Feather beds are dirty things ; they ought to be frequently exposed to fresh air, because a great deal of dead organic matter is often left on the feathers when they are put into the bed-ticking. Remember that the organic matter that is in dirty beds, bed-clothes, or wearing-apparel returns into the blood through the pores of the skin as well as through the lungs when we breathe. Carbonic acid gas, you know, kills us by sending us into a sleep from which we never wake, as it did the two sailors belonging to the French schooner 'Jeanne Roberts' about a month ago. These men, finding the night very cold, determined to keep themselves warm by shutting up the chimney and every hole, so that no fresh air could enter. In the morning they were found dead; they had been killed by breathing the.carbonic acid gas that had come out of their mouths. The poison from decaying organic matter destroys life and health much more slowly than carbonic acid gas, and in a much more dreadful way, because it injures the brain. People