THE NERVES. 158 without that .stuff.' The poor little child was only skin and bone ; it has since died. I am afraid that thousands are killed in the same horrible way. I will tell you the following facts to prove the immense quantity of these soothing syrups that are sold. A respectable druggist of Manchester once told Dr. Lyon Playfair that he sold, every week, five gallons of ' quietness' and half-a-gallon of ' Godfrey's soothing cordial.' In Preston it was found that the chemists sold, every week, 701. worth of ' Godfrey's cordial,' ' quietness,' ' child's pre- server,' ' syrup of poppies,' and laudanum. My father was a doctor. He gave us, his children, very little medicine, and begged us never to take any unless a doctor had ordered it. It is only men and women who are ignorant of physiology who will venture to give medicine to their children, or to children who have been committed to their care. I have often heard ladies say, ' My nurse under- stands all about a baby, and she knows when to give it medicine.' If mothers themselves took care of their children when they were young, neither a doctor nor medicine would often be needed. I perhaps know more than a nurse, yet I should not venture to give medicine to anyone, much less to a child. It is sad to know that thousands of quack doctors grow rich by selling their pills and lotions, while the people who buy and swallow them grow poorer and more unhealthy. It is a pity that they do not keep their money and spend it on a trip to the country, wmere fresh ah' and change of scene might really do their health good. I do hope you will never buy any medicine that is advertised in a newspaper or on a wall; for, you may believe me, no really good and clever doctor will ever advertise the pills and lotions he has made, and say that they will cure all kinds of complaints, without ever having seen the person who was going to take them. How is a person to know what is the matter with himself or his child if he is not a doctor ? Even the cleverest doctors say that it is difficult for those of them who live in the house with their patients and see them every day, to find out which of the forty organs is diseased or out of order. The quack medicine you have paid so dearly for may be the very