155 NERVES OF FEEI/IiNO AND MOTION. motion to take the hand off. Sometimes it happens that the nerves of motion become killed or paralysed for a time by a stroke or a fit of paralysis,' while the nerves of feeling are not at all injured by the fit. This once happened to a man. He could not move any limb, not even his tongue to speak, but all the time he could hear, see, and understand what the people did and said who.were standing round his bed. In a few days his nerves of motion recovered their power, and then he told all those who ha,d been in the room how dreadful it had been : for he had understood all they had said, and they had talked about a great many things of which they would not have spoken had they kuown that he could understand. Nurses and friends should be very careful not to talk before paralysed people when they have lost their speech. We have some nerves that are called voluntary nerves— that is, nerves which give us the power to move the limbs to which they go ; for instance, the nerves in my hand and tongue are voluntary nerves. I call these nerves into action when I determine to move my hand, but I do not-of my own accord excite the nerves that make my heart beat so regularly. If it stopped beating for a few seconds I should die. Lest I should forget to excite these nerves upon which my life de- pends, the Almighty does it for me. Great fear makes us grow very cold. Sometimes the muscles become quite para- lysed by fear, and they cannot move. The heart then ceases to beat, and we die. This is how people are killed by fear. How very cruel it is to frighten a little child or any dumb animal! It is also very silly to try and make a child or a dumb animal do anything by fear ■ for we all know that when we are very much afraid we lose our senses and the power of doing anything. Nurses who frighten children are not only very cruel but very silly, for in the end they have much more trouble with the children than if they had treated them kindly and sensibly. Mr. Wheelhouse, the doctor, was once sent for to a little boy who had the croup. His nurse or parents had been in the habit of telling him that if he was a naughty boy the doctor would come and cut him up. When the doctor did come, and perhaps might have saved his life, the child screamed