the world, and I shall have a great deal to tell you about it TJIK AIJi WH uUBATIli:. year, whoso lives might have been saved ; but it is much more dreadful to know that nearly as many people who partly re- covered from these complaints are still living and suffering from diseases left by fevers, small-pox, &c. Many fathers and mothers with large families, who were able to work and support them comfortably before they had these illnesses, are now obliged to live in the workhouse. Poor little babies grow up to be miserable Aveak men and women, unable to gain their own living, obliged to be de- pendent on charity, because their mothers either neglected them when they were infants, or were too ignorant to under- stand how to bring them up. My second reason for wishing to give you these lectures is because I am so grieved to see how cruelly and unkindly human beings treat each other, and also how cruelly poor dumb animals are used. I feel quite sure that young people would not be cruel if they were made early to understand how beautifully and wonderfully our bodies are made. I shall show you that dumb animals, though they cannot tell us how much they suffer, do suffer when they are hurt, because a great many of them are made very much like we are, and can feel like ourselves. You see the first thing I have mentioned as essentially necessary, if we are to secure health, is good air. I will tell you why-—because we could live about a week without either water or food, but we could not live two minutes without air. If a pillow were placed over your mouth and nose, you would be dead in two minutes, because no air could get into your lungs. We first draw in a breath of air, and then we send out a breath of air. This we do every instant of our lives, unless we have been crying, and then we sob and take in two or throe breaths of air without letting one out, in this manner. We breathe so gently and easily when we are well and have no cold, that we never think about how Ave breathe. The air we take into our mouths ought to be pure air and contain a great deal of the gas that is in this bottle. It is called oxygen gas. Noav, this is the most wonderful gas in