38 THE GIliCULATION. our blood leaves a spot, the bottom part of the left side of the heart, and returns to exactly the same spot after it has nourished nearly every part of our bodies ; therefore it will have circu- lated. I wish to tell you that the heart can do this wonderful work in about three minutes. The heart of a man is about the size of his fist; the heart of a baby is also the size of its fist. Our hearts, which are made chiefly of contractile flesh or muscles, are divided down the middle by a strong wall of flesh ; the good clean blood is all kept on the left side ; all the dirty blood is on the right side. Some big tubes, called arteries, carry all the good blood from the left side of the heart to every part of the body. I have written the word artery on this sheet, and painted it a bright red, because the good blood is a bright red, as it contains a great deal of oxygen gas. The arteries are very strong tubes ; they have three coats. In the outer coat there are some elastic fibres which permit the artery to stretch out lengthways. The coat underneath this has muscles which go round the arteries, and make them come together or contract. By this means the arteries keep stretching out and pulling in, and so force the blood on, so that it flies about to every part very fast. There is a third coat inside those I have described ; it is beautifully smooth, so that the blood may easily pass over it. I will now point out to you the large arteries in the lower part of the body. There are thousands and thousands of little arteries which spread out from the larger arteries to every spot of the body. Though the good blood flies along so quickly, it finds time to feed the forty organs with fresh stuff, and also to carry away the parts of the organs that have be- come worn out. I will tell you how this is done in the next lecture. Don't you think it is very wonderful ? Of course the blood at last becomes very dirty. Dirty blood would not feed the organs; it would only make them unhealthy and diseased. How is the dirty blood to be carried away and made clean ? I will tell you how it is managed. Every artery has a servant that carries away the dirty blood up to the right side of the heart, through which all the dirty blood is sent on to the lungs. This servant is called a vein. It is a strong pipe of membrane, but not so strong as an artery, though it has