AI'i'KNDIX I. l'.x; The air must be kept out instantly, as the germs that fly in the air will settle in the raw surface. Cover the place all over with a ]>!<•<•<• of linen rag that has been clipped in any sweet oil, or melted fat thai has no salt in it; then wrap it up with a good deal of cotton wool, or a piece of old blanket; don't remove these- for seven days, as a new skin will form in that time, and then dress again in the same wav. If the skin is not broken and there is no blister, you may put on cold •bandages or place the limb in cold water, and so keep out the air. The great thing is to keep out the air and not to break the skin. If the scald or burn is a bad one, send immediately for a doctor. HOW TO TREAT A PERSON APPARENTLY DROWN! ;i>. The first tMng is to try and bring back the breathing by turning the face down for a moment, so that the water may run out and the tongue fall into its place. Draw out the tongue as far as possible, and keep it out by tying a string over it and round the jaw. If no string is at hand, a piece torn off a pocket-handkerchief will answer the purpose. If the tongue falls back, it covers the windpipe through which the air passes to the lungs. When the tongue is safe, you may place the person on his back; take care the shoulders and head are raised a little. Lift the arms up from the side and pass them down again, to open the chest, drawing them well up by the side of the head and pressing them forcibly against the chest when you bring them down. When the breathing has returned, dry clothes and warm things can be put on. Plenty of fresh air must get into the lungs; bad close air thickens the blood and prevents it from circulating. People must not crowd round the patient. It is dangerous to use great heat suddenly, such as a hot bath. Rubbing and warmth should be continued for two hours at least. DIRECTIONS FOR BATHING. If people are strong enough, a cold bath should be taken every day when the weather is warm. When the cold Avater touches the surface of the body the shock drives the blood to the heart, and makes the heart beat quicker, and send the w^arm blood back to the surface of the body. I told you that there were an immense number of blood- vessels and nerves in the second skin; the warm, fresh blood flushes and stimulates these, and this is why we feel a glow all over the body after a bath, and are stronger and fresher. H a cold wet sponge or towel is rubbed all over the body, and then the sldn is made perfectly dry by using a rough, dry towel, the same good will be done as if the person had taken a cold bath. It is very unhealthy to allow the body to remain the least damp. Before a person takes a regular bath he must be careful not to enter the water directly after a meal, because the organs of digestion are then busy, and want all the warm