THE CIRCULATION. |.<; A man was once reaping in a field, and cut the large artery in his leg. The blood jumped out in jerks, so much at a time. Doctors can tell at once, hy the way the blood is jerked out, that it is an artery, and not a vein, that is cut, for the blood passes much more slowly and evenly through the veins. Now, the other reapers in the field crowded round him and began to cry out for help, which unfortunately did not stop the bleeding. A girl ran up to him, took off' her garter, and tied it tightly round the part above the cut in this way, and it very soon stopped the bleeding. She saved the man's life, as he would have died before a doctor could have reached him. Every man and woman ought to learn how to act in case of such an accident. The blood in the veins runs more slowly than in the arte- ries, about one-half or one-third more slowly, for in the veins the blood has much wider channels to travel through than in the arteries. At certain distances there are little doors in the veins which shut directly a certain quantity of blood has passed through them, just as the door in a mouse-trap closes when a mouse has passed in. These little doors sometimes become weak, and will not shut and open as quickly as they ouo-ht to do, so that the blood collects in the veins. Veins in this state are called varicose veins ; and washerwomen and men who, like them, have to stand a great deal, suffer very much from this complaint. These veins are placed near the skin. The arteries are placed much deeper down, to prevent their being injured. Large arteries are very near the bones in a kind of little gutter. The best thing to do when anyone has a complaint called varicose veins is to keep the limb up as much as possible, and to rub the blood up, and help it to get through the little doors on its way to the heart. A maid-servant of ours had a very bad leg caused by these varicose veins. A doctor told me to let her wear some elastic stockings, that would keep the veins up, and she found they did her a great deal of good. In such cases you can see the veins with their black blood spreading out under tho skin like the branches of a tree. Now, it is very dangerous for a person with a weak heart —that is, when those little doors in the heart do not open and