SOUP WITHOUT MEAT stock. mill, where they could warm it up, or she could get it ready after breakfast and put it into a slow oven, so that if she was obliged to go out in the morning it would be ready for din- ner °when she returned. This is what the French women always do. At the end of the lecture you shall taste some soup which was made this morning at home. It is made exactly like the one we have just prepared for cooking. An immense number of soups can be made without butcher's meat. Remember the stomach must have a solid, or else the organs which digest solid food will get out of order, and the person will grow weak. Doctors say that many lives have been lost because nurses have given sick people nothing but beef-tea after they have become much reduced by a severe illness. The different essences of meat, like beef-tea, do not feed and strengthen, but only stop the waste of the nerves and muscles. The following extract from Dr. Edward Smith's remarks made at a meeting of the British Association in 1872, will prove the truth of what I have just said:—' Then we shall no longer have sick and dying men, women, and children fed with Liebig's extracts of meat under the delusion that it is nutriment in the ordinary sense. Liebig's extract is meat flavour, a nervous stimulant, and has good qualities, but it is not food.' Another extract from a publication called ' Land and Water' bears on this subject:—' How many a recovering patient has sunk under the stimulating beef-tea which suited his period of prostration, but which starved his returning strength. How many a weakening frame has been lost by the attractive but worthless jellies which pious and loving hands had carefully prepared.' The same authority says that butter and eggs should be added as soon as possible to the beef-tea, or to the food in some way. These two foods, butter and eggs, contain body-warmers, and will therefore make fat. Fat burns away in the body very quickly when anyone has a fever. It is an important fact that no one can live unless his bodv contains a certain quantity of fat.