171 THE VOICE. lungs, our vocal cords are wide apart, and make an opening in the shape of the letter V. The wide part is at the back of the throat. It is impossible to speak or sing properly unless there is plenty of air in the lungs to come out and strike against the cords. Great fear takes away the breath. People who stammer are nervous. They are afraid they will not be able to speak, and this fear takes away their breath and their presence of mind. They either try to speak when their luugs are empty or when they are taking in breath; then of course they stammer, or fail to speak their words as they ought to do. It is very necessary that everybody should learn to speak well and distinctly, for men and women often want to make a large number of people hear what they have to say. It will be impossible for them to do so unless they have been taught how to pronounce their words well, and where they ought to take in breath. I have heard men with loud voices speak in our town hall, but with all their efforts only those tolerably near could hear them. Shouting will not do; shouting only injures the lungs and gradually the vocal cords. Clergymen and teachers often suffer from throat complaints, because they were not taught early how to manage their voices. A friend of mine, who was the cleverest and kindest teacher I have ever known, completely lost her voice because she had thought it necessary to speak loudly. For a year she was obliged to give up teaching. When her voice returned she came back to the school, and ever after spoke in a low tone. She told me she found the children could hear her better than they used to do, were much more attentive, and the school alto- gether was in better order. To speak distinctly and with a pleasant voice you must know how to pronounce the vowels a, e, i, o, u. For instance, do not you think it sounds much better to say ' No, I won't,' than ' Na, ar wearnt ' ? To say ' Na, ar wearnt,' you are obliged to make an ugly face and an ugly sound, and your voice cannot be heard at so great a distance as if you had said ' No, I won't.' The last letter of a word, if it is a consonant, ought to be distinctly pronounced. Breath should be taken in at all the stops ; and, above all, the reader must not stoop,