IMPURE All: AND VENTILATION". into boiling water, if there is no permanganate of potash, as no poison germs can live long in boiling water. If water is only warmed it makes them grow more quickly. Washer- women and their families often lose their lives by fevers taken from clothes that have come straight from the body or bed of an invalid. I cannot understand how people can do so wicked and so cruel a thing as to send poor washerwomen clothes in this dangerous state. Instead of sweeping the floor, use a damp mop. A great deal of woolly matter collects under all beds : so take it all away with the mop. Dust the furniture with a clean damp duster that has been wrung out of the pan of water. If you dust any room with a dry duster, and do not very often shake it out of the window, you had much better not dust at all, for you only make the dust fly about in the air you breathe; after a little time it will all settle on the furniture. A packet of permanganate of potash that costs one shilling will make twenty gallons of water sufficiently strong to destroy all germs of disease. One teaspoonful will make two gallons. Great care must be taken to mix the powder until it is quite dissolved. It is sold by all druggists. N.B. After a fever or any infections complaint, all bedding can be purified free of expense, if a post-card be sent to the Inspector of Nuisances. He will be only too glad to send for the things immediately, and place them in the hot-air appa- ratus, which will kill all germs of disease, without injuring the bedding. They will be safely returned directly they have been purified. TJdngs provided for ihe Lecture. A picture of a microscopic animal and a vegetable germ. Some German yeast, to show what the yeast plant is like. A bottlo of water containing life which is invisible to us. A microscope. A bottle containing a solution of permanganato of potash. A bottle containing some decomposed organic matter. One bottlo of oxygen gas. Questions for the Second Lecture. 1. What are germs, and liow can you kill them? 2. Why is it dangerous to send a child to school when it has had scarlet fever and the skin is peeling off?