170 THE VOICE. and education of young people. Unless a child can dare to show its failings and ask questions, it may appear good and pass every standard, but it will go out into the world morally weak, possessing nothing worthy of the name of education in its true and highest sense. Tho fiercest animals have been known to grow calm on hearing the voice of a person who had been kind to them. Horses are so gentle and affectionate that they can be perfectly managed if addressed gently. For that reason it is said that women ought to take care of them. A groom's work is not hard compared with the work that many women have to do. A great many vertebrate animals have the wonderful little instrument in the windpipe called the larynx, which makes the voice. It is a most delicate organ, and if the throat is forced into an unnatural position, it is soon injured. This is easily seen in the case of horses. Some spirited horses naturally hold their heads up, and arch their necks. Ladies and gentlemen admire horses that do this, and try to make their horses do the same by putting on a bearing-rein, which fastens the head back. By pressing the head back in this way the shape of the larynx is quite altered. Here is a picture of the larynx of a horse that had been injured by a bearing- rein, and here is one as it ought to be, taken from the 'Illus- trated Horse Doctor,' by May hew. In this cramped position some of the muscles cannot work; they therefore grow weak, and at last die away. The opening between the vocal cords grows small, so that a proper quantity of air cannot get down into the lungs. But horses have to go quickly, and they therefore require all the air they can get, so that whatever prevents their getting as much air as possible distresses them very much. If you look at a hoi*se that is dragging a cart up a hill, you will see that it stretches out its neck, as it does nearly all its work by the help of the muscles in its shoulders. A bearing-rein entirely prevents the use of these muscles, and must cause great suffering to the horse. From this cruel practice of using the bearing-rein, the horse after a time breathes very badly, and then it is called a 'roai'er.' The very people who have caused it so much suffering and have.