VEGETABLE COOKING. 127 outside skin of the potato, being of a corky nature, will pre- vent the juices from running out. That is why the skin of a potato ought never to be taken off before it is cooked. The Irish, who nearly live on potatoes, do not take off the skins. If you look at the picture of the slice of potato, you will see this corky skin. The next skin contains a little albumen. Now I will put this potato into boiling water and let it remain there for a few minutes, just to allow the boiling water to harden the albumen in the second skin. Its salts and juices will then all be fastened up, and the boiling water will not have had time to go far into the potato to harden the tissues and juices. It has now remained a few minutes (which is quite long enough) on the fire. I will take the saucepan off and place it on this hob, as the heat of this hob is great enough to keep the water at 180°. Here it must remain for three-quarters of an hour. It is not necessary to keep watch- ing how hot the water is, for you will soon learn from expe- rience that a hot hob near a warm fire or a moderate oven will keep the water at the right heat. A saucepan ought never to be left at the edge of the fire, for then the sides would get burnt and the food also. You see that the saucepan has its cover on; this is a most important part of cooking. The cover should be instantly put on when the food is put in. No food should be put into a saucepan that has no lid, because the steam will then take away the heat and the flavours. Vegetables cooked in the proper way require a longer time, it is true, but surely it is worth while to give them more time, if by so doing they are made more nourishing and digestible. Less fire will also do when the pot need not be kept 'a-boiling '—a most favourite English expression. Our kitchen grates are old-fashioned ones. When our cook thought she ought to let the saucepans boil she often found it was necessary to have two fires. Now she finds one enough even when she has a large dinner to prepare, and she tells me she never feels in a hurry, as she used to do, nor afraid lest the food should be burnt or underdone. I am very anxious that you should understand that it is very bad—indeed, dangerous to some people—to eat the skin