COOKING. ! 82 hot firo will in that time harden all the outside of the meat, and so fasten up the juices. When this is done, we must move the meat to a great distance, and let it cook very gently. The fire must never be allowed to burn low ; it must continue clear and hot until the meat is done. The meat must also be constantly basted ; that is, the melted fat that falls into the dripping-pan must constantly be poured over it with a spoon, because the fat keeps in the juices and prevents the meat from burning and being cooked too quickly. Take care to keep the dripping-pan a good distance from the fire, so that no pieces of coal can fall into the dripping and make it dirty. ~No fat ought to be more highly prized than dripping, for it is almost the most nutritious fat that can be eaten. Dripping is mucfo nicer than lard for frying fish, &c. ; it also makes excellent short crust for fruit pies. If any coal should fall into the drip- ping-pan, the dripping, when cold, must be put into boiling water. When it is melted, the bits of cinder and dust will fall to the bottom, and the dripping will rise to the top in a large white cake. It is not at all an easy thing to roast a joint of meat properly, for it takes one person's time nearly to look after it and to keep the fire bright. A mother who has a large family and a baby to look after cannot be expected to roast meat very often. A friend of mine toldf me that her mother, who was a working-woman, never could give them roast meat when they were children, unless it was on a feast day, when one of her elder children was at home (as it was a holiday), and could attend to the fire and baste the meat. The old-fashioned way of roasting meat was to place it at some distance from a black new-made fire ; it was considered the best plan to let the meat and the fire grow warm together ! As. we b.aye very little time left, I must take away the meat. I think you will have learnt from what you have seen how to roast a joint of meat before the fire. We will now cook some rice and macaroni so that they may be eaten with any kind of meat, like a vegetable, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone. The rice has been well washed two or three times in cold water, but was not allowed to stand in it. Macaroni must never be washed. We shall eook them both exactly as we poked a potato. As the water