50 RESPIRATION. will the white plate become covered with smoke when I hold it over the lamp, because I have not been burning fat, but spirit, or alcohol. When yon burn anything I dare say you think the thing you have burnt is quite destroyed—that it is no longer to be found in the world—but you must never think that any more. God does not allow us either to destroy or to waste any of the matter that He has made. By burning we only change,the thing we burn into something else. I have now burnt about an inch of this candle—that is, I have turned a great part of that inch of fat into this black stuff, and I have also made some cai'bonic acid gas. Carbon is very fond of oxygen gas. Directly they come together hot, they make a great deal more heat, and very often a flame of fire. Here is a. bottle of oxygen gas, and here is a piece of char- coal which is nearly all made of carbon. The charcoal is hot, you observe; I will put it into the oxygen, and you will see what a bright flame and what a great deal of heat is made. This candle has just a little spark of light on it. I will put it into this other bottle of oxygen, and it will also burst into a flame, and cause great heat. This bottle, you know, was full of oxygen a minute ago, and made the lighted candle burn so brightly; but the oxygen and carbon have joined together, and have made a new substance, carbonic acid gas. There is no free oxygen left. The bottle is now full of carbonic acid gas; this I will prove to you, for directly I put a lighted candle into it the light will go out. If a great many candles are burning in a room they will fill the air with carbonic acid gas, because the carbon in the candle will join with the oxygen that is in the air of the room and make carbonic acid gas. The flame of one candle will require as much oxygen as a man needs to keep his blood pure, and the candle will also make an equal quantity of carbonic acid gas. There is a great deal of carbon in gas. One gas-light will use as much oxygen as three men, and make three times as much carbonic acid gas. No wonder that people feel very sleepy and faint in theatres, workshops, and churches, which are crowded, badly ventilated, and lighted by gas or by a great many candles. In nurseries where children sleep, or in bedrooms—particularly where in-