149 ORGANIC MATTER. become miserable, and sometimes mad. They lose their appe- tites and long for drink, which only makes them worse. Courts of justice like those in our townhall, where the assizes are held, are filled with crowds of human beings, many of whom have on dirty clothes. Architects, gentlemen who build these courts of law and other grand buildings, do not yet understand how to ventilate such places. Judges and stipen- diary magistrates often suffer very much from bad health because they are obliged to sit day after day and month after month breathing air poisoned by organic matter. About a year ago a celebrated judge, it is supposed, lost his life from this cause. His brain became diseased ; he lost his senses, and killed himself. If gentlemen who only spend a part of their days in grand buildings are killed by bad air, what is to become of poor men, women, and children who have to livenight and day in air much worse than that which is to be found in a court of justice ? One sleeping-room sometimes holds three or four families. A respectable cobbler or tailor in London will carry on his trade in the only room which he and his family— perhaps seven children—have to live in by day as well as by night. Just fancy for a moment how dreadful the air in that room must become by the morning. Even should the parents wish to open the window at the top, they cannot do so, for in the miserable dwellings for the poor windows are seldom made to open in this way. We cannot wonder there is always so much fever, scrofula, and preventable disease, when wc know how people are crowded together. Fathers and mothers will not put up with these miserable homes when they know what I have told you during my lectures. The air at the bottom and top of all rooms is the least pure ; for this reason people should neither sleep on the floor nor allow a baby's cot to stand on the floor; it should always be put on a table or raised in some way. Germs grow quickly in all organic matter, but they grow the quickest in liquids. Milk, you know, is organic matter; it is therefore very dangerous to leave milk, or any solid or liquid food, in a sick person's room, for the germs that are in the air may fall into this food. Should anyone eat this food, they woidd very likely take the fever, or whatever the com-