FOODS. 193 Milk Is the only one food that contains all the forty things that can nourish the body. It is the only safe food for an infant until it is a year old. Every child ought to take a great deal of it daily, in puddings, with porridge at breakfast, and at tea-time, until it. is eight years old, or it will be in danger of having rickets or soft bones, for the bones are not hard under that age. An infant fed on cream, which is fat, would be pined; for it is only a body-warmer. Skimmed milk is also a flesh-former. New milk is both a body-warmer and a flesh-former. New milk from a cow or goat is the only proper food for an infant until it is about eight months old, when it cannot have its mother's milk. The milk must be warmed, and a little water added should it prove too rich for the stomach. Nourishing Soup for Children and Worlcing-Mm. Soup is good food for old and young; first, because it is a warm dish, and secondly, because it can be made to contain the three kinds of food we must eat to nourish our bodies, viz., body- warmers, flesh-formers, and minerals. An immense number of soups can be made of animal and vegetable food without butcher's meat. Drippiug, bacon, milk, or eggs will do as well, as they are all animal foods. The first of the following receipts will make a good soup for children and Avorking-men ; it is made with butcher's meat. The second is also most nourishing ; it has no butcher's meat. First Receipt.—Some meat (beef is best) shoidd be cut into pieces and stewed for two hours. Then add to the meat and broth flour of any kind to thicken it, and put as much milk as you can. Let it stew for an hour, and flavour with salt. Second Receipt. (Soup without butcher's meat.)—1 quart of water; \ gill of green peas or split peas (the latter take much longer to cook); two potatoes, old ones of yesterday are the best; 1 onion : 1 head of lettuce ; 1 sprig of mint; ^ teaspoonful of sugar (sugar keeps the colour of the peas and vegetables); 1 oz. of dripping; 1 table- spoonful of either flour or oatmeal; pepper and salt to taste. When it has simmered until all is quite tender, add i gill of milk. If this soup is made with green peas or any fresh vegetables, it will be quite ready in half-an-hour. Soyer, the celebrated cook, almost always used brown sugar and a little vinegar in making his soup. Soup is a most economical food, and digestible if bread is eaten with it. When we make soup or beef-tea, we want to get all the juices and ashes out in the water ; therefore cut the meat up into small pieces, and put a little salt on it, and let it stand in cold water one hour or more. Don't let it quite boil, only simmer, for the steam carries oft 0