SKELETON—JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 1 Marshall's diagram, p. 27, fig. 9. ■ Marshall's diagram, No. 1, p. 20. 2G sweat carries off the heat through the pores; but if all the pores are shut up, the sweat cannot get out, and the child's head grows hot and feverish. In England, Wales, and on the Continent, particularly in Italy and Prance, I have very often seen children with per- fectly black heads. By trying to remove this dirt when they get older, the mothers frequently give their children very sore heads. Now, if plenty of soap and water had been used from the first day, all this suffering would have been saved. The head rests on the spine, or backbone, which you see in this picture.1 There are twenty-six bones in the spine. I have brought the seven bones that form the neck to show you. This is the top one, on which the head rests, and here is the second one, on which the head turns. This second bone has a kind of tooth or little spike. People should never lift a child up by its head, as by so doing they might perhaps lift the head partly off this little spike, and then the child would die instantly. There is, you see, a hole through each of the bones that form the spine. It is through these holes that the spinal cord goes, and it passes all down the backbone, or spine. Between each of these curious strong bones there is a little cushion of a substance something like gristle. You have seen the buffers that are placed between railway carriages. The railway buffers prevent the carriages from knocking hardly against each other. The little buffers between the bones of the spine also prevent them from knocking against each other and from shaking the spinal cord, which passes down from the brain. It is such a very delicate substance that even a violent shake has been known to injure it for life. You see there are twelve ribs on each side of the spine ; they begin below the neck, which is made of these seven bones, and, together with the narrow flat bone in front of the chest, called the sternum, cover the heart and the two lungs. All this part of the body is called the trunk.2 I will describe what a joint is. A joint is the place where two bones join together. On the left side of the figure of the skeleton you see that the bones are all fastened together by