84 DIGESTION. cannot change fat. Fat is only melted in the stomach; but yon know it must be changed by some organ, so that it will mix with water, or it cannot be made into blood. Fat and water won't mix together. Directly the food passes this little door on the right side of the stomach it enters the first part of the small intestines, named the duodenum, which has been sometimes* called the second stomach. There is, you see, a picture of this part of the intestine in this diagram, marked d. You see that a small tube comes from the liver and goes into the duodenum.1 This tube is called the bile-duct, and brings the bile from the liver. There is a great deal of soda in the bile. Soda and fat, or oil, will mix together directly, and they make a soap. Soap, you know, will mix with water. The soda which is in the soap we use to wash ourselves with mixes with the oil on our skins, and then the water takes the dirt off. Soap is usually made by putting soda and fat together. Here is some oil in this tumbler. I will put some soda into it, and then I will add some water. You will see after a little time that they have both mixed together. I will pour some oil into this tumbler of water, which has no soda, and you will find that the oil and water would never mix. The oil2 will keep quite separate, floating on the top like this, because it is lighter than water. I must tell you what happens to the fat which is in the chyme when it gets into the second stomach. The compound of soda that is in the bile joins with the fat and turns it into the soapy substance which you know mixes so well with water. The bile and the sweet-bread juice change the chyme into a milky substance called chyle. There are muscles in the duodenum and all along the bowels, which push the chyle slowly on, and squeeze a great part of it into little pipes, called lacteals, which cover the inside coat, or skin, of the bowels. These little pipes carry off the milky fluid to a great many little glands that are placed at the back of the oowels. These glands are called the ' mesenteric glands.' Now I must tell you what a curious thing happens to the chyle when it enters these wonderful little organs called the 1 Marshall's diagram, page 83. a I shewed a tumbler of water with the oil on the top.