SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 160 and is called the iris. We have all different coloured eyes, as I said, because we have all different coloured curtains; some are blue, some brown, some black. When the light is not too strong, the window or hole in the centre of the eye becomes large ; but when the light is very strong the curtain draws together and makes this hole very small. Have you ever seen a cat's eyes in a dark room, how bright they are, and how large the window, or pupil, looks ? A cat can see much better than we can in the dark, because her window can be made much larger than ours, and so lets more light go in. I will now say a few words more about the first two cover- ings of the eyeball. The black one, or second covering, is called the choroid, and is filled with veins, arteries, and capil- laries. It must therefore be carefully guarded. It is well protected, you see, by the white or first covering, which is called the sclerotic, for it is very tough and strong. I will place it over the black covering. The black covering makes the picture on the retina look more distinct, and it also makes the window, or pupil, of the eye look so black. Over the front part of the eye, where the curtain and window are placed, there is a transparent covering like the glass face of a watch, called the cornea. It also bulges out like a watch- glass, and is fitted into a little groove that runs all round the edge of the white coat, or sclerotic. I will now explain why we have eyebrows, eyelashes, and eyelids. Inside the eyelids there is a very tender coat or skin, which is quite transparent. The same skin passes over the whole of the front part of the eye. If a bit of dust has ever got into your eye or under the eyelid, you will know, from the pain it gave you, how delicate this coat is. The smallest piece of any hard substance would injure the eye if it remained in it; this skin is therefore made so sensitive and tender that we cannot rest until the hard stuff has been taken out. Everybody ought to know how to take out anything that has entered the eye. You have only to press a knitting needle or something hard across the outside of the lid at the top, take hold of the upper eyelashes and make the lid turn