BEEP-TEA. 123 hard, and is then much less easily digestible. The savoury- essences will also be separated by that heat and pass away in the steam. We will suppose that there is a person very ill, whose nerves are very weak, and we want to make some strong beef- tea as quickly as possible, that will very soon be digested and made into blood, so as to nourish the weak neiwes. What we must do is to try and get out all the good things that are in this piece of beef. Beef is the most nourishing animal food. Raw meat always feels wet; it is because the juices run out. Remember that the juices contain albumen, which is of a sticky nature. If I were to put this piece of meat just as it is into boiling water, the boiling water would harden the albumen that has run out with the juices and make it feel wet, just as if I were to take some glue and put it all over the meat. But I do not want to keep the juices in ; I want to get them all out as quickly as possible. The cook will therefore cut the raw meat up into small pieces of about an inch in size, and put them into cold water. This meat weighs two ounces ; I shall add exactly two ounces of water and a little salt. Take care and only put in a very small quantity, because salt hardens the flesh, just as boiling water would do. I will let the meat stand in the cold water for an hour or two if I have time; then I will put the jar which contains the meat into an oven moderately hot, and let it remain there for at least half- an-hour. Here is some beef-tea that our cook made this morning:: it contains the same quantity of meat and water that we have just used. It stood for half-an-hour in cold water, and then it was stewed gently in the oven for the same time. Just see how good it looks. Here is some beef-tea in another jar that was made at the same time with the same quantity of meat and water. The only difference is that it was put into boiling water and boiled for half-an-hour. You see how poor this beef-tea looks, and what a small quantity there is of it. The steam which is made when water boils carries off a great many good things and wastes the beef-tea. This beef-tea would not strengthen the poor invalid nearly as well as that which has been properly made.