133 UICE and macaroni. is now boiling in this saucepan, we will put the rice into it. As the saucepan is very small, we must put very little rice in, or the rice will not have enough room to swell out. There is a great deal of starch in rice and all vegetables, you know. Each starch grain swells very much.1 Here is a picture of one before it is boiled, and here is the same grain when it has been cooked.2 You see it has grown three times as big. Vege- tables are very often spoilt by being put into too small a sauce- pan with too small a quantity of water. We will now put on the macaroni. Like rice, it also will require a very great deal of room. These three little pipes which I am going to put in will become very much larger when they are cooked. As the rice and macaroni have now boiled for a few minutes, we will put a saucepan on each hob and let them cook gradually. While they are cooking I will tell you a little about rice and macaroni, and the countries they come from. In China and India the natives live chiefly on rice. The Hindoos are now suffering from a famine because the rice crops failed last year. Though rice is a very good food, it is a dreadful thing that the Hindoos will eat hardly anything else—first, because their bodies and minds would be stronger if they ate different kinds of food, and another reason is that it is a fearful thing for any people to depend on one food, for when that food fails there must be a famine. People died by thousands and thousand^ in India during a famine of this kind some years ago, and as many more had fevers and all kinds of complaints owing to their not having had half enough to eat. In Ireland, you know, there was a famine several years ago, too, because the Irish people lived mainly on one thing—pota- toes. I fear they still eat very little else in many parts of Ireland. The working people in the south of Italy live almost entirely on macaroni. Macaroni is a most nutritious food, because it is made chiefly of vegetable albumen—that is, gluten, that substance which makes our flesh, nerves, and muscles, and is called nitrogenous food. I am sure your mothers would 1 I showed u drawing of two starch grains, p. 89. 1 Page 89.