45 THE CAPILLAK1BS. come up and taste the tumbler-water before I put the pipe in, just to be sure that there is no sugar in the tumbler. We shall soon see whether any of the pipe-water has run through the skin, because it is red and will make the tumbler-water red. This other pipe contains some sugar-and-water, and there is also sugar-and-water in this tumbler; you will find neither of them will change places. A heavy gas and a light gas will change places with each other through the skin of a capillary. This balloon, which is made of the same kind of skin as a capillary, is filled with the heaviest gas—carbonic acid gas. In a short time you will see that the balloon will become nearly empty, because the carbonic acid gas will have passed through the skin into the air in the room, and the air in the room, which is light, will have entered the balloon. As it is only through the coat of the capillaries that the blood can pass out to feed the body, it is necessary that we should have an immense number of them, and they must be in every spot in our bodies. Directly the blood gets hot these little tubes grow bigger and swell with the heat of the blood, and so do the little arteries and veins between which they are placed. I will now explain to you why our faces grow red—that is, why we blush. When we are ashamed or angry our faces grow hot. Then all these little pipes swell and more blood than usual runs through them into the flesh and skin, and so makes our faces appear very red. When we are frightened we grow cold. Cold makes nearly everything become smaller ; and all these little tubes, whether veins, arteries, or capillaries, grow smaller, very little blood can get into them and run through the flesh and skin, and our faces must naturally grow white, because there is scarcely any blood to be seen through the skin. It is much more dangerous to cut an artery than a vein, for you see that the blood pours from the heart into the arte- ries. If an artery was cut and you could not stop it, all the blood in the body would soon be drawn out. A string should immediately be tied very tightly above the cut in this way, that is, nearer to the heart,1 to prevent the blood escaping through the cut. ' Showed n red leather pipe with a cut in it and a black string tied above.