EGGS BOILED AND POACH1D. 120 water at 180° instead of patting- it into boiling- water. The consequence was that the egg was not done enough, for the cold egg had made the water much colder than 180°. Hard- boiled eggs are excellent things to take on a long journey, when you cannot get any animal food, as they take a long- time to digest, and so prevent your feeling hungry. Sand- wiches made of bread and butter, with hard-boiled eggs chopped up finely and put between the bread, are excellent. The yolk of an egg contains a great deal of carbonaceous food. In Russia they take the oil out of the yolks of eggs and sell it as a medicine. There are two drachms of oil in each yolk of a hen's egg. I will now show you a very wonderful box called a Norwegian self-acting cooking apparatus. If you look into it yon will see that it is lined with a kind of cloth called felt. Felt is a material made of hair and wool that allows scarcely any heat to pass through it. There is a saucepan in the centre. This saucepan has four divisions. Come and touch the pan and you will find that it is very hot. You must look and see what there is in these four places. The first contains a rolled jam pudding ; the second a rice pudding; the third an egg. In the fourth there is a stew. This stew contains a piece of beef beautifully done, also a suet dumpling, carrots, turnips, celery, onions, and potato. Not only is the stew well cooked, but it tastes excellent. There has been no steam to carry off the flavouring matter. The pans are quite full, so that there has been no waste. Our cook had very little trouble. She merely prepared these three dishes and put the pan into the oven until the puddings and stew began to boil, then she instantly put the pan into the box, which was aired by the fire, placed this felt cover over the lid, shut it up, and put it in a place free from draught for seven hours. The working people in Norway use them constantly. I wish I could tell colliers, mill hands, working men and women, about this wonderful box. The Prince of Wales has taken one out to India. I am glad that this apparatus proves I am right in saying that foods are injured and wasted by being boiled at 212° for more than a few minutes after they have been placed in the saucepan. Full directions will be found in K