SOUP. 121 bread. Idle people who use neither body nor mind suffer a great deal from indigestion. As a rnle they eat too mnch, because they have nothing else to think about but what they shall have for their dinners. As I have said before, we should all try and eat every day a variety of food. The English people are so ignorant about the nature of foods that they are afraid of eating anything but just what they are accustomed to eat, and they often cook these few things very badly. If English people instead of French had been shut up in Paris for six months during the Prussian war, thousands of English would have died from starvation, because they would not have known how to make the best use of the little food they possessed. The French people are accustomed to eat nearly every herb and vegetable that grows which is palatable and not poisonous. By their freedom from prejudice, their knowledge of foods and cookery, they were able during the siege of Paris to make the best use of every bit of animal and vegetable food they could get hold of. In France, Germany, and Russia both rich and poor take soup every day. It is the cheapest and most nourishing hot dish a poor woman can make for her family. When I was in Russia, eleven years ago, I called to see a very poor widow with a large family who lived in Riga. Though it was winter time her little room looked very comfort- able and clean. Her children were sitting round a table enjoy- ing hot soup, which looked very good. We were in Germany the year before last, and stayed at'a beautiful town called Badeu-Baden. I fortunately met a Ger- man lady there who knew a great deal about the poor and how they lived, because she used to go among them with money and other charities sent through her by the Princess Hohen- lohe, Avho was a half sister to our Queen Victoria. This good princess was very much beloved. Miss , the German lady, took me to an infant school established by the Princess Hohen- lohe. I also visited a school where poor children had a dinner every day, as well as their schooling. This dinner consisted of soup and a small loaf, or cake, of beautiful bread. I had some of this soup, which I found so good that I asked the matron if she would kindly tell me how it was made, ' We