14 IMPURE All! AND VENTILATION. You see this little kettle with the steam coming out of the spout. Why does the steam rise up instead of falling down ? Because hot air is much lighter than cold air. Our breath also rises like steam, because it is warmer than the air about us. If you remember, I told you that if I had anyone ill in a fever I should open the window at the top or break a hole in a top pane of glass, unless it was very cold, but in any case if there was no chimney in the room and the room was small; that was because I wanted to allow the carbonic acid gas, which is light when it is warm, though very heavy when it is cold, to fly through the opening in the top of the window, or, at all events, to mix it with fresh air. Cold air is always running after hot air, for as the hot air rises cold air rushes in to take its place. If you heat the air in a room by means of a fire, the warm air will go up the chimney, and cold air will come in to fill up the gap; so hot and cold air are always chasing each other. Do you not know, when you are sitting by a fire on a cold winter's night, how the wind whistles through the key- holes, pushing its way under the door ? It is only because the cold air is rushing after the hot air escaping from the room. I dare say you have all been at home on a washing-day, and seen the room full of steam. You will find that if you open the bottom part of the window the steam will not go out of the room, but if you open the top about two inches it will fly out quickly enough. Tell your mothers about this. Directly the steam gets cold at the top of the room, it falls down like rain, and covers the furniture and clothes, so that they become wet. A mother told me once that her little boy often suffered from bronchitis after a washing- day, but on following my directions about opening the top of the window the child did not suffer from his old attacks. It is dangerous to sit in a room with the bottom part of a window open, as it often causes a draught to blow directly upon you; but you do not feel the air when it comes from a window that is open a little at the top. In our house we all sleep with our windows open at least an inch at the top both summer and winter, and we never take cold. The room feels so fresh when we awake in the morning because the carbonic acid gas has been able to make its escape.