105 MILK. milk has been turned into a solid substance called ' cui-d,' and the other half into a liquid called ' whey.' The curd, or thick part, is the same substance as cheese. Farmers make cheese by putting some of this gastric juice, called ' rennet,' into milk. The curd is pressed by weights until it becomes a solid cheese, and the whey runs out. Cheese is a nitro- genous food and an animal flesh-former. If cheese is made from new milk, it contains less water and more nourishment than beef and mutton. New milk is milk, you know, that has had none of the cream taken away from it. Some people make cheese of skimmed milk—that is, milk that has had all the cream taken from it. This is very poor cheese—so poor that dogs, when they see it, bark at it, pigs grunt at it, but neither the dog nor the pig will bite it. This kind of cheese is made in Suffolk and Wales. A mother's milk is new milk. If a baby gets its mother's milk, its rightful food, the curd that forms the solid food in its stomach will be of the richest. An infant's liver is very large when it is born, but after- wards, as the child grows older, and takes more solid food, it does not grow so fast as many other parts of the body. Nurses have a practice of bandaging a baby very tightly round its body. This squeezes up the liver. Several work- ing-women have told me that they have gone into a cottage where a baby was screaming, and found that the poor little creature had been bound up so tightly that the flesh was all in wrinkles. The crying ceased when the bandage was made loose. Here is a picture showing the organs that are thrown out of place when the body is bound tight in that way.1 A piece of flannel put once round and tied with strings is quite enough. I have proved to you that milk contains a solid nitro- genous food, which forms flesh, muscles, &c. I have still to prove to you that milk contains carbonaceous foods, or ' body- warmers,' that will form fat. The cream that stands at the top of milk is of an oily nature, and is therefore light and floats on the top.2 You know how butter is made : the cream 1 I showed Madame Bodichon's diagram. See p. 33. 2 I showed a glass of new milk.