THE SKIN. been poisoned by the sweat and carbonic acid that could not get out. All four-footed animals have pores and sweat glands, just as we have, except those which have a bony covering. If you were to varnish a gninea-pig—that is, cover it all over with paint—it would die for the same reason that the little Roman boy died. The sweat could not get out. It is very important to know that both air and liquids can enter these holes in our skin as well as come out of them. Sailors who have been cast on a rock for three or four days have been prevented from dying of thirst by knowing that, if they kept wetting their clothes in the sea water, the water Avould get through these holes into their blood. It would have been impossible for them to drink the sea water, because the salt in it would only have made them more thirsty. Fortunately the salt does not enter the skin, only the water without the salt. A gentleman was once so ill that he could neither eat nor drink anything, and must therefore have died. The doctors managed to keep him alive for two or three days by putting him frequently into milk baths. The milk got through the pores of his skin and nourished his body. After this time he was able to eat and drink, and soon recovered. A great deal of oily matter likewise comes out of the skin, and it is owing to this oily matter that it is quite impossible to get the dirt off your hands and face unless you use soap. Soap mixes with oil, but tvater will not. A working- woman who attended some of my lectures last winter told me that she had often been ' fair capped' to find that she could not get off the dirt unless she used soap,' but now,' she said, ' I understand the reason why, and am very much obliged to you for telling me.' I hope you will never forget to wash yourselves well every morning and night with plenty of soap and water. Things provided for the Lecture. Marshall's diagram of the heart and lungs, and Auzoux's model of the heart. A large sheet upon which the death-roll and the laws of health were printed.