18 THE SKELETON. open air, and wander about in search of food. Birds, for instance, fly many hundreds of miles in a day in search of food. We take them and shut them up in cages so small that there is scarcely room in them to move, much less fly. These cages are often hung up in close rooms or by a window where the sun shines so strongly that the poor birds pant for air and long to fly into their shady woods, where it is cool and dark. I think it is very cruel and selfish to keep any animal shut up just for the pleasure of looking at it, or in order to hear it sing. Even men who are considered to be educated do not understand that all animals will die in air that has no oxygen. This I will prove by the following story. In the Zoological Gardens in London are to be seen animals which have been brought from foreign countries; monkeys among the rest. They are very delicate, as they come from hot countries, where they live out in the woods. A great number used to die every winter, because our climate was too cold for them. Some gentlemen determined that they would build new monkey-houses, and make them so warm that it would be impossible for them to feel the cold. To their great surprise, more monkeys died than ever in these snug abodes. At last it was discovered that, as every little hole was filled up, no fresh air could enter. The poor creatures had been poisoned by their own breath—overcharged with carbonic acid gas. I told you in my first lecture that an immense number of people die every year owing to our ignorance of the laws of health. For the same reason you will find that an immense number of animals most valuable to man die every year—the cow, for instance. Let us see how many different kinds of food we get from the cow alone : milk, cream, butter, cheese, and beef; veal comes from the calf, or young cow. Butcher's meat and all these kinds of meat are very dear. The farmers, who ought to take care of their cows, don't understand that they require as much care as human beings. Cows die by thousands of consumption every year in the British Islands. Consumption is very often caused by breathing bad air. A veterinary surgeon in Leeds (that means a doctor who tries to