APPENDIX L, the flavours and juices. An equal weight of meat and water makes very strong beef-tea. A person fed on the strongest beef-tea, or on any kind of extracts or essence of meat, would soon be pined to death ; they only form flesh. Flour, rice, pearl barlev, cream, eggs, or new milk ought to be added. When we roast meat we want to keep in all its juices, therefore we must harden the outside skin by placing the joint near a hot fire for the first ten minutes, then it ought to be roasted very gradually by removing it to a much greater distance, as meat quickly cooked is never good. When meat is baked, there ought to be a ventilator in the oven to let out the steam. ^ To keep the juices in boiled meat, place it in boiling water for ten minutes, and then cook it very gradually. If meat cannot be got, cheese is as nourishing for people who work hard or take much exercise, and, if well masticated, is not difficult to digest, as some people think it is. Table of the Constituents of the Juices of Flesh. Albumen Caseine Sarcine Lactic acid Butyric acid Common salt Red colouring matter Salts More potash than soda Osmazome, flavouring matter The Patent Norwegian Self-acting Coolcing Apparatus. The following are the directions for the use of the Patent Nor- wegian Self-acting Cooking Apparatus:—Put the joint of meat, or other viands intended to be cooked, with the boiling water or other fluid, as the case may be, into the saucepan of the Apparatus, and place it on the fire. Allow the boiling to continue for a quarter to half au hour, taking care that the lid of the saucepan is firmly down: then take the saucepan off the fire and put it, without opening it. into the Apparatus. Cover it carefully with the cushion, and fasten the lid of the case firmly down. In this state the cooking will com- plete itself in rather longer time than the ordinary mode takes, say from 3 to G hours according to the meat to be cooked. The time required for boiling must not be reckoned from the moment the liquid begins to simmer, but from the time strong jets of steam are seen escaping from underneath the lid. Care must be taken not to squeeze too large a piece of meat into a small saucepan, thereby leaving too little space for the necessary cold water, and not to use a large saucepan for a small quantity of food. The saucepan should never be less than two-thirds filled either with food or water.