*'U DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS. change starch into sugar, which, I have just shown you, will mix with water. Have you not often found a very sweet taste in your mouth while you were chewing some bread ? You will now know the reason, because the saliva, or spittle, that is in your mouth changes the starch which is in the bread into sugar. Try a mouthful of bread this evening—don't eat any butter with it—and you will find that what I have told you is true. The gastric juice that is in the stomach, and which I shall presently tell you more about, does not digest starch or oily substances. It digests the animal food we eat. When bread or any vegetable gets into the stomaeh, it will be churned, and gently moved about, until it is broken into little pieces, and the gastric juice will turn it into that substance called chyme. Only when the food is broken into very small pieces will it be allowed to pass through the little door on the right side, which leads into the intestine. There is, as I said in my last lecture, an organ called the sweetbread, or pancreas. It lies here, behind the stomach. A great quantity of juice is made daily in this organ. This juice is carried, as already stated, by a tube which opens with the bile-duct into the duodenum. It is something like the spittle, or saliva, that is in the mouth, because it turns starch into sugar and helps to digest the vegetable food when it gets into the bowels. A great deal of the same kind of juice runs out of the glands of the intestines, so that the vegetable food continues to be digested the whole way as it passes through the bowels. The bowels of a man are about six times as long as his body. It seems scarcely possible that so long a pipe could take up so small a space as it does. Look at this picture.1 Remember, the bowels are only one long pipe. All our organs are packed in the same beautiful way, so that not the smallest space is wasted. Animals that eat only flesh, like the lion, have a very small stomach and very short intestines, or bowels: the lion's bowels are only three times the length of its body. A sheep has bowels twenty-eight times as long as its body; a horse, 1 Marshall's diagram. See p. 83.