78 DIGESTION. of teeth. A human being can, you see, move his lower jaw not only upwards and downwards, but backwards and forwards and from side to side. A cow is an animal that eats nothing but grass, with, certain plants growing in it. Have you ever noticed a cow eating or chewing its cud in a field ? If not, watch one, and you will see how much it moves its lower jaw about—upwards and downwards, backwards and forwards, and from side to side. The cow does not chop its food as the lion does ; it grinds it as the mill does corn. The teeth used for grinding food are called mill or molar teeth ; a very good name for them. I have brought you a single tooth of an elephant. I should like to have brought you the skull of an elephant, but I found it would require four strong men to carry it. When we go to the Museum, I will show you all the differ- ent animals and their skeletons that we have talked about together. Though the elephant is the largest and strongest quadruped that now lives on the earth, he is also one of the gentlest with those who treat him kindly. Mothers have left their children to his care for some hours. They were perfectly safe ; no one was allowed to touch them until the mothers' return. Animals who feed on vegetable food are always more gentle than those who feed on flesh-meat. If a lion has once killed and eaten a man, he never rests until he has found another. An Indian gentleman, who came from Bengal, told me last winter that he had seen a tiger who had eaten at least two hundred men. English gentlemen and native gentlemen in India enjoy hunting and shooting lions and tigers. Work- ing-men who are natives are not allowed to kill them. The consequence is that there are so many tigers that they roam about and kill and eat up great numbers of people. Travel- lei's frequently find villages quite deserted. Directly the people hear that these animals are approaching they fly to other places for safety. Now we must examine the teeth in the human skull, to see what teeth we have. There are eight small cutting teeth, four in the upper jaw and four in the bottom jaw; they come in the front. Between them and the three double teeth there