44 THE CIRCULATION. will bo astonished to hear that not a drop of blood can pass through the walls or skin of either an artery or a vein. There are most wonderful little pipes called capillaries: they come between every small artery and vein and join them together by a sort of network of pipes. It is through the sides of these small pipes that the blood runs out to feed the body and all the organs. The capillaries have only one skin, and are finer than a single hair of our head. You see these two glass pipes which are intended to repre- sent an artery and a vein, and between them there is a small twisted pipe. Now, it is the twisted pipe which represents a single capillary, through the coat of which the blood escapes. Though these little capillaries are very often much twisted about, there is always a passage or road through them, so that the blood from an artery can run through them to a vein. I will now pour into the artery what we will suppose to be pure blood. You see that the blood continues a beautiful bright red until it comes to the vein, when it becomes a dark bluish- black colour : the reason of this is that the oxygen gas and some of the good blood have run through the walls of the capillary into the flesh to feed the body and organs, and the dirty blood, which is full of carbonic acid gas and worn-out stuff of the body, has come into the capillary and passed up into the vein. Certain materials in the good blood and the bad blood have changed places, because the good blood was light and the bad blood was heavy. A capillary won't allow two things that have the same weight to exchange places with each other through its skin. I will now show you a little experiment to illustrate this. Here is a pipe filled with some water that has sugar and a little red colouring matter in it. This end of the pipe is covered over with the same kind of skin that a capillary is made of. When I hold this end down no water runs through the skin. I will now put the pipe into this tumbler of clear water that has no sugar in it; therefore the water in the tumbler will not weigh so heavy as the water in the pipe, because there is sugar in the pipe-water, and for that reason the capillary skin will allow the heavy sugar-and- water to run through into the tumbler, and the clear water to pass up into the pipe. I should like a littlexboy or girl to