THE SKELETON. c 2 Ill cure cattle) told me the other day that whenever he was sent for to see cows that were ill of fever or consumption, he found them living in horribly dirty stables, and when he told the farmers that they must clean the place by taking out the dung and whitewashing the walls, &c, they only laughed at him. The greatest care, of course, ought to be taken of all animals who furnish us with food. If they are not healthy when the butchers kill them, their flesh will of course be bad for us to eat. Pigs have a dreadful complaint called measles. People who have eaten their flesh, which, you know, is pork, ham, and bacon, have taken this disease, and died after suffering great agony. Pigs get this disease owing to their not having been kept clean and properly fed. Sheep also die by thousands of measles and all kinds of diseases. All this ignoi'ance has helped, in a great measure, to make butcher's meat very dear, because the cattle have become so scarce. We are now obliged to fetch them from foreign countries. You have all heard of the cattle-plague ; it was brought from Russia. There they treat their animals just as we do. Por a long part of their journey these poor creatures are carried by railway in dirty carriages, so closely packed that they can scarcely move, and then they are driven and huddled together on board vessels, and suffer terribly at sea. Very little food or water is given them on the journey and voyage. Even healthy animals so treated would become unhealthy during their long journey. Don't you think it is quite right that we should suffer for our ignorance and cruelty, as we do, by having to eat diseased meat, and also by losing our own cattle, to say nothing of what they have to undergo ? This is all I shall say about dumb animals to-day. I shall now describe the human skeleton. You see I have a picture of the skeleton of a man here. Our bones are the foundation, or frame, on which our flesh is supported. You see by this outer line where the flesh ought to come.1 There are more than two hundred bones in 1 Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20.