THE TREATMENT ()V ANIMALS. 180 until last year in the Leeds Royal Park, and is still carried on in grand places near London. Pigeons are the most domestic and affectionate of all birds. People, when speaking of a gentle person, often say she is as gentle as a dove (a dove is the common wild pigeon). At a pigeon match men stand at a certain distance from little boxes, in each of which a pigeon is put. When the men who are going to shoot have got their guns pointed ready, the boxes are opened, so that the pigeons can fly away. Very often they are too tame, and will not move. In order to make them fly the feathers are plucked from the breast, so that the pain they will then suffer may make them fly. Pins are stnck into them for the same purpose. On September 22, 1874, my brother-in- law, Mr. George Buckton, saw the following case: ' On the 22nd ult., about five o'clock in the afternoon, Mr. George Buckton, North Hill, was in his garden near the gates of Roundhay Park, when he heard an explo- sion, and looking around he saw a pigeon flying over the garden, and noticed flashes of light proceeding from its tail, and simnltaneously accompanied by a loud crack. It then strnck him that fireworks were attached to the bird's tail, and looking over the garden wall he saw the two defendants, Elijah Walls and John Hnnt. He and his gardener followed them, and the defendants were apprehended at the gates of Roundhay Park. In a box which they carried were found two pigeons with crackers tied to their tails. The two defendants, who were boys, stated that the other defendants, Walls and Heaton, had asked them to let off the pigeons at five minutes' intervals. Inspector Peet was communicated with, and fonnd all the defendants together. The elder defendants expressed sorrow for what they had done, and were each fined 5s. and costs. The younger defendants were dismissed with a caution.' A lady friend of mine who lives close to the Royal Park, after hearing a constant firing for two or three hours, put on her bonnet and went out to get away from this unpleasant noise, as she knew that at every shot a poor little pigeon was either being killed or injured. She met a man coming out of the park, and asked him how many pigeons had been