NITROGKNOUS ANi) LIQUID KOObS. 102 of fever; the blood then becomes too thick, because the great heat has dried up the water the blood ought to contain. The water we drink soon grows as hot as the blood, and turns into vapour, which opens the pores of the skin and carries off the heat in perspiration. Spirits dry the skin and shut up the pores. Dr. Edward Smith says that a man while he is drunk does not perspire. No wonder he becomes so mad and delirious. I hope yon will explain how water cools the blood to anyone who thinks it is a bad thing to give water in case of fever. I have been often told that parents do not think it safe to give their children as much water as they want when they have a fever or are thirsty. It is always a safe drink; even a baby would not be hurt by it. The blood will only con- tain a certain amount of water, however much yon drink. It is dangerous to drink cold water after violent exercise ; but not at all dangerous to drink it during the exercise before the body has begun to cool. If you have been running very hard on a hot summer's day, and feel very thirsty, then you had better take a little water from time to time until yonr thirst is gone. When people suffer from a continued thirst, tepid water lessens it better than cold water. A piece of ice in the mouth is a good thing. Snow, nnless it is melted first, increases the thirst: this is a very strange fact. Now I must say a few words for poor dumb animals, who, like little babies, cannot speak for themselves. I am afraid they suffer dreadfully from our cruelty and ignorance. It is considered by many people very bad to let a horse drink when it is thirsty, as they say that it should only be allowed to take water at certain times. All sensible masters and grooms place water in the stables, and let the horses drink when they feel inclined. A horse, donkey, dog and cat require a little water often, as they have smaller stomachs for their size than we have. A donkey is very particular that the water he drinks should be clean and pure, because in the country, he comes from he is accustomed to drink from clear rnnning streams. Drinking-fountains, I am glad to say, are generally put up in all large towns, so that horses, if their masters will let them, can drink when they are thirsty.