80 DIGESTION. gullet.1 The gullet is the tube that carries the food into the stomach. Remember it lies behind the windpipe, nearest to the backbone. The ball of food that has just been made in the mouth will not run or fly down the gullet as we think it does. The food will pass gradually downwards. It is first held by the muscular fibres at the upper part: then these muscular fibres press it on until, step by step, it reaches the door that opens into the stomach. It is not, then, because you are standing up that your food goes down into your stomach ; it would go down just as well if you stood on your head. I dare say you have seen a juggler perform the wonderful feat of drinking a glass of water when he was standing on his head. The water- goes down step by step, just as the solid food does. Cows and horses and all four-footed animals eat and drink with their heads down. They have no difficulty, because their food passes along a gullet made like oui*s. Now I must tell you something about the stomach. No doubt you have all seen and heard a bagpipe that men play in the streets. It is an instrument which Scotchmen make with the stomach of a pig. The stomach of a man is of exactly the same shape.2 It has three layers of muscular fibres. In the outside one there are fibres which pass downwards over the stomach ; in the middle one they go round it; in the inner one they pass down obliquely. The fibres which pass downwards shorten the bag; those which go round it make it narrower, and the inner fibres draw the sides of the bag over the food. By this means the stomach keeps moving the food that is in it up and down, just as a churn moves the milk about to make it into butter. Inside this is another thin skin, which is very smooth and has a beautiful pink colour. This is all I shall tell you about the organs of diges- tion to-day. Before I finish my lecture I should like to tell you some- thing which I dare say a great many of you already know about water. Water is made of two gases, oxygen and 1 I showed two glass pipes (the windpipe was red, the gullet yellow); they were fastened together to show the position of the two pipes. 8 I showed Ramm and Stodmann's model of a human stomach.