15 WHY WE HAVE FEVERS. I will now tell you a story which will prove that there ought to be a fireplace in every bed-room as well as sitting- room. In 1782 seventy-three patiper children, between seven and fourteen years of age, were sent to a new house in Golden Square, London. Twenty of these children (girls) slept in a room together. In fourteen days they began to have dreadful pain, were sick, and became delirious. The doctor could not imagine what caused the illness, as there were eighteen girls who slept in the next room, and they were all well. The doctor ordered that the sick girls should be moved into a much larger room, where they recovered. They found out that the chimney of the room in which the girls had first slept was quite closed up with bricks. The window and door being also closed, the cai'bonic acid gas could not escape, and the air had become so bad that it had poisoned their blood. Now, do remember, all of you, to take care and see that tbe chimneys of your rooms are not stuffed up with bags. When we take lodgings at the sea-side, directly we go into our bed-rooms we look up the chimneys. I am sorry to say we generally find they are quite filled up. They say it is to prevent the dirt from coming in. Then we have to order that the bags be taken away. If you have no fireplace in your room, be sure you have the window a little open at the top. You now understand why it is good to have a fire in a bed-room where there is sickness, because it causes the cold fresh air to rush in through the room after the warmer air that is escaping up the chimney. Directions hoio to attend to a sich jperscm's room, so that the germs of infection may not escape into the next room, or he spread by sending the dirty led linen and clothes out to be ivashed. Remove the carpets and all the furniture that is not quite necessary. Keep an earthenware pan in the room filled with clean water that contains a proper quantity of permanganate of potash. Directly any bed linen or clothes require to be washed, put them into this water for five or ten minutes, or