153 USE OF THE THERMOMETER. cook gradually. If the oven is not hot enough at first (570°), the yeast goes on rising ■ or growing, and the bread becomes full of holes like a honeycomb. Directly we see such bread we say it has not been well baked. Every oven ought to have a special arrangement for the use of a thermometer. It is very difficult now to place one conveniently. When I was in Paris this autumn I was kindly taken through the kitchens of the Louvre Hotel; there I saw the oven was provided with a thermometer attached to the outside. The maker of this oven is A. M. Lesobre, 17, Rue de la Vieille-Estrade, Paris. I also found that all the meat was roasted at a splendid open fire. No meat can be properly roasted in an oven. The fresh air that surrounds the meat has a peculiar and healthy effect. Home-made bread is more wholesome than bought bread, because bakers often add alum to make bad flour appear white and good. Bakehouses are too frequently dirty, unventilated cellars, in which the air is most impure. This is my last lecture on cooking. I hope you have all learnt by this time the value of the thermometer. It is not at all an expensive instrument. Messrs. Harvey & Reynolds, Commercial Street, Leeds, sell some, like this I have used, at 3s., which go up to nearly 700°. With one of these a cook could boil and fry every kind of food. I hope that there will soon be one in every kitchen, and that all young girls will be taught to use them. A thermometer that goes up to 600° will answer all cooking purposes. Things provided for the Lecture. A frying-pan. Somo dripping for frying the fish. Fillet of sole (with seasoned bread crumbs and egg all ready prepared). Questions for the Twenty-first Lechire. 1. Can you tell mo what organic matter is ? 1'. Why is it dangerous to drink or eat any food that has remained in the room of a sick person who has had a fever or any contagious complaint ? S. How would you clean a gridiron, dripping-pan, or any saucepan so that it should not be the least groasy ?