THE NERVES. IGO The air oboiit us is made up of very tiny particles of matter; matter means something you can feel or touch. We cannot, it is true, see the air that fills this room, hut we often feel it when we are out of doors on a windy day ; then it knocks against us so roughly that it nearly throws us down. The air helps us to hear, for when anything makes a noise it knocks these little particles against each other, and they carry on the sound to our ears. You have all thrown stones into a pond of water, and seen that directly the stone struck the water little rings were made all round the place where the stone fell in. These little rings round the hole spread out one after another like small waves, until they reached the edge of the pond. Every time I speak the air is forced out of my lungs and pushes the air in this room, and little rings or waves of sound are made, that spread out one after another until they reach the walls. If there was no air, there would be nothing to make a sound, and everything would be silent. You see this glass, and inside it there is a little bell. All the air has been pumped out of the glass. We can purnp out air just as we can pump out water. Now I will ring this little bell. Do you hear any sound ? No, not any, because there are no particles of air inside the glass to make the waves of sound. When a noise is made waves of sound go through the air in all directions, and some of them get into your ears. You have a great many nerves of sound in your ears ; the rings or waves strike these nerves, and they carry the sound to the little centre of white and grey matter that holds the sense of hearing, placed in the back part of the head under the little brain. We have two centres of hearing, one for eacb ear. We have an outer ear and an inner ear. You can only see the outer ear ; it is this curled or twisted piece of flesh. It is twisted because the waves or rings of sound can get into the ear more easily through these curved places. Human beings generally cannot move the outer ear, but a great many animals can do so. A horse pricks up its ears, so does a donkey. All animals who have to escape from their enemies by running away can fortunately hear very quickly, such as a hare or a rabbit. Sporting dogs have very large outer ears.