107 SALTS. one which is called potash. I have some in this bottle, which you see is a white substance. It is composed of a metal called potassium and oxygen gas. I will make a small quantity of this salt at the end of the lecture. At my next lecture I will make another salt, called soda. You all know, I am sure, the name of this salt, and must often have seen some at home. A hundred years ago there was a dreadful complaint called the scurvy, that killed nearly all our sailors who took long sea-voyages. In those days the voyages were very long, for they had only sailing-vessels, no steamers. It took six months to go to India (now it takes six weeks) by sea. The food these poor men had to eat and drink for nine months at a time consisted of salt meat, hard biscuits called sailor's biscuits, no bread, bad water, and plenty of spirits. They never touched fresh vegetables, such as potatoes. Now, in potatoes and all green vegetables there are salts of potash and lime, and several others, which the blood must contain to be pure. Before the Irish famine, which was caused by the failure of the potato crops, the Irish people used to live almost entirely on potatoes. During that time, as they ate plenty of potatoes, they did not know what it was to suffer from this dreadful complaint called the scurvy, but directly they had to eat salt meat without any vegetables they had this complaint Dr. Guy, a physician who, I am glad to say, is now living, has written a most interesting book,1 in which he gives the following description of the dreadful sufferings our sailors had to endure when they were so shamefully fed at sea 100 years ago :—' Round blotches came under the skin, called " purples." The blood ran into the flesh and made the limbs painful and stiff. The blood-vessels were so weak that they-broke with a touch. The gums swelled and became dark. The teeth grew loose and fell out of their sockets. The breath was bad, and blood poured from the nostrils and eyes. The poor suf- ferer became so weak that he fainted at the least exertion, and fell down dead in sight of his native land.' A ship under the charge of Captain Anson left England with a great many sailors. When Captain Anson returned 1 'Public Health : a Popular Introduction to Sanitary Science,' p. 142.