THE LILN'GS AND WINDPIPE. 51 valids are placed—gas ought not to be used, unless the room is large and very well ventilated. Nearly all the heat there is in the world, and nearly all the heat we have in our bodies, is made by oxygen and carbon joining together. Our blood contains a great deal of carbon and an immense quantity of oxygen. I will now explain where the oxygen meets the carbon in our bodies, and how the blood is made clean and hot in the lungs. First of all I must tell you about the lungs and wind- pipe. We have two lungs ; one lies on each side of the heart. This is a merciful arrangement, as, in case one lung becomes diseased, there is another left. People with only one healthy lung have been known to live for a long time. Each lung is covered by a bag of membrane, which is always kept moist, so that it can move easily about. The heart, that lies between them, is also held in a moist bag of membrane. The lungs and heart are protected and covered by the ribs and the breast-bone. The back and front of the chest are lined by the same membrane or skin which covers the lungs. It is called the ' pleura.' You have heard, perhaps, of a com- plaint called 'pleurisy.' This complaint is caused by an in- flammation of the skin that lines the chest and covers the lungs. Sometimes only one of the two bags which hold the lungs becomes inflamed, occasionally both. When both are affected it is, of course, much more serious. The two lungs are quite separated from each other. Next I must describe the windpipe. By the woi'd wind- pipe I mean the pipe that leads down from the mouth into the lungs. The windpipe is wonderfully made. Here is a picture of it.1 There are strong rings of gristle that nearly go round the pipe ; they are fastened to a band composed of flesh that runs down the back of the windpipe. If there were not these firm little rings to keep the windpipe stretched out, the sides of the pipe might fall together, and then no air could get into the lungs. A windpipe is a very good nWe for this tube, for it carries all the wind, or air, through the nose and mouth down into the lungs. When this curious pipe gets 1 See diagram, page 52. b 2