EFFECTS OF NERVOUS IRRITATION. 157 while they are cutting their teeth, but children who live in the country and have good air do not suffer half so much. If properly fed and nursed, they ought scarcely to suffer at all. Doctors say that a great many more children die in large towns than in the country. The nerves in their teeth, being weak from bad air and bad food, cannot bear the pressure of the gum, which becomes very much swollen and inflamed. Directly a doctor lances the gum and lets out the blood the pain goes away, because the gum no longer presses on the nerves. It is a pity that so many mothers are afraid to let their children's gums be lanced, for this simple operation prevents convulsions and a great deal of suffering. Oxygen strengthens and tightens the nerves just as the tuning-key tightens the strings of a harp and puts it in tune. Don't you know how cheerful and good-tempered you feel when you have been out for a long walk in the country, and how quickly you fall asleep when you go to bed ? What a pity it is that mothers do not try and give their children fresh air, instead of buying soothing syrups to make them sleep ! There are hundreds of these dreadful syrups, and in every one of them there is laudanum. It is nothing but the laudanum that sends the children to sleep. Only a few weeks ago a friend of mine heard a lecture that was given by a celebrated doctor in a lunatic asylum, a place where mad people are kept. He said that people now drink a great deal of laudanum, or swallow opium, from which laudanum is made, and that this drives them mad. Worse than this, the quantity given to little children by their mothers is something immense. Lau- danum deadens the nerves, so that they can scarcely move. The appetite goes, and the child who has continually taken laudanum is pined to death. A friend of mine went into the house of a poor neighbour some months since, and saw a poor little infant in its mother's arms trembling like a leaf. She said,■ Oh dear, the poor little thing is going to have a fit.' ' Oh, no,' replied the mother; ' it only does this because it wants to go to sleep.' Another day she went in and found it just in the same dreadful state; this time she saw the mother give it some soothing syrup, and it soon fell asleep. The mother said, 'tOh, it will never sleep