ORGANIC MATTER. 147 I hope you will never eat any fruit like these gooseberries, which are decaying, or, as you would say, going bad. The poisonous gases that are in these dying gooseberries closely resemble those made in an animal when it is dying or turning into corruption. These gases and the poisonous germs that live in corruption will give you diarrhoea or cholera. If people understood that it is as dangerous to breathe the air that comes from a decaying plant as it is to breathe the air that comes from a dead animal, they would not put dead vege- tables, such as potato-peelings, old cabbages, &c, into a pail and let them stand in the kitchen under the sink, or anywhere in the house. Middens, or refuse heaps, are dreadful places, for on to them fish-bones, vegetables, and all kinds of dead organic matter are thrown. A delicate person might catch a fever by even passing near such a place. The same might happen in passing a cesspool or a river in which there is or- ganic matter. It is disgraceful to see some parts of our river and canal in Leeds. If you venture to stand a moment, and look at them, you will see gases bubbling up that come from dying organic matter that is slowly floating down, making the air unbearable. Even in lovely country places, where the air ought to be so fresh and sweet, fevers break out, because people have middens, pig-styes, and dung-heaps close to their cottages. Farm-houses are often unhealthy because the farm- yai'd, stables, and cow-houses are kept dirty. The manure and other dead organic matter becomes liquid, and runs all about, and often finds its way into the well which supplies the house with water. Streets that are badly paved or are not paved at all have deep holes in them: these holes become filled with dead organic matter made liquid by rain. Such streets are a great reflection on any town council, as they cause fevers by filling the houses near them with poisonous gases. Courts and alleys are very unhealthy places, and ought not to be allowed, because fresh air cannot pass through them and kill the poisonous germs that always collect wherever dirt exists. I must now mention a very dirty and disagreeable habit that children have in schools of washing their slates with their own saliva. Spittle, or saliva, you know, contains organic L 2