156 THE NERVES. so fearfully that Mr. Wheelhouse was obliged to remain in another room while the child was dying. I am afraid that a great many children are made idiots or weak in mind by fear. When the mind is troubled and weakened, all the organs become weakened too. It has often happened that a person who was just going to sit down to a good dinner received bad news. Instantly after hearing such news even the smell and sight of the good things became disagreeable to him. This is the reason why people grow thin when they are unhappy. They lose their appetite and cannot eat. When our minds are troubled, and we are unhappy, riches and ease bring us no comfort. The only way to cure unhappiness is to work. Try to do something that will help other people; get plenty of fresh air and exercise. A poet has said that our nerves are like a stringed instrument called a harp. He says-— Strange that a harp of thousand strings Should keep in tune so long. You must often have heard people say, 11 am quite un- strung; my nerves are shaken.' It is quite true that the nerves of people who sit in bad air, such as is to be found in crowded schoolrooms, workshops, theatres, and courts of justice, become very irritable and shaky ; though these people feel very weak, nervous, and cross, they cannot bear to be quiet. This is the state of mind that leads people to drink and take spirits. Alas ! by doing so they only add one poison to another; for spirits, you know, at last make the nerves so weak that the whole frame trembles from head to foot. Bad air, again, is very trying to little children. They are often required to sit still with their arms crossed for a long time together. This position contracts their lungs, while the bad air in the crowded schoolroom, where they have spent several hours, naturally makes them restless and irritable. This bad air has the same effect upon teachers, who are not then dis- posed to be very gentle to the children under their care. Toothache and tic are complaints sometimes caused by weak nerves. You know there is a nerve in every one of our teeth, Little children who live in bad air suffer dreadfully