94 0ABBONACEOU8 AND NITBQ&BNOUS FOODS. must notice that the sugar and treacle are quite cold before I put in the acid. A little boy and girl had better come to me and feci how cold the tumblers are. I will pour some of this acid into both the tumblers. You see both the treacle and the sugar have become as black as a piece of charcoal or this carbon I have in this bottle, and a very great amount of heat is made. Sugar and treacle contain three things—oxygen, hydro- gen, and carbon. All this great heat which you see is made because the sulphuric acid has joined chemically with the oxygen and hydrogen that are in the sugar and treacle. Sulphuric acid does not like carbon, so the carbon is left all alone in the tumbler. Heat, you must remember, is always made when two things join chemically together. Sugar and water do not join chemically. The sugar is only melted in the water ; it does not join with either the oxygen or hydrogen that the Avater is made of. The reason why I am so anxious to make you understand that sugar and treacle are ' body-warmers' is because these two kinds of food are very good for children. They ought to have plenty of them at their meals, if they like them. Little children have to grow tall as well as strong; this they cannot do unless they have plenty of fat to cover their bones. It often happens that children do not like the fat that comes from an animal, such as mutton and beef fat; but they nearly always like sugar and treacle. These two things turn into fat when they are digested in the body. They can eat them instead of animal fat. I do not believe that children would all have so great a longing for sweet things unless sweet , things were good for them. It has been generally thought that sugar is not wholesome, and that it injures the teeth. To prove that this is a mistake we have only to go to the West Indies, where the sugar-cane grows, and see how healthy and fat the little black children are. It is not possible to see children who have whiter or stronger teeth than they have. Fortunately sugar is now very cheap in England, as the tax has just been taken off. It is,