OOOKING. II- in the stomach 5 that is why it is not a good thing to take meat with tea. Theine stops the gastric juice from flowing freely into the stomach. Cold bread and butter are the most wholesome foods to take with tea. I will now try and describe the effect a cup of tea has upon our bodies. We will suppose that a poor woman feels faint from want of food. She has nothing in her stomach, and takes a cup of tea. It is cold weather. For a short time the tea warms her, and she feels happier and more cheerful, for the theine in the tea has supported her nerves. It always does this if taken in moderation and not too strong. After a little time, the woman begins to feel colder and weaker than she was before she took the tea. There is scarcely any nou- rishment in tea except that which is got from the sugar and milk. Tea has a very powerful effect on the skin; it opens the pores and makes us perspire. The poor woman will there- fore be thinner and weaker after her cup of tea, because the perspiration will have carried off some of the wasted or used- up substances of her body, and she had none to spare. It has now become the fashion for ladies to take a cup of strong tea at four o'clock, after a good meat lunch, and before they take a good dinner at seven o'clock. Their cup of tea will no doubt do them good, because they will be all the better for the waste that the cup of tea will cause. I am very anxious to give this information about tea, because I am quite sure the mothers and daughters of the working-classes in England injure themselves very much by taking too much tea. Many wives and mothers used to come and talk to me at the end of the lectures I gave last winter, and I was very sorry to find from what they told me how much they suffered from bad health. Face-ache, tic, rheumatism, and bronchitis were very common complaints. I found that nearly all of them were in the habit of taking a great deal of tea. Mill- girls, who work in close rooms, become unhealthy, and then they easily take cold. Tea makes them, more tender, because it opens the pores of their skins and makes them perspire, so that when they come out of the close warm rooms on a cold day, or at night, they easily take cold. No persons except doctors work harder than the indus-