MINERAL FOODS. 1 I showed a Wade-boie from the School of Medicine. 11(1 water, which yon know is partly made of oxygen gas, it will nnite chemically with that oxygen, and there will be a great amount of heat given off. A new substance will, of course, be made by this union, and it will fall to the bottom of the tnmbler. I am afraid there will be so small a quantity that it will be scarcely visible. Soda is, like potash, an alkali. I must now explain what an alkali is. I have some water in this glass which is very acid. I should like one or two of you to come and taste it. If the water is acid, it will make this piece of blue paper turn red, because all acids turn certain vegetable blue colours red. Now I will put some soda into this acid water, and you will find afterwards that no acid taste will remain, because the soda is an alkali, and takes away the acidity. Some salts are alkalies. When our food is being digested in the stomach it is all made very acid by the gastric juice. After this acid food passes a good distance down the intestine, it is said that it be- comes alkaline, partly owing to the pancreatic juice, and partly to its admixture with the bile, but chiefly owiug to the juices from the intestine itself. I will just mention a few salts whose names you know. Salt that we eat is a salt. It is made of a gas and a mineral. Sodium is the mineral, the same one that is in soda. The name of the gas you have never heard; it is called chlorine gas. There are many different kinds of gases. I have only told you during my lectures about four gases—oxygen, hydro- gen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid gas. People cannot live unless they can have the salt called salt. In some countries persons used to be tortured to death by not being allowed to have any salt either in their food or to eat. The hard part of all our bones consists almost entirely of a salt called phosphate of lime. I have some of the phosphate of lime in this bottle. This soft bone I hold in my hand 1 is so soft because all the phosphate and carbonate of lime have been taken out of it; all that is left of the blade-bone is only gelatine, the same stuff we make jelly of. Here is some gela- tine in this packet. Bread contains more of this salt—phos- phate of lime—than any other food. That is why boys and