SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. Bad air injures the eyes of human beings and all animals. Little children who live in bad air have a very painful disease of the eyes. Stables where horses are kept are often very dirty. Out of the dead organic matter which often lies in a stable comes a gas called ammonia; this gas makes the eyes very sore. Dark stables are also very bad for horses. I mnst not forget to point ont the six muscles which are fastened to the back and sides of the eyeball; the eye by means of these muscles can turn to the right and left, up and down, and in other directions. You can see these muscles in this model. I have not told you nearly all I should like to tell you about the eye. I hope when you are older some one will explain the use of this transparent body or humour inside, called the crystalline lens, and many other wonderful things. I do not think I could explain them so that you would be able to understand them yet. Parents and teachers are not aware that children often suffer from imperfect vision, or are short-sighted. At music lessons, or when they have to read what is written on a black- board, or distinguish the colour of an object, they sometimes appear stupid, and are punished for want of attention. Some- times, too, they are accused of not speaking the truth when they say they did not see something that everyone else saw. Instead of scolding and punishing, it would be better to be gentle and watch the case, and take the child to a doctor who understands the eye. The wonderful organs of sight which I have just tried to describe to you would be useless unless there was a sun to give us light. In the dark we can see nothing. I am now going to mention some more of the wonderful things we owe to the sun. Without the sun we should have neither light, heat, the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink, nor the coals that burn and make our fires. No animal or plant can live without the sun. I will first explain why plants must have sunshine. Before I do so, I had better remind you that carbonic acid gas is made of oxygen and carbon. I told you that the under part of every little leal' is covered over with organs called pores, or mouths, through which a plant gives off oxygen gas and takes in the carbonic