L40 COOKIHQ, Cold meat, you know from what 1 have fcold you in one of my lectures, is not so nourishing as hot meat; it is there- fore very necessary that we should learn how to make a good hot dish with cold meat. Whether we hash or mince cold meat, we must take great care and make a good gravy to warm it up in, and cook the meat very little the second time. The gravy must also have a pleasant taste and a good flavour, because the meat will have lost a great deal of its flavouring matter, called osmazome, while it was being cooked the day before. This is why there is scarcely any flavour in cold meat. You know that hot meat and cold meat taste quite differently. It is a fact that a nice taste or a good smell makes our mouths water—that is, causes the saliva to flow. When the saliva flows into the mouth, the gastric juice also comes into the stomach. As the saliva and the gastric juice help our food to digest, it is very important that what we eat should taste, smell, and look good. A dirty tablecloth, dirty knives and forks, dirty plates, take away the appetite of even strong people; while poor invalids and delicate persons are often prevented from eating the food they so much need, and upon which their very lives may depend, because it does not look or smell tempting, and is brought to them in a dirty and untidy manner. The following is a receipt for making gravy for a hash or a mince without meat stock:— Put a teaspoonful of flour, a little dripping, and an onion into a saucepan ; hold the saucepan over the fire until the onion is nicely browned; do not let the onion burn, or the flavour of the gravy will be quite spoilt ; add half-a-pint of boiling water, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; instead of nutmeg any sauce can be used that is liked, such as ketchup. Let these things simmer a short time; then put in the cold meat, cut into small slices. Put on the cover, and let the hash simmer gently on the hob for ten or fifteen minutes, until the meat is quite hot. When we stew we ought to use fresh uncooked meat; a stew is therefore very different from a hash. We stew meat in order to make the flesh or tissues tender. We also want to keep in all the juices; we must therefore take care and