192 APPElfDIX I. POODS Most SUITABLE FOB iikaLTH. Our Body-Wcavners Are butter, dripping, suet, any kind of oil or fat, and also sugar and Starch.. If you lived mi these alone, you would be pined. Our Flesh-Formers • Are bread, oatmeal, and all kinds of flour, eggs, cheese, and meat, If you lived entirely on these foods, you would have scurvy and skin diseases. Oatmeal requires to be very well cooked. Cooks as a rule do not give it a sufficient time. Porridge is best made of the coarsely-ground Scotch oatmeal.—Mix two tablespoonfuls of it with a small tea-cup of cold water till it is all one thickness, then pour a pint of boiling water, and keep stirring it frequently for forty minutes over a fire or on a hot hob ; it is then fit to eat, but will be much more digestible if it is kept simmering for a much longer time. Shoidd the porridge become too thick a little water can be added. It should be served in a hot soup-plate and milk added. This is the most nourishing food a man or child can eat. In some parts of Scotland the people eat a preparation of oatmeal called brose or stirabout. Boiling water is poured upon the oatmeal, which is well stirred, and then eaten without any more cooking. This is a most indigestible food, and causes a com- plaint called pyrosis. Potash will prevent our having Scurvy. The potash bought at a druggist's shop won't serve. You must eat food in which it is contained. All green vegetables have a little ; also ripe fruit, oranges and lemons particularly. Potatoes and all floury vegetables are nearly all starch; therefore, let the water be boiling when you put them in the pan, then the skin hardens directly, and all the potash is kept in. Dried grains, such as split peas, &c, must be soaked in cold water (rice in milk) for several hours. Lime and Phosphoric. These two substances, which form the hard part of our bones, are to be found in the largest quantities in bread and oatmeal. No doctor or druggist can give you these mixed as nature mixes them in these two kinds of food. An infant cannot digest bread until it has cut its teeth.