5 OXYGEN AND CARBONIC ACID GAS. the air that comes out of their mouths, and you will see that it contains some carbonic acid gas, for it will put out a candle just in the same way that this gas will put out a light. There was an emigrant ship that sailed from Liverpool a few years ago. This vessel was going to . The men and women and children on board were going to leave old England to work in a strange land. They were emigrants. One night a dreadful storm arose. The ship tossed about so much that the captain ordered the sailors to send all the men and women and children down into a large room under the deck, because he was afraid they might be in the way. The sailors fastened the door so that they could not get out. The storm went down in a few hours, when the captain told the sailors they might open the door, or hatches as they were called. The sailors took a candle, because the room where these poor creatures were put was quite dark. When they entered, the candle went out. They lighted it again, and it went out a second time. This was done several times. At last it remained alight, and so they were able to descend. And what do you think they found ? Nearly all the men and women and little children lying on the ground. Some were dead, others unconscious. The only air they had had to breathe was the air that had come out of their mouths. No oxygen had been able to get in, so they had been poisoned by carbonic acid gas. I must tell you that all dumb animals which have a heart like ours also die if they cannot have good air containing a large quantity of oxygen. About a year or two ago a ship brought over a large number of sheep from Holland. They were fas- tened down in a room such as the poor emigrants were placed in, where no pure air could enter. When the hatches were opened, it was found that six hundred and forty-six were dead, and had to be thrown overboard. When animals have been cruelly treated, deprived of good air and good food, they have fevers, consumption, and other complaints. Some butchers kill them in this diseased state, and sell their flesh, which is unhealthy, and must do harm to the human beings who eat it. Owing to our ignorance, we often have to sit in rooms