'heat of the blood. blood comes to be made pure. It is said that if all the little pipes, or capillaries, that are placed close together round the air-bladders were fastened together, they would reach across to America and back—five thousand miles. So you may fancy what an immense quantity of dirty blood can be put into them, though they are so fine and small. I told you there was a great deal of carbon in the blood. Every time we take in a breath of good air oxygen flies down through our nose, and mouth too, if it is open, into the wind- pipe, and then into these little pipes (called bronchial tubes), and then enters into these little air-bubbles at the end of each tube. The air, especially the oxygen, gets through the coats of the air-bladders into the blood—that is, into the capillaries which lie all round the outside of the air-bladders. As this oxygen goes into the blood from the air-cells, carbonic acid gas passes from the blood into the air-cells : and so the blood is made pure and bright. When, again, this oxygen meets with carbonaceous matters in the blood or in the body, it and the carbon meet, join together and make a great deal of heat and vapour, but not a flame, or we should be burnt up. So that the oxygen that runs down our windpipe not only makes a great heat when it unites with the carbon of the blood, and of all the tissues of the body, by which the heat of the body is kept up, but it turns the dirty dark blood into a bright red colour, and makes it pure and clean. There is a great deal of oxygen in the arterial blood in the body. When this oxygen flies through the coats of the capillaries it meets with its dear friend carbon in every spot, for there is a great deal everywhere. They join together and make a great heat, and produce carbonic acid gas. The heat in our bodies is almost always the same, summer and winter. The hands and feet and face are all much colder in winter than in summer ; the blood gets colder just in those parts of the body which are not covered over with clothing. The cold air makes the capillaries very small, so that less blood can get into them. Doctors find out by this little instrument which I hold in my hand, called a thermometer, that the blood has always the same heat, summer and winter, if we are well—that is, about 08 degrees and a half, It is a