161 THE EAR. The dogs called rat-catchers have very large outer ears, because they have to listen at the mouth of the hole where the rat lives, to hear whether the rat is at home. If the dog hears a certain noise, he knows the rat is inside, and then goes into the hole to try and catch him. Rat-catchers also want these long ears to prevent the earth that they scratch out of the hole from getting into the ear. A great many people cut dogs' ears ; it is a most ignorant and cruel practice. It is done to improve their beauty. Do you think that animals would have long ears but for some wise purposes, or that men can improve their beauty ? Landseer, the celebrated painter of animals, was walking down a street in London, and met a man who was selling ■dogs. To his great surprise and delight, none of the dogs had their ears cut. He asked the man the reason why. •' Don't you know that Landseer, the great painter of dogs, says •they ought never to be cut, and he will not paint any dogs whose ears are cut ?' Landseer told the man that he was speaking to that painter, and they were both equally pleased to have seen each other. Now, there is a passage, about an inch long, that goes from the outer ear to what is called the middle ear; this middle ear is placed inside the bone of the skull which is called the tem- poral bone. You can feel this bone behind your outer ear; it is very strong. The end of this passage is covered by a little piece of skin, so that nothing can go through it. Inside this passage there are a great many hairs and a good deal of wax. These hairs and wax prevent little insects and dust from getting in. You must never pick your ears with anything. Mothers, I hear, clean their children's ears with a pin, which is a most dangerous practice, as the pin might burst that little skin, called the drum, that covers the end of the passage. If you could look behind the drum, you would see a little room, called the middle ear, which is filled with air. In this room there are three curious little bones. These bones are connected together by little joints. One little bone is like a hammer, another is like an anvil, and the third is like a stirrup into which you put your foot when you ride on horseback. One of the bones, the hammer, is fastened to the drum or skin that