CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 96 and a yellow part. The white part is a sticky, gluey substance. I will stick these two pieces of paper together with this white of egg. Here is another bottle, in which there is some vegetable albumen. It has come from the same flour you saw at the last lecture, out of which our cook got the starch. It is also very sticky. I will stick these two pieces of paper together with it. The albumen that is got out of vegetables is called by another name, though it is the same substance— viz., gluten—from its sticky nature. When a person cuts his flesh, the variety of albumen, called fibrin, that is in the blood comes out of the wound, makes a clot of blood, and fastens its sides together. If there was no fibrin in the blood, the cut or wound would never stop bleed- ing. I will tell you more about albumen and fibrin in my next lecture. So far I have only described the way in which solid foods are digested, because liquid foods—such as wine, and spirits, and water—are not digested in the stomach or bowels; they all only pass through the stomach to the liver. The liver is the largest organ of the body. It weighs from fifty to sixty ounces. When you drink any liquid, it goes down the gullet and into the stomach. It then runs through the coats of the stomach into little pipes, which carry it to a big vein which opens into the liver. All the blood that goes to the liver is dirty blood, and it is out of this dirty blood that the liver makes a great many things, the most important of which are bile and sugar. Sugar is one of the forty things that the blood, to be healthy, must contain, and the liver makes the greater part of the sugar the blood requires. In the liver the liquids get taken into the blood, and the blood is poured into the great vein, called the lower vena cava, which carries all the dirty blood to the heart. Thus the liquids which we drink reach the heart very quickly. This is the reason why a cup of wine immediately revives a person whose heart is weak. Solid food, such as meat and vegetables, generally take about three hours to digest. I dare say you often hear your parents or friends say that they feel bilious. Biliousness is often caused by taking too much fat or carbonaceous food. Fat is not, as you know,