BAD KFFECTS OF SPIRITS. 99 You will perhaps wonder how it is that doctors have been able to find out how food is digested in the stomach, and how they know the number of hours different foods take to digest. Thej gained a great deal of this information by an accident that happened in America to a Canadian, called Alexis St. Martin, about forty years ago. He was shot by a buck shot; the shot went through his stomach, and left a hole so large that Dr. Beaumont, the celebrated physician who attended him, could see all that went on in his stomach for several years. The accident happened on June 6, 1832. Alexis St. Martin would not allow the opening to be closed, as it did not affect his health. He enjoyed excellent health, and his digestion went on as regularly as if no opening had ever been made. He remained as a domestic servant with Dr.*Beaumont for some years. Directly he took brandy, or any kind of spirit entered the stomach, the beautiful pink membrane lining the stomach, which I have described to you, became very red. When spirits had been taken for a few days sore boils appeared. The gastric juice seemed dried up, so that the meat could not be digested. The albumen, or gluten, became hardened, just as if it had been cooked in boiling water. Directly St. Martin gave up spirits the boils went away, the proper quantity of gastric juice came out of the stomach, and his digestion was all right again. I will now tell you all I know about the harm spirits do to different parts of the body. I told you it injured the liver and made its substance very hard ; and spirits also cause a fatty change in the muscles, so that the healthy substance of the liver and the fibres of the muscles gradually become changed into a kind of fatty substance, and are thus rendered useless. When spirits enter those wonderful little hair-like tubes called capillaries, it is said that after a time their delicate coats are thickened. Of course this prevents the good blood from passing freely through them into tke surrounding parts to feed the flesh and different organs ; and the old materials from entering the capillaries, to be carried by the veins to the right side of the heart, that holds the dirty blood. For a short time, it is true, the blood is made hotter by