SUBSTANCES IN THE BLOOD. Now, flesh and fat are entirely different snbstances, and this I hope to make yon clearly understand before I finish my lec- tures. You see I have three bottles all standing in a row together. They contain lime, gelatine, and phosphorus. Here is a common match, that has some phosphorus at the end of it. Gelatine, which is glue, is made from bones by boiling them. Lime you often see your mothers use when they whitewash the walls or ceilings of your houses. Our bones are made almost entirely of these three things. All the 206 bones in the body ought to be firm and strong when a child is seven years old ; but if a child has not been fed on food that contains the three things 1 have just mentioned—lime, phosphorus, and gelatine—its bones will not be firm, and it will grow up a poor miserable little ricketty creature : its legs will be crooked; its little frame will be too weak to support the flesh ; the bones in the spine will give way, and it will be deformed. You have all seen poor little men and women with big heads and small bodies. They are called dwai'fs. A lady in Leeds not long ago counted the number of cripples, dwarfs, and ricketty chil- dren who passed by her house as they were coming from the mills. I dare not say how many she counted. It is no use to buy lime, gelatine, and phosphorus in a druggist's shop ; these three things must be in the food we eat, or else they will not make bone. There is only one kind of food that contains these three things, and all the many substances that the blood requires. It is milk. Here is the blade-bone robbed of its earthy matters, that is, of its lime and phosphorus, by soaking it in an acid, so that it appears somewhat as it would be if a child had not been fed on milk. You see it is quite soft. I can bend it any way, because it only contains the animal matter which gives us in boiling the gelatine, no lime nor phosphorus. It is said that for every rich man's child that dies poor men lose three, because their wives go out to work, or to nurse those rich men's children, and do not give their own babies the milk Grod intended they should have. I will now describe the circulation of the blood. When anything circulates it must set off from a certain spot, and it must return to that same spot again. Now I will prove that all