WHY WE HAVE EEVEBS. 13 to his funeral and into the house to see the corpse. Those clothes, too, which had come from London, as well as his own, would be worn by different members of his family. In a few weeks after the funeral the Plague broke out in this beautiful little village. The people became so terrified that they wanted to run away to other towns, but the clergyman, a good and brave man, Mr. Monpesson, persuaded them to remain, so that the Plague might not spread to other towns. Nearly all the people died. Still Mr. Monpesson remained and did all he could. At last he lost his wife. The churchyard became so full of graves that no one dared to enter it or the church, so it was closed. On a Sunday the people used to pray out in the fields. If you ever go to Eyam, you will see a little cave in a rock which is all covered over with ivy. It was there that Mr. Monpesson used to perform the service to the few whose lives had been spared. Though nearly two hun- dred years have passed since those dreadful days, there are people at Eyam who will tell the story I have told, and a great many other most interesting facts about the Plague. The germs or poison of scarlet fever can live in woollen materials for several yeai'S. A little girl died of this fever • her favourite doll was put by in a woollen dress. Three or four years afterwards a little cousin came to pay a visit at the house, and the mother, to amuse the little girl, brought out the doll. Not more than a week elapsed before the poor child was seized with scarlet fever. It is very wrong of mothers and fathers to send their children to school when they are recovering from scarlet fever. During that time the skin peels off, and that skin is full of germs, and one boy or girl in this state can spread the fever through the whole school. The hair of the head, being of a woolly nature, may hold the germs for a considerable time, unless it be well washed with hot soap and water and permanganate of potash. I am now going to tell you how we can ventilate a room that is, make the air fresh and free from all infection. You will perhaps think that you could make the air fresh by open- ing a window. I will show you that you cannot make the air fresh unless you have an open fireplace as well as an open window.