OOOk'ING. 134 often give you both rice and macaroni if they knew how easily these foods are cooked. Rice, yon know, is very cheap. The rice we are cooking to-day only costs threepence a pound; two ounces would make a good-sized pudding. Two ounces of macaroni would also make a large dish ; therefore it is a very cheap food, although it costs eightpenee a pound, because- it is very nutritious and swells out so much when cooked. The straight sticks are better than the twisted. The sticks must be broken into small pieces about four inches long, or to suit the saucepan. The macaroni you see in this dish 1 was first boiled in water, like a potato or any green vegetable; it was then placed in the dish ; a little pepper and salt were added, some cheese was grated over the top, and it was put into a hot oven nntil it was nicely browned. Here is a rice pudding that is made of skimmed milk, with a little suet chopped tip very fine in it. You see how good it looks, quite rich. The goodness of all puddings, particularly those made of rice or tapioca, depends on their being cooked very slowly and on their having plenty of room to swell out. Dripping does as well as suet in case the milk is poor. Semolina costs eightpenee a pound. It is made chiefly of gluten, and is therefore a most nouxishino- food. Semolina is eaten in great quantities by the Italians ; they call it polenta. In Algeria it is the national dish called couscousou. Fermenty is a dish eaten in Yorkshire at Christmas time. It is made of wheat and water, which are cooked in the oven nntil the wheat is tender, and then currants and milk are added. This is a most nourishing food, and not indigestible if the wheat is crushed. The Americans call it mush. The Syrians live almost entirely upon it. It is their daily national food. Revalenta Arabica is only ground lentils. Lentils are stronger food than grain; they are much given to cattle, but they are also very good when put into soup. There is a food called corn-flour which, I am sorry to say, is given in great quantities to infants. Corn-flour, like arrowroot, is almost entirely made of starch, which you know produces fat in the body. The babies fed on corn-flour grow fat, and because they grow fat the nurse or mother concludes that the child is doing 1 I showed a small dish of cooked macaroni.