29 2 Marshall's diagram. No. 1, pttjjfe 20. THE HIP-JOINT. called dislocation. The ball is kept in the cup by bands of tough membrane called ligament, that pass from the shoulder- blade to the arm. These bands are soft and flexible, and so they enable us to move our arms freely, as in skipping or turning the handle of a grinding-machine. Nurses ought to be very careful not to drag children along by one arm, or hold them up by their arms, as they fre- quently do. A doctor told me that he has often stopped his carriage to beg a nurse not to drag the child by its arm. His trouble was all in vain, for the nurse, he said, evidently thought that he knew nothing about it; and did not attend to him. He saw his own nurse swinging his little girl by her arm, and told her that by doing so she might put it out of joint. This did at last happen. When his family were away at the sea-side he received a telegram from his wife to beg he would come to her directly. When he arrived he found that the accident which he had often foreseen had at last happened. The nurse had been swinging the child by its arms, and had pulled the ball out of the cup. Let us next take the hip-joint. This joint is just like the cup-and-ball joint in the arm ; the only difference is that there is a strong ligament which passes across from the ball of the thigh-bone and is fastened to the cup of the hip-bone. This joint is plainly shown in this diagram of the skeleton.1 The thigh-bone is the longest, largest, and heaviest bone in the body. The bands or ligaments which bind the bones of the hip together are immensely strong, because all the weight of our trunk rests upon this joint. It is very difficult to cure any disease of the hip, as it is not allowed any time to heal, because we cannot move our bodies without moving the hip. It is very sad to see so many little children in our Leeds Infirmary who are suffering from hip complaints, and they do suffer most dreadfully. Doctors say children often get hip complaints from sitting on cold stones or damp grass, so that you must take care not to let your little brothers and sisters sit on anything damp or cold. I shall never forget going to the Leeds Infirmary once, when I saw a boy of about twelve who was suffering from a