RESPIRATION. 56 liavo the same organs, and aro maclo exactly like human beings, no other animal but man could perform this feat. Why ? Simply because he has reason, and has learnt by the use of his reason that as the bottom and sides of the oven are hot, he must wear thick shoes, or his feet would be burnt by standing on the hot iron. The same reason and intelligence enable men and women to live in very hot countries, such as India. There they find they must wear much lighter clothing than they put on in England, and that they must also eat different foods. Men, you know, can live in countries where the cold is so great that for nine months there is nothing to be seen but ice and snow, and the air is much colder than frozen water. There a man has to cover himself with skins of animals, which are the warmest coverings that it is possible to get. Very little cold can pass through them into the body, or heat inside escape from them. A man finds that there, too, he must eat and drink very different food from what he would do in a hot country. In cold countries people are obliged to eat a greater quantity of fat, which contains a great deal of carbon, as you know. There is more oxygen in the same bulk of cold than of warm air. Do you not know- how much more hnugry you feel on a cold winter's day than you do when it is very hot on a summer's day ? For instance, when you have been out skating on the ice, have you not felt after a little time so hungry that you could eat anything ? In Russia it is said that a boy has been known to drink two quarts of train oil and eat several pounds of tallow candles in a day. I will now tell you something more about the windpipe. You see that this pipe (a glass one)1 which I hold in my hand is intended to represent the windpipe. At the entrance to it, at the back of the mouth, there is a little door. Whenever wc swallow any food, the little door falls down over the windpipe and prevents any food from getting into it. Whenever we arc not swallowing the door is open, so that air may pass down into it. Now, all down the inside lining of the windpipe there are rows of exceedingly small little hair-like bodies, that serve as brushes, called cilia. These cilia cannot be seen except with 1 I showed a glass model.