91 ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOODS. twenty times as long- as its body. These animals only eat vegetables. The reason of this is that a greater quantity of vegetable food is required to nourish the body. For instance, here is a pound of beef and a pound of bread. A hungry man could eat two pounds of bread. Two pounds of bread would make a very large quantity when digested. A pound of beef would go into a very small space. Infants have only an imperfectly-formed saliva until they begin to cut some teeth. Very little juice comes out of the sweetbread or bowels of an infant. Let us see what will happen if a nurse gives an infant bread, or any vegetable food. As there are no teeth in the mouth to chop it up, and no very active saliva to turn the starch into sugar, the stomach must churn the bread about for an immense time in order to break it into small pieces, so that the little door on the right side of the stomach will open to let it pass through. When it reaches the bowels there will not be juice to digest it. All these organs will have worked in vain, be- cause the bread, or the starch which is in all vegetables, will not have been changed or digested by them. The poor little creature will have suffered agony for nothing, as no blood will have been made to nourish its little frame. Not long since I saw a child about a year old lying in a cot. Its face looked like that of a little withered old man, and its painful expression haunted me for a long time. I said to the grandfather, ' That poor little thing never gets any milk.' ' No; it doesn't like milk; it scarcely eats anything. This morning it had a good breakfast, because it fancied a bit of bacon, and took a good sup of raspberry tea.' It is true that if infants do not have milk they do not like it as they grow older, which is a very sad thing. Mothers often say that they give their babies just what they take themselves. ' May-be some bread-and-butter or a potato.' When an infant is only two hours old many nurses even in this day will put a mouthful of butter and sugar into its mouth. Some years ago at St. George's Workhouse, London, it was said that every infant died before it had been in the house a year. All the children were taken care of by