151 IMPORTANCE OF CLEANLINESS. fully washed as the saucepan. Some people will tell you that it is not right to wash a dripping-pan or a gridiron very often, as they ought to be greasy. On the contrary, they ought to be washed directly they have been used, or the dripping will be very bad and unwholesome. A little bit of dead organic matter left in a saucepan will spoil the flavour of any food that is put into it. Grease is organic matter. My cook tells me that she never uses a saucepan without putting her hand into it, because she can tell certainly by that means whether it is quite free from grease. The outside as well as the inside of a saucepan ought to be washed, or the smoke and soot will cover the outside, and prevent the heat from passing through to heat the food. This pan, you see, is a clean, bright tin one. The water in it is boiling. You could not bear to keep your finger one instant upon any part of it; but just cover it with soot, or put a thick coat of soot on your hand, and you will find that you could then hold the saucepan on your hand very well for some minutes. This will show you how soot keeps out the heat; and you can therefore understand that a saucepan covered with soot will not receive as much heat as a clean saucepan, and the water in it will not boil so quickly. With a bright kettle, and a very little bit of bright, hot fire, you could boil some water very quickly. Dirty saucepans make dirty hands, and dirty shelves and walls which they hang by or rest upon. A cook who keens everything she uses clean, saves time, her own clothes, her master's coals, and the food she cooks. The bad and wasteful English plan of putting a saucepan filled with food on a fire, to boil away for a long time, not only spoils the food, but spoils the saucepan. The food gets burnt, and sticks to the bottom and sides, and is most difficult to scrape off. I once saw a kitchen-maid whose nails were quite worn down to the quick by trying to scrape it off. If any of the old burnt food is left in the saucepan, which it must often be, when put on the fire, then the fresh food will take the flavour of the burnt grease and be spoilt. I once heard a professed cook say to her pupils, ' When you want to fry fish you must first let the fat boil, and more