MILK AND MINERAL FOODS. Ids from his voyage in nine months, he had lost 62G of his men. I hope you have all heard of Captain Cook, who was the first man to sail round the world. I am delighted to tell you he was a Yorkshire man. He lived at the same time as Captain Anson. His father was a labourer, and resided at Whitby. You see he was the son of a working-man. Captain Cook was not only very clever, but very kind-hearted and good. He could not bear to see men suffer: he therefore determined to find out how scurvy could be prevented or cured. He soon saw that where people had plenty of fresh vegetables they did not have scurvy. He could not take enough potatoes on board his ship to last a great many months, but he could take lemon juice, which happens to contain a great deal of potash. He also sent the sailors on shore whenever it was possible, so that they might eat any fruit or vegetables they could find. By this means he kept his sailors in good health. After a voyage of three years he returned to England, having only lost four of his men. I hope you will all some day read the life of this good man. There is a small Life sold for a peniry, which you can get at Wood's, the bookseller in Market Street, Leeds. I will-now show the experiment by which the salt called potash is made. This salt is made of a metal called potassium and a gas called oxygen. I have some water in this tumbler. Water, you know, is made of two gases, oxygen and hydro- gen. I will take a small piece of potassium out of this bottle and put it into the water. The potassium is so fond of oxygen that it will join chemically with the oxygen that is in the water, and burst into a flame. You may always know when two or more substances have joined chemically, because heat is made and also a new substance is formed. When the oxygen gas and the metal potassium united, a great deal of heat was made—because you saw the flame. If we look at the bottom of the glass, we shall find that a new substance has been made—potash. Here it is. This white stuff is potash, the salt that is found in the greatest quantity in potatoes. There is also a great deal of it in all green vegetables, such as lettuce, cabbages, and in all kinds of fruit—oranges, &c. Lemons contain the most potash, and that is the reason why