r,4 i: INSPIRATION. little hotter in sonic parts of the body than in others. The word ' thermometer' means a measurer of heat. You see that there is a little glass pipe running down the middle of this thermometer. By the side of the pipe are dark lines, and each of the spaces between these lines is called a degree; and there are figures which mark the number of degrees. At the end of the pipe you see a little glass ball. It is full of a substance called mercury, which looks like silver. I have often told you that heat makes nearly everything grow bi gger, and cold makes nearly everything smaller. Now, mercury is a substance which grows hot and cold very quickly. Let us see where the mercury now stands. It is, I see, opposite 60°. The air in this room is therefore sixty degrees. Now I will put the thermometer into boiling water, which is much hotter than this room, and you will see that the mercury grows so big that it will run up through the little pipe nearly to the top, and stay by a figure that is marked 212° ; and you will see written opposite to that figure ' Boiling-point.' The mercury tells you how hot or how cold the air of a room is, or any substance we put it into ; it tells us the water is at boiling-point. When we give anyone a hot- water bath, we always ought to have a thermometer and put it into the water to tell us the proper heat. If the mercury goes beyond the proper heat for a hot bath, it will be too hot. Children are often put into water a great deal too warm. They are not only nearly scalded, but very much weakened, by the great heat, all because the nurse trusted to finding out by her hand instead of using a thermometer. Some hands that are accustomed to be a great deal in hot water become so much hardened that they are quite unable to tell the heat that a bath ought to be. The doctors, when they want to find out the heat of the blood, don't put the thermometer on the hands or face, but they put the little ball filled with mercury under the tongue or on some part of the body which is well covered up, and where the cold air cannot get to chill the blood. It is most important you should understand about a thermometer, for unless you do you will not be able to understand when I tell you how to cook food.