122 POODS. getup early,' she said—'at four o'clock—and cut some beef up into small pieces, put it into the oven, and stew it gently for four hours. Then we add milk, flour, and vegetables, which we stew very gently together, and the children have the soup about twelve o'clock with the loaf of bread.' This soup, you see, contained the three kinds of food which make all the forty things our blood requires. The bread that the children put into the soup would make it nourishing and digestible, so that the organs would by this means have both liquid and solid food to work upon. The soup was also hot food. Hot food is much more digestible than cold food for people of all ages, but it is particularly necessary for the young and old. Their circulation is not very strong. Hot food enters the blood more quickly, and makes the heart beat faster, so that the blood circulates more rapidly. Directly an organ works hard more blood is required to repair that organ, for you know they are constantly wearing out. If you have eaten a good dinner you feel sleepy ; the blood leaves thebrain and flies to the stomach, where it is wanted. Invalids who cannot sleep ought to have food in the night; then the blood leaves the brain to help the stomach, and the patient falls asleep. It is a bad habit to work either with the head or the hands directly after a heavy meal. During my next four lectures I intend to teach you the principles of cooking. Before we begin to cook I think we ought to know all about the good things contained in the food we are going to cook. As I intend to show you how to make very strong beef-tea, I will read over to you the names of the juices and the different solid substances that beef contains. Table of the Substances contained in the Juices of Flesh. Common salt and other salts. Bed colouring matter. More potash than soda. Osmazome, flavouring matter. Albumen. Casein e. Sarcine. Lactic Acid. Butyric Acid. You see albumen is put first, as it is one of the most impor- tant substances. If albumen, as I told you before, is cooked in boiling water (212°) it is so far affected that it becomes