\r>-2 TIIK N'KRVKS. covers the end of the passage, and the last bone, the stirrup, is fastened to another little skin that covers a most wonderful Avinding- passage in the inner ear. One part of this second passage is called the labyrinth, because it twists about; and the other part of the passage is called the shell, because the passage winds about in the shape of a snail's shell. In these passages there is a liquid like water, and then there is a bag which is filled with the same fluid, and floats in the watery passage. A great many nerves of sound, that look like fine threads, cover the floating bag, and go along inside the pas- sages until they reach the collections or centres of white and grey matter which are placed in the back part of the head. The nerves of sound are placed in water, because water carries sound much more quickly than air. Now I have only to describe how the air moves these nerves of hearing. When the waves of sound rush into the first passage, they strike against the piece of skin that covers that passage, called the drum, and make a noise just as if you struck a drum with a stick. This skin moves and pushes those curious little bones that lie in the little room that is filled with air on the other side of the drum. They all begin to shake and tremble until they make the air knock against the other little piece of skin, called the oval window, that covers the entrance into that curious winding passage in the inner ear ; and then all the little nerves that are in the bag of water begin to tremble, and they tremble so much that they shake the nerves which pass from them, until this shaking reaches the 'centre' of hearing under the big brain. The brain then feels the shaking, listens, and begins to think about what it hears, and then finds out what the sound means. We all know that children suffer very much from earaclie. There is no doubt that a great deal of their suffering is caused by the way in which those who have the care of them clean their ears. The only part of the ear that ought to be washed with soap and water is the outside ear which twists about. Great care should be taken to dry gently all these twisted parts, and to let no water get into the little hole that leads into the first passage. If the ear is healthy, this passage is never dirty. Nature cleans it out by means of the wax, which