RESPIRATION. therefore remain in the blood, and causes the fever or cold. If the lungs are weak, the poison settles on them, and con- sumption is brought on. Damp shoes and stockings or damp clothes have the same effects ; they prevent the sweat from coming out of the feet. We little know how much rheumatism and suffering is caused by wearing thin-soled boots and damp stockings. This is how children who sit on damp grass or earth often get hip complaints. People who live in damp situations or damp houses are constantly having colds or ailing in some way. There is very little oxygen in damp air. Doctors now send some consumptive people to cold countries where the air is very dry and contains plenty of oxygen. In Iceland, it is said, people do not have consump- tion, though there they have only three months' summer and nine months' winter. Damp, impure air is equally bad for dumb animals. This is the reason why horses and cows which are kept in dirty damp stables die of consumption. The doc- tors say that the best way to prevent consumption is to wear warm clothing, take a great deal of exercise in good fresh air, and to eat plenty of fat food, such as butter, oil, cream, bacon, and fat. By these means the appetite will grow better, the organs be made more healthy, and the general health improve. When people understand this, they will give up buying quack medicines, send for a medical man, and carefully follow his orders. A doctor knows directly by listening to the breathing which lung is unhealthy. The great thing is to have advice before the disease has gone too far. When a person is suffer- ing from bronchitis, some of the little pipes, properly called bronchial tubes, that carry the air into the lungs, become in- flamed and partly closed, from cold or from checked perspira- tion. The air, therefore, cannot easily pass down through the tubes, and then the breathing becomes difficult. Directly any- one has this complaint, he ought to breath warm pure air, because warm air will make the pipes grow bigger, and then allow more air to pass down them. Cold air, you know, makes them small, and then the breathing becomes more difficult, because less air can get down. There ought to be a fire in the room night and day; the air in the room ought not to fall lower than 60° nor be higher than 70°. Deaths occur from