THE BYE. 165 r that enters the eye passes through this dark hole, it is called the window or pupil of the eye. If you can't see this model, look into each other's eyes, and you will see that your eyes have what I have described. I will now take the eyeball to pieces. It has three coverings. The first one outside is white, and we can see it because a part of this cover comes to the front, and is called the white of the eye. The second covering- is black. And now we come to the third or inside covering, which I shall explain first. The third covering is called the retina, and consists of a transparent nervous substance as clear as glass; but as the eyeball is also transparent like glass, the gentleman who made the model has made the retina look white like ground glass, in order to show how much of the eyeball is covered or lined by the retina. This retina consists of an immense number of threads, which are the nerves of sight. These nerves all join together into this large nerve of sight which you see at the back of the eyeball. This large nerve of sight goes to the portion of the brain devoted to sight, that lies between the great and the little brain. As we have two eyes, we have two such portions of brain. They are called the centres or ganglia of sight. When rays of light have entered into the eyeball through the window, or pupil, they first pass through some clear parts, called the humours, and then strike and go through the retina, and then they all sink into the second black covering, which I will now place over the retina. Directly all the rays of light have sunk into this black cover- ing, a perfect picture will appear on the retina, at the back of the eyeball, of all that stands in front of the eye. For in- stance, at this moment there is a perfect picture painted on the retina of my eye, as on a looking-glass, of this room and every boy and girl before me. The nerves of sight of which the retina is made are very delicate; they cannot bear too much light all at once. What do we do when too much light comes into a room ? Do we not draw a curtain, to "keep out some of the light ? A beautiful little curtain is also drawn for us directly too much light tries to pass through the window of the eye. This little coloured ring I showed you that is placed round the window or pupil of the eye is the curtain,