200 APPENDIX HI. 1. How have a great number of cattlo been killed and injured in vessels that have brought them from foreign lands ? Why do animals that are carried from place to place in dirty railway carriiiges or trucks becomo diseased? 2. Why do you think dumb animals require as much pure fresh air as human beings? Name some of the complaints they suffer from when they have been shut up in dirty stables. 3. Why do you think it is not only very cruel but very silly of men who drive cattle, and who want them to go faster, to strike them on the head ? 4. Where would you strike an animal if you wanted to kill it as quickly as possible ? 5. Describe the horse's hoof, and tell some of the mistakes which ignorant men make when they shoo a horse. Do you think a horse ought to have water in its stable, so that it can drink whenever it is thirsty? Would you beat a horse if it shied at any object it felt afraid of? What would you do to make horses or any animals less timid and nervous? 6. Describe the reason why horses which are driven with a bearing- rein become what are called ' roarers.' What harm is done by bad drivers who keep constantly jerking the reins, and pulling up the horse's head ? 7. Why do you think that a dog might be driven mad if it had a muzzle on its mouth that would prevent it from drinking water and from putting out its tongue? 8. Why is it cruel not to give water to sheep, rabbits, parrots, and all animals on long journeys, or when they are shut up and not allowed to find their own food in the fields or woods ? 9. Why is it a very cruel and foolish practice to cut the ears of any kind of dog ? 10- Which of the vertebrate animals do you think have the most courage, sense, affection, understand best what is said to them, and never forsake an old friend? Tell any stories you can remember about dumb animals. 11. Why do you consider that pigeon-shooting and rabbit-hunting, which used to be done in the Leeds Boyal Park, and are still done in grand places near London, ought not to be called sport, but butchery and cruelty ? 12. Give some of the reasons why it is selfish to make pets of birds and wild animals, 13. Why are travelling menageries, in which wild animals are trained to perform unnatural tricks, cruel places, which ought not to be allowed ? 14. Why do we suppose that even one of the lowest animals, called the amoeba, has some sort of feeling?