175 GENTLE SPEECH. because then the lungs are squeezed together, and they cannot hold all the air that is necessary. Children who live with people who are gentle and speak softly, learn to speak softly too. It is true that some voices are sweeter than others ; but every voice can be trained to give out pleasant tones. Angry tones spoil the delicate vocal cords, and put them out of tune, and by the time a child has grown up their sweetness has gone for ever. Mothers have the power of teaching their children to play on the most perfect instrument that has ever been made. No • instrument invented by man can produce such sweet tones as those which come from the human voice ; you will often hear people say, after hearing a woman sing, that her voice was divine. In a sick room a sweet voice will often soothe suffer- ing when no medicines can bring relief. A little infant, who cannot understand a word that is spoken, can understand and be comforted by the sound of its mother's gentle voice. I believe the most hardened criminal can only be made to feel really sorry for his cruel deeds through the gentle tones of a voice that will tell him they come from a heart that is equally soft and tender. Two or three years since, when I was going over a public institution for certified children in this town, I wished to see the cell where naughty children were put. When the door opened, I saw a poor little deformed hump-backed girl of ten. I only said two or three words to her, and she burst into tears, and cried as if her heart would break. I never felt more unhappy than when the key was turned in the lock, and I had to leave this poor little creature to spend the rest of the day all alone in a small room which did not even contain a chair. It appeared that she had broken a medicine bottle, and had denied having done so. The matron said she was a most hardened and wicked child ; she had been in the institution for three months ; up to that time she had usually spent her nights on door-steps ! Poor little creature, I thought; after nil your evil training and hard life, your little heart is softer than the matron's. A kind heart, gentle manner and voice, are to my mind indispensable qualifications in those who undertake the care