170 SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. little sun. It is very unwise of people to pull down their blinds to save their curtains and carpets, and to shut up their sunny sitting-rooms arid only use them for grand parties, and live in dismal rooms every day that get no sun. No carpets, curtains, or furniture can be sweet and wholesome unless the sun can get to them. That is the reason why best rooms that are only used for parties smell so fusty and disagreeable when you go into them. I must now explain how it is that the sun gives us the water we drink and the air we breathe. This instrument, called an ' orrery,' which I have before me, represents our earth and the sun. This small round ball is our earth, and the large one is the sun. You see, if you look at our earth, that there is a great deal more water than land upon it. The heat of the sun strikes on to our earth and warms both the sea and land. The sun's rays pass into the sea and make the top of it very warm, so warm that some of the water is turned into vapour. The vapour being light, floats up into the air for a very great distance, many, many miles ; some of it then becomes cold, and falls down in rain. If the rain falls in a very cold country, like Russia, the vapour turns into snow and ice, and rests upon the mountains. Some of the ice and snow is constantly melting, and the water thus formed runs down the mountains in little streams. These little streams unite together and make a river. The river runs on until it reaches the lowest level—that is, the sea from which it came. There is not a drop more water on the earth or in the sea or the air than when the world was made, because the water that is taken up from the sea into the air is always falling down again and finding its way back to the place it came from. It is therefore said to circulate. The rain that comes down in England upon the moun- tains does not often become frozen on their summits, as our climate is not a very cold one. Some of the water as it runs down the hill-sides gets into the earth and runs on till it meets with a piece of clay, which will not let it pass through, but holds it as if it was in a basin, and this basin is called a well. Well-water is generally very pure water; but take