85 THE CHYLE. mesenteric glands. About half of the chyle is gradually changed into little round bodies, called corpuscles, and they float along in the rest of the white milky fluid through pipes which take it to a kind of bag that is placed in front of the spine, or backbone. To this bag a pipe is fastened which goes up by the backbone. The little white bodies go along swim- ming up this pipe in the white milky fluid until they come to the neck, where two veins meet.1 In one of the veins there is a little door, and the fluid passes through this door into the vein. . Now we have turned the beef and potatoes into blood, but remember it is dirty blood, because it is in a vein, not an artery. Before it can be made into good blood, and alive, it must be carried by the veins to the right side of the heart, through which all the dirty blood has to pass, flow through into the top room, and then run through the valve into the bottom room, where it will be squeezed or pumped through the pulmonary arteries into the lungs. When it gets to the lungs, if there is plenty of good air in the lungs, as there ought to be, some of the little corpuscles will be charged with oxygen, and away they will fly in the blood through the pulmonary veins to the left side of the heart, through which all the good blood has to pass, flow through into the top chamber, and pass through into the bottom room, whei-e the blood will be pumped up into the big artery, the aorta, which will carry it to every part of the body in about half a minute. In the lungs, then, the last and most important part of digestion, or rather of the conversion of food into blood, takes place ; for unless the lungs contain plenty of pure air, the chyle which comes from the food cannot be changed into good blood that will nourish the body. This is seen in a case of consumption when disease has injured the lungs. The patient may have a good appetite and eat the most nourishing food and still daily grow thinner and weaker. If people understood this important fact they would take care and have plenty of fresh air when they are taking their meals, instead of eating in hot crowded rooms filled with an atmosphere .that has been breathed over and over again. I must tell you a little more about these corpuscles. They 1 I showed the veins in Marshall's diagram, No. 4, p. 40.