73 NERVOUS SYSTEM OP A HORSE. a weight. I will now show you the model of one which I have in this box.1 You see it has not five toes as we have ; it has only one toe, ending in a solid piece, which supports the hoof. There are only three other animals that have a foot in one piece. They are the donkey, the zebra, and the quagga. Horses and donkeys live wild in hot countries where there are great plains of sand, as well as in countries where there are wide tracts of grass. Our roads in England are so very hard and stony that it is considered necessary to put iron shoes pn their feet to prevent them from being injured. They do not wear shoes in their own countries, such as Arabia, Persia, and America. The poor donkey is a beautiful animal in its own country. The Persians bring up the little foals upon milk, and let them live in their tents as the Arabs do their horses. A donkey is said to be more sensible and gentle than a horse before it has been made stupid by cruel treatment. The more sense an ani- mal has the harder it is to manage after it has been unkindly treated. Donkeys are sold for more than a hundred crowns in the East, where princes and nobles ride on them. The Prince of Wales had a beautiful one sent him from Egypt. In Spain they grow tall—fifteen hands high—and are some- times sold for a hundred guineas. It is said that five hundred pounds was once given for an ass in Rome. You see by this model of a horse's hoof that all the front part of the foot is covered by a horny substance, the same kind of substance that our nails are made of. The horse's hoof is really like our middle toe, much enlarged. This horny substance is nearly an inch thick; it grows as quickly as our nail does, because at the top of the hoof there are a great many arteries and capillaries that feed this horn with blood and make it grow quickly. It grows downwards. It is smooth and bright, and looks as if it had been polished ; this polish prevents any water from getting through. The under part of the foot is called the sole, as we call the under part of our foot a sole, only a horse has two soles instead of one. This that you first see is the horny sole; it sinks in a little, so that 1 I showed Auzcmxs model of a horse's foot.