35 THE MUSCLES. other organs, are completely pushed out of their places. A great many tailors and dressmakers die of consumption because they have to sit still so many hours, stooping over their work in bad air. I trust tailors will soon become too intelligent to think it is necessary they should sit on a board with their legs crossed and their backs bent. While goiug over a public institution the other day I was extremely sorry to see a master teaching little boys of ten and upwards to sit in this way. It is bad enough for men to sit with their lungs and other organs crushed up, but it must be much worse for grow- ing lads to have to remain in such a position for several hours. Not long ago an English doctor travelled through a part of Africa where he found that the women did all the hard work, and the men stayed at home and took care of the houses and minded the children. The women's muscles had become by this means much stronger than those of the men. This experience made him believe that women after all are not born weaker than men. It is only because they are brought up less sensibly than men that their frames are so much more delicate. Tilings provided for the Lecture. A piece of whalebone and elastic to show the difference between the stretching of the muscles and bending of the ligaments. Marshall's diagram of the skeleton. Marshall's diagram of the muscles. Madame Bodichon's enlarged picture of the organs distorted by tight stays, and her picture of them in their natural state. A picture of a Chinese foot altered by having been bound up. A picture of a well-formed foot from nature. Vertebrae of the neck, with a thick skein of white wool run through the holes to represent the spinal cord. Questions for the Fourth Lecture. 1. How many coverings aro there to the brain? 2. Why is it more necessary to wash an infant's head with soap than any other part of its body ? o. Why is it dangerous to swing a child round by its arms? 4. What must we do to make our muscles strong ? Why do more girls suffer from spinal complaints than, boys?