THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. I M l, them. Their stems are made of coral or lime, or of some horny matter. There are large coral islands in the Pacific Ocean that have been made during tens of thousands of years by these little animals. The red coral beads that are made into necklaces are made by another kind of jelly-fish or zoophyte. One of the lowest types of life is the amoeba—our old friend that I showed you at my second lecture, and which I told you was one of the most simple forms of life. It has no organs, but can put out an arm-like or a leg-like process when it wants to seize food or move along. Here is a picture of an amoeba putting out its limb-like process (fig. 42). Some of this kind are so very small that they can only be seen through a microscope, and are covered over with a beautiful little shell that is either made of lime or chalk. They have a long name —Foraminifera. They, like the animals which make the coral islands, live together in large colonies, and after tens of thousands of years their shells have grown up into rocks or cliffs. The white cliffs of Dover have been made by these little creatures. The sponge we use to wash ourselves with is made by a kind of amoeba. Here is a piece.1 They, too, live together in large numbers, and when they die their frames— which are made of this spongy substance—are left. These holes in the sponge are the places the animals live in. There are a great many different kinds of sponges, which you will see on Tuesday. Even the amoeba must have some sort of feeling, as is shown by the way in which it catches its prey. Directly any organic substance touches it, the mass of jelly called an amoeba spreads itself over the object, and covers it entirely over, and so takes it into its inside. After a little time a small part of the food that the amoeba could not digest is squeezed through the jelby, and comes out perhaps through the side opposite to the one it entered. I hope, after all I have told you, you will be able to write answers to the questions which 1 shall give you at the end of this lecture. I am anxious to tell you on what part of its body an animal ought to be struck when it is necessary that it should be slaughtered. No animal can live when its neck ' I showed a Inrge piece of sponge,