130 COOKING. the Appendix (p. 195). The Norwegian Cooking Apparatus can be bought in all sizes from 12s. to SI., at Silver's, 66 Cornhill, London. The box you have seen to-day is a travelling one, marked B. As I wished to show you several dishes at one time, I had the saucepan fitted up with four small pans, which have answered very nicely. When not used the box and saucepans had better be left open. This rule ought to be carried out with every cooking utensil. Tilings provided for the Lecture. A bottle with a cork in it. A picture of the slice of a potato. Three eggs. Two small saucepans. An old and a new potato. A brush to clean potatoes wilh. A Bunsen burner. | A slice of a potato cut like the A thermometer. picture. Questions for the Eighteenth Lecture. 1. Why do we cook our food ? 2. How would you boil a potato, or any fresh vegetable ? 3. Why is a roasted potato more easily digested than a potato cooked in any other way? (It is digested in one hour less time.) 4. Why must a cover always be put on a saucepan all the time the food is being cooked, unless the pan is a copper one not tinned inside ? 5. How would you cook a fresh soft-boiled egg, or a poached one, if you had neither a clock nor a thermometer—in fact, had to do it by guess ? LECTURE XIX. COOKING (continual). We intend, if there is time to-day, to cook the following things: —A mutton chop, so that all the juices shall be kept in, and the meat be tender and tempting for a delicate stomach: some rice and macaroni, so that it can be eaten with any kind of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone. Befoi'e the cooking begins I must ask you to examine the fireplace we have brought to cook with. Mr. Wilson, the tinner in Woodhouse Lane, has taken great pains to make it exactly like the fireplace that every English working-man haf? in his own home. It has not got an oven, only a place where an oven ought to be, as it was necessary to make the whole thing as small and light as possible. I am obliged to burn charcoal,