159 EFFECTS OF LEAD POISONING. one that you ought not to take, and may hurt the organ that is weak. People are very foolish to buy hair-washes. They gene- rally contain lead, which is a dreadful poison, and often causes paralysis. I have a friend who used a hair-wash— fortunately only for a short time—and she became slightly paralysed. Lead which is in paint, and sometimes in drink- ing-water, &c, injures the nerves very much, and gives many painful complaints. Dr. Guy says that early in the eighteenth century there was a dreadful disease in Devonshire. People were first taken ill with a painful colic, next their hands be- came paralysed, and lastly they were delirious or epileptic, and they died in convulsions. Devonshire is a county where cider is made and the people drink a great deal of it. Sir George Baker, a celebrated physician, determined to find out the cause of this disease. The cider was chemically ex- amined, and it was found to contain lead. The next point was to discover how the lead had got into the cider. It was found that the following things were done by those who made the cider :—The presses in which the apples (cider is made of apples) were put were mended by iron cramps fixed by melted lead. If there was a crack in the press, this crack was covered over by a sheet of lead. A leaden weight was put into the cider to prevent the liquor from turning sour, and lastly the cider was carried from the press in leaden pipes. Lead can enter the blood through the pores of the skin ; that is why hair-washes containing lead paralyse people. Painters, plumbers, type-founders, and all who work with substances that contain lead, should wash their skin frequently, and always wash their hands and faces before eating any- thing. Some persons are made very ill by remaining in a house while it is being painted, or by sleeping in a freshly painted bedroom. The sense of hearing, which I am now going to explain, is called a special sense. When we hear any noise, the sound of it comes through the air and strikes our ears. You know that if you stop your ears you will not hear anything; but I will also show you that without the air you would be equally unable to hear.