WHY WE HAVE FEVERS. dirty habits feliey liad. London, which is now such a grand city, in those days had only narrow little streets like Fleece Lane in Leeds. Fleece Lane, you know, is so narrow that the sign of a sheep which is hung up just readies from one side of the street to the other. In London they used to have a great many similar signs, which were suspended across the streets and prevented the fresh air from passing through these dark places. To make matters worse, the streets also contaiued pigsties and middens. They had no fireplaces ; the wood was burnt in the middle of the room, and the smoke escaped as it could. Carpets they had none, only straw, which was allowed to remain for more than ten years ; every now and then a fresh quantity was put over the old straw, and at last it was all thrown out into the narrow dirty streets I have alreadjr described. Fevers are caused by some poisonous matter which floats in the air, or which has got into the water we drink. It is only about a hundred years since Dr. Priestley discovered this wonderful oxygen gas of which there is so much in the air we breathe. He was a very scientific man, and lived for some years in Leeds, where he had previously discovered carbonic acid gas. Most people thought, before that time, there was nothing in the air, because they could not see anything. I am thankful to tell you that at this present time in England some of our cleverest men are spending their whole time in trying to find out all about the air we breathe. They have already discovered so much about it that they can weigh air in a pair of scales just as you would weigh sugar or tea. They have such powerful magnifying glasses that by looking through them they can see the things that are floating in it. They have long been able to look into water and discover what it contains. ^ Now, in this little bottle of water there are a great many living things. Neither you nor I can see them now; but if you look through this magnifying glass, which is called a microscope, you will see them, and will find among them creatures like that drawn on this sheet called the Amoeba. These very small things called ' germs' are the beginning of life in all plants and animals. There are animal serms and