HINTS FOE BMEHGEJJCIES. 19? blood to help them to do their work. That is why the surface of the body feels cold after dinner. It is dangerous to enter the sea or any bath when the person is cold and tired. About two hours after a meal is a trood time, and when a short walk has increased the heat of the body. Mr. Wheelhouse tells me that tbere is a popular belief that it is bad to enter the water when the body is warm or perspir- ing-, but in truth there is no harm in doing this. The real danger arises from waiting until the glow has passed, and entering the water when the body has already begun to cool. Very much depends on the length of time that is spent in the water. To some persons three minutes is sufficient time, and if they can swim, ten minutes may be taken. When the body is warm and all in a glow on coming out of the water, you may be sure that the bath has done no harm, but good. On the other hand, those who feel cold and shivering after a cold bath are advised to take tepid baths in preference. Little children are often forced into the water in a state of great terror. If those who have the care of them are sensible and patient, they can make them enjoy their bath : and unless they do enjoy it, they will be injured instead of benefited, for fear, as I have told you, chills them, and weakens instead of strengthening the nerves. A friend of mine, who is now an elderly lady, was bathed by her father when she was five years old, and from that time to this she has been afflicted with a difficulty in speaking. DISINFECTANTS. Next to fresh air, the best and cheapest disinfectant is1 perman- ganate of potash. A packet that makes twenty gallons can be bought for a shilling of any druggist. A teaspoonful is to be mixed with two gallons of water. You can wash the body with it safely, as well as furniture, clothes, and floors. The air in a bedroom where there is fever is fidl of poisonous germs. Open the window at the top, or break a hole in the top pane of glass. This will let in the fresh air. A pound of fresh air con- tains about a quarter of a pouud of oxygen: and the oxygen will burn up the poisonous matters in the air. After a fever or any infectious complaint, all articles of bedding can be purified free of any expense. If a post-card be sent to the Inspector of Nuisances, whose salary is paid out of the rates, he will immediately send for the above articles and place them in the hot-air apparatus, which will kill all germs of disease.