DIGESTION AND ('AKIiONACEOUS FOODS. 88 There are, however, some animals which may properly call themselves vegetarians, such as the horse, cow, sheep, and elephant, because they never do touch animal food, and only eat vegetable food, such as grass, com, or hay. When they are very young, it is true, they take animal food, because they take their mothers' milk. All animals which are fed by their mothers' milk when they are young are called mammals. Young fish, directly they are born, eat Avhat they can find in the water ; many young birds eat insects. A chicken, the moment after it has stepped out of its shell, picks up anything it sees on the ground that takes its fancy, and eats it. Don't you think it is very wonderful that an elephant, which is one of the strongest and largest animals that we know of, should be able to gain all its strength from vegetable food—grass and green twigs or boughs of trees—and that a child can also grow strong and have all its organs well nour- ished by only drinking milk ? Milk is the only food an infant ought to have for the first nine months of its life. Our bones are surrounded by two things, flesh and fat. We must therefore eat foods called 'flesh-formers,' that will make flesh and nourish our organs ; and foods that will turn into fat, called ' body-warmers.' Here is a list of our ' body- warmers.' They are called ' body-warmers ' because they con- tain carbon, which joins with oxygen and makes the heat that keeps our bodies warm. Body-tvarmers. Vegetable. Sugar. Animal. Butter. Dripping. Suet. Lard. Cod-liver Oil. Treacle. Starch, ■which is in bread and all vegetables. Olive Oil. I want to show you in my next two lectures that the same substances that are found in animal foods can be found in vegetable foods. To-day I will try and prove that vegetables contain carbon. Here is a piece of bread. In bread and all vegetables there is a great dear of starch. You all know what starch is, because you must have seen your mothers use it very often to