I'M COOKING. out into tho water, however carefully tlie food may have he&n cooked. Soups made from the liquid in which fish has been boiled arc very good, unless the fish has been salted. In the same way, you cannot make soup of the water in which salt meat has been cooked. For this reason salt meat is an extravagant food, because the water in which it is cooked is useless. Another reason why salt meat is extravagant is, that when salt is put on any meat the salt draws out its juices. The brine that comes from salted meat is the part that contains most of the juices, and that part is thrown away. This is done in England even with the water in which fresh meat has been boiled. It is only a very few years ago that several of our soldiers who lived in some London barracks were nearly starved to death. They became very thin and weak. It was considered very strange, as the best fresh meat was bought for them, and they had some of it every day. At last an en- quiry was made. It was then found that they never had anything but boiled meat, which was boiled to a rag, and the cook always threw away the liquid in which it was boiled. This story proves very clearly that even English cooks do not understand anything about the different properties of foods and the principles of beat by which they should be cooked. No person ought to call himself a cook who does not know these things. I will now tell yon how to make clear stock for soup from butcher's meat. Here is some meat stock in this glass jar. You see it is quite clear. The reasons why this stock is so clear are, first, because the meat and the bones with which it was made were put into a perfectly clean saucepan, with cold water, of course, as the juices had to be brought out of the meat. Secondly, because the meat was never allowed to boil, only to simmer. If soup boils the albumen in the meat becomes hardened and rises in little bits to the top and makes what is called ' scum.' Even if the soup does not boil a scum will rise if the saucepan is not spotlessly clean, for any old bits of food that were sticking to the sides and bottom of the pan will come off and rise to the top ; then the soup will taste disagreeable and it will be thick. English professed cooks will