79 THE SALIVA GLANDS. are three other teeth on each side in both the upper and the lower jaw-bone ; they cut up the butcher's meat we eat. The double teeth are molar teeth ; they grind the vegetable food. It is therefore intended we should eat both animal and vegetable food, as we have teeth that will chop up foods of every kind. Our food is first changed, as I told you, in the mouth. But before we put any food into it I should like you to fancy your- selves standing before a pastry-cook's shop,feeling very hungry. What would happen directly you saw all the good things ? Your mouths would begin to water. Where did that water come from ? You have taken nothing to drink for some time. This water came from some wonderful little organs called salivary glands. You see this little glass ; it is of the shape of an almond.1 It has a little pipe at the end of it. This almond- shaped bulb is something like the simplest form of a gland ; but the glands which make the saliva consist of numbers of little sacs opening into the ends of a branched tube called a duct. We have six of these in the mouth—one in each cheek, and one under the tongue on each side, and one below each side of the lower jaw. Three and a half pints of saliva are said to pour out of them daily into the mouth. No organs seem to me more wonderful than the glands. There are a great many of them in different parts of the body. We will now take a mouthful of meat into our mouths, and see what happens to it. The teeth will first cut it up into small pieces; the saliva will make it soft, and the tongue will roll it into a ball, and send it to the back of the mouth. At the back of the mouth there is a little door of flesh that hangs from the upper jaw. Directly the ball of food touches this little door it will be lifted up and cover an opening there is into the nose, to prevent any food from getting into this opening. The little door that covers the windpipe will close at the same time, and the ball will roll over the door into the gullet. Here are two glass tubes placed together as the windpipe and gullet are placed ; the red pipe is in- tended to represent the windpipe, and the yellow pipe is the 1 I showed a glass bulb in the shape of an almond.