THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 71 the nail that projects round the edge of it can protect it. To- wards the back part there is this raised part like a cushion; it is called the 'frog.' The frog is a most wonderful and useful part, for when it rests constantly on anything hard it becomes so tough and hard that even a piece of glass will not hurt it. By this means the horse is able to pass over the most stony roads in its own country, where it is not shod. Some people think it would be better not to shoe them at all in England. I will now take off the hard polished hoof, or nail, and tire horny sole and frog, in which there are no nerves, and show you how delicately the under sole is made. You see it is covered with nerves, arteries, and veins. The whole of the front of the hoof has these little white lines, like the leaves of a book, which run from the top of the hoof to the bottom, called lamina?. There are no less than three hundred of them ; they are all made of a soft substance, containing many nerves. This is that part in our toes and fingers which we call the quick, which lies under the nail, and hurts so dreadfully if anything shai'p runs down the nail. Now you must look and see how beautifully these three hundred lamina? are guarded by the horny covering, or shoe. Each of the laminas is placed in a little horny groove to protect it. Under them you can see the bone of the foot, which is called the coffin bone. There are a great many little holes in the coffin bone for the arteries and veins to pass through, so that they may not be hurt by any pressure. Here is the tender sole, where there are so many nerves. Everything is done by nature to guard the foot. I am sorry to say there are ignorant blacksmiths and grooms who do their best to spoil all that God has done. First they put on iron shoes of an immense weight, and then they fasten them on by too many nails, which are sent in too far, till they touch some of the tender parts. Sometimes they make the foot fit the shoe by cutting away the horny part till it has the same shape as the iron shoe. Some people consider it an im- provement to scrape the polished hoof with a knife; then the wet gets in, and the nail becomes rotten and breaks away, so that there is very little horny substance to fasten the nails to.