Ill SALTS. oirls who are growing ought to eat a great deal of bread. Farmers put all the old bones they can get on those fields in which they sow wheat. The heat of the sun separates the lime and phosphorus, which with oxygen make the salt called phosphate of lime, from the gelatine. The lime and phos- phorus then sink into the earth, and nourish the wheat while it is growing, and we eat these two substances again when the wheat is ground into flour. You must remember that heat makes things join together chemically, and that heat can also separate them. Great care should therefore be taken by the cook to prevent the heat being so great that it will injure the substances contained in food. I told you that vegetables and fruit contained a great quantity of potash. We can eat a great deal of fruit without cooking it, such as apples and oranges, and also a great many srreen vegetables which we make into salad, such as lettuce, mustard and cress, onions, &c. In France they eat a great quantity of salad all the year round. Water in which vege- tables have been boiled contains a great deal of saline matter. This water ought to be used for soups, and not thrown away. During the next few lectures I intend to tell you how food ought to be cooked. So you must remember all I have just been saying to you. Our blood requires a great many mine- rals as well as salts, such as iron and magnesium. One reason why people lose their colour, and grow very pale and white, is because they do not get enough iron. We get a great deal of mineral food in the water we drink. This water comes from rivers and springs, and as it runs along over and through the earth it dissolves the minerals that are in the soil, just as sugar dissolves in water. The clearest water often contains a great many substances, both good and bad, which we cannot see with the naked eye. Some iron has been dis- solved in this water, though it looks quite clear. I dare say some of you have been to Harrogate and tasted the Harrogate waters. There are iron and sulphur wells there. People who suffer from skin complaints go to Harrogate on purpose to drink these waters, to make their blood pure. Very likely if these invalids had understood what the blood requires, and had eaten the right kind of