RESPIRATION. 60 soon makes an odd sound in its throat, like the crowing of a cock. A piece of membrane grows in the windpipe, and presents the air from getting into the lnngs. The only thing to be done is to send instantly for a doctor, and light a fire if it is cold weather. If a doctor is sent for in time he may be able to prevent this piece of membrane from growing in the windpipe. If you wait at all, it will be too late, for the mem- brane grows so very quickly. An infant breathes very quickly, and its heart beats very rapidly, because the blood has to be pumped up very often into the lungs, to be made pure and warm by the oxygen it finds in them. There are three things that help to keep the blood warm—exercise, thought, and fat. We know that a baby has not much real fat on its bones, it cannot take any exercise, and it has not the power of thinking. When we think and study the blood goes more rapidly to our brains, as it always does to every organ of the body that is working. If a baby's head is kept hot it will dream and be feverish and restless ; it is not intended that its brains should work. For that reason great care ought to be taken to keep its head cool. A baby has generally no hair on its head when it is born, and the effect of this is to keep it cool. Nurses won't believe this. They will cover the head both by day and when it is in bed, in spite of all the doctors say. Every other part of its body ought to be kept very warm, or the blood will not be able to pass through the capillaries to feed the flesh. What is the use of feeding a child with good food if the food, when it is made into blood, cannot get out of the capillaries to feed the body ? Cold shuts up these wonderful little blood- vessels ; therefore a child will be pined 1 unless its limbs are covered up. It is very sad to see what ignorant ideas the richest and poorest people alike have about the way in which infants and children should be treated. I constantly meet the children of the rich and educated classes on a cold winter's day walking out very smartly dressed—hats covered with feathers and ribbons. Then I look down and see their poor little legs quite 1 ' Pined' is a Yorkshire word for starved.