lMl'UKK All: ANl> VENTILATION. poor oreaturesto have plenty of fresh air blowing upon them, instead of being shut up in close rooms. It is most important that no clothes should be kept in a room where anyone has a fever. If I were a poor woman with six children, and had only two rooms to live in, and found one of my children was sickening for a fever, I should immediately take all the clothes out of the drawers, bundle them up in a parcel, put them into the other room where I lived, remove every bit of curtain and carpet, open the window at the top about two inches, or break a top pane of glass if it would not open, see that the fireplace was open, or, if it was not very hot weather, light a small fire. Then I should warm the bed give the child something hot, and send for the doctor. Germs float in the air, settle upon the furniture and the walls, and get caught in articles of furniture, carpets, bed- clothes and wearing apparel; they live best in woollen materials, which seem to keep them warm and feed them. Cobwebs are of a silky nature, and cases have been known where one cobweb has held sufficient germs to give a fever over again. It is right on this account that a nurse should wear a cotton dress. I will tell you a story that will prove how well woollen material will retain the germs of a disease. During those ignorant, dirty times in England long ago a dreadful com- plaint, called the Plague, used to rage. It visited England many times in the course of several hundred years. Directly it was known that anyone had this complaint, no one would go near him; he was allowed to die alone—so great was the dread of it. In a village called Eyam in Derbyshire, in 1666, a tailor lived, named George Vicars. One day he received a box of clothes from London, containing such articles of clothing as coats, trousers, &c, all made of wool. He opened the box, and spread these things out to air before the fire. As he stood watching the clothes dry he felt sick. The heat of the fire no doubt bi-ought the germs to life, and they floated about in the air, and he breathed or swallowed them. The next day he was worse, and on the third day a black spot appeared on his breast. Then he knew that he had the Plague. He died that night, No doubt people went