169 WHAT LIGHT DOES. acid gas we send out of our mouths, which poisons us and all animals. The plant does not like the carbonic acid gas any more than we do, but it likes the carbon that is in the carbonic acid gas. If the sun shines on the leaf, some of the rays of the sun separate the carbon from the oxygen, and the leaf then sends out all the oxygen it does not want into the air for us to breathe, aud keeps the carbon for itself to help to make the grains of starch or the sugar which pro- duce fat when we eat vegetables. All plants, or vegetables, which are the same things, die when there is no sun to change or separate the carbonic acid gas into oxygen and carbon. When human beings live in dark places where the sun cannot come, their minds grow weak, and their bodies become unhealthy, and they fade like plants. Switzerland is a country where the mountains are sometimes so high that the valleys, or places that lie between two high mountains, get very little sunshine, and the air in them is often very close. Some of the Swiss people who live in these deep valleys have large swellings in their throats, and they lose their senses and become idiots. For a long time doctors could not find out why these poor people were so much afflicted in body and mind. At last it struck them that these diseases came because they had not enough sunshine to purify the air. Hospitals were therefore built high up on the mountain sides, where plenty of sun could shine upon them and get into the rooms. When the idiots and people with swollen throats had been in these hospitals for some time, both body and mind grew much stronger, and they were able to work like other people. The Rev. J. H. F. Kendall, of Leeds, told me he once suffered from a sore throat for several months; no medicine did him any good. At last it occurred to him that the room he always sat in got no sun. He removed into another room upon which the sun was constantly shining. In a very short time he lost his sore throat. Florence Nightingale, who went out to nurse our poor wounded soldiers in the Crimea, found that the sick and wounded recovered very quickly on the sunny side of the hospital, but a great many of the poor fellows died who were obliged to lie on that which had very