WHY WIO HAVE FEVERS. n of oxygen. If yon were to put any clothes from, a person who had had a fever into a tub of water with some per- manganate of potash in it, all the poisonous germs that had come from the body of the sick person would be killed. Here I have some water which has some permanganate of potash in it. You see that its colour is a beautiful deep purple, and I will put some of it into this pure water. The colour remains as bright as ever. Now I will put it into some water that contains a poisonous substance, and you will see that the colour immediately flies, and the water will look a dirty yellow. What a blessing it is we can get this wonderful oxygen gas without paying for it! All we have to do is to open our windows and doors and let it rush in, and then it will drive away and kill all the fever germs. Daring those times I have just told you about, when people had such dirty habits and suffered from dreadful fevers in England, how do you think they treated a poor man, or woman, or child, who had a fever ? They used to shut them up in a room, and close the windows, so that not a breath of fresh air could come in. The bed clothes were never changed; all the poisonous matter that came out through the skin as sweat and oily matter was allowed to remain and collect, so it again entered the blood through the pores of the skin and poisoned it more and more. Blankets were put upon them to make them sweat. "When the unfortunate person became mad with the fever and the treatment, he was tied down to the bed. No wonder he died. Even the doctors, as a rule, in those times did not understand anything about the laws of health. They used to treat people in the small-pox just in the same way. In 1731, more than a hundred years ago, small-pox was very bad at a place called Blandford. There were 150 persons ill in one hospital. One night—it was summer-time—a fire broke out. All the sick people were earned out and put into the fields under bridges, under hedges, anywhere, and there they remained three days and three nights. Everybody ex- pected they would die directly, but instead of that they all got well, except one poor girl, who was nearly dying when the fire broke out. How delightful it must have been for the