RESPIRATION. 5. How would you try and bring back lifo to a drowning person ? 02 tongue with your fingers-do not be afraid of hurting him— and pull it out as far as ever you can. Then tie a string, if you have one—or tear off a strip of your pocket-hand- kerchief—across the tongue and round the lower jaw, to prevent the tongue from falling back into the throat. If it does, it will shut up the opening into the windpipe, and no air will be able to get down. Until he can breathe it is not only useless but dangerous to try and warm his body. Turn him again on his face, to be quite sure that all the water has come out and the air-passages are all free. Then, when he is on his back, the head slightly raised, lift his arms up and down, because when the arms are up the ribs stretch out, and the lungs can hold more air. Do this several times, till you see he tries to breathe himself. Of course do not let people crowd round ; give him all the oxygen and fresh air you can. Then, if a house is near, carry him, with his head slightly raised, into it, and try to restore heat gradually by rubbing and hot blankets. Ignorant people always think the first thing they must do is to make the person warm. Now this is a very dangerous thing to do, because the blood cannot circulate until fresh air can get into the lungs. People have been known to come to life when they have been in the water for some time, because the heart may continue to beat very softly long after the senses and memory have failed. Directions about bathing will be found in Appendix I. Things provided for the Lecture. Stodmann's model of the chest containing the lungs and heart. A thermometer. Glass windpipe with epiglottis and bronchial tubes. Questions for the Eighth Lecture. 1. Is the heat of our blood always the same in summer and winter ? 2. Why do damp beds, damp clothes, wet feet, and damp, impure air give people rheumatism, fevers, colds, consumption, and other complaints ? 3. Why do more little girls than boys die every year from chest com- plaint ? 4. What would you do it a person fainted?