soup. 137 tell you that soup cannot be clear unless it boils for a quarter/ of an hour, and that during this quarter of an hour you should throw in a little cold water to make the ' scum' rise, and keep taking it off' with a spoon. All the time the scum is being removed the cover is kept off, and the steam is carrying off the flavouring matter, injuring the juices, hardening the albumen, and wasting the soup. The stock in this bottle was allowed to boil, and the scum was removed; but it is not clearer than the stock in this other bottle, which never boiled and had no scum removed. There is, you see, a great deal more of the soup that only simmered than of the boiled soup, to say nothing of its being more nourishing. The most nourishing beef-tea for invalids is of ten prepai'ed by putting the beef into a jar which is placed in a pan of boiling water. Custards, milk, and other foods are often pre- pared in the same way. No food can be brought up to boiling point in a pan which is merely surrounded by boiling water. This is a scientific fact that all ought to know. Captain War- ren's famous cooking pot is constructed on this principle—the steam that is made by the boiling water in the outer pan passes into the lid, which is double, or into a steamer which, if wanted for vegetables or puddings, can be put over the cooking pan. It is quite impossible that any steam can enter the middle pan : here the food is cooked by hot air so that it loses none of its flavouring matter, and scarcely any of its weight. When soup is wanted, water, of course, is used. We have cooked several kinds of food with the greatest success in Captain Warren's ' Everybody's Cooking Pot.' A few clays since an article appeared in the Times describing this apparatus, from which I give the following extract:—' The heat to which the food is subjected cannot be greater than 210 deg. Fahrenheit; and the closure of the vessel, and the consequent gentle stew- ing of the meat or fish in its own juices, is attended by a very remarkable prevention of waste and preservation of flavour. It is estimated that the loss of meat by ordinary methods of cooking is about one-third by roasting, or 5^- oz. in the pound, about 4£ oz. in the pound by boiling, and about Sh oz. by baking ; while the loss by Captain Warren's process is altogether insignificant. Thus, Captain Harrison,