SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 172 2. Name some of the complaints that human beings suffer from who live much in places where very little sunshine can come to them. Whon Florence Nightingale nursed our poor soldiers in the Cri- mean war, what happened to the men who lay on that side of the hospital where they got scarcely any sun ? 3. How does the sun give us the carbon from which the fat is made that burns in our bodies, and how is it that the sun's heat helps to give us the water we drink? 4. Why is it dai^erous to drink water that has been got out of a well that is placed in a town, or from a well that is near a churchyard or any drains ? LECTURE XXIV. THE VOICE. I shall begin my lecture to-day by describing the beautiful little musical instrument or organ by which the voice is made. At the top of the windpipe, just at the back of the tongue, there is a small box, made chiefly of cartilages and muscles, called the larynx. Here is a picture of the larynx. It looks like a Jew's harp, only that it has two strings instead of one. I daresay you have noticed that men have a lump in their throats. This lump is called Adam's apple, and it is made by this pointed part of the box, which comes to the front of the throat. These two strings or cords in the interior of the larynx, which go from the front to the back, are called vocal cords. Men have made a great many different kinds of stringed instruments, such as the harp and fiddle. Here is a harp. A harp has a great many cords or strings, and they are all of different lengths, and each cord has a different tone or sound. I will first strike the longest one ; the tone you hear is a low one. Now I will strike the shortest one, and you will hear that it makes a high tone. The musical instrument in our throats, I told you, has only two strings. The strings are both of the same length, and yet we can make almost every different tone that a harp or any instrument that has ever been made can produce. Don't you think this is very wonderful ?