41 COURSE OF THE BLOOD. cava, is carrying all the dirty blood from the lower part of the body tip to the heart. These two veins pour all the black dirty blood into the top part of the right side of the heart, 3. Remember there is a very strong wall of flesh that goes down through the middle of the heart, 6. Not a drop of blood can run from the right side into the left side of the heart. In the right side of the heart there are two rooms or chambers, 2 and 3, and in the left side of the heart there are also two rooms, 10 and 11. All these rooms have most curious little doors, called valves, which open and shut. About three ounces of blood will flow into each room at a time, and then the little door will shut and not allow any more to pass in. We will now suppose that three ounces of dirty blood enter into the top room on the right side. When the door from the vein is shut behind it, the blood will flow through the other door, which will close in the same way. Directly the three ounces of blood get into the bottom room the wonderful little heart will pump it all through particular pipes, called pulmonary arteries, into the lungs, where it is made clean and of a beautiful bright red colour by the oxygen which the lungs ought to contain. The clean blood will then be carried by other pipes called pulmonary veins, to the top room on the left side of the heart. Three ounces will flow through the top door, which will then shut; the blood will then pass through the second door, which will then instantly close. Directly it reaches the bottom room the heart will pump it into this large red artery, called the aorta (p. 39), which will carry it by many branches to every part of the body. You see I have now brought the clean blood back to exactly the same spot it set off from; therefore it has circulated over every part of the body. I will show you the four rooms and the doors, or valves, in this model when the lecture is over. Before I conclude my lecture I will explain why it is that we hear our hearts beat. You see the heart comes to a point at the lowest part, where the two rooms are placed which pump up the blood. Now, the heart in pumping out the blood from these two rooms forces this pointed part against the ribs, and so makes that sound or noise which we call the beating of the heart.