131 A MUTTON CHOP. as coal would make a great deal of smoke, and we hare no chimney to carry it away. We will now put a plate to warm before the fire, so that it may be ready for the chop when it is cooked. We shall only use the same saucepans and cooking- utensils that you are accustomed to see used. Here is the gridiron ; you see it is very clean. IE it were not very clean, the flavour of the mutton chop would be quite spoilt. As the fire has now burnt up bright and clear, we will put the gridiron over it for a few minutes to get the bars hot, for then the chop will not stick to the bars ; some people rub grease on the bars, but that is not a good way. The chop must not be put on with a fork, as the fork would make holes in the meat and let out the juices. By means of a spoon and a knife it is easily put on. As we want to keep all the juices in, we will put the gridiron very near the hot coals, and then the red heat will directly harden the albumen that is on the outside of the chop, and so fasten in all the juices. A fine chop will take twelve minutes to cook thoroughly; a very thin one, a minute or two less. Remember, it must be turned six times—that is, once in every two minutes. No per- son ought to cook a chop without a clock or a watch to look at, as great care is required to cook it well. Directly the chop is ready, it must be put upon a nice hot plate ; if the plate is cold, the chop will be spoilt, however well it has been cooked. The next thing is to eat it directly; a chop should be carried from the fire to the dinner table. Do not put butter or any- thing on the chop. It is best eaten with a little salt and a good potato. A person with a very delicate digestion could eat a chop cooked in this way when he could eat nothing else. Now I will cut this chop open, to show you how nicely it is done. The flesh is not at all red, only full of juice. A beef steak ought to be cooked in exactly the same way. I will now show you how to roast a joint of meat. You must have the same clear, bright, red fire to roast by which yon require to cook a mutton chop with. We will suppose that this is a loin of mutton ; it is really only two chops cut from a loin of mutton. As we want to keep all the juices in this joint, we must let it hang as close to the fire as possible for ten minutes. Then the great heat that comes from a clear E 2