128 COOKING* of a roasted potato. Now that you know the skin is like cork, you will understand why it is unwholesome. Wo will now boil an egg, so that the albumen shall become solid, but not hard, and the yolk shall be soft. I will put this egg into boiling water, but I will not let the saucepan remain an instant on the fire. I only wish it to be put into boiling water. The cover, you see, is on. I will now put it on this hob, which is warm, and there I will let it remain five minutes ; a minute or two longer will not make it hard. It is very important to keep on the lid ; indeed, an egg could not be cooked in this way unless the saucepan was covered, because it is cooked a great deal by the steam. I will now poach an egg. The egg which is taken out of its shell will be put into this boiling water. It is really boiling water, as you see by this thermometer. You will find from experience that water does not always boil directly it begins to bubble. The safe plan, therefore, is to let it boil for some minutes before you put anything into it. Directly I put the egg into the boiling water, I put the cover on, and instantly remove the saucepan from the fire. It shall remain on the hob about the same time that I let the other egg remain—from five to ten minutes, just as it suits me. No doubt it would be quite done in five minutes, but it would not be spoilt if left a little longer. By cooking an egg in this way we do not require a clock or a thermometer, and if it is a good fresh egg it will be beautifully cooked. I have found that stale or bad eggs can never be cooked well by any heat, however much trouble you may take with them. Of course it will be the same with all stale or bad meat and vegetables. An egg is animal food; if you know how to cook it well, you will know that the same heat will cook any kind of animal food. Here is a hard-boiled egg ; it has been boiled in boiling water for ten minutes. Let us compare it with the poached and soft-boiled egg. The albumen, or white part, in both of them is creamy, and the yolks are soft. Though I did put these two eggs into boiling water they never boiled, because the eggs, being cold, cooled the boiling water, the temperature of which went down quickly from 212° to 180°. The first time I cooked an egg in this way I put the egg into