CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. 179 think why people are often so cruel to them. It is thought that they only love places and not people, but this is a great mistake. , All animals were made for some wise purpose, and it is intended that they should enjoy life. A great many people seem to think that animals were only made for their selfish amusement. I think it very cruel to keep pets ; that is, to shut up , animals or birds who ought to be constantly moving from place to place, just for the pleasure of looking at them occa- sionally, or hearing them sing for a few minutes during the day. I hope ere long that no person will be allowed to carry wild animals all over the country in shows, called travelling- menageries, that are now to be seen at nearly every feast or fair. It is' dreadful to think of the sufferings these animals must undergo from being shut up in small cages ; but this is nothing to the tortures they are put through in order to make them entirely change their nature, and bear any amount of bratal treatment. I cannot think how men and women can bear to see a woman put her head into the month of a lion or tiger; and to watch poor animals being teased and beaten until they are nearly driven mad. We learnt from a sad case that was tried in Leeds last year, how inhumanly animals are tortured before they can be made to bear all I have de- scribed, and to jump through rings which are all blazing with fire. The animals who were made to do this last horrid feat were hyaenas belonging to ' Edmonds' travelling menagerie.' Surely these performances are almost as disgraceful to the spectators as to the performers. Sa,d to say, little children are often taken to see these dreadful sights. Bird-catchers have many cruel practices ; amongst others, they sometimes put out the eyes of birds in order to make them sing, and keep hundreds of them packed together in tiny cages just big enough to hold them. Birds are accus- tomed to find shade in the woods during the hot part of the day ; instead of that you find them placed in cages which are hung in windows where the blazing sun shines upon them for hours, and they are to be seen panting for air. Pigeon-shoot- ing is a most cruel sport. This sport used to be carried on S 2