THE CIRCULATION. fc8 through an artery or a vein, because they have three skins. I will now show you a model of the chest containing the two lungs, and the heart lying between them. I will point out the large artery called the aorta, and I will show you the two large veins that bring the dirty blood back to the left side of the heart, called the upper vena cava and the lower vena cava. This time I will open the heart, and let you sec the doors or valves that lead into the bottom rooms. Things 'provided for the Lecture. Marshall's diagram showing the circulation. Glass artery, vein, and capillary. Auzoux's paper-mache model of a heart. A spirit lamp. 1. To show what is called osmosis, Iliad a small glass tube which con- tained pink-coloured water with some sugar in it, the top of the tube being covered with a thin membrane. This I first placed in a tumbler of water which also had sugar in it, with the top of the tube downwards : the liquids being of the same density, no exchange took place. I next placed it in a tumbler of clear water, when both sugar and colouring matter came through the skin which covered the top of the tube, and sweetened the water in the tumbler, whilst water also passed into the tube. 2. To show that an exchange takes place between gases of different densi- ties I have a small balloon made of a thin membrane filled with carbonic acid gas. The gas escapes through the membrane and leaves the balloou with a small quantity of ordinary air. To show how to stop an artery I tied a string above a cut that was made in a soft red leather tube. A sheet with all difficult words written large for children to copy. Questions for the Sixth Lecture. 1. As no blood can run through the coats or sides of an artery or rein. how does the blood get out to feed the body and the forty organs P 2. "Why do our faces become very red when we are ashamed, or white when we are frightened ? 3. If an artery was cut, how would you stop it from bleeding? 4. Why is it dangerous for people who have heart complaints to run to catch a train or to go quickly up a hill or up a flight of stairs ?