DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS. an old pauper woman. They were fed on bread—workhouse bread—soaked in water just coloured with milk. The children were placed in a row; then the old woman used to go along the row, and put into each child's month a spoonful of this soaked bread. In a very short time they all died. Indeed, they went into the ' house ' to die. Dr. Bednar, who lives in Vienna, was the surgeon to a foundling hospital some years ago, where poor little charity children are taken in. Dr. Bednar examined the dead bodies of fifteen of these poor little infants. He found that they had all been 'pinedj' or starved, to death. There was scarcely any fat or flesh to cover their bones. The oxygen had burnt it all np. All he fonnd was a great deal of starch lying along the bowels, which of coni'se had not been digested. They too had been fed on bread-and-water. This is the way babies are tortured and starved to death when mothers put their children out to nurse. The women, or baby-farmers, who earn a small sum of money for taking care of these children, cannot afford to buy milk, which is very dear, so they give them a great deal of bread-and-water. How dreadful it is to think that while these poor little creatures are suffering and dying by inches, or living to grow np miserable cripples who must work hard for their bread, their mothers are feeding rich women's children, and making them fat and happy. I do not consider that a poor ignorant mother who forsakes her child for money is half so cruel as the rich edncated mother who, for the sake of ease and pleasure, refuses to feed and cherish her little one. Until mothers will be really mothers to their own infants, and give np the fashionable and unnatural practice of engaging wet nurses, a country, thongh it may be called civilised, will never produce a moral and healthy people. It is stated that the more civilised a country becomes, the more infants die every year. In England about half the children born die before they reach five years. Milk, and only milk, is the food for children for the first six or nine months. If there is no mother's milk, an infant, with care, may be brought up very well on cow's milk, not skimmed milk. After eight or nine months the milk may be thickened with a little baked flour