110 MlNHttAL FOODS, bread, and a great) quantity of vegetables and fruit. Our blood, to be healthy, must contain at least forty different sub- stances. These forty different things can only get into the blood through the food we eat. The French understand what foods contain, and they are determined that they will cook their food in such a manner that all these substances shall be carefully preserved. All flavouring matters are spoiled by too much heat. Beef does not taste like mutton. Vegetable foods, also, have each their different flavour: an onion does not taste like an apple. This flavouring matter is much weakened by heat. Albumen I showed you was also spoiled by being put into boiling water. The French never boil any good wholesome food. The first lesson a young French girl learns is to cook gently. The food in France is cooked for a much longer time than ours ; in fact, it is always thoroughly tender and digestible. We are in such a hurry and fuss ; and think that if the saucepan is only put on a good fire, and the contents boil, all is right. I will try and show you, during my lectures on cookery, that boiling is a most extravagant process, that we waste coal, burn our saucepans and faces, and injure our tempers, all for very little purpose, because the food upon which we have spent our time is spoilt. We are said to be among the worst of cooks. More butcher's meat is ■eaten in England than in any .other country. The French are the best cooks in the world. Though they are less wealthy than we are, their poor people are better nourished than ours. I .am not a vegetarian, but I believe in living as the French •do, on a great variety of the most nourishing, simple, and well-cooked foods, and that butcher's meat is not the only food hy which we can make flesh and strengthen our nerves and muscles. Fortunately, the most nourishing foods are the •cheapest, as I intend to show in tbje next lecture. Things provided for the Lecture. Three bottles containing the quantities of water taken respectively from a pound of potatoes, a pound of l-ice, and a pound of wheat. One pound of potatoes. n .1 .» ric0- • A softened blade-hone from the School ot' .Medicine,