120 FOODS. him, and rude little children in the streets made fun of him. He could not even raise his arm to put on his hat or stoop to draw on his boots. He thought perhaps he should grow thinner if he lived on slops, such as gruel, &c. But, alas ! this food only made him grow fatter and weaker. Fortu- nately he met some one who understood the nature of foods, and who persuaded him to take nitrogenous foods, that make muscle, not fat, such as butcher's meat, cheese, eggs, &c, and also to take plenty of exercise. By following this sensible advice he soon became of moderate size. It is very unwise of people to persevere in eating anything that they do not like or that does not agree with them, and it is cruel as well as unwise to force a child to take food that it does not fancy. Some people cannot eat hard-boiled eggs; others do not like them when they are boiled soft, and some cannot eat them at all. 'To some people shell-fish are occasionally-very indigestible. I know a lady whose face becomes covered with large red spots if she eats oysters or any kind of shell-fish. I have heard of a man who was very fond of crabs, though they disagreed with him dreadfully. He determined he Avould try and make them agree, so he ate one every day for a week. Each day he became worse ; at last he was so very ill that his family were obliged to send for a doctor. The medical man directly enquired about the food he had been eating. The reply was, 'Nothing but crabs.' 'Do they generally agree with you ? ' ' Oh, no ; that is why I eat them. I was determined that my stomach should not master me.' The medical man assured him that it was onty wonderful that he was alive, and that the crabs had not killed him. Some men and women arc so fortunate as to be able to eat and enjoy all kinds cf food. A gentleman in Leeds told me the other day he had often eaten three-quarters of a pound of rich- Cheddar cheese at a meal, and only felt stronger and better for it. Cheese is cheaper and contains less water and more nutrient solids than butcher's meat. Healthy working-men who labour hard in fresh air can eat anything that is wholesome and well cooked. If we want good digestions, we must work hard too and earn our