THE EYE. 167 over the hard needle. Then you will easily discover the sub- stance, if it is sticking, as it often does, to the delicate membrane. A clean quill pen is a good thing to get it out with, if it cannot be gently washed or rubbed off. On the outside of the eye, in this corner farthest from the nose, are placed our tear-glands. These little tear-glands and other little glands on the inside of the eyelids are con- stantly forming and sending the watery fluid known as thp tears over the front of the eye. The lid moves this water about and washes the cornea with it, so that there may be no dust on it to prevent the light from passing through the window, or pupil. This is what happens when we wink. Perhaps you do not know that you wink your eyes a great many times in a minute. The dirty Avater runs out into two little holes ; one is on the top lid and the other on the bottom lid. In the corner of the eye near the nose there is a little tube that passes down into the nose; this tube, or pipe, carries the water away through it. When we cry we always blow our nose ; as the tear-glands then send out too much water for the pipes to carry along into the nose, the tears then run down over the cheeks also. The eyelashes are little brushes that sweep away all the dust that might otherwise get into the eye. The eye- brows also keep off the dust. Grooms, and ignorant people who have the care of horses, sometimes cut their eyelashes. A horse has no hands to rub his eyes with when anything gets into them, as we have. Eyelashes are therefore even more necessary for a horse than for us. This cruel practice makes their eyes inflame. The little red piece of flesh at the corner of our eyes is much bigger in a horse, and is called a ' haw.' This haw grows big and inflamed when the eyelashes have been cut. The same ignorant people who cut away the eyelashes cut the haw too when it becomes inflamed, as they do not understand its use. This piece of flesh in a horse has the power of moving over a great part of the eye, and so rubs off any dust or hard bits that may get into it. Fancy what the poor horse will have to suffer who has been deprived of both eyelashes and haw, when he has to travel over dusty roads on a windy day.