152 COOKING. than boil.' Now, if fish or any food were cooked in boiling fat, it would be spoiled and burnt to a cinder. Fat fa a difficult substance to cook. Burnt fat is very difficult to digest; pancakes and fried fish are considered trying to a delicate stomach. Water boils at 212°, but fat does not boil until at 600° or 700°. Fish, veal cutlets, and all kinds of food will be beautifully browned when the fat is at 350°. The cook will now fry this piece of fish, called a fillet of sole, in this fat; you will see by the thermometer that the heat of the fat is what I have ah'eady named—350°. Directly the fish is nicely browned she will put the frying-pan on to the hot hob, and let the fish remain there until it is done. Fried fish, like all other food, ought to be gradually cooked, not fried in boiling fat. I have told you that the Paris and the Vienna bakers make the best bread. The simple reason why they sur- pass the bakers of all other countries is because they use a thermometer, and find out by it when the oven is at the exact heat it ought to be before they put in their bread. In this country, bakers gain this information by many little guess-work schemes, such as our cook, who is an excellent bread-maker, employs. She puts her hand into the oven to feel how hot the air is. As her hand is sometimes veiy hot, and at other times very cold, she cannot always find out the exact heat of the oven. When her hand is very hot, the oven will not seem as hot as it really is; if her hand is very cold, the contrast with the hot oven will make the heat seem greater than it really is ; and in this way she may fail to judge the heat of the oven rightly, and then her bread will be spoilt. When the dough is put into the oven, the heat ought to be about 570° Fahr. In about five minutes the heat should gradually grow less, to between 430° and 420°. When you put the dough into a properly heated oven—570° Fahr.—the starch grains swell in the dough and the yeast plant continues to grow, until the heat in the air in the oven has spread throughout all the dough, and then the yeast plant is killed. It will take about five minutes to do this. Then the oven should be made cooler by a great many degrees; let the heat go down until it is about 420°; then the bread may bake or