WARMTH—FRESH AIR, Gl bare. These poor children are generally not allowed to run and keep themselves warm, lest they should fall and injure or dirty their fine clothes. The nurse is often cross, and the children are cross, and the little things return home very cold and very unhappy. A beggar's boy, with his bare head and his naked legs and feet, is much bettor off after all, because he is able to run and enjoy himself, and by that means keep warm. More little girls die than boys every year. Mothers put their little boys into jackets and trousers at a very early age, because they like to see them look manly. The girls are left with bare arms and necks, because they arc considered to look much prettier dressed in this way. The skin that is exposed to the cold air gets chilled, and then the pores become closed, and the sweat is thrown in and poisons the blood and brings on illness. Every part of the body should be covered up, except the face and the hands, with some light woollen ma- terial which will not easily take fire. Fresh air is more necessary for a baby than for a grown-up person; yet you constantly see mothers carrying their infants with a thick shawl put over their faces and mouths. If the blood becomes filled with carbonic acid gas it will not move ; and directly the blood cannot get to the head all our senses fail, and we faint, or a baby will perhaps have convulsions. The only way to restore the senses is to take the persons into fresh air, and place them flat on their backs, with their head a little raised; the oxygen will then fly into the lungs and make the blood pure and alive. A person who falls into water is suffocated, or drowned, because the water has filled his mouth and shut the little door down over the windpipe, so that no air can get into the lungs. The blood will not move from the lungs into the heart when it cannot have any oxygen; therefore the brain can get no blood and will not work; then the drowning person loses his memory and senses. The great thing is to get all the water out of his mouth. See that he has nothing tight round his neck or chest. Turn him instantly on his face, and place your hand under his forehead, and let the water run out which has gone down his throat; then turn him round; catch hold of his