47 ARTE ME S AND VEINS. shut very perfectly—to run to catch a train, or to go quickly either up a hill or up a flight of stairs. The muscles which surround the veins move very quickly when we run, and they work the blood up towards the heart just as we do when we press the veins up with our hands. Blood then gets too quickly to the heart. The doors cannot open fast enough to let it pass through to the bottom rooms, where it is pumped into the lungs to be cleaned, and into the big artery to be carried all over the body. For many hundred years doctors were trying to discover how the blood was carried over the body. It was generally thought, I believe, that the arteries only carried a spirit or air. About two hundred years ago a doctor named William Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood—that the ar- teries carried the good blood from the left side of the heart, and the veins brought back the dirty blood to the right side of the heart, and so on. But he did not know anything about the capillaries ; he thought the blood ran out through the arteries and veins to feed the organs. In those times there were no magnifying glasses or microscopes which were power- ful enough to enable him to see the capillaries, which you know are too fine to be seen by the naked eye. When Harvey had been dead several years, very powerful microscopes were invented, and Malpighi was then able, with their help, to see that at the end of every small artery there is a network of fine little pipes, or capillaries, as they are called, which is also united at the other end to a vein. Quadrupeds, or four-footed animals, and birds, have hearts like ours; but in reptiles there are only three rooms in the heart, and in fishes only two. By means of a heart their blood is also carried through arteries, veins, and capillaries. The skin in a frog's foot is very transparent, and so thin and clear that you can see through it, and watch the blood flying through the capillaries that are twisted about. Blood looks white, not red, in them. Doctors often place the foot of a live frog under the microscope. Of course you could not see the circulation unless you looked through very powerful glasses. There is only one skin to a capillary, and therefore we can see through it. It would be impossible to see