THE EAR. 163 grows very dry and falls out in fine powder. If water gets in, the wax is spoilt. People often squeeze up the end of a towel, and push it into the hole ; this presses the wax down upon the skin, or drum, that covers the end of the passage. Air cannot then get into the ear, and the lump of wax gets hard and injures the drum, or causes inflammation, so that the child may hecome hard of hearing or deaf. An earpick or a pin is sometimes used to take out the wax, and these may also break the drum. A loud and sudden noise has broken the drum, such as the going off of a gun close to the ear. No one ought to be allowed to box a child's ears, because the blow forces the air against the drum just as a loud noise does, and the membrane of the drum may be injured, A doctor tells the following sad story to show how cruel this practice is :— A boy who had been troubled with sore ears became hard of hearing. His father was in the habit of boxing his ears, because his son appeared stupid and inattentive. The boy died, and it was then found that his ears were diseased. The doctor thought the death might have been caused by the blows the boy had received. If a child cries when its ears are washed, or does not generally attend to what is said to it, let a doctor look at its ears, for very often this inattention is not the child's fault. When a child has sore ears, or is suffering from ear-ache, apply hot flannels. People often put hot onions, figs, &c, into the ear for tooth-ache as well as ear-ache. No one but a doctor ought to put anything into the car. Cotton-wool collects in the ear and injures the hearing. When a person is exposed to a draught or cold wind, a handkerchief should be tied over the ear. I will now let you see and examine this beautiful model of an ear, and I think you will find that all the parts I have described are there. Things provided for the Lecture. A diagram of the brain, spinal cord, and nerve?. Auzoux's model of the ear. Questions for the Twenty-second Lecture. 1. Why is it very dangerous to frighten a child ? 3. Why do a great many more children die in large towns every year while cutting their teeth than in the country ? m 2