115 IMPORTANCE OF WATER FOR ANIMALS. very cruelly in some zoological gardens, because the keepers have these ignorant ideas. No wonder there is so much diseased butcher's meat in the markets, when we know the cruelty that is practised towards animals, and it will ever be so until those who have the management of them are less ignorant. I am thankful to think we can eat animal and vegetable food, which will make us strong and healthy, without being obliged to eat much butcher's meat. The late Sir William Fairbairn, of Manchester, paid a visit to several foreign countries on purpose to learn how the working-people in those countries were fed. He found that the strongest men were the Turkish rowers. They eat bread, fruit, very little meat, and drink no wine or spirits. It is not wholesome to eat a great deal of meat, and I will now explain to you why. The stomach must be nearly filled, so that the bag is stretched out, or the food cannot be properly digested. On the other hand, if the stomach is quite full, the food has no room to be moved from side to side ; therefore it will i*emain undigested, because it cannot be broken up into small pieces. Half a pound of butcher's meat is considered enough for a man at one meal. Even a pound would not fill his stomach ; he can therefore easily eat more than is good for him. People feel a craving until the stomach is sufficiently filled. In some countries earth and clay are mixed with the food to give it greater bulk, so that it may satisfy the stomach. Horses fed with oats, or any kind of grain which takes up little room, have straw, shavings, sawdust, mixed up with it for the same reason. People who eat a great quantity of meat daily often suffer from most dreadful complaints—the stone, and gout. If they get a slight cut or wound it often will not heal quickly. The Americans in the United States, rich and poor, eat as much butcher's meat as they like. No English people suffer so much from stomach complaints, nor are more un- healthy. It is said that the working people in Ireland, who live chiefly on vegetables (the potato), are not afflicted with gout. The French rarely suffer from disorder of the stomach. They eat at least a third less meat than Ave do, twice as much i 2