178 THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. LECTURE XXV. 2m1 TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. During these lectures you have seen that vertebrate animals have inauy organs similar to those of human beings, and therefore reqnire very kind treatment and care. When we go next week to the Museum, I will first show you the animals that have a backbone and a bony skull, of which I have told you there are four great types. First, Mammals, those animals which suckle their young; then birds, next reptiles, and lastly fishes. Between these last two stand the smaller group of Amphibia. The elephant is the strongest, and perhaps the most intelligent of all known animals. You must read all you can about this huge vege- tarian, for you will remember that he eats nothing but vegetable food. If I had time I should like to tell you a great many interesting anecdotes that would prove how clever he is. The most wonderful part of an elephant is its trunk ; though the trunk only looks like a large round pipe of flesh, the elephant can with this organ pick up a single blade of grass, pluck flowers one by one, and then tie them up into a bouquet, just as well as you or I could do, who have two hands and ten fingers. It is said that the cleverest animals are those that have the finest sense of touch. The elephant is unlike the dog, who forgives his enemies. If anyone offends him, he will not rest till he has been revenged. A man once promised an elephant that he would give him some beer to drink if he would push a heavy load up a hill. When the work was done, the man, instead of fulfilling his promise, only laughed. Directly the elephant saw this, he killed the man. Dogs are the most faithful and affectionate of all animals ; they will die sooner than forsake their master ; they are also very courageous. A small dog has been known to attack a tiger, and make it run away. You will find endless inter- esting stories about dogs, horses, and cats in natural history books.1 Cats, too, are very clever and affectionate. I cannot 1 See especially a book called ' Man and Reast,' by the Rev. J. G. Wood.