59 THE LUNGS. allowing the fire to go out at night. It is possible to keep the air in a sick-room both warm and pure. It is very necessary that the air should be kept pure in bronchitis and in all cases of illness. I told you in the last lecture what pleurisy is. In consumption the lungs, which are like a honeycomb and have six millions of air-cells, become diseased and waste away, Some of the air-cells close up, so that no air can get into them; then people suffer from shortness of breath. I should like to make you in some degree understand the difference between consumption, bronchitis, and pleurisy. I have written down the names of these three different complaints, which you must copy. I hope by means of this model,1 which I showed you last time, to make you clearly understand that the chest, called the ' thorax,' which contains the two lungs and the heart, is en- tirely separated from the lower part of the body, called the ' abdomen,' by a very strong muscle. When the lungs are filling with air, the ribs rise up like the sides of a pair of bel- lows, and make a great deal of room, so that the lungs may swell out. The ribs cannot, like the bellows, however, press out all the air. The lungs always contain a great quantity of air. There is a skin .that lines the back and front of the chest. It is this skin which is called the ' pleura,' and which be- comes painful when people have ' pleurisy.' Here are the two lungs, which are each placed in bags of the same moist skin that lines the chest, and is called the ' pleura.' They are quite separated from one another, and the little heart lies snugly between them in a bag also. Here is the strong band of muscles called the diaphragm, which completely separates the lungs and heart from the abdomen, and which sinks down directly we take in a breath, so as to make more room for the lungs. A great many children lose their lives every year from ' croup.' If taken in time, this complaint would not be so fatal. A child who is going to have the ' croup ' is generally seized about ten o'clock at night (that is, when it has been in bed a few hours) with a difficulty of breathing, and the child 1 Messrs. Stodmann's model of the chest; natural size.