114 MINERAL FOObS. middle of a desert. Grains and seeds, yon see, have very little water compared with vegetables and frait. I have in this bottle the quantity of water—1^ ounce— that can be taken out of a pound of wheat. In this bottle I have the quantity of water—14 ounces—that can be taken out of a pound of potatoes. No wonder the poor Irish people were not thirsty when they lived chiefly on potatoes. When the potato crops failed they were obliged to eat bread, and they were also obliged to drink tea and coffee. They never took tea and coffee before the famine. Bread, as I have said before, is a very dry food ; we are always obliged to take some liquid with it. I have no doubt that dumb animals suffer dreadfully, simply because those who have the care of them do not understand about food. They ought to live out of doors, where they can eat fresh green grass, &c, which contains so much water ; and as they are out in the fields at night as well as day, they drink the dew that falls on the grass, and when it rains they get a great deal of moisture in that way. Animals that live on green vege- tables may not require as much liquid as those animals do which live on dry foods, such as barley and oats. It is, how- ever, wrong to suppose that they do not require any water. Sheep, cows, and other animals are often taken long journeys by land and water, and are driven along dusty roads, without having any water given to them. Two persons I know have seen sheep trying to drink the most filthy water as they were driven along. The cattle-drivers only laugh when you say they are thirsty. A gentleman who went to buy a youug rabbit from a rabbit dealer, a few weeks since, told me that he found the man out. His wife showed him a fine rabbit which had a large brood of young ones ; the rabbit was feeding them en- tirely with her own milk. The poor animal was eating some kind of dry food—barley, I think. She was not allowed any water. My friend begged hard that the woman would give it something to drink. ' I dare not, sir ; my husband would be so angry ; he says they must not have any water.' A gentle- man once fed a rabbit entirely on barley. In three weeks it was dead. A great many animals, such as parrots, are treated