ir>o COOKING. plaint might be. Last autumn, in London, in the parishes of St. George, Hanover Square, Marylebone, and Paddington, there were no less than 104 families who were seized with typhoid fever. It was found that ninety-six of those families had all had their milk from one dairy. When the health inspector went to examine the dairy, he found -that typhoid fever had been in the farm-house where the milk came from, and all these cases of typhoid fever had been caused therefore by drinking this milk. Very often milk, as we know, is mixed with water. Should this water have been poisoned by organic matter from a drain or farmyard, the milk with which it is mixed may give disease. Jugs, or any utensils that hold milk, particularly feeding- bottles for infants, ought always to be washed out with boiling water, because boiling water kills allj animal and vegetable germs. Warm water only makes them grow. It is sad to think how many little children suffer and die in the summer from bowel complaints, because they have drunk sour milk. Whenever milk is sour, you know directly that germs are growing in it. The feeding-bottle which I fear is most used is the one that has a long india-rubber tube. Some of the milk, in passing through this tube, is changed into a poisonous gas called sul- phuretted hydrogen. In addition to this, the milk sticks to the inside of the tube and becomes sour and full of poisonous matter. No- nurse, however careful, can clean out this tube, for if boiling water were poured through it, the india-rubber of which the tube is made would be spoiled. In 1871, 471 little infants died in Leeds under a year old of diarrhoea. Mr. Wheelhouse believes these tubes to be the cause of hundreds of cases of diarrhoea and of many deaths every year. The only safe feeding-bottle is the old-fashioned one that has a teat over the glass mouth, and no tube. The teat can be put into boiling water, and thus made quite sweet. It is quite impossible to cook well unless all the saucepans and utensils you use are perfectly clean. Every saucepan ought to be washed out with boiling water; and the water ought to have some soda in it, because you know soda will take away all the grease that may be in the saucepan. Spoons, forks, basins, dripping-pans, gridirons, must also be as care-