106 MILK AND Ml N JiKAl, FOODS. is taken oft" and put into a round barrel, called a churn, and moved about until it is made into butter. Butter contains a great deal of carbon, and is therefore a body-warmer. If you were to feed a baby only on cream, it Avould soon pine to death. All its organs would waste away. When dogs have been fed on nothing but fat, they have died after a few weeks. If you were to feed a baby on skimmed milk it would also probably pine to death in time, because, though skimmed milk retains all the sugar of the milk, which is a body- warmer, that would not be sufficient, and the fat in its body wonld be burnt away by the oxygen that passes into the blood through the lungs. Some mothers and nurses think they are giving a baby the best and most nourishing food when they let it drink cream; instead of nourishing the child, they are starving it to death. Nothing but new milk will nourish it properly. We must all eat body-warmers and flesh-formers. One kind of food will not feed us. It is curious to think that a human being or a dumb animal may be pined to death though they are eating food all day long. The men who went to discover the great plains of South America were pined to death in this way. They could get plenty of food of one sort, but they died off one by one because they could not pro- cure both body-warmei'S and flesh-formers. You will now have learnt by my lectures that it is necessary that we should take both solid and liquid foods, and that we should also eat foods that contain nitrogen gas and a substance called carbon. There is still another kind of food which I have to describe, that we must have to purify our blood, called mineral food. I have written down on the blackboard some of the principal mineral substances blood ought to contain—iron, sodium, lime, potassium. Minerals include all solid bodies found in or on the earth that are neither animal nor vegetable. You will often read in books and hear people talk about the salts that are in the blood. These salts always contain a mineral and a gas. These two substances must be united chemically, not just mixed as sugar is mixed in water. I am going to tell you a great deal about salts, as there are several in the blood. To-day I shall only tell you about