RULES FOR BROILING AND BRAISING. 85 Rules for Broiling. Broiling is cooking over the fire on a gridiron. The flavour of well-broiled meat is very fine. A clear fire is essential for success. Put the gridiron on the fire to heat and rub the bars with a little fat, then put the meat on it. Place the gridiron close to the fire at first that the heat may rapidly seal up the outside of the meat; when this has been accomplished lift up the gridiron farther from the fire, that the meat may cook gradually without drying up ; I uni it occasionally. The gridiron should be placed on a slight slant, that the fat may not run into the fire. A gridiron with a well is best for the purpose. The French brush over their steaks with salad oil to prevent escape of their juices. Salmon and other fish are often cooked in oiled paper for the same reason. Oil the paper inside and be careful that the fire is particularly clear. In a well-cooked chop or steak the outside will have a slight firmness, but the inside should bo tender and juicy. A broil must be sent to table without delay. Rules for Braising. Braising is a kind of combination of stewing and baking, both operations being carried on at the same time. A braising-pan has a deep cover, on which live charcoal is placed; the lid is air-tight to prevent evaporation, and the meat cooked in this way absorbs all the flavours of the stock in which it is cooked, and also of the vegetables cooked with it. The process should be very slowly conducted. "When putting the meat into the pan proceed thus :— Take different vegetables in suitable proportions, using carrot, turnip, onion, sprig of parsley, thyme and marjoram, a bay leaf, some celery, and if possible some tomatoes. Slice the vegetables and lay them with the herbs at the bottom of the pan, place the meat on the vegetables, and pour in sufficient strong second stock to come half way up the meat. Cook very slowly until the meat is tender. Then place it on a hot dish, strain the stock and boil rapidly to a glaze to pour over. To obtain the effect of braising without a braising-pan,