31 RULES FOR BAKING MEAT. a little salt should be added to it. Pour the gravy round the joint, not over it—as doing so destroys the crisp surface of the meat. It ought to be scarcely necessary to add that roasted meat should be served on a thoroughly heated dish, and, to be in perfection, should be sent to table directly it comes from the tire. This is the more ordinary method of making gravy: just before taking up the joint take away the dripping- pan, put a dish in its place, tilt it and let all the fat run into a basin, then pour into the pan a small quantity of boiling water, and scrape up all the brown glaze which adheres to the bottom of the pan; add a little salt, and, if necessary, colour carefully with a little burnt sugar ; too much of this will spoil the flavour of the gravy. With regard to flouring the joint there are great differences of opinion, some people like it, and others do not. When it is preferred, flour the joint half an hour before taking it up and put it a little nearer to the fire to get brown and cook the flour, but do not let it burn. In all roasting when the joint is nearly cooked put it nearer to the fire again to get a nice crisp surface. When a roasting-jack is not available, use a strong rope of worsted in the place of it. The Dutch oven is most convenient for small roasts. Rules for Baking Meat. In baking meat there are two or three points which should be most carefully attended to. The oven should bo Avell ventilated and kept perfectly clean. The baking-tin must also be scrupulously clean; any juice from fruit or meat gravy which has been spilt in the oven, or on the baking-tin, and not removed, will burn and give an un- pleasant taste to the meat. The baking-tin, if possiblo should be a double one. For the first half-hour the oven should bo hot, afterwards it must bo kept at a moderate heat. If this is not done, the outside of the meat will scorch and dry up before the inside is cooked. The basting should bo as constant as when the meat is roasted. The oven should bo made hot again at the finish to ensure the surface being nice and crisp. The