84 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Potage Tortue.—Turtle Soup. (M. Gouffe’s Kecipe.) Take a live turtle, between 90 and 100 pounds’ weight —under this weight they are not considered to be in perfection; have it the day before you intend dressing it. Kill the turtle by cutting the head off, and put it over a pail to bleed all night: in the morning lay the turtle on a table on its back, and separate the shells, by cutting between the two, all round the edge of the belly shell; take this shell oft', and, with a knife, detach all the intestines adhering to the back; remove all the inside, being careful while so doing not to lose any of the green fat, which is mainly found round the inside of the shells; steep this fat in a basin of cold water. Cut off the fins, and remove all the fleshy parts; then saw the shells, each in six or eight pieces ; put them in a large stock-pot full of boiling water, together with the fins and the head.; after a few minutes boiling, take each piece out and remove the thin shell; take it oft- the fins and head also ; put all the pieces in another stock-pot, with plenty of water, and boil them till they become tender', and separate easily from the bones, then take the pieces out; free them of all bones, and lay the pieces between two dishes to get cold; put the bones back in the stock-pot, and reduce tho broth to the turtle consomme as directed further on. For tho consomme, put tho following in a stock-pot:— 15 lbs. of leg of beef. 15 lbs. of knuckle of veal. 2 hens, having previously removed the fillets. The fleshy parts of the turtle. 2 quarts of general stock. 1 pottle of mushrooms. 4 onions. 1 large faggot, containing parsley, 6 bay leaves, and a good sprig of thyme. 4 ozs. of parsley roots. 2 heads of celery. i oz. of whole pepper, i oz. of salt. 8 cloves. 1 bottle of sherry. Put the stock-pot on a good fire, and boil till the liquor is reduced to a glaze; then pour in the broth in which the turtle has been boiled, and fill up with general stock. Boil, and skim the broth carefully; garnish it with onions and carrots, and simmer on the stove corner for