6 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. cooked, very delicious. Semolina, also a preparation of wheat, is very nutritious. Eice contains little flesh- forming matter, but is useful as a heat-giver. So also are cornflour and tapioca, which consist almost entirely of starch. The potato is deficient in flesh-forming consti- tuents, containing a quantity of starch, but its chief value is on account of its salts. Most fresh vegetables are useful for the same reason. Bread is a very valuable food Avhen mado from seconds flour. The whitest flour is from the centre of the wheat grain, which consists principally of starch cells. The seconds flour contains most of the gluten; it is on that account yellower in colour, and does not make so light a bread; but it is much more nutritious, and is more palatable. Whole-meal bread is not so valuable as that made from the seconds flour; undoubtedly it contains more nourishment, but as it is not capable of such perfect digestion, it is not considered by the best authorities on the subject to be as nourishing as ordinary bread. It is very important that diet should be regulated according to the work which has to bo done. Those whose occupations are sedentary—and especially brain- workers—should cat sparingly, and of well-cooked and easily digested foods. Less easily digested foods are more suitable for those whose employments demand much physical exertion. Food which is very readily assimi- lated would with them cause a constant feeling of hunger. Physical exertion of any kind quickens digestion. Children should have plain, wholesome fare. Nutritious foods which contain lime, necessary for hardening their bones, such as bread, oatmeal, macaroni, and semolina, are excellent for them. It is of the greatest importance that young children should have plenty of good milk, (specially lor the first few months of their lives. When it is advisable to give them other foods they should be nutritious and well cooked. Fine oatmeal and baked or boiled flour are the best for the purpose. The im- proper feeding of children is one great cause of infant mortality. On tho subject of the feeding of children, Dr. Fothergill says: “ Children fed on the food of their seniors, or rich cake, and crammed with sweeties, do not as a rule thrive well. They cannot compare favourably with children fed on oatmeal, maize, and milk.