29 RULES FOR ROASTING. is then lowered to simmering point, because if kept boiling the joint would be hardened. At simmering point the albumen becomes set without hardening, and the fibre is softened. The old-fashioned plan was to put the joint into cold water, and afterwards boil it quickly, a method which served to make the meat tough, and, to some extent, tasteless, the action of the cold water being to dissolve the albumen, much of which, with other nutritious properties, was drawn out and wasted. Salt meat is put into luke- warm water that some of the salt may be drawn out. Tough sinewy pieces should also be put into lukewarm water, as they soften better than when they are put into boiling water. There is no economy in using salt meat; it may be cheaper than fresh, but in the process of salting, the juices are, to a great extent, lost; again, in cooking it, the lukewarm water into which it must be placed to draw out some of the salt draws out also more of the juices. The gravy for boiled joints, such as leg of mutton and silverside of beef, is usually only a littlo of their liquor poured over them. Roasting. Eon sting is a truly English method of cooking, roast beef being one of our national dishes. It is a great pity that, in consequence of the construction of many modern kitchen ranges, roasting, properly speaking, has to a great extent become a thing of the past, because the flavour of baked meat is never so fine as that which is cooked by the direct action of an open fire. “ In one sense of the term,” says the author of Kettner’s * Book of tho Table,’ “ roasting is something distinct from baking, broiling, and frying; according to another, it includes baking, broiling and frying. In the widest sense, to roast is to cook food by the application to it of a roasting heat, and a roasting heat may be described as the highest degree of heat which will cook food without burning it up and destroying it.” Rules for Roasting. To roast successfully, a clear fire is essential. The firo should be made up, and if necessary to replenish it while the meat is cooking, coals should bo put on at tho back