34 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. Steaming. It is a pity that this most excellent method of cooking does not become more generally adopted for cooking meat, fish and vegetables. It is a slower process than that of boiling, but far more economical, as there is much less waste of flavour and nutritious properties. Success depends on keeping the water under the steamer briskly boiling. If there is not sufficient force of steam the food gets sodden. Rules for Stewing. Stewing is cooking at simmering point in a small quantity of liquid. It is an economical method of cook- ing, because what is lost from the meat is in the gravy, which is always served with it. Meat to be stewed should be put into a stewpan with enough hot water to cover it, aud kept at simmering point until tender, but no longer. The meat in stews is often as ragged and flavourless as meat from which stock has been made, simply from over- stewing. There can be no reasonable excuse made for such a fault, as the stew may be removed from the fire when ready, and reheated when required without at all deteriorating. It is not like roast or boiled meat which must be served as soon as cooked to be in perfection. The length of time allowed for stewing will entirely depend cn the kind of meat stowed; very tough meat will some- times hike four hours or more before it becomes tender; pieces of meat like ox-cheek or shin of beef always require long cooking. If tough meat is dipped in vinegar before it is stewed the action of the acid on the fibre will cause it to soften more readily. Vegetables are generally stewed with the meat as they improve both the flavour of the meat and the gravy. The secret of success in stewing lies in slow cooking, therefore care should be taken that the gravy is never allowed to boil. A gentle bubble now and again at one side of the saucepan is the indication of simmering heat. A double saucepan is exceedingly useful for stewing, or the stewpan containing the meat may be put to stand in a larger one containing boiling water ; cooked thus thero is no possibility of the stew itself boiling.