‘6 THE STUDY OF COOKERY. or why some meats are to be roasted and others only stewed. If, on the other hand, the sonl of the cook is there, it is almost always enough to give general rules and leading principles, and to leavo the cook to make variations according to his taste or his means. Lord Byron, in Italy, gavo the most minute directions for his plum pudding; it came out like a broth, and was served in a tureen. There are cooks in the best kitchens who have been shown ever so often how to clarify broth, yet they fail, and have to try over and ovor again before they can succeed. The great thing, it cannot too often be repeated, is to teach a principle, and then its application to special cases follows as a matter of course. He who has learnt to broil a steak properly does not require a special recipe for broiling a mutton chop.” But with the study of first principles must be combined the practice of fundamental operations. All attempts at learning cookery without a grasp of these operations will, and can, only end in a smattering. If cookery is deserving of study, it should be studied earnestly; and surely it cannot be of small moment if “ The fate ot nations depends on how they are fed.” FOOD AND DIET. “ But for Life the universe were nothing, and all that has life requires nourishment.”—Brillat Savarin. “ It is interesting to observe,” says the author of ‘ The Chemistry of Common Life,’ “ how experience alone has almost everywhere led men to a rude adjustment, in kind and quantity, of the forms of nutritive matter which are essential to the supply of their animal wants under the circumstances under which they are placed. Climate, as well as the temperament of a race, has much to do with the adjustment of foods and dietaries.” There should, however, with the progress of civili- zation, be more than a “ 1 ude adjustment ” of foods and dietaries, and to this end it is important that the chemis- try of food should be one of the ordinary, rather than one of the occasional, branches of education. In the