183 FISH. Tuibot should be thick and of a creamy colour. Rod spots may be removed with salt and lemon-juice. The best cuts are from the middle of the back. Tho fins aro considered a dolicacy. Whitebait must be as fresh as possible, so also must bo whiting. Mussels must be eaten very fresh. Be careful to remove the beard which looks like seaweed. Lobsters and crabs when unboiled should be lively and heavy. The flesh of the cock is better than that of the hen, but the hen is valued on account of the coral and spawn. Most spawn is found in tho lobster in May and June. To test the freshness of boiled lobsters, pull tho tails; if fresh they will go back with a spring. Oysters must be perfectly fresh, their freshness may be (ested by the force with which they close on tho knife, when they open they aro stalo or dead. Natives aro to be obtained at the beginning of September. There is a saying that oysters and mussels should not be eaten in any month which has not an R in it. In buying fish, choose those which aro in season. Dr. Bavy say's on this subject— “ The quality of fish as an article of food is influenced by the act of spawning, and presents considerable varia- tions at different periods. It is just previous to spawning that tho animal is in its highest state of perfection. Its condition altogether is then at its best point. The animal is fatter than at anyr other period, and of a richer flavour for eating. During the process of spawning its store of fatty matter is drawn upon, and it becomes poor, thin, Avatery and flabby. It is now said to be out of season, and requires time to arrive in condition again. In fish like the cod, where tho fatty matter accumulates especially in the liver, this organ presents a striking difference in volume and condition before and after spaAvning; Avhilst in such as tho salmon, herring, &c., Avhere the fat is dispersed amongst tho flesh, it is tho body which affords the chief evidence of change. As salmon enters tho river from the sea for the purpose of depositing its spaAvn, it is plump and Avell provided Avith fat. On its return the contrast in its condition is very great. It is now so exhausted and thin as to be looked upon as unfit for ! food.” N 2