A COMPLETE COOKEliY GUIDE. 32 common fault in baking is to have the oven too hot, and then the meat gets dried up and wasted. As a general rule twenty minutes to the pound will not be too long if the oven is at the right temperature, but all the conditions mentioned in the rules for roasting must be taken into consideration. Always put the meat on a trivet; do not let it soak in its own fat. Gravy is made as for roasted meat. Rules for Frying.—French or Wet Frying. This is cooking in a largo quantity of fat sufficient to cover the articles fried in it. Oil, lard, dripping, or fat rendered down, may be used for this purpose. Oil is con- sidered the best, as it -will rise to 600° without burning ; other fats get over-heated after 400°, and therefore require greater care in using. Success depends, almost entirely, on getting the fat to the right degree of heat. For ordinary frying the heat required is 345°. Unless this point is carefully attended to, total failuro will be the result. There are signs, however, by which anyone may easily tell when the fat is ready for use. It must be quite still, making no noise ; noise, or bubbling, will be caused by the evaporation of moisture, or water in it. The ex- pression, “boiling lard,” or “boiling fat,” has been mis- leading to many cooks, who, not unnaturally, imagino that when the fat is bubbling, like boiling w'ater, it is boiling and therefore at the right heat. B.ut boiling fat does not bubble, nor is the expression boiling correct. When fat has the appearance of boiling water, it is simply due, as already explained, to the presence of water in it, which must pass away by evaporation, before it can reach the required heat. When it ceases to make auy noise, and is quite still, it should be carefully watched; for very soon a pale blue vapour is seen rising, and then tho fat is sufficiently hot. If, from the position of the stove it is not easy to see this vapour, a piece of bread may be held in the fat as a test; if it begins to turn colour, in about a quarter of a minute, the fat is ready. It should then be