33 RULES FOR FRYING. used without delay; since, when once hot enough it rapidly gets over-heated or burnt. Fat is burning when the blue vapour becomes like smoke. Burnt fat has an unpleasant smell, and is apt to give a disagreeable taste to the articles fried in it. With ordinary care fat need not get over-heated. Next to oil, fat rendered down («ee Bendering down Fat) is best for the purpose. If strained after each time of using, and not allowed to burn, it will keep good for months, and may be used for fish, sweets, or savouries, and no taste of anything previously fried in it will be given to the articles cooiced. For this kind of frying, a kitchener, or gas stove, is preferable to an opon range. All kinds of rissoles, croquettes, fillets and cutlets of fish, fritters, &c., should bo fried in this manner, and should not be darker than a golden brown. It is an advantage to use a frying-basket fur all such things as are covered with egg and bread-crumbs ; but fritters, or what- ever is dipped in batter, should be dropped itito the fat. As they become so light that they rise to the top of it, when they are a pale colour on the one side, they should be turned over to the other. Care must be taken to drain everything after frying on kitchen paper, in order to removo any grease. Dry Frying. This is frying in a cutlet or frying pan with a small quantity of fat, and is only suitable for such things as require slow cooking, such as steaks, mutton or veal cutlets, fillets of beef, liver and bacon. Pancakes also are fried in this manner. Success depends, as in French frying, in having the fat rightly heated when tho meat is put in, that the outside of the meat cooked may be sealed up; in this way the juices and flavour will bo retained in it. Make, therefore, the frying-pan hot, then put in the fat; and when that is also perfectly hot, put in the meat to be cooked. When each side has been well sealed up, the heat applied must be moderated so that the cooking may be gradual. The common mistake in this kind of fiying is to put the meat into tho fat when it is but barely melted; the juices of the meat are thus allowed to pscapo, and the meat is toughened.