A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. H always a quantity, will render down, and can then ho used for French frying, plain cakes, and pastry, and for all theso purposes it will be found excellent. Mutton flit is, after oil, the best medium for French frying. All super- fluous fat from ordinary joints should be used in the same way. Meat from which clear soup has been made will still contain gelatine, if the soup has been properly pro- pared—simmered, not boiled—and with the addition of any scraps of vegetable suitable for the purpose, and tho meat used for clearing, will make a fair “ second ” stock, to be the foundation of a plainer soup. The whites of eggs, after the manufacture of custards, &c., may be used for clearing jellies, to lighten puddings and cakes, or they may be made into meringues or lemon sponge. Crusts of bread may be used in boiled or baked puddings, to thicken soups, or dried in a slow oven and pounded for the browned crambs in such frequent requisition in good cookery. Crumb of bread may be used in the same way, making, if carefully dried, white bread-crumbs which will keep well without getting mouldy. The carcase of fish and all fish trimmings are admirable for making fish stock, which will form tho basis of oyster, mussel, lobster, and other fish soups. The remains of cold vegetables may bo re-heated in various ways. Cauliflower, if in sufficient quantity, will make the favourite entremet, cauliflower au gratin, and in the manufacture of this dish crusts of cheese too hard for any other purpose may be utilised; the latter will also bo found useful in savouries of macaroni and rice. Cauliflower is also good served as a salad, with a French salad-dressing of oil and vinegar; so, also, are beans, lentils, and many other vegetables. Peas will re-lieat in a doublo saucepan, or in a jar placed in boiling water, either to be served plain, or as petits pois au beurre. Potatoes may bo mashed and rewarmed in a saucepan, or they may be—and this is by far the better plan—passed through a sieve or potato-masher into a vegetable dish, which should be placed, without disturb- ing the potato, in a hot oven until the top of the potato is lightly browned. Potatoes make, also, an admirable thickening for soups. Sliced and well fried they are a nice accompaniment to roasted or grilled meats. It would, in fact, tako too long to enumerate all the ways in which cold potatoes may bo used with advantage.