KITCHEN ECONOMIES. 15 Bones of all lcinds should bo made into stock. The stock-pot. is a great aid to economy when properly managed. Directions for the management of the stock-pot will be found in the Chapter on Soups. Water in which haricot- beans have been boiled should never be thrown away. Having much the same flavour as meat-stock, it may make the basis of a soup or gravy. It is, however, better in the interests of economy to cook the beans so that they absorb all liquor. The French use the water in which green vegetables have been boiled for the foundation of soupes maigres. The liquor from meat, when not too salt, can always be turned to account in purees of beans, peas, lentils, and other vegetable soups. An economical housekeeper will find that by the constant use of soup she can effect a great reduction in her butcher’s bill. Soup-making is one of the most important ai d the least understood of all branches of cookery. The dripping from the ordinary joints should bo clarified. It can then be used for French or other fr>ing, plain cakes, and pastry. It is far better than lard for either purpose. Fat skimmings from stock are far better than butter for frying cutlets and fillets, and arc used for this purpose by French chefs. Now for a word about fuel. The waste of coal in some households is simply terrible. To avoid this the manage- ment of stoves must be thoroughly understood both by mistress and maid, and the fire regulated according to the purpose for which it is required. With an excessive consumption of coal there is generally a corresponding consumption of wood. Fires which are allowed to “ roar themselves out,” need constant relighting or assisting, as they are frequently nearly, if not quite, out when required. Besides advising careful supervision, I would suggest that every mistress provides her kitchen with that most useful article now so rarely seen—a bellows— the right use of which would not only save her wood, but also her candles, sugar, &c., which are often used by ignorant and careless servants to hasten the kindling of a fire. “Know,” says an ancient Buddhist proverb, “that it is not abundance which maketh rich, but economy.” But that wo may be more able to help others, and not for the sake of mere personal gain, shall we economise, when we remember that wo have a Divine command to “ Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.”