tosil. 185 four fillets. All flat fish are filleted in the same way Whiting, mackerel, haddock, &c., are filleted by removing the flesh cleanly from the bones on either side of the fish. It is wise to take a few lessons from a fishmonger or other competent person in skinning and filleting fish. Rules for Boiling Fish. All fish, with the exception of salt fish and mackerel, should be put into boiling water or court bouillon. If boiled in water, add salt in the proportion of one table- spoonful to every two quarts of water, and, if liked, a tablespoon ful of vinegar to that quantity of water. Acid helps to keep the flesh of tho fish firm. The fish must be placed on a strainer. Boil it gently for a minute to set the albumen on the outside of the fish, then lower the heat of the water to simmering point, and keep it at that heat (175°) until the fish is cooked. All scum must be removed from the surface of the water as it rises, otherwise it will settle on the fish and disfigure it. It is a wise precaution to wrap the fish in a piece of muslin. For a thick piece of fish eight minutes to the pound and eight minutes over is the time usually allowed; but no hard and fast rule can be laid down, because the time it will take to cook will depend not only on its weight, but on its shape and size. When the fish is cooked it will have an opaque appearance, and on being pulled will leave the bone readily. Great care must bo taken to cook it sufficiently, but not to over-cook it. Under-cooked fish is very unpleasant, while over-cooked fish is flavourless, and breaks to pieces. Salt fish is put into lukewarm water, that some of the salt may be drawn out, and simmered until cooked. Mackerel should not be put into boiling water as the skin easily breaks. When the fish is cooked, remove it immediately from the water and place the strainer across the kettle that the fish may get thoroughly drained, cover it with a hot cover, and leave it in that position for a few minutes. Then dish on a folded napkin or on a strainer. Garnish tastefully and serve with an appropriate sauce.