INTRODUCTION. IX acquirement, in quickening the powers of observation and developing tlie intelligence. Mr. Smiles remarks : “ l’es- talozzi, with his usual sagacity, has observed that half the education of a woman comes through her fingers: there are wisdom and virtue at her finger-ends.” And M i's. Ellis says, on the same subject: “ I believe the feminine qualification of being able to use the hands willingly and well has a great deal to do with the moral influence of woman. The personal services she is thus enabled to render enhance her value in the domestic circle; and when such services are performed with the energy of a sound understanding and the grace of an accomplished mind—above all, with the disinterested kindness of a generous heart—they not only dignify the performer, but confer happiness as well as obligation.” An old clergyman, a friend of my father’s, whom I shall always remember with gratitude for the great interest he took in my work, left directions in his will for the formation of a “ College of Social and Domestic Science for Ladies.” There were legal hindrances to his wishes being carried out, and the matter was commented on in some of the daily papers under the heading, “ An Eccentric Will.” Perhaps in some respects the will was eccentric; but the idea was certainly sensible (one which has long been carried out in Germany) and was intended by the testator as “a corrective of the present defective training of ladies.” “ There is an untold world of dis- comfort and misery,” he said, “ consequent on the in- competence of the ladies of England for the discharge of their duties. So long as this e\il saps the founda- tions of society, social and moral progress will be tardy and unsatisfactory. The whole framework of society is more or less affected by it. Incompetent mistresses make bad servants, and bad servants make bad wives; and bad wives, by their idleness, ignorance, and extravagance, make bad homes, and bad homes drive men to ruin and taint national life.” The truth of these remarks no thoughtful person will deny. No doubt this state of things has been to a great extent the result of mere thoughtlessness; but that does not mend matters. “ Evil is wrought by want of thought as well as want of heart.” It may be urged, that in these days many ladies find their time fully occupied in acquiring that intellectual