THE DRAWING UP OF A MENU, ETC. 9 me, however, be permitted to record, equally in proof of growing taste and as grateful personal duty, how many admirable exceptions to the prevailing custom are now afforded. Then, of course, it must be understood that while the dinner for six or eight persons is designed as an harmonious whole of few, well-chosen dishes, all of which arc intended to be eaten in their order, the menu of the larger party must offer various dishes for choice to meet the differing tastes of more numerous guests, and it must, therefore, be larger. Let us see how this is to be met. First, the soups: it is the custom to offer a consomme which ought to be perfect in clearness, colour, and savour, and to be served perfectly hot; containing a few vegetables, Ac., variously treated; doubtless the best commencement, as it is the key-note of the dinner; revealing also, as it does, nine times out of ten, the calibre of the cook to whose talent the guest is entrusted. But there is mostly an alternative of 1 white soup/ and this is almost always a mistake. Many persons refuse it, and they are right, containing, as it generally does, a considerable proportion }f cream—an injudicious beginning when there is much variety to follow; excellent sometimes as one of three or four dishes, but dangerous otherwise to the guest who has not an exceptionally powerful digestion. But suppose oysters, vinegar and Chablis have just boon swallowed! A brown puree as of game, or one of green vegetables, less frequently met with, would be safer. Two fish, of course, should always be served; as, for example, a slice of Severn or Christ Church salmon, just arrived from the water, for its own sake, and a fillet of white fish for the sake of its sauce and garnish, which should be, there- fore, perfect. The next dish is, in London, a question under discussion ; viz., the question of proeodenco to an entree or to the piece de resistance. The custom has been to postpone the appearance of the latter until lighter dishes have been despatched or declined. If, however, the English joint is required at a meal already comprehensive in the matter of dishes, and taken at a late hour, it seems more reasonable to serve it next to the fish, when thoso who demand a slice of meat may bo expected to have an appropriate appetite, which will certainly bo impaired equally by accepting the entrees, or fasting partially without them. After the joint, two light entrees may