A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 30 and the live embers drawn to the front to avoid any smoke. In case it is sometimes possible to have it, it is well to know that a wood fire is far preferable to a coal fire, both for roasting and broiling. When a roaster is used, it should be placed in front of the fire to get hot before the meat is hung in it. The thickest part of the meat should bo downwards, because the heat is greater from the lower part of the fire. If the joint is not fat, some dripping should be placed in the pan ready for basting. Having fastened the meat to the jack, or worsted, place the roaster close to the fire for the first fifteen minutes, that the extreme heat may at once seal up the outside by hardening the albumen in the surface of the joint; after- wards draw the roaster further from the fire and cook gradually, basting every fifteen minutes. To baste is to pour fat two or three times over the joint. Doing this prevents the meat drying up, and gives it a better flavour. Mr. Buckmaster says that the essential condition of good roasting is constant basting. The general rule as regards length of time allowed for roasting is a quarter of an hour to each pound, but that must only be taken as a guide, not as an absolute ru'e. The size and shape of the joint must be considered, as well as its weight If the rule were strictly adhered to, some joints with a great deal of bone would get dried up while others would not be cooked through. Well-hung meat will cook in a shorter time than that freshly killed. Meat will cook in a shorter time in summer than in winter. Frozen meat will take longer to cook than fresh, and should always bo allowed quite two hours to thaw, and much longer, if possible, before it is put to the fire. Thick joints of veal and pork generally take twenty minutes to the pound. When the steam from the meat draws to tho fire it is generally done enough for most pe tplo’s tastes. To roast well requires the experience gained from practice and observation. The gravy for a joint may be made in two ways; this is one—Take the dripping-pan away half an hour before tho joint is cooked, and put a dish in its place, Four the whole contents of the dripping-pan into a baking-tin or shallow pan and put it in a very cold place, so that the fat will quickly cake on the top of the gravy; it must then bo removed and tho gravy made hot;