THE STUDY OP COOKERY. 7 Oatmeal is recovering its position as a nursery food, after a temporary 'banishment. Oatmeal porridge is the food par excellence of the infants born north of the Tweed, or was, at least, and stalwart people were the results. Drink is needed chiefly as a solvent for other foods, and therefore need not be nutritious. Water is un- doubtedly tho best for the purpose. Few people are the better for the constant use of stimulants. They are not nutritious; and although they stimulate vitality for a time, such vitality is generally followed by a correspond- ing depression. In a lecture on the action of alcohol upon health, Sir Andrew Clark says “ that it is a state which cannot be benefited by alcohol in any degree.” He also says: “ It is capable of proof beyond all possibility of question, that alcohol under ordinary circumstances not only does not help work but is a serious hindrance to work.’ At the same time it must not be overlooked that although health cannot bo benefited by tho use of alcohol, it is in illness very frequently invaluable as a medicine; also that some people of weak constitution find its use in moderation decidedly beneficial. RULES FOR COOKING. Work with method. Order everything required before- hand, that no time is wasted waiting for supplies. Before beginning to cook see that the fire is good and the oven ready, and that all tho utensils required are at hand. Prepare all the ingredients you are going to use before mixing any of them. Clear up as you go along, no one can cook well in a muddle. Bo very exact in measuring quantities; otherwise you will constantly fail. A very little too much flour, or too little milk may make all tho difference between a light or heavy cake or pudding. Be quick in dishing up, and never omit to have the plates and dishes properly heated. Unless this important matter is attended to, a well-cooked dish will be spoiled in the serving. As everything worth doing is worth doing well, bring all your intelligence to bear upon what you take in hand.