12 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. KITCHEN ECONOMIES. To permit extravagance under the idea that it is generous, shows a deplorable ignorance of the meaning of the word. Carefulness is no indication of meanness, neither is extravagance an indication of generosity; indeed, reck- less expenditure is always the result of thoughtlessness, and too often of heartlessness. An extravagant person is seldom capable of much self-denial. That careful house- keeping has come to be regarded to such a large extent, both by mistress and maid alike, as mean is the result of a superficial habit of thought, no doubt attributable to defective education. No education is sound which dwarfs instead of developing reasoning power, and I think it is open to question whether that is not the tendency of much of the so-called education of the present day. It is a matter of ordinary occurrence to hear women complaining that they aro utterly at a loss to account for the great expense at which their households are main- tained ; that they would willingly retrench if it were possible, but that they are quite sure that they have nothing but what is strictly necessary. There is no doubt they really think so, but investigation of the matter would probably lead to the discovery, that as much food is wasted as used in their kitchens, to say nothing of fuel, &c. The daily dinner, for example, will often cost twice as much as necessary, in consequence of the waste of what is considered superfluous material. Let any mistress, not in the habit of superintending her house- hold, look into her domestic affairs, and she wdll invariably find the case to be as I have stated it. Not always, for hero and there will bo found a thrifty, con- scientious servant, who will study her mistress’s interests as her own ; but such servants are becoming more and mo: o rare, and without a mistress’s supervision, waste in the kitchen is certain to be the rule rather than the exception. After a simple dinner comprising, say, such dishes as clear soup, fish, mutton cutlets, game, and custards, let a mistress inquire what has been done with any spare