52 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. sides of the fowl to give it a nice plump shape; pass a trussing-needle and string through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and out through the other thigh. Then turn the fowl on its breast, and pass the needle through the middle of the pinion, fastening with it the skin to the back, and bringing the string out through the other pinion ; pull the ends of the twine tightly and tie them firmly together at the side. Turn the fowl on its back again, pass the needle and thread through the skin, over the bottom of the breastbone, over one leg, then through the back of the fowl, and finally tie it firmly over the leg at the other side. It is not usual now to place the liver and gizzard in the wings; this is a pity, because they were by many accounted delicacies. When they are used, wash the liver and cut away the gall bladder without breaking it. Empty ihe gizzard, and simmer that in a little water or stock for an hour to make it tender. To Truss a Fowl for Boiling. When a fowl is trussed for boiling proceed according to the foregoing directions, with the exception that the legs are cut off at the knee-joint. In doing this, cut the skin round the leg, and then pull it off, bringing with it the sinews. Tut the fingers through the hole made for drawing, and loosen all the outside skin from the thighs, so that the joints of the legs can be pushed quite inside. Then commence trussing as for a roast fowl. Pull the skin well over the breastbono and tuck in the ends of the legs securely, pass the trussing-needle through the skin, and then through underneath at the back, tying the string securely. Choose fowls with black legs for roasting, and white for boiling. General Directions for Trussing. For boiling, all birds should have their legs cut off at the knee-joint, and the ends tucked inas in preceding directions. The wings of geese, ducks, pheasants, partridges, black- game, woodcocks, snipes, and all game and small birds are cut off at the first joint. It is not now usual to leave the heads on pheasants ancj