TRUSSING POULTRY, BONING AND LARDING. 53 • partridges, as used to bo the fashion, but they are left on woodcock, plover, and snipe. In trussing these birds, press 'the legs to the sides, and pass the beak of the bird through its body and legs. They are not drawn, and must be very carefully plucked, as the skin is very tender. To Bone a Fowl. Pluck and singe, but do not draw it. Mako a slit in the back of the neck, insert the fingers, and loosen tho skin from the neck, and with a sharp knife cut the neck off close to the body, leaving a piece of skin two inches long to fold over, then with a sharp knife divide the joints between tho pinions and the carcase, and remove tho merry-thought. Having done this, cut off the legs at the knee-joint, removing tho sinews, and then begin to carefully work the flesh oft’ the bones, either with tho fingers or with a sharp small knife, turning the bird, in fact, completely inside out. Tho wings are not boned, but are left on to give tho bird a more natural appear- ance. Care must be taken to get the flesh quite cleanly off the bones, which should be taken out entire, and tho inside of the bird not be allowed to break through- When tho boning is accomplished, the fowl should bo replaced in shape, the leg part being left inside. All small birds may be boned in the same manner. Larding. Larding, although very easy, requires to be seen to bo properly understood. Very hard bacon is necessary, as soft bacon breaks on being passed through the meat. The bacon should be cut into small blocks, and then again cut into even strips, called lardoons. In larding, put a strip of bacon into the needle, and then pass it through the meat, leaving the bacon in tho meat, with the ends showing; this should bo done in even rows, taking caro to keep tho larding as neat as possible. Larding improves the flavour of birds and meat which, not having much fat, would have a tendency to get dry when cooked. When time cannot be spared for larding, a piece of slit bacon is sometimes placed over the moat instead, but the result is not so satisfactoiy.