A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. GG oscape of flavour. I am quite aware that many eminent authorises lay great emphasis on the importance of skimming the stock and allowing some escape of the steam if a perfectly clear soup is afterwards to be made; but my own experience has been that a better stock is produced without skimming, and that the brilliancy of the soup will be in no way affected by the omission of these two operations. The meat used for first stock should not bo thrown away; soaking and simmering extract its juices, but there still remains in it much gelatine, which can only be extracted by boiling. It, therefore, goes into the second stock-pot, in which any remains of meat and bones are used. One quart of water may be allowed to every pound of meat and bones in making second stock, as boiling will cause considerable reduction. The vegetables, herbs, &c., given in the recipe for first stock should be used in proper proportion, with any others that will give an agreeable flavour. When the weather is not too hot, scraps of meat, bones, vegetables, &c., are best collected each day and put on one side to be made into stock the next morning, Avhen they can be used with more judgment than is possible if they are thrown at intervals during the day into the stock-pot. A stock-pot “ always going” is a mistake. When the stock is ready, it should be poured away to free it from the vegetables, which, as I havo already said, are worse than useless after four and a half hours’ cooking. If the stock is poor, it may be put on again, but with f resh stock material. Bones contain a great deal of gelatine, and this can only be perfectly extracted when they are boiled at a higher pressure than is possible in ordinary cookery. The second stock, that is, stock made of any bones and pieces, must therefore be boiled, but gently, not rapidly, as that only causes reduction of the stock. When water once boils, all the force is then expended in making steam, therefore violent boiling produces no higher degree of heat. The boilings from meat should always be used for the foundation of a stock when not too salt; or they may be used in the manufacture of vegetable soups. White stock is made according to the directions given for first stock, using veal or other white meat for tho purpose. Fish stock is made according to the directions for second