4 A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. opening chapter of that interesting work, ‘ Food and Feeding,’ Sir Henry Thompson makes these obser- vations : “ I think I shall not be far wrong if I say that there are few subjects more important to the well-being of man than the selection and preparation of his food. . . No doubt there has long been some practical acknowledgment on the part of a few educated persons of the simple fact that a man’s temper, and, consequently, most of his actions, depend on such an alternative as whether he habitually digests his food well or ill; whether the meals which he eats are properly converted into healthy material, suitable for the ceaseless work of building up both muscle and brain; or whether un- healthy products constantly pollute the course of nutritive supply. But the truth of the fact has never generally been admitted to an extent at all comparable with its exceeding importance. It produces no practical results on the habits of men in the least degree commensurate with the pregnant import contained therein. For it is certain that a practical recognition of the value of proper food to the individual in maintaining a high standard of health, in prolonging healthy life (the prolongation of unhealthy life being small gain either to the individual or to the community), and thus largely promoting cheerful temper, prevalent good nature, and improved moral tone, would achieve almost a revolution in the habits of a large part of tho community.” It had not been my intention to have said anything in this book on the chemistry of food, as I consider that those who have time to study the subject will have no need of aid from me ; but 1 have added this chapter because it has been suggested that many who have not time to study the subject may be glad to have a few facts, the knowledge of which is most necessary, brought before them in a simple form. The human body is constantly wearing away; with every movement, every thought, there is some waste of its substance. To repair this waste, and, in the case of children, to give material for growth, it is necessary that we take a certain quantity of food daily. The food taken should consist of such qualities as make flesh and muscle; such as will also keep up the heat of the body, and give force or the power of movement. These foods must contain