KITCHEN ECONOMIES. 13 materials after its preparation, and this is what she will probably discovor, that the meat used, both for making and clearing the soup, has been deemed of no further value, and given to the cat; that the trimmings of the cutlets, which will be far greater in bulk than the cutlets themselves, will have been put with the cook’s perquisites as fat; that the crusts of i lie bread used for bread-crumbs and bread sauce will have been thrown away; all the whito of the eggs to spare after making custards, will have shared the same fato ; and the vegetable from which a garnish was cut for the soup, will also, have been con- sidered not worth saving. It is probable that nearly as much food will be wasted as consumed. But not only in the preparation, but afterwards the waste will be con- siderable ; tbe carcases of birds, remains of fish, puddings, &c., being thrown into the dust-hole or hog-tub without the slightest compunction, to say nothing of food which will spoil in a neglected larder. But how is this state to be remedied? Simply by every mistress who cannot afford to keep a capable house- keeper to do it for her, looking to “ the ways of her household ” herself, and to do this she must make herself practically acquainted with all the details of household management. She should know, for instance, how much coal on an average should be required during the week. A careless servant will often burn two or three times as much as necessary. No perquisites should be allowed. Servants should have their due in the way of fair wages, and should not be tempted to waste their employer’s goods by way of adding to their own incomes. Then the Aviso ordering of meals is a great aid to economy. Any one can order a meal, but few can do so wisely; for that requires not only thought and judgment, but a practical acquaintance with cookery, and a knowledge of the cost of the materials used. But let us see how the materials spared after the pre- paration of the dishes I have mentioned may be utilized. 'fhe trimmings from mutton cutlets are generally con- siderable, and if they haAre been well shaped and served with a bone to each, there Avill be sufficient scraps of meat to make either a ragout of mutton, meat patties and pasties, or, best of all, that particularly popular dish, Avhen well made, an Irish stewt The fat, of Avjiich there is