A COMPLETE COOKERY GUIDE. 2H pastry before the starch grains iu the flour burst; con- sequently, they cannot afterwards expand, however hot the oven may be made ; and in this way the paste will become heavy. Take great care, therefore, that the oven is very hot when the paste is put into it. Watch the paste carefully that it does not take too dark a colour. When it is well thrown up and nearly cooked, it may be removed to a more moderately heated part of the oveu, if it should appear to be browning too quickly. Ovens in which the heat comes from the bottom are decidedly the best for either cakes.or pastry ; but no one should expect'to bake well in an oven they do not thoroughly understand. There is so much difference in ovens, that the hottest part of one may be the coolest in another. To bake well requires practice and ex- perience, and no one should bo discouraged by a few failures. Petit choux and such pastries are really more of the nature of cakes. Brioche is used in a variety of ways, as a cake or iu small fancy shapes. Jam is sometimes put into it, and sometimes Parmesan and Gruyere cheeses. It is also used to enclose rissoles, and also in soups. Its manu- facture requires great care, and, as it requires long stand- ing, it should bo made the evening of the day before it is wanted Puff Paste. Ingredients. Equal quantities of Vienna Enough water to mix the flour flour and butter. into a nice lithe dough. A few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Eub the flour through a wire sieve. Make a well in the middle, and squeeze in a few drops of lemon juice. Mix very gradually with very cold water, taking care that the dough is not too stiff, then knead and work well until quite smooth. Set it aside for a few minutes to get quite cold. Squeeze the butter in a cloth to press out all the water. Iioll out the dough, and place tho butter, flattened to a third of its size, in tho middle. Then fold the dough from either side over it, pressing the edges together. Turn it with its edges towards you, and roll out very gently (care must be taken that tho butter docs