Trice Two Shillings The Art of Cooking In the Home and the HospitalGOLD MEDAIi AWARDED—HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON. FIRST-CLASS AWARD—ADELAIDE, 1887, and MELBOURNE, 1888. The Lancet describes it as Mr. " Benger's admirable preparation." The London Medical Record says:—" It ia retained when all other foods are rejected. It is invaluable." The British Medical Journal says:— "Benger's Food has by its excellence estab- lished a reputation of its own." The Illustrated Medical Neu'S says:—" In- fants do remarkably well on it. There ia certainly a great future before it." BEWGER'S FOOD IS SOLD IN TINS BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE. BENGER'S PEPTONISED BEEF JELLY, In Patent Glass Jars, no metallic contamination possible, Retail 21- A DELICATELY FLAVOURED, CONCENTRATED, PARTL'\LLY DIGESTED AND SOLIDIFIED BEEF TEA. It e.xcels the various E.\tracts and Essences of Meat, or the most carefully made ordinary Beef Tea, inasmuch as it contains, besides the Saks and flavouring principles, much of the fibrin or Jiesh-forming elements of the beef in a soluble form, fit for immediate absorption. On this account it constitutes an exceedingly valuable and delicious quick restorative. It can be taken by teaspoonfuls, cold as a jelly, or dissolved in a little hot water, as a concentrated beef tea. It is also used to fortify or enrich ordinary beef tea, soups, &c. It affords to invalids, when travel- ling, a ready and convenient form of concentrated nutriment. THE LANCET of March 25th, 1882, says;— " It is a most valuable form of concentrated food." THE LONDON MEDICAL RECORD of March 15th, 1882, says :— "We have found it invaluable for old people, whose digestive powers are feeble, and also in convalesence from acute diseases." BENGER'S PEPTONISED CHICKEN JELLY, A Nutritive Jelly for Invalids. In Patent Glass Jars, 2/- each. It is prepared in a similar manner to the Peptonised Beef Jellv before described, and, like it, contains the nutritive constituents in a concentrated, partially digested and solidified form. THE LANCET of January 1st, 1887, in an article on Benger's Peptonised Chicken Jelly, says:— " Mr. Benger's Preparations are now so well known, that all we need say of the sample before lcadi7ig Chemists. 22101786616ADVERTISEMENTS. THE PERFECTION OF COOKING UTENSILS. EXTRA STRONG. PURE CAST ALUMINIUM. BEST LONDON MAKE, WITH BRONZE HANDLES. ABSOLUTELY FREE FROM POISON. THESE PANS, for Strength, Light- ness, and Durability, have no rival. If left empty on the Fire or Hot Plate, they are none the worse ; treatment which would ruin a Copper, Enamelled, or Tinned Pan. For Quick Cooking, easy cleaning, and light handling, our Cast Aluminium Stew Pans cannot be beaten. They are designed with thick bottoms to prevent burning the food, and to withstand the hard wear and tear of Ship, Hotel, Club, or Kitchen use. DRAWINGS AND ESTIMATES FREE ON APPLICATION. UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS. Mrs. Henry Anderson, Druids Mere, Blairgowrie, writes:— r J ..^ 1 ■ . . .. . . loth September, iSoK ... ^ delighted with the Aluminium Pans. My Cook says they are perfect for Cookine' and that the Kitchen-maid never had so little trouble with washing-up. We had an entrie vt.rv delicate in flavour, for one trial; it could not have been better cooked, with the flavour'abso. lutely preserved. Kmdly send me particulars of Stock Pots and other Pans. gray's inn hotel and restaurant 43 Grays Inn Road. ' (;.H^i?^''^.''i['^.^;r"^™S -^"minium Stew Pans for some months, I am fully quali- fied to say that they are much cfeaner and more useful in every way than the Copper or Irok ? 11!" M^o. ™ account of their lightness. I also find them equal to ?hina shouM !in , '^"'.k'*^ remain 1,1 them. I cannot spe;^ too highly of them for our use. Another ad- vantage—there is no labour required to clean them.—Youre truly A r A MPll i J^ovember 6th, iSgj. ^-.f^ivirii-i. JAME5 GRAY & 50N, STOVE AND GRATE MANUFACTURERS TO THE QUEEN, Kitchen Range Makers by appointment to the Edinburgh School of Cookery and Domestic Economy, Limited, GENERAL FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, 85 George Street, Edinburgh.A D VER TISEMENTS. Invalid Chairs & Furniture OF ALL KINDS LENT ON HIRE. ANTIQUE FURNITURE, CHINA,&c. REMOVALS CAREFULLY CONDUGTEO. Furniture Stored by the Month or Year. William Haryey, 13 AHTICUA STREET (Comer of Gayfield Square), EDINBURGH. SEND A POST-CARD FOR INMAN'S CASH PRICE LIST of Patent Medicines, Propnetary Alleles ^.ug^ ^roS-'G^ood" and\"ee C=Vo™ tat'f-ot'^xVenfy »^ INMAN'S STORES, Limited, 1, SHANDWICK PLACE (Telephone No. 33-). One Minute's Walk from the West End of Princes Street, 46 LEITH STREET (Telephone No. 176). One Minutes Walk from the East End of Princes Street, X SOUTH CLERK STREET (Telephone No. 892), EDINBURGH. Also at X03 KIRKGATE, LEITH (Telephone No. 54.)-THE ART OF BOOKING FOR INVALIDSA D VER TISEMENTS. MCDOWELL'S Unrivailed SpeciaIties. BISCUITS. Entire Wheaten. Albert. Small Captains. Chester. Abernethy. Hovis. Plain Wine. Cracknel. Charcoal, &c. RUSKS (INVALID), With and Without Sugar. OATCAKES. THE ENTIRE WHEATEN BISCUIT, a most pleasant, agreeable, and nutritious Biscuit for Tea or Dessert. THE CHESTER BISCUITS, pronounced by connoisseurs to be perfect. THE ALBERT BISCUIT, as originally prepared by R. McDowell. THE SMALL ABERNETHY BISCUITS, for which R. McDowell & Sons have so long been famous. CAKES, SHORTBREAD, &c. R. MCDOWELL & 50NS, 60 GEORGE STREET, EDINBURGH.THE ART OF COOKING FOR INVALIDS IJV THE HOME AND THE HOSPITAL BY FLORENCE B. JACK AUTHOR OF " THE ART OF LAUNDRV-WORK." EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK LONDON: WHITTAKER & Co., Paternoster Sq., E.C. 1896BY THE SAME AUTHOR. THE ART OF LAUNDRY-WORK. Price 2/- Sec Advertisement, p. 192. Cdl m Ma \,..,. t12q. \INTRODUCTORY. IN many cases invalids are more dependent upon food than upon medicine, and there- fore no care is too great to bestow upon the preparation and securing of appropriate and appetising dishes. The nurse who would be successful in this important and useful branch of her art must grudge no trouble, must be exquisitely clean, and punctual to a minute. She must also have a sense of proportion to enable her to serve inviting portions with due regard to the nourishment each contains. Cleanliness in cookery implies the perfect freshness of every ingredient used, and is absolutely necessary. Not only is the diges- tion of an invalid in most cases more easily impaired than that of one in robust health, but the palate is more sensitive and detects the slightest trace of taint with surprising acuteness. It is therefore a safe rule to make nothing in too large quantities. At the same time something must always be in readiness, as an invalid should never suffer from exhaustion incurred by waiting for food. To a convalescent, meals are often among the few events of the day, andINTRODUCTORY. vi variety should be studied as far as possible. Even when only a restricted diet is permissible, a little difference in the manner of serving may help to tempt the invalid's appetite. No food should be cooked or prepared in the invalid's presence when avoidable. In all cookery the main object is to present food in its most digestible form, and this is especially necessary in invalid cookery. A secondary and important object is to present it in its most tempting form. Untouched food should never be left in an invalid's room, but put aside in a cool place. If serving the same portion a second time, let it be in a different form. Patients should not as a rule be consulted about their meals, but a nurse should tactfully try to discover their likes and dislikes, and exercise some forethought to see that these are provided for. All dishes, spoons, &c., for an invalid's use, should be scrupulously clean and bright, and arranged neatly on a tray with a spotless tray- cloth, and when obtainable, a few flowers. Every such little attention helps to brighten an invalid's life, and often tempts a feeble appetite.vii CONTENTS. PAGE Introduction v Table of Weights and Measures . . . viii CHAPTER I. Meat Teas, Broths, and Soups .... i CHAPTER H. Fish 25 CHAPTER HI. Meat 41 CHAPTER IV. Vegetables 82 CHAPTER V. Puddings and Sweets 91 CHAPTER VI. Jellies—Sweet and Savoury . . . . 119 CHAPTER VII. Drinks—Including Tea, Coffee, &c. • ■ . 133 CHAPTER VIII. Miscellaneous Dishes 1^5 CHAPTER IX. Peptonised Foods CHAPTER X. Poultices and Fomentations • • • • 175 APPENDIX INDEXviii IMPERIAL WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Avoirdupois Weight. i6 drachms (dr.) - 16 ounces 28 pounds 4 quarters 20 hundredweights 14 pounds 8 stones 112 pounds - make i ounce {oz.) ,, I pound (lb.) ,, I quarter (qr.) ,, I hundredweight (cwt.) ,, I ton. make I stone. ,, I hundredweight. Liquid Measure of Capacity. 4 gills make i pint (pt.) 2 pints - - - - I quart (qrt.) 4 quarts . - - - ,, i gallon (gal.) Dry Measure of Capacity. 2 gallons .... make I peck (pk.) 4 pecks . . - . „ I bushel (bush.) 8 bushels ... - ,, i quarter (qr.) HOMELY MEASURES. teaspoonfuls make i dessertspoonful. dessertspoonfuls - ,, I tablespoonful. heaped tablespoonful of solids about I ounce. teacupful of solids ,, about )^ lb. teacupful of liquid ., fully 1 gill. tumblerful of liquid ,, about J4 pt.THE ART OF COOKING FOR INVALIDS. CHAPTER I.—MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, AND SOUPS. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. The beef used for beef tea must be freshly killed, lean, and juicy. Beef from the buttock, rump, or thick flank may be used Shin of beef is not suitable, as it contains too much bone and gristle, which produce gelatine, a substance of little value to an invalid. There are many different recipes given for the making of beef tea, but, whatever plan is adopted the object must be to extract as much goodness frorn the meat as possible, and to present this in its most digestible form. Beef tea must never boil, but only simmer very slowly. The reason of this is, that the albumen of meat, which is like the white of egg, if cooked at too high a temperature, becomes hard and in- digestible. Beef tea is not a nourishing food, but rather a stimulant, so, whenever possible, it should be given with, or alternately with, other food.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. In the following recipes very little, if any, vege- table flavouring is used. In the invalid state vege- tables are often prohibited, and even salt has some- times to be withheld. If allowed, they can, of course, easily be added. Those soups without thickening of any kind, such as flour, tapioca, or yolks of eggs, are always con- sidered the most digestible. Most soups, except beef tea, are better made the day before they are wanted, as they have then time to cool, and the fat can more easily be removed from the top of them. Never allow soup to cool in the saucepan in which it has been made, but always pom- it into a basin. Soups for invalids must always be made from fresh meat. The bones and meat may be put on a second time with cold water to cover them, boiled for several hours, and then strained. This second stock will do very well for any ordinary household purposes, but is not good for an invalid. In serving soup to an invalid do not fill the cup or basin too full, and on no account let any be spilt in the saucer. After pouring the soup into the cup or basin, be careful to wipe off any drops that may have fallen down the sides, and see that the handle, if it is a cup, is not sticky. Also be most particular to see that there is no grease on the top of the soup. If the first mouthful of soup an invalid takes is greasy, it is quite sufficient to prevent more being taken. A neat piece of plain bread, a piece of well made toast cut into thin strips, or a rusk, as preferred, may be served with it.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, SOUPS. RECIPES. 1—BEEF TEA. Proportions— I lb. lean, juicy beef. I I teaspoonful of salt. I pint cold water. j Method— Wipe the meat with a damp cloth to make sure of its being quite clean. This is very important, as you do not know whose hands may have touched it. Then place on a board, and with a sharp knife scrape or shred down as finely as possible, as the more finely it is shred the more juice you will extract. Keep back any pieces of fat and skin. Then weigh and put into a strong jar or basin, add the salt and cold water, and stir well up with a fork. Cover with a double piece of white paper, greased and tied down. The grease on the paper makes it non-porous and prevents the strength of the beef tea escaping. Instead of the paper a paste of flour and water may be used, rolled out and twisted over the jar. Nottingham jars, which are made of strong ware, with tight-fitting lids, are excellent for beef tea, or best of all is a regular beef tea extractor (Dolby's patent), which is a double case; the outer one tin with a lid which screws on, and legs which raise it above the foot of the pan. The inner case is of white porcelain, into which the beef tea is put. Cooked in this, the beef tea cannot boil; the steam is kept well in, and the strength thus preserved. Allow the beef tea to stand for half-an-hour at4 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. least before cooking. The cold water will help to draw out the juice. A few drops of hydrochloric acid are sometimes added to assist the process, but it must be used with the greatest care. Occasionally a little claret, port wine, or lemon juice is used. After the beef tea has stood for the required time, stir it again, and place the jar or basin containing it in a saucepan, with sufficient cold water to reach half or three-quarters way up the basin. Put the lid in the pan, and boil slowly for three hours. During this time see that the water does not boil down too low in the pan, but, if it should, add more cold water. If making a larger quantity than the above, more time must be allowed in proportion, and it will be a good plan to lift out the jar once or twice during the time, remove the cover, and stir the beef tea well, as the meat is apt to get hardened into a cake, and it is then difficult for the juice to be drawn from it. When cooked sufficiently, remove the jar from the saucepan, stir up the beef tea, strain through a coarse strainer, and press the meat as dry as possible with a wooden spoon. Remove all grease from the top of the beef tea by passing over the top of it pieces of soft white paper. Be careful to have every particle removed, and it is then ready for serving. iV(7^e^.—Instead of steaming the beef tea, the jar containing it may be placed in a slow oven, when four hours instead of three must be allowed. Beef tea cooked in this way is very savoury in taste—often too much so for a delicate palate.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, SOUPS. 5 In some cases clear beef tea is ordered, the small particles of beef being too heavy for the patient's digestion. In this case strain through a hair sieve or piece of muslin. Salt is sometimes not allowed. Time—3 hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2—QUICKLY-MADE BEEF TEA. Proportions— I lb. lean, juicy beef. I i small teaspoonful salt. I pint cold water. | Method— Prepare the meat in the same way as in previous recipe. Put it into a basin with the salt and water, stir it well up, cover the basin with a plate, and, if time permits, let it stand for half-an-hour. In this way the juice is well drawn from the meat before the beef tea is put on to cook. Then pour all the contents of the basin into a clean lined saucepan, place the pan over rather a slow fire, and, with two forks placed back to back, whisk it well until it almost reaches boiling point. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and allow the beef tea to simmer as slowly as possible from ten to twelve minutes. Strain and remove the fat from the top in the same way as for ordinary beef tea. This method of making beef tea does not extract so much goodness from the meat as that cooked in a jar for a longer time, but some people prefer it made in this way, and when it is required hurriedly this plan must be adopted. The greatest care must be taken that it does not boil. Time—about f hour. Probable cost. Is. 2d.8 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. This savoury beef tea is more of a convalescent dish, and would not be suitable for any one suffering from v?eak digestion. Time—3 hours. Probable cost, is. 6d. 6.—THICK BEEF TEA (l). Ingredients— pint made beef tea. i teaspoonful crushed tapioca. * I yolk of egg. Metbod— Put the beef tea, after straining, into a clean lined saucepan, and make it quite hot over the fire. Sprinkle in the crushed tapioca, stirring all the time. Let it simmer very slowly by the side of the fire for about lo minutes, until the tapioca turns quite clear, stirring occasionally. Beat up the yolk of egg in a basin or cup with a fork, pour the beef tea gradually on to it, stirring all the time, and it is ready for serving. If too rich, the yolk of egg may be omitted. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 7.—THICK BEEF TEA (2). Ingredients— Y2 pint made beef tea. I tablespoonful cold water. I teaspoonful arrowroot. Method— Put the beef tea into a clean lined pan, and warm it over the fire. Put the arrowroot into a small basin or cup, add to it the cold water, and mix it until quite smooth with * Groult's tapioca, sold in packets.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, SOUPS. 9 a wooden spoon. (This is called breaking the arrow- root.) Then add it to the beef tea in the pan ; stir well for a few minutes, to prevent it becoming lumpy; then simmer as slowly as possible by the side of the fire for about lo minutes. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost. 8d. 8.—BEEP PUREE. Proportions— % pint made beef tea. | % lb. lean, juicy beef. Metliod— Have the beef tea made in the ordinary way, strain it, remove all grease from the top, and keep it warm in a saucepan. Wipe the ^ lb. meat with a damp cloth, then shred it down very finely. Pound it well in a mortar, and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Put this into a cup or basin, pour the hot beef tea on to it, stir it well up, and serve at once. Probable cost, lOd. I teaspoonfiil chopped parsley. I teaspoonful salt. 9.—MUTTON BROTH (l). Ingredients— 1 lb. neck or knuckle of mutton. 2 pints cold water. I dessertspoonful whole rice. Method— Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth to make it quite clean, and cut it into small pieces away from the bone.lO COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Remove as much of the fat from it as possible, and do not use it in the broth. Put the meat, bones, water, and salt into a clean lined pan; put on the lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Then remove with an iron spoon all scum that rises. If this is allowed to boil down again the broth will have a cloudy appearance. Simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, skimming when necessary. Then strain through a fine strainer or sieve, and let it stand till cold. When cold, remove all fat from the top with a spoon, or by passing pieces of kitchen paper over the top. Return it to a clean saucepan with the rice well washed, and allow it to cook again until the rice is quite soft for about 20 minutes. Add the parsley, finely chopped, at the last, and it is ready for serving. Crushed tapioca, or arrowroot broken with a little cold water, may be used for thickening the broth instead of rice. Time—3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 10 d. 10.—MUTTON BROTH (2). Ingredients— 1 lb. neck or knuckle of A pinch of pepper. mutton. I teaspoonful chopped parsley. 2 pints cold water. A small piece each of carrot, I dessertspoonful rice or barley. turnip, onion, and celery. I teaspoonful of salt. Method— Prepare the meat in the same way as for last recipe. Put the meat, bones, water, and salt into a cleanMEAT TEAS, BROTHS, &> SOUPS. ii lined saucepan; put on the lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Add the rice, well washed, or the barley well washed and blanched.* Have the vegetables all carefully prepared (see p. 180), and cut into small pieces, about one cupful altogether. Add them next to the broth, and simmer 3 to 4 hours, or until the vegetables are well cooked. Remove the bones, and any grease from the top, and the broth is ready. This makes a more substantial dish than the first method, and is better suited for a convalescent. Time—2 to 3 bours. Probabls cost. Is. 11.—VEAL BROTH. A piece of knuckle or neck of veal may be pre- pared in the same way as for Mutton Broth, and makes a very delicately flavoured broth. Or, for variety, the broth may be made with half mutton and half veal. 12.—CHICKEN BROTH. Ingredients— 1 chicken. crushed tapioca, or arrowroot. 2 or 3 pints cold water. I dessertspoonful of chopped I dessertspoonful of rice, or parsley. Method— Draw and singe the chicken, and make it very clean. (See page 60.) The inferior parts will do * To blanch anything is to put it into a saucepan with cold water suIGcient to cover it, then bring the water to the boil, and pour o£f.12 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. quite well for making the broth. The breast may be cut off and reserved for some other dish. Cut the rest of the chicken into joints first, then cut all the meat from the bones into small pieces. Chop the bones, and wash any part which does not look very clean. Keep back any pieces of soft fat, but use the skin. Wash the neck well, and let it soak in cold water and salt for some time, to draw the blood from it. Open the gizzard, and remove the bag of stones from the inside, then wash it well, pulling off all the fat skin from the outside. Remove the gall bag very carefully from the liver, cutting it away with a pair of scissors, and wash the liver well. Also wash the heart, and scald the feet by letting them soak in boiling water for a short time, and then scrape them well. Take a clean lined saucepan—a deep one is best— and put into it the meat, bones, skin, neck, liver, gizzard, heart, and feet. Add the salt and enough cold water to well cover all. The quantity of water depends upon the size of the fowl used. Put the lid on the pan, and bring this slowly to the boil, then skim several times until the broth looks quite clear. Allow the broth to simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours, until all the goodness is extracted from the meat, bones, etc.; skimming when necessary. Then strain through a fine strainer or hair sieve, and let it stand till cold. Then remove all the fat from the top, return the broth to a saucepan, and thicken according to taste.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, &- SOUPS. 13 If rice is used, wash it well, and cook it in the broth until quite tender. If tapioca, bring the broth to the boil, sprinkle in the tapioca, and cook for about 10 minutes, until quite clear. If arrowroot, break it first with a little cold water, then add it to the broth when it is warm, stir until boiling, and boil for 10 minutes. A little very finely chopped parsley may be added at the end if liked, and more seasoning if required. If small pieces of chicken are liked served in the soup, the best plan is to lift some of the best pieces out of the broth as soon as they are cooked, but before all the goodness is lost, and reserve these for returning to the broth just before serving. If the broth is wished more savoury, cook small pieces of vegetable along with it, the same as in Mutton Broth (2). A more economical broth can be made by using a piece of mutton or veal along with the chicken. Half the chicken only might be used, and the other half roasted to serve as a meat coui"se. Time—1 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 13.—RESTORATIVE SOUP. Ingredients— I lb. neck or knuckle of veal. I lb. neck or knuckle of mut- ton. 2% pints cold water. I teaspoonful salt. I lb. shin of beef. Method— Wipe the three pieces of meat well with a damp cloth, and cut it all down into small pieces away from14 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. the bones. Remove all marrow and fat, but keep the skin. Put into a clean lined saucepan the pieces of meat, bones, and skin. Add the salt, cover with the cold water, and put the lid on the pan. Bring this slowly to the boil, skim well with an iron spoon, and wipe off any scum from round the sides of the saucepan. Allow the soup to simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours, skimming when necessary. Then strain into a basin, and let it stand till cold. Then carefully remove all fat from the top (see page 182), and warm as required. This soup may also be served as a jelly. Notes.—A chicken, or part of one, may be cut up and used for making this soup, either along with the other meats or instead of one or other. Or game of any sort may be used. Also small pieces of care- fully prepared vegetables may be added, after the stock has been well skimmed. These will make the soup more savoury, but in many cases will not be allowed. Salt even is often prohibited. Time—4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 14.—3ESSENCE OF CHICKEN. Ingredients— I chicken, or part of one. Metliod— Prepare and cut up the chicken in the same way as for Chicken Broth. (See page 11.) Put the meat, bones, skin, &c., into a large jar without any water, covering the jar with a tight fit- ting lid or strong piece of white paper greased.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, SOUPS. 15 Place the jar in a saucepan, with cold water to come fully half way up; put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours. If the water boils down, add more. When cooked sufficiently, remove the jar from the saucepan, and strain all the liquid away from the chicken through a fine strainer or hair sieve. This is just the pure juice or essence of chicken, and, like essence of beef, should only be given in small quantities in extreme cases. When cold, it will be a jelly. Time—6 to 7 hours. Probable cost, 2s. ed. 15.—CHICKEN SOUP. Ingredients— I dessertspoonful salt. I gill of cream. 1 chicken. 2 to 3 pints cold water. Method— Draw and clean the chicken thoroughly (see page 60), then cut it into joints, and, if wished, keep back the breast for serving in some other way. Cut up the flesh into small pieces, and break the bones. Wash any pieces which do not look perfectly clean, and keep back any soft fat. Remove the gall bag from the liver, and the bag of stones from the gizzard, and wash these well; also the neck and heart. Put all together into a clean lined pan, with enough cold water to well cover—from 2 to 3 pints; add a little salt, and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim well, and simmer slowly about 5 or 6 hours.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. i6 Take off any scum that may rise, and boil down to about half the quantity. When cooked sufficiently, strain through a fine strainer or hair sieve, and let it stand till cold. Remove all the fat from the top of the stock. Take some of the pieces of meat from the chicken, pound them well in a mortar, and then rub through a wire sieve, using some of the liquid to moisten it while rubbing through. Add this meat puree to the soup as a thickening. Warm up as much as will be required at one time, and add one tablespoonful of cream to each cupful of soup. A yolk of egg may also be used if liked. Beat up the yolk in the cup or basin, and pour the hot soiip on to it, stirring all the time. The addition of a little celery seed and a small ham bone will improve the flavour of this soup, should the condition of the invalid allow of it. The breast of the chicken may be cooked in the soup, and then lifted out, cut into small neat pieces, and served in the soup when ready. Time—5 to 6 bours. Probable cost, 3s. 16.—BICE SOUP. Ingredients— I pint of mutton, veal, or I yolk of egg. chicken broth. I tablespoonful cream. I tablespoonful Patna rice. method— Remove any fat from the top of the broth, put it into a clean saucepan with the rice well washed, and boil until the rice is perfectly soft.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, 6- SOUPS. 17 Then rub all through a fine sieve, rinse out the pan, and return the soup to it. Beat up the yolk of egg and cream with a fork, strain them into the soup, and stir carefully over the fire until thoroughly hot, but on no account let it boil, oi it will curdle. Milk (i teacupful) may be used instead of yolk of egg and cream, and a little chopped parsley may be added. This soup may also be served without sieving. Time- 4 hour. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. 17.—TAPIOCA OR SAGO SOUP. Make in the same way as Rice Soup, using tapioca or sago in place of rice. If large tapioca or sago is used, it must be soaked first in a little cold water, so as to make it cook more quickly. 3 fresh tomatoes. A little salt. 18.—RICE AND TOMATO SOUP. lagredients— I pint mutton, veal, or chicken broth. I dessertspoonful Patna rice. Method— Put the broth into a clean lined saucepan, with the rice well washed, and the tomatoes wiped and cut in slices. Boil slowly for half-an-hour, stirring occasionally. Then rub through a hair or fine wire sieve. Heat again, season to taste, and it is ready foi serving. Time—J hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 2d. Bi8 19.—CREAM OF BAKLEY. Ingredients— 1 Yz lb. knuckle of veal. 2 oz. pearl barley. 3 pints cold water. Method— Wash the barley well, and, if possible, soak it over- night in cold water. Then blanch—i.e., put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to well cover it, bring to the boil, pour the water away, and rinse the barley. This malces the barley a very much better colour. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it down into very small pieces away from the bone, and put it into a saucepan with the water, salt, and blanched barley. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Simmer slowly 5 to 6 hours until the barley is perfectly soft. Then strain through a hair or fine wire sieve. Put the meat and barley into a mortar, pound it well, and then rub a good deal of it through a wire sieve, using some of the liquid to moisten it while rubbing through. Return the liquid and the sieved mixture to the saucepan, and re-heat over the fire. Beat up the yolk of egg and cream together ; draw the pan to the side of the fire, so that the soup may be off the boil, and strain this thickening into it, stirring all the time. Do not boil again. Time—5 to 6 bours. Probable cost. Is. 3d. I teaspooniul salt. I yolk of egg. gill cream.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, <S^= SOUPS. 19 20.—RABBIT SOUP. Ingredients— I rabbit. A few parsley stalks. 1 Yz pints cold water. I bay leaf. pint milk. 6 white peppercorns. _j| oz. butter. ^ teaspoonful salt. oz. flour. Uetbod— Wash and clean the rabbit well, let it lie in salt and water for hour, lift out, dry it, and cut into joints. Cut the flesh into small pieces, and chop the bones. Put all these into a saucepan with the cold water, bay leaf, parsley stalks, salt, and peppercorns, bring to the boil, and skim well. Simmer slowly from 5 to 6 hours till the goodness is drawn from the rabbit, then strain through a fine sieve. Put the meat into a mortar, pound it well with a little of the liquid part, and rub it through a wire sieve. Rinse out the pan, melt in it the butter, add the flour, and mix till smooth. Then add soup, sieved meat, and milk, and stir until boiling. Boil about 10 minutes. If liked, a little cream may be added. Time—5 to 6 hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 21.—GIBLET SOUP Ingredients— 2 sets of giblets. I Yz pints veal or mutton stock. A small piece each <jf carrot, turnip, and onion. A small sprig each of thyme, marjoram, and parsley. Method— Clean the I small blade of mace. ^ teaspoonful of salt. A bay leaf. oz. arrowroot or flour. Yz glass of sherry. I teaspoonful of ketchup. giblets thoroughly, and cut them into pieces.20 Put them into a saucepan with the stock, and bring them slowly to the boil. Skim well, and add the vegetables, cleaned and cut •nto small pieces—about one cupful altogether—also the herbs tied together with a piece of thread, the blade of mace, peppercorns, and bay leaf. Simmer gently for 2 hours, then lift out a few of the best pieces of giblet, trim them, and set them aside for serving in the soup at the end. Allow the soup to simmer for an hour or two lonser, then strain, and let it stand till cold. Remove all the fat from the top, and return it to a clean saucepan. Break the arrowroot with a little of the liquid, add it to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the ketchup, sherry, pieces of giblet which were reserved, and salt. Boil a few minutes, and it is ready. A little lemon juice may also be added. Time—3 to 4 hours. Probable cost. Is. 22.—GAME SOUP. Ingre dients— I bird (grouse, woodcock, I Yz pints cold water. pigeon, or partridge), or the Yz teaspoonful arrowroot. remains of game. A pinch of celery seed, pepper, Yy lb. lean, juicy beef. and salt. method— Wipe the game with a damp cloth, and break it down into small pieces. Also wipe the beef, and shred it down finely, the same as for beef tea.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, SOUPS. 21 Put all these into a cleaned lined saucepan, with the cold water and seasoning; bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Allow the soup to simmer gently about 4 hours, then strain, and allow it to cool. Remove all fat from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan. Break the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil two or three minutes until the arrowroot turns quite clear. More flavouring may be added according to taste, and either a little sherry or port if liked. Time—4 hours. Cost uncertain. 23.—GRAVY SOUP. Ingredients— 1 lb. Jean, juicy beef. A small piece of onion. 1 oz. butter. 2 pints cold water. 2 cloves. 6 peppercorns. I bay leaf: teaspoonful salt. Method— Wipe the meat, and shred it down finely with a sharp knife. Melt the butter in a clean lined saucepan, but do not let it brown. Put in the meat, with the seasoning, and onion scalded and cut in thin slices. Pound these well together with a wooden spoon over a slow fire, until the juice is well extracted from the meat. Then add the water gradually, simmer gently forCOOKING FOR INVALIDS. 22 x}4 io 2 hours, stirring occasionally, and skimming when it is required. Strain through a fine strainer or hair sieve, and when cold remove all the fat. Re-heat as required. The onion may be omitted if the flavour is objected to. Time—2 bours. Probable cost, Is. 4d, 24.—FISH SOUP. Ingredients— Small haddock, whiting, or sole. I gill of milk, or }4 oz. butter. i yolk of egg, and ^ gill cream. Y oz. flour. I teaspoonful finely chopped 3 gills or I pint cold water. parsley. Method— Wash and scrape the fish very clean, and see that there is no black skin lining the inside part. Do not remove the skin nor fins, but take out the eyes. Cut the fish across into five or six pieces, and put them into a nice lined saucepan. Cover them with the cold water, and add the salt; bring to the boil, and skim. After the soup has boiled for a few minutes, lift out a few nice little pieces of fish, free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup at the end. Do not let them cook until all the flavour has been extracted from them. Allow the rest to simmer slowly for ^ to i hour longer. Then strain through a wire sieve, and rub some of the white pieces of fish through. Rinse out the pan the soup was cooked in ; melt in it the butter, add the flour, and mix these two smoothly together, being careful they do not brown.MEAT TEAS, BROTHS, SOUPS. Then pour on the soup that has been sieved, and stir until boiling. Add the milk, pieces of fish which were reserved, and chopped parsley. Let it get quite hot, and serve. If yolk of egg and cream are used, first beat them together in a small basin with a fork. Draw the soup to the side of the fire where it will be off the boil, and strain them in through a fine strainer, stirring all the time. The soup must not boil after the yolk of egg is added, or it will curdle. If vegetable flavourings are allowed, a small amount of thinly sliced vegetables may be cooked with the soup, also a bay leaf, small blade of mace, and some parsley stalks. If butter is not allowed, put the soup first into the pan, then break the flour until smooth with the milk, and add it to the soup. Stir until boiling, and boil for a few minutes. Rice flour may be used instead of ordinary flour, or bread crumbs may be sprinkled in. Time—1J hour. ProljalJle cost, 4d. to Is. 25.—FISH SOUP WITH OYSTERS. Ingredients— oz. butter. I small haddock, sole, or whiting. % pint or 3 gills of cold water. ]4. dozen fresh oysters and their liquor. Method— Put the oysters into a small saucepan with their own liquor, and heat them almost to boiling point; /2 I gill of milk. I yolk of egg, and j4 gill of cream, pepper and salt.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Time—2 iiours. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. fid. 24 but do not let them boil, or they will get hardened and be made indigestible. Then strain them, and keep the liquor. Remove the hard piece of gristle from each oyster; also the beard, which is a piece like a fringe, which encircles the oyster. Then proceed to make the soup according to directions given for Fish Soup, No. 24, putting the oyster liquor, beards, and gristle into the saucepan, with the fish and cold water, and reserving the oysters themselves to throw into the soup before serving. The soup must not boil after the oysters are added to it.CHAPTER II.—FISH. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. Fish is a very valuable article of diet; it is the lightest form of solid food. It is less satisfying and less stimulating than meat, and for these reasons is often ordered for invalids before they are strong enough to take butcher meat. Fish contains valuable minerals, such as phosphate of lime, potash, and soda, which are all very necessary in our diet, as helping to form and solidify bone. In buying fishj choose those which are really in season and most plentiful, as they are then in best condition. Be most particular to choose perfectly fresh fish. The eyes should be bright and prominent, the gills red, the flesh firm and well covered with scales. There should be little or no smell, and that not disagreeable. The whiting is perhaps the most suitable for an invalid. It is very delicate in flavour and in fibre, and is sometimes called "the chicken of the sea." Haddock, plaice, and sole are also suitable. The haddock has more flavour, but is coarser grained than the whiting. Soles are not always easily got, and are a more expensive fish. Halibut and turbot are also good fish, and easy of digestion, but the fibre of them is firmer, and they are better cooked in larger pieces.26 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Cod is much less digestible than other white fish. When tough and woolly in fibre, it should be avoided. Oysters are said to be very digestible, and are frequently given to invalids, but there are differences of opinion regarding their value. They are certainly nutritious. Herring, mackerel, and salmon are not food for invalids, and therefore no directions for cooking them are given here. Fish must never be underdone, but always well cooked. Boiled or steamed fish is the most easy of diges- tion. Broiled or grilled comes next. Fried fish is the least suitable. When the digestion is weak, fish is better served without sauce of any kind. A Httle cold butter may be allowed. RECIPES. 26.—STEAMED FISH. Ingredients— I filleted haddock, whit- A pinch of white pepper. ing, or sole. A little butter. A pinch of salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Method— Fillet the fish (see recipes Nos. 239, 240), unless this has already been done by the fishmonger, and wipe it with a slightly damp cloth. Then cut it into neat sized pieces; grease a soup plate or muffin dish with a little butter, and place the pieces of fish on this,FISH. 27 Sprinkle with a little salt and white pepper, if it is allowed, and squeeze over some lemon juice, which helps to keep the fish firm and white, and also aids digestion. Be careful to let none of the lemon seeds drop. Cover the fish with a piece of greased white paper, and then with a lid or basin. Place this over a pan half full of boiling water, seeing that the plate fits well on the pan. Let the water underneath boil quickly, so that there may be plenty of steam, and cook from 20 to 30 minutes, until the fish loses its clear, transparent appearance, and looks quite white. If the pieces are thick, it will be better to turn them once during cooking. The liquid that is on the plate when the fish is cooked is the juice from the fish, and should be served with it. If a nice dish is chosen to cook the fish on, it may be served up on the same. Dry the plate or dish underneath, remove the paper, and wipe round the edges. This is the lightest and simplest mode of cooking fish for an invalid. Sometimes a white sauce is made (see recipe No. 29), and poured over it. The liquid in this case should be added to the sauce. With sauce it is richer, and not so digestible. If no sauce is used, serve the fish v.-ith a little plain cold butter and a piece of plain bread. Time—20 to 30 minutes. Protoatole cost—whiting or haddock, 3d. or 4d.; sole, 9d. to Is. 6d.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 27.—STEWED FISH. Ingredients— I filleted fish—whiting, had- % oz. butter. dock, sole, or plaice. i teaspoonful chopped parsley. I tablespoonful bread crumbs. White pepper. % gill cold water. Salt. I gill milk. Bletliod— Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, and cut it into small, neat pieces. Take a clean lined saucepan, rinse it out with water to prevent the fish sticking to it, and place the pieces of fish at the foot. Sprinkle over them a little salt and white pepper, pour on the milk and water; put the hd on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly by the side of the fire until it is ready, which will be from lo to 15 minutes. Do not overcook, or it will be hard. Lift out the pieces of fish on to the plate on which they have to be served, and keep them hot. Add the bread crumbs (see page 181) and the butter to the water and milk in the pan ; stir over the fire for a few minutes until the bread crumbs swell and thicken the sauce. Sprinkle in the parsley, finely chopped, and then pour this sauce over the fish. Wipe the dish round the edges before serving. Note.—An ordinary white sauce (see page 31) may be made, using the milk and water in which the fish was cooked. Time—15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost—sole, 9d. to Is. 6d.; wMtlng, baddocU, or plaice, 3d. or 4d.FISH. -BOILED HADDOCK. KeoLtiired— I haddock (small). I teaspoonfiil of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon juice. ]^ teaspoonful salt. 2 pints water. MetlLOd— Buy the fish with the skin on it, as the skin protects the fish.* As a rule, the inside of the fish is removed by the fishmonger; but, if not, open it, and take out the gills and all the inside parts. Wash the fish well, scraping the skin with a knife from the tail upwards to remove all the scales. Wash the part where the inside has been taken out, removing any of the thin black skin which may be left, and which would impart a very bitter flavour to the fish. Cut off the fins, using a pair of scissors, and cutting from the tail upwards ; take out the eyes, and wash the sockets well. Then truss the fish in the shape of the letter S, using a skewer or a needle and fine string to do so. Have on the fire a small fish kettle or a stewpan, with about 2 pints of water freshly boiled in it. Do not use the water from a hot-water pipe for cooking purposes, but always boil it fresh. Add the salt and vinegar or lemon juice to the water, and let it simmer slowly. The acid in the water helps to keep the fish white and firm. * A filleted fish would be quite tasteless if boiled. Haddock is the most suitable fish for boiling for an invalid; the flat fish are too flivour- less, and cod is not so digestible, although sometimes it might laake a nice change.30 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Time—10 to 16 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 4d. If there is a drainer belonging to the fish kettie, place the fish on that with the back uppermost, and lower it into the water. If using a stewpan, put a saucer or plate at the foot of the pan, or tie the fish in a piece of muslin so that it can be easily lifted out. Put the lid on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly until ready—from lo to 15 minutes for a small haddock. When ready, the skin will begin to crack, and the flesh slip from the bones. Lift the fish out of the water, and let it drain for a few minutes. Never let fish remain in water after it is ready, as it makes it very insipid. If it has to be kept warm for a short time, keep it on the drainer placed across the fish kettle, with a cloth or lid over it, or on a plate over a pan of hot water. Serve this fish plain, with a little cold butter, served separately, or with white sauce. (See page 31.) Draw out the skewer or thread before serving. If sent up to the invalid whole, dish it on a small assiette, with a folded serviette or fringed doyly under it, and decorate with a sprig of fresh parsley. Or cut the fish into two or three neat pieces, keeping back the head, and sending up just what the invaUd is Ukely to take, dishing on a dinner- plate, and putting on a cover.FISH. 29.—WHITE SAUCE FOR FISH. Ingredients— 14^ oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. I gill of milk, or fish stock. A pinch of salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Uetliod— Take a small lined saucepan; rinse it out first with cold water to prevent the sauce sticking to the foot of it, and melt in it the butter over the fire, being careful it does not brown. Then add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth, and cook it for a minute or two over the fire to give the sauce a glossy appearance. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the milk or fish stock, and then stir constantly over the fire until boiling. Boil for two or three minutes, in order to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste. Fish Stock..—The water the fish is boiled in will do for this, or any bones or trimmings of fish might be put on with cold water, or water and milk, to cover them. Boil for a short time, and then strain. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, Id. Method— Make the sauce in the same way as recipe No. 29, 30.—PARSLEY SAUCE. Ingredients— •4! oz. butter. oz. flour. I gill of milk, or fish stock. A pinch of salt. I teaspoonful finely chopped parsley.COOKING FOR TNVALTDS. 32 and add the parsley just a minute or two before serving. If the parsley is cooked too long, it loses its pretty green appearance. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, Id. I gill milk, or fish stock. Method— Make the sauce in the same way as recipe No. 29. To boil an egg hard, put it into a saucepan, with enough boiling water to cover it, and boil quickly for 10 minutes. Then lift it ont, and put it quickly into a basin of cold water to preserve the colour of the egg. Afterwards remove the shell, and half the ege will ' Do be enough for the sauce. Either chop the yolk and white together, and add them both to the sauce, or chop and add the white only. Pour the sauce over the fish, and rub the yolk through a sieve on to the top of it. When sauce is poured over the fish, the skin ought first to be taken off. Time—12 minutes. Probable coat, IJd. 31.—EGG SAUCE. Ingredients— % oz. butter. % 02. flour. A pinch of salt. yi. a hard boiled egg. 32.—PRIED FISH. Required— I filleted haddock, plaice, A pinch ol salt. Bread crumbs. Frying fat. or sole. I egg. I dessertspoonful flour.33 FISH. Uetliod— Wipe the fish with a shghtly damp cloth, and cut it into neat sized pieces. Put the flour on a plate, and mix with it a little salt. Dip the pieces of fish in this, coating them very thinly and shaking all the loose flour ofi". This dries the fish, and makes it fi-y more easily. Have ready the egg, well beaten up on a plate, the yolk and white together; and also have ready a good supply of finely made bread crumbs on a sheet of paper. Take one piece of fish at a time; first put it into the beaten egg, brushing the egg all over it with a small brush, seeing that every part is well covered, other- wise it will look patchy. Then put it on the top of the bread crumbs, lifting it on a knife; toss the crumbs well over it, and press them on with the hands, shaking loose crumbs off. Put the piece of fish down on a board, and with a flat knife press the crumbs well on again, and make the sides of the fish tidy. When ready, place the piece of fish on a plate or tin with a piece of double kitchen paper on it, and proceed with each piece of fish in the same way. Have ready on the fire a saucepan half full of boiling fat (lard or clarified fat is the best). The fat is boiling when it is perfectly still, and a slight blue smoke is seen rising from it. Put the pieces of fish into this slowly one after the other; if too much is put in at one time, the fat gets cooled down so much that it soaks into the pieces of fish instead of making them crisp. c34 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Time—10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. Allow the fish to fry until the pieces are a nice brown colour, then lift them out with a spoon—a perforated one is best—and let the fat drain well from them. Put them back on the piece of double paper, so that any grease about them may be absorbed. Serve the fish up on a dish with a d'oyley or dish paper under it, decorating it with a sprig of parsley; or send up two or three pieces on the invalid's plate. One or two thin slices of lemon may be served with it. Notes.—Fried fish, when well done, should look quite dry, crisp, and of a pretty brown colour. Although it is not by any means the most digestible way of cooking fish, still it may be given to patients who do not suffer from a weak digestion. Fish that is greasy and badly fried is one of the most unwholesome of dishes. There should be sufficient fat in the pan to completely cover the fish. The fat should be strained after using, and if care is taken it may be used many times and will keep for weeks. Biscuit or rusk crumbs may be used instead of bread crumbs for coating the fish. Time—5 to 7 minutes. Probable cost—sole, 9d. to Is. 6d. ; haddock, or plaice, 4d. to 6d. 33.—FRIED WHITING. Whiting are best skinned and fried whole. Prepare them in the same way as the filleted fish, and, after egging and bread-crumbing them, pull the tail through the eye. They will take rather a longer time to cook than the small pieces of fish.FISH. 35 31.—BROILED FISH. Required— I small haddock, or I whiting. Method— Have the fish skinned, but not filleted; wipe it with a damp cloth, and then dry it well. If the fish is thick, split it open, season with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a httle lemon juice. Have the gridiron very clean, heat it, and grease with a little butter. Lay the fish on it, and broil over or before a very clear fire, so that it may not taste smoky. Do not place it too near the fire, or it will be scorched. If broiling on the top of the fire, turn the fish once or twice during the cooking. For broiling in front of the fire, the grid is generally made double, and in that case the fish would be put between the two sets of ribs so that it can easily be turned. The time for broiling depends upon the thickness of the fish. The thicker the fish, the more slowly it must be cooked. For a small haddock or whiting, from lo to 12 minutes will be sufficient. Serve very hot, with a little cold butter. Broiling is more wholesome than frying. Time—10 to 12 minutes. Probatolo cost, 3d. to 4d. A httle butter. Pepper and salt.36 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 35.—BROILED TROUT. Required— I small trout. 1 Pepper and salt. I teaspoonful flour. | A little butter. Method— Empty the fish, then wash and dry it thoroughly. Cut off the fins and head, and split the trout open so that it lies quite flat. Remove the bone, beginning at the top, and dry the fish again. Put the flour on to a plate, dip the fish in to it, and shake off" all the loose flour, which is to dry the fish thoroughly. Broil in the same way as other fish (see recipe 34), and serve with a little plain or maitre d'hotel butter. (See recipe No. 197.) Time—7 to 10 minntes. Cost, uncertain. 36.—BAKED FISH (i). Required— I filleted haddock, sole, or plaice. Pepper and salt. A little lemon juice. A small piece of butter. Method- Wipe the fish well with a damp cloth, to make it quite clean. If using a haddock, cut it into two pieces length- ways, making two fillets out of it. If a sole, there will be four fillets, two from each side of the fish. Lay the fillets out on a plate, with the side which the skin came off uppermost.FISH. Sprinkle over each fillet a little white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Roll each fillet up; the side which was next the bone should now be outside. Unless care is taken m this particular, the fish will become unrolled while being cooked. Stand the fillets up on end on a clean greased tm or strong plate. Cover them over with a piece of white paper greased, and bake in a moderate oven for lo or 12 minutes, until the fish is quite cooked. It should then look quite white, and will have lost its clear appearance. Serve with a little plain or maitre d'hotel butter (see recipe No. 197), put in little pats on the top of each fillet. Time—10 to 15 minutes, ProTiable cost-haddocU, 3d. or 4d. ; sole, 8d. to Is. 6d. 37. —BAKED FISH (2). Ingredients— lb. uncooked fish. I egg. 2 tablespoonfuls bread yi gill milk. crumbs. Pepper and sail. 14 oz. butter. A little lemon juice. Method— Grease out a small pie dish with a little of the butter. Have the fish free from skin and bone, and cut it into neat pieces. Lay half of these pieces at the foot of the pie dish ; sprinkle over them a little white pepper, salt, and a38 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. squeeze of lemon juice, and then put on a layer of bread crumbs. Next put in the rest of the fish, seasoning, and more crumbs. Beat up the egg in a small basin, add the milk to it, and strain this into the pie dish. Put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top, wipe round the edges of the pie dish, and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Tima—12 to 15 miniites. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. 33.—FISH BAKED IN BATTER. Ingredients— % lb. uncooked fish— i egg. haddock, or sole. oz. of butter. I oz. flour. Pepper and salt. % gill of milk. A little lemon juice. lUetliod— First make the batter; rub the flour through a wire sieve to make it quite free from lumps, and put it into a basin. Beat up the egg with a fork, and add it to the flour; beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth and free from lumps. Then add the milk, and beat for a few minutes longer. The better the batter is beaten, the lighter it will be. Have the fish free from skin and bone, and cut into small neat pieces. Lay these at the foot of a small greased pie dish, and season them with a little white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice.FISH. 39 Pour the batter over, and put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top. If time permits, allow this to stand for a few minutes before cooking; this gives time for the flour in the batter to swell, and it will be lighter when baked. Bake in a rather quick oven from 12 to 15 minutes, until well risen and nicely browned. After removing from the oven, see that the edges of the pie dish are quite clean, and serve as quickly as possible, as the batter soon falls. Time—12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d, 39.—FISH QUENELLES. Ingredients— ^ lb. uncooked fish. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 oz. bread crumbs. slice of toast. 'A egg. Method— Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, and shred it down finely with a knife. Put it into a mortar, and add to it the bread crumbs, butter, and seasonings, and pound them well together. Beat up the egg with a fork in a small basin, the volk and white together, and add half of it to the ingredients in the mortar, or enough to bind the mixture together. When well pounded, take a wire sieve and a plate, and rub the mixture through the sieve on to the plate. When sieving, do not put too much on the sieve at one time, and use two iron spoons, one to40 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. rub the mixture through with, and the other for scraping underneath, as the sieve gets clogged with the mixture, and requires clearing from time to time. When all is through, shape the mixture into quenelles. To do this you will require a basin of warm water, two dessert spoons, and a knife. Dip the spoons into the warm water. Take up a spoonful of the mixture in one of them; then with the knife, also wet, smooth the mixture over, making it high in the centre, and pointed at the ends, like an egg- With the second spoon, scoop the mixture out, and then lay it carefully in a small greased frying or omelet pan. Shape the rest of the mixture in the same wa}', keeping them all as much the same size and shape as possible, and placing them a little distance apart in the pan. Place the pan on the stove, and pour gently round the quenelles enough boiling water to nearly cover them. Cover over with a round of greased paper, and poach slowly for lo minutes. Have ready a neat piece of toast (see recipe No. 238) on a hot plate. Lift the quenelles with a spoon—a perforated one is best—letting the water drain well from them, and dish them neatly on the toast. Decorate with a small sprig of parsley, and, if liked, pour over a little white sauce.41 FISH. 40.—FISH CREAM. Ingredients— 3/ lb. uncooked fish. }i gill cream. y, oz. butter. i white of egg. l"oz. bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. y2 gill milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. IHCetliod— Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, and shred it down finely with a knife. Put it into a mortar, and pound it well. Rinse out a small saucepan with cold water to prevent the mixture sticking to it. Put into it the butter and the milk, and let the butter melt over the fire. Then add the bread crumbs, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until the bread crumbs swell and the mixture thickens. Add this mixture to the fish in the mortar, pound well together, and rub through a wire sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath. Put the mixture into a basin, and season to taste. Put the white of egg on to a plate, and beat it up to a stiff froth with a knife. Put the cream into a smaller basin, and whisk it with a fork until thick. Add both these to the fish mixture, and stir them in as light as possible with an iron spoon. Mix them lightly, and, at the same time, thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a small basin, greased out with clarified butter (see recipe No. 236). The basin must not be more than three parts filled. Twist over the top of it a piece of greased kitchen paper.42 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Place the basin in a saucepan with enough hot water to come half way up the sides of the basin. Put the lid on the pan, and steam slowly for 15 minutes, or until the cream feels firm to the touch. Lift out, and let it stand for a minute or two, to let the steam escape. Loosen round the edges, and turn carefully out on to a hot plate. Serve plain, or with a little white sauce round. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 41.—FISH SOUFFLE, Ingredients— X lb. uncooked fish. % oz. butter. % oz. flour. Yz gill of milk, or fish stock 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Metbod— Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, and scrape it down finely with a knife. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and fish stock. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix till smooth with a wooden spoon. Then pour on the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture is thick and free from lumps, and leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Put this panada into a mortar with the fish, season- ings, and yolks of eggs. Pound well together, and rub through a fine wire sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath.FISH. 43 Put the mixture into a basin. Beat up the whites of eggs on a plate, with a knife, to a very stiff froth, and stir them lightly, but thoroughly, into the fish mixture with an iron spoon. Pour all into a greased tin or basin, which should only be half-filled, and cover over with greased paper, twisting the paper over the top. Steam slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, until well risen and firm to the touch. Then lift out, let it stand a minute or two, and turn carefully out on to a hot plate. Serve with or without white sauce round it. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. to 8d. 42.—STEAMED FISH PUDDING. Ingredients— 3 oz. uncooked fish. i egg. 2 tablespoonfuls bread % gill milk, crumbs. Pepper and salt. Method— Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, wipe it with a cloth, and cut it into small neat pieces. Grease out a small basin about the size of a break- fast cup; put in first a layer of bread crumbs, then some fish, more bread crumbs, and so on. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork, add the milk and seasoning to it, and strain over the fish and bread crumbs. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, then twist a piece of greased paper over the top of it. Steam slowly for some 15 to 20 minutes.44 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. When ready, the pudding should be firm to the touch. Lift it out of the pan, let it stand for a minute or two, loosen round the edges, and turn carefully out on to a hot plate. Garnish with a small sprig of parsley. Note.—Tf preferred, the fish may be chopped small instead of being left in pieces. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. 43 —FISH OMELST. Ingredients— 2 oz. cooked fish. 2 eggs. I teaspoonful chopped Pepper and salt, parsley. i oz. butter. Bletliod— Have the fish free from skin and bone, and chop it finely. Separate the yolks from whites of the eggs. Put the yolks into a medium sized basin and the whites on to a plate. Add to the yolks the chopped fish, parsley, pepper, and salt, and work these well together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Beat up the whites of the eggs on the plate with a broad-bladed knife, until so stiff that you could turn the plate upside down without the whites falling off. Remove the wooden spoon from the basin, and, with an iron one, stir into it the beaten whites lightly and thoroughly. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and pour theFISH. mixture into it, scraping out the basin as quickly as possible. . . Stir the mixture round with an iron spoon until it begins to set, stirring mostly on the surface and not scraping the foot of the pan. Then hold it a little longer over the fire until the omelet is nicely browned on the under side. Slip a knife under it, and double over first from one side and then from the other towards the centre. If not quite cooked on the top, hold it in front of the fire for a minute or two. Then turn it on to a hot dish with a doyly or fish paper below it, and serve as quickly as possible. Time—5 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 8d. 44.—PISH AND RICE. Ingredients— 1 oz. uncooked fish. Pepper and salt. I gag. Vz OZ. butter. I oz. whole rice. A squeeze of lemon juice. I gill of milk. A little cold water. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs. Metbod— Wash the rice well, and put it into a small sauce- pan, with enough cold water to cover it; bring to the boil, and pour the water away. This bursts the rice, and makes it cook more easily in the milk. Pour on the milk, add the butter, and allow the rice to stew slowly until it is thoroughly cooked, stirring it occasionally. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork; let the rice cool a httle, and add the egg to it, mixing it well in.46 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, and cut it into small neat pieces. Grease out a small pie dish, and place half the fish at the foot, sprinkling over it a little pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Then put in half the rice, next the other half of the fish, with more seasoning, and the remainder of the rice on the top. Sprinkle a few bread crumbs over it, and place some small pieces of butter on these. Bake in the oven from lo to 15 minutes, when it should be nicely browned, and the fish cooked through. Note.—Cold cooked fish may be used instead of uncooked, but it is not quite so wholesome. Time—\ hour. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. 45 —FILLETS OF SOLE WITH TOMATOES. Reqtuired— I small sole. I Pepper and salt. I tomato. I A squeeze of lemon juice. Method— First skin and fillet the sole. (See recipe No. 240.) Wipe the fillets well, and lay them out, with the side which the skin came off lying uppermost. Season each fillet with a little pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Double each fillet over the thin end towards the thick, and place on a tin greased with a little butter. Wipe the tomato, remove the stalk, and cut it into four pieces.A7 FISH. Lay these pieces on the tin beside the fish, and cover all with a piece of greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven from lo to 15 minutes, until the fish looks quite white and has lost its trans- parent appearance. Lift the fillets carefully on to a hot dish, and serve the pieces of tomato round them. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. 6d. 46—BOILED COD OR HADDOCK ROES, method— Wash the roe well, then weigh it and tie it up in a piece of muslin or a pudding cloth. Put it into a saucepan or fish kettle, with enough boiling water to cover it. Add I teaspoonful of vinegar and teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water. Boil slowly, allowing 20 minutes to the pound, or until the roe feels quite firm to the touch. Lift out, drain well, and serve as much as will be required at one time. Serve with plain cold butter, or a little white sauce, if allowed. 47.—GRILLED OR FRIED ROE. The roe must be boiled first. When it is quite cold, cut into slices, about inch thick, with a very sharp knife. To grill, grease the grill or gridiron with a little butter, and make it quite hot.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 48 Lay the slices of roe on it, and broil over or in front of a clear fire from 5 to 7 minutes, until the pieces are browned on both sides, and serve very hot. To fry the slices, melt i oz. of butter in a frying- pan, let it get smoking hot, and put the pieces of roe into it. Fry th&m a nice brown colour on one side, then turn with a knife, and brown on the other. When ready lift them out, and drain on a piece of double paper. Serve very hotCHAPTER III.—MEAT. INTBODTTCTOBY REMARKS. As a general rule, fowl comes first in order of digestibility, and then game, but they rank very closely together. Game has much more flavour, and for that very reason it may suit some invalids better than chicken, which is a favourite article of diet. Game is more of a stimulant to the appetite. The flesh from the breast and wing of a chicken is considered the best part of a fowl. Game which has the least fat about it, such as pheasant, partridge, grouse, or woodcock, is the best. Pigeons may form a nice variety. Ducks and geese must not be given; they are too rich on account of their fat. Rabbit is not quite so digestible as chicken, and is not considered of very much value. Of the other meats the most digestible is first mutton, and then beef. Veal and lamb are less stimulating; but, as the fibre of them is very gelatinous, it eludes thorough mastication, and they are therefore not so digestible. Pork is quite unsuitable, although bacon is some- times allowed. Sweetbreads (both heart and throat), if plainly cooked, form a very suitable diet. Tripe is very easy of digestion, but requires careful preparation and long cooking. D50 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Liver and kidneys must never be given to any one with a weak digestion. Broiling, steaming, and roasting are the most suit- able ways of cooking meat for invalids. Boiling comes next. Baking, stewing, and frying are not so suitable. AH white meats must be thoroughly cooked. Some meats, such as beef and mutton, are more digestible if underdone. Warmed up meats have next to no nourishment in them, besides being much less digestible. They should never be given to an invalid. RECIPES. 43.—GRILLED OR BROILED CHOP. Required— I loin chop. I Maltre d'hStel butter. Uetliod— A chop from the loin is considered the best. They are also cut from the best end of the neck and the fillet of the leg. The chop should be cut at least half-an-inch thick, and the meat must not have the slightest taint. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth, then trim it neatly, removing nearly all the fat. Have a clear fire, and, if there is any smoke or a blaze, sprinkle a handful of salt over it. See that the grill or gridiron is perfectly clean, make it thoroughly hot, and grease it with a piece of mutton fat or a little butter.51 MEAT. Place the chop on it, and grill over or in front of the fire, turning it every minute or two until the chop is cooked sufficiently. The time for cooking depends very much upon individual taste, and also upon the thickness of the chop. It is more digestible underdone than over- done. The outside should be well browned, and the inside red and juicy. When turning the chop use a pair of steak tongs or two knives, or a fork stuck into the fat of the meat. Never stick a fork into the meat itself, or it will let out the juices. If the chop appears to be cooking too quickly, raise the gridiron, or remove it a little distance from the fire. In lifting the chop from the gridiron, place it on a very hot plate. A chop, to taste well, must be served up at once. A small pat of maitre d'hotel butter (see recipe No. 196) may be placed on the top, or a little ketchup may be served with it, if allowed. Note. —Never warm up a chop for an invalid. Time—7 to 8 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 49.—FBIED CHOPS. Required— I mutton chop. | i oz. butter. Method— Choose and prepare the chop as in preceding recipe. Take a clean fryingpan, put into it the i oz. of butter, and heat it over the fire until it is smoking52 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. hot. If the chop were put in before the butter was hot enough, the juice would be drawn out of it. The hot butter seals up the outside of the meat quickly, and forms a casing which keeps in the juices. When brown on one side, turn with two knives and brown on the other. Turn occasionally until the chop is cooked sufficiently. Draw the pan a little off the fire if the chop seems to be cooking too quickly. Do not overcook it. Before serving it, let it drain for a minute on a double piece of kitchen paper, so that any grease may be absorbed from it. Then lift it on to a hot plate, and serve plain, or with a little maitre d'hotel butter or ketchup. l^ote. A fried chop is not so wholesome as one done on the grill, nor is the flavour so fine. Time—7 to 8 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 50.—GRILLED OR FRIED STEAK. Steak for grilling must be of the very best, other- wise it will be tough. It should be cut from a well hung, juicy piece of meat. The best steaks are from the rump or fillet, and should be cut at least three- quarters of an inch thick. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, trim off any superfluous fat, and beat it out slightly with a roUing pin or cutlet bat. Then proceed according to directions given for grilling and frying a chop. Season, and serve in the same way. Time—7 to 10 mins. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 4d. per lb.53 MEAT. 51.—STEAMED CHOP. Required— I mutton chop. I A little butter. A pinch of salt. | Method— Wipe the chop with a damp cloth. Trim off most of the fat, and make into a neat shape. Grease a plate with a Httle butter, place it over a pan half full of boiling water, and put the chop on it. Sprinkle it with a little salt, cover with a piece of greased paper, and then with a basin or saucepan lid. Keep the water underneath fast boiling, that there may be sufficient steam, and, if it boils away too much, add more. Cook from lo to 15 minutes; then turn the chop, and cook about the same length of time on the other side. Serve at once, along with any juice that has run from it. Note.—This is one of the most digestible ways of cooking a chop for an invalid. It is more delicate in flavour than one broiled or fried. Time—20 to 30 inmates. Probable cost, 4d. 52.—MUTTON CHOP IN PASTE. Required— I mutton chop. A pinch of salt. Paste—2 tablespoonfuls flour, a little cold water. Method- Wipe the chop with a damp cloth. Trim it neatly, removing most of the fat, and sprinkle with a little salt.54 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Make a paste with the flour and water. Put the flour into a basin, add to it enough cold, water to form it into a dough, mixing it with the hand Slightly flour a baking-board, and turn this dough out on to it, rolling thinly with a floured rolling-pin. Place the chop in the centre, and fold it up in the paste, just like a parcel, sealing the joins of the paste with a little water. Then wrap it up in a piece of greased paper, and place it on a baking tin. Bake in a moderate oven, about half-an-hour. To serve it, remove first the paper and then the crust; lift out the chop on to a hot plate, and pour round it any juice that may have run from it. Time—i hour. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. 53.—STEWED CHOP. Required— I mutton chop, I teaspoonful whole rice. A pinch of salt. I gill of cold water. I small stick of celer)-. Method— Wipe the chop with a damp cloth, and trim off nearly all the fat. Put it into a jar or basin, with the salt, water, and rice well washed. Wash and brush the celery^ removing any brown parts from it; cut it into fine shreds, and put it in along with the chop, &c. Cover all with a lid or strong piece of greased white paper.55 MEAT. Place the jar or basin in a saucepan, with enough boiling water to come half way up the sides; put the lid on the pan, and steam slowly for to 2 hours. If the water boils down, more must be added. When ready, lift the chop on to a hot plate, and pour the rice, &c., round it. Note.—The celery may be omitted in this recipe, and the jar containing the chop may be placed in a moderate oven instead of in a saucepan of boiling water. Time—1^ to 2 boars. Probable cost, 6d. 54.—MUTTON OB BEEF aUENELLES. Ingredients— %. lb. best steak or lean mutton. I A little beef tea or stock. 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. I egg. I Metbod— Wipe the meat, and remove all fat from it. Shred it down finely, or pass it through a mincing machine, and put it into a mortar with the bread crumbs, egg, and seasoning, and pound well together. Add a little beef tea or stock, but keep the mixture stiS enough to form into quenelles. When the mixture is well pounded, rub all through a fine wire sieve, using two iron spoons, one to rub through with, and the other to scrape underneath the sieve. Scrape underneath the sieve every now and then, as it gets clogged. To shape the quenelles, have ready a small clean fryingpan (greased at the foot with a little butter), two dessert spoons, a knife, and a basin of warm water.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 56 Dip the spoons into the warm water, take up a spoonful of the mixture in one of them, with the knife (also dipped in warm water), smooth the mixture over the top, raising it high in the centre and pointed at the ends, Hke an egg. Then with the second wet spoon scoop the que- nelle carefully out, and lay it in the greased pan. Proceed with the rest of the mixture in the same way. This quantity will make four of five quenelles. Do not place them too near each other in the pan ; and, when all are in, put the pan on the stove, and pour in very gently enough boiling water to come half way up the quenelles, covering over with a round of greased paper. Poach slowly from lo to 12 minutes, or until they have lost their raw appearance and are firm to the touch. Lift out, and drain for a minute on a clean cloth. Then serve, either plain, with a piece of dry toast, or dish on a neat square of toast, and pour some hot beef tea round them. Time—10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 55.—VEAL OB CHICKEN aUENELLES. Ingredients— ]l lb. uncooked veal or % egg. _ chicken. A squeeze of lemon juice. X ounce butter. Pepper. ^ gill milk, or white stock. Salt. Metbod— If using chicken, the breast is the best, as the other parts are too tough for sieving.57 MEAT. Wipe the meat first with a damp cloth, then shred it down finely, or put it through a mincing machine. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and milk or stock. Take a small lined pan, and melt in it the butter, then, with a wooden spoon, mix in the flour, and add the milk, stirring until it forms one thick mass. Cook this well, and beat till smooth. Put the minced meat into a mortar, add the panada to it, with the seasoning, and half a beaten egg, and pound all well together. Put through a fine wire sieve, and shape and cook in the same way as beef quenelles. Serve on a neat square of toast, and, if wished, pour a white sauce over. Time—12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost—veal, 6d.; chicken, 9d. to Is. 56.—VEAL OR CHICKEN CREAM. Ingredients— Jif lb. fillet of veal, or i small blade of mace. breast of chicken. % gill of cream. yi gill milk, or white stock. I white of egg. I ounce of bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. % ounce butter. Metbod— Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and shred it very finely, or put it through a mincing machine. Make a panada with the bread crumbs, butter, and milk, or white stock. Put the butter, milk, and a small blade of mace, if liked, into a small lined saucepan, and heat over the fire until the butter is melted.58 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Then add the bread crumbs, and stir over the fire for a few minutes until the bread crumbs swell, and the mixture thickens. Lift out the mace, and put the panada into a mortar, with the minced meat; pound well together, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Scrape under the sieve. Put the mixture into a basin, and add the seasoning. Whisk the cream in a small basin with a fork until thick, and beat up the white of egg stiffly on a plate. Add both these to the meat mixture, and stir them lightly in with an iron spoon. Pour into a well greased basin or mould, not filling it more than three parts full (as the mixture rises), and cover over the top with a piece of greased white paper. Place this in a saucepan, with a plate or saucer at the foot of it, and enough boiling water to come half way up the sides of the basin or mould. Put the lid on the pan, and steam very slowly from 20 to 30 minutes, until the cream is well risen and firm to the touch. The plate or saucer at the foot of the pan is to raise the cream above the great heat of the foot of the saucepan. The water round it must only be allowed to simmer very gently, and if it boils away more must be added. On lifting out, allow the cream to stand for a minute or two, to let some of the steam escape, or it is apt to crack. Loosen round the edges, and turn carefully out on to a hot dish. White sauce (see page 31) may be served over or round it if wished. Time—20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost—veal, 7d. or Sd. ; ohioken, Is. to Is. 3d.MEAT. 59 57.—BEEF CREAM. Ingredients— X lb. lean, juicy beef. gill of stock, or beef tea. oz. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. >| oz. flour. Pepper and salt. Method— Wipe the beef with a damp cloth, and shred it down very finely with a sharp knife, as you would for beef tea. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and stock. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add to it the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour on the stock, and stir until boiling and thoroughly cooked. Put this panada into a mortar with the shred beef, and pound well together. Add the whole egg and seasoning, and pound again until as smooth as possible. Then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve into a basin, and scrape the sieve well underneath. Add to the mixture the cream, and taste it to see that it is sufficiently seasoned. Have ready a small basin well greased, put the mixture into it, and shake it well down. Cover the basin with a piece of greased paper, and steam the cream very gently for 15 minutes, or until it is firm to the touch. Lift from the pan, and let it stand a minute or two before turning it out. Dish on a hot plate, with a piece of paper, remove any grease which may be on the top of it, and serve plain, or with a little beef tea heated and poured round it as a gravy. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d.60 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 58.—TO CHOOSE AND DRAW A FOWL. In choosing a fowl, one of the best tests of age is to feel the breast bone. When the bird is young, this is gristle, and should bend quite easily ; when eld, it is firm and hard. The legs of young fowls are smooth and the feet supple. Fowls with black legs are best for roasting, those with white legs for boiling. The method of drawing and trussing fowls for roasting and boiling is not easily taught by a book, a practical lesson on the subject being of much more value. As a rule, a poulterer will draw and truss a fowl for you, but in country places, and where this cannot be done, it is necessary to know personally how to do it. The method is the following:— TO DRAW A FOWL. Have in readiness a plate, pair of scissors, some scraps of paper, a basin of warm water, and a board to place the fowl on. The fowl should first be carefully plucked, and any ends of feathers removed. Then with a lighted taper singe off all hairs, holding the fowl in the left hand and the taper in the right, being careful not to blacken the skin. Then turn the fowl on its breast, with the head lying towards you on the board. With a pair of scissors make a slit down the skin o*" the back of the neck, about 3 or 4 inches long. With a piece of paper take hold of the inside neck, and draw it out away from the skin, and with a sharp knife cut it off close to the body, and throw it into the basin of water.MEAT. 61 Cut off the head and some of the skin of the neck, leaving 3 or 4 inches on. Draw out the windpipe, and loosen the crop from the skin of the neck. (The crop is the bag of skin which lies close to the neck. It is the digestive canal of the fowl, and contmues right down into the gizzard, which is the bag of little stones found inside the fowl. These stones the fowl picks up and swallows, and they serve the purpose of teeth, helping to grind down the food.) . ^ ,' Then turn the fowl on its breast, still with the neck towards you. Insert the first finger inside, and loosen all the inside, but draw nothing out at this end. Be careful not to break the gall bag, which lies in the liver, because if this were done the gall would give a bitter taste to the whole fowl; but keep the finger going round as close to the bones as possible, and just breaking the little ligaments that attach the internal organs to the carcase. When all seems loose, turfi to the other end of the fowl, and slighdy enlarge the opening already there with a pair of scissors. Insert the first finger again, and loosen everything the same as at the other end, being careful not to make the hole too large. Then draw everything out, and, if it has been properly loosened, all should come out together. Keep the gizzard, cutting it open and removing the bag of stones from the inside, and the liver if it is good, removing the gall bag and any green parts from it.62 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Wash these with the neck, remove any fat skin from them, and let them soak in salt and water for some time, after which they can be used for making stock for gravy, or to help with chicken or giblet soup. Wipe the fowl with a damp cloth, first outside and then inside. If not clean with this, the water from the pipe may be run through it; but when the fowl has to be roasted, it is better not to be wet too much, as it takes away the flavour and prevents it browning so well. Remove any soft fat that may be left in the inside, especially at the vent and near the neck, and also cut away the oil bag which lies at the back of the rump or "parson's nose." (This contains the oil with which the fowl oils its feathers, and it frequently becomes rancid, and if left on will give the fowl a bad taste.) 59.—TO TRUSS A FOWL FOR ROASTING. The legs, for roasting, are cut off just a little above the feet. Cut carefully through the skin of the leg first, and then draw out the sinews. If this is left undone, it tends to make the legs tough. Chop through the bone, and scald the piece of leg that is left on in boiling water, and peel ofif the out- side skin. Then place the fowl on its breast, pull the piece of skin from the neck over the back, and cross the ends of the wings over this.63 MEAT. Turn over again, take hold of the legs, and push them well back towards the wings, and downwards, to give the fowl a nice plump appearance. Take a trussing needle and fine string, and pass the needle through one wing, one leg, right through the body, and catch the leg and wing at the other side, and draw it through. Turn the fowl over, with needle and string catch the points of the two wings and the skin of the neck, and tie the two ends of the string together. Leave both ends at least ^ yard in length, and draw off the needle. Bring the ends of string down, and tie them round the rump of the fowl. Then tie down the two legs into position, bringing them close together, and making the shanks stand up. Fasten the string off in a loop knot, so that it can easily be undone. Make a slit in the apron—that is, the skin at the vent end; push the rump through it, and thus close up the opening. 60.—TO BOAST A FOWIi. This may be done either before the fire or in the oven. In either case the breast of the fowl should be covered over with a piece of greased paper, to prevent it taking too high a colour. Keep the fowl well basted, either with butter, dripping, or bacon gravy, to prevent it tasting dry. If roasting in the oven, stand the fowl on a trivet64 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. in the roasting tin, so that the fat may run down from it. Never let a roast he in fat, as it makes it sodden and greasy. A chicken will take from hour to hour, a fowl hour longer. If the fowl is to be kept for the invalid only, it will be better to roast but half of it at one time. This can be done by cutting the fowl right through the middle lengthways, from head to tail. In this case no trussing would be required. The other half could the second day be either roasted, or boiled, or stewed. This is a much better plan than having to re-heat any of it. Twice cooked meats are not good for invalids. When the fowl is ready, lift it on to a hot dish, remove any string or paper, and pour away any grease there may be. If gravy is wished to serve with it, pour away all the fat from the roasting tin, and pour into it a little good stock or beef tea. Stir over the fire until it boils, rubbing down into it any browning from the tin, season nicely, and pour round the fowl. If liked thick, the gravy may be thickened by browning a little flour in the tin, before pouring in the stock; but for an invalid it is more wholesome left clear. Bread sauce may also be served with roast fowl and rolls of bacon (see recipe No. 6i). Time—\ hour to f for a chiclien ; | hour to 1.^ hours for a fowl. Probable cost, 23. 6d. to 3s. 6d.MEAT. 65 61.—BREAD SAUCE. Ingredients— I gill of milk. I oz. bread crumbs. A small slice of onion. 1 clove. I tablespoonful of cream, or a small piece of butter. Pepper and salt. Method— Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, and put into it the milk and the slice of onion, with the clove stuck in it. Let this stand by the side of the fire for about 10 minutes until the milk is seasoned. Then lift out the onion and clove, and sprinkle in the bread crumbs. Stir over the fire until boihng, and simmer 5 or 6 minutes. Add the cream or butter, and season to taste. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 62.—ROLLS OF BACON. Cut three or four thin slices of bacon (streaky bacon is the best), and remove from them all rind and rust. The slices must be very thin. Roll them up, and put them on a skewer. Cook them either on the roasting tin in the oven, or before the fire. 63.—TO CHOOSE AND TRUSS A FOWL FOR BOILING. In choosing a fowl for boiling, one with white legs is to be preferred.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 66 Draw the fowl according to directions given on page 60. TO TRUSS A FOWL FOR BOILING. The legs must be cut off at the knee joint. To do this, cut the skin round the leg at that part, crack the joint, and pull the piece of leg off, bringing the sinews with it. Put the first finger through the hole made for draw- ing the fowl, and loosen all the outside skin from the flesh of the thighs, and push the leg joints inside. Push the rump also inside, and draw the skin over, to close up the opening. Then commence trussing as for a roast fowl, except that, instead of tying the string round the rump, the string is put twice round the narrow end of the fowl, and tied very tightly, to prevent the legs slipping upwards and breaking through the skin. 64.—TO BOIL A FOWL. First rub the fowl over with a piece of cut lemon, and wrap it up in greased paper to keep it a good colour. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of freshly boiling water, or, better still, some white stock or meat boilings. Put the fowl into this with a little salt, and allow it to simmer slowly from i to i| hours, according to its age and size. Only half the fowl need be boiled at one time, but the same length of time will be required. The fowl must be cooked very slowly, or it will become hard and tasteless.67 MEAT. When sufficiently cooked, lift it out on to a hot dish, and remove the paper and string from it. Serve the fowl either with or without white sauce poured over it. (See page 31.) It may be garnished with little rolls of bacon. (See page 65.) The water the fowl is boiled in should not be thrown away, but should either be put into the stock pot or kept for making soup. Time—1 to 1^ bours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. 65.—STEWED CHICKEN. Ingredients— a chicken. I teaspoonful arrowroot. % pint water or white stock. I yolk of egg. I stick of celery. Pepper and salt. Metbod— Cut the chicken into neat joints. Remove as much of the skin as possible, and wipe the pieces with a damp cloth. Put them into a small Uned stewpan, with enough water or white stock to cover them—about half-a-pint. Add pepper and salt, and a small stick of celery well washed and brushed, and cut into shreds, or, if not in season, use celery salt. A small slice of onion may be used instead of celery, but it is not considered so wholesome for an invalid. Put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly from i to 2 hours, or until the meat is tender. When sufficiently cooked, lift the joints out on to a hot dish, and keep them warm.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 68 Put the arrowroot into a small basin, and break it with a little cold water. Add this to the stock in the pan, stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for 5 minutes. • Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolk of egg, but do not boil again. - The sauce should be thick enough to coat the pieces of chicken, but not too thick. One tablespoonful of cream may be used, instead of the yolk of egg, but both may be omitted. Rolls of bacon may be served along with the chicken (see page 65). Time—1 to 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. to Is. 8d. 66.—CHICKEN STEWED IN MILK. Ingredients— ^ a chicken. I gill new milk. A small blade of mace. I teaspoonful flour. White pepper and salt. Method— Cut the chicken into neat joints. Remove as much of the skin as possible, and wipe the pieces with a damp cloth. Put them into a jar with the milk, mace, pepper, and salt. , • J ^ Put a -lid on the jar, or tie a piece of white greased paper over it, and place it in a saucepan with enough "hot water to reach half way up. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently from 2 to 3 'hour?. Of uniil the chicken feds quite tender. If the water boils down, more must be added.MEAT. 69 When sufficiently cooked, lift out the pieces of chicken on to a plate, and keep them hot. Pour the milk into a saucepan, and remove the mace from it. Break the flour with a little cold milk in a basin, and add it to the milk in the pan. Stir over the fire until it boils and thickens, and add more seasoning if necessary. A small piece of butter or one tablespoonful of cream may be added to the sauce before serving. Pour it over the pieces of chicken, to coat them nicely. If the sauce is too thick, more milk should be added. This stew may also be cooked in a saucepan, but it would require very careful watching. If the milk were allowed to boil too fast, it would curdle. Small rolls of bacon (see page 65) may be served round the dish. Time—2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 4d. to Is. 8d. 67.—BROILED CHICKEN. Required— I small chicken. I oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Method— For broiling, the chicken must be young and tender, and only half need be cooked at a time. Prepare the chicken as for roasting. Split it down the back, laying it open. If only half has to be cooked, cut it right through into two pieces. Rub the chicken over with a littleCOOKING FOR INVALIDS. 70 of the butter to keep the skin from cracking, and season it with pepper and salt. Grease also the gridiron, and make it thoroughly hot. Lay the chicken on it with the cut side down to begin with, and broil either on the top or before a clear fire, for about half-an-hour. Turn occasionally, and do not put the gridiron too near the fire. When cooked, lift on to a very hot plate, and rub the rest of the butter over it. Serve with rolls of bacon (see page 65). Noie.—li an older fowl has to be broiled, it must be partially cooked first, either by boiling or roasting it for half-an-hour, and then proceed with as before. Time—J lionr. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 6S.—CHICKEN OB VEAL PANADA. Ingredients— % lb. breast of chicken, or X lb. fillet of veal. I teaspoonful cold water. I or 2 tablespoonfuls cream. A pinch of salt. Metbod— Wipe the meat, and cut it into small pieces, free from fat and skin. Put it into a cup or small basin, with a pinch of salt and the cold water. Tie over it a piece of greased white paper, and steam slowly from i to i hours. Then lift out, and put the contents of the basin into a mortar; pound well, and rub through a fine wire sieve.71 MEAT. Put the sieved mixture into a pan, add the cream, and heat through. This may be served on a piece of toast, or even cold. If considered too rich, use a little more water in the cooking, and omit the cream. Time—1 to \\ hours. Probable cost, veal 6d.; cbicken. Is. to Is. 6d. 69.—ROAST PIGEON OR PARTRIDGE. In choosing these birds for roasting, be careful to select those which are young. Older birds are better stewed. When young, the legs should be smooth and pliable, and the beaks easily broken. Pigeons may be hung for a day or two before being used, but must not be allowed to acquire any taint. Partridges should be hung until they are in good condition. The time depends very much upon the weather. In cold weather they may hang for a week or two, but in warmer weather four or five days may be found sufficient. Truss these birds in the same way as you would a chicken. A piece of bacon tied over the breast before roast- ing will impart a good flavour. Roast from 15 to 25 minutes, according to the age and size of the bird. Serve in the same way as Roast Chicken, page 63. Time—15 to 25 minutes. Probable cost, pigeon 9d. to Is. 3d.; partridge, 3s.72 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Time—1 to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. to la. 4d. 70.—BROILED PIGEON OB PARTRIDGE. See Broiled Chicken, page 69. They will require rather a shorter time to cook. 71.—STEWED PIGEON. Required— I pigeon. J!^ oz. butter. Yz pint stock. Yz teaspoonful flour. Pepper and salt. Yz slice toast. Method— Prepare and truss the pigeon as for roasting, and coat it over with the flour. Melt the butter in a small stewpan. When smoking hot, put in the pigeon, and brown it on all sides. Keep turning it over with a spoon, so that it may get a uniform brown colour all over. Then lift it on to a plate, and pour away all the grease that is left in the pan. Pour in the stock, and let it become warm over the fire, and then return the pigeon. Put the lid on the pan, and allow the bird to stew very gently from i to 2 hours, according to age and size. Sometimes a much longer time will be required. When about half cooked, turn the pigeon over on to its other side. When quite tender, lift it out on to a neat square of toast, and remove the trussing string from it. Reduce the gravy in the pan by allowing it to boil quickly without the lid, until there is just enough left for serving. Keep it well skimmed, that it may be quite free from grease, and then pour it round the pigeon. Garnish with a sprig of parsley or a little watercress.MEAT. Time—1 to 1^ hoars. Probable cost, la. to Is. 6d. 72.—BOILED RABBIT. Reanlred— I rabbit. I % teaspoonful salt. About I pint warm water. | }i pint white sauce. Blethod— First wash the rabbit thoroughly in tepid water; then dry it, and cut it into neat joints. Put these on in a saucepan, with cold water to cover them; bring to the boil, and then throw the water away. Rinse the joints of rabbit in cold water, to remove any scum that may have settled on them. This process blanches the rabbit, and takes away any unpleasantly strong flavour from it. Rinse out the saucepan; put the pieces of rabbit back into it, with the salt, and pint of warm water, or enough to cover the rabbit. Bring to the boil, and then simmer slowly from i to hours, or until tender. Remove any scum that may rise on the surface. Have some white sauce made in readiness, either entirely of milk, or partly with some of the water in which the rabbit was cooked (see page 31). Lift the joints of rabbit out on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. Note.—Part only of the rabbit need be cooked at one time. The other half might be stewed or made into rabbit soup. In the latter case, choose the best joints for stewing, and use the inferior ones for the soup. A small piece of celery or onion may be cooked with the rabbit. Small rolls of bacon (see page 65) may be served round the dish.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 74 73.—STEWED RABBIT. Ingredients— Yz a rabbit. i teaspoonful arrowroot. % pint white stock, i yolk of egg. I stick of celery. Pepper and salt. Method— Take some neat joints of rabbit. Wash them thoroughly, and let them lie in cold water and salt for half-an-hour, to draw out the blood. Then lift them out, dry them, and proceed in exactly the same way as for stewed chicken (see page 67). Time—1 to \\ hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. A small blade of mace. Method— Proceed in exactly the same way as for chicken stewed in milk (page 68), except that the joints of rabbit, after being well washed, must be blanched— that is, put on in a saucepan with cold water to cover them, brought to the boil, and the water poured away. Then rinse them in fresh cold water, and they are ready for putting in the jar with the milk, &:c. This keeps the stew a much whiter colour. Time—2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 6d. to Sd. 74.—RABBIT STEWED IN MILK. Ingredients— Yz a rabbit, I gill new milk. I teaspoonful flour. White pepper and saltMEAT. 75 Time—IJ to 2 bours. ProtoaWe cost, Is. to Is. 6d. 75.—STEWED SWEETBREAD Ingredients— I heart sweetbread. I gill of white stock. I tablespoonful cream. White pepper and salt. I teaspoonful arrowroot. Metbod— Soak the sweetbread in cold water from i to 2 hours. Then put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and let it boil for 5 minutes. Then lift it out into a basin of clean cold water to cool it. This preserves the colour of the sweetbread. Then remove from it all fat and skin, pulling them off with the fingers, and break the sweetbread into small pieces of an equal size. Put these pieces into a small lined stewpan with the stock, put the lid on the pan, and simmer very slowly until tender. When sufficiently cooked, lift the pieces of sweet- bread out, and place them on a neat square of toast on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Break the arrowroot in a small basin with a Uttle cold water, and add it to the stock in the pan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for five minutes, so as to thoroughly cook the arrowroot. Add the cream, and season to taste. A yolk of egg may be used instead of the cream, or the sauce may be left without either. Pour the sauce over the sweetbread, and serve very hot. Notes—ys:-CiSfi may be used instead of stock for stewing the sweetbread. A sweetbread must be cooked when very fresh. None of the internal meats, such as liver, kidneys, sweetbreads, &c., should be kept for any length of time. Lambs' sweetbreads are the most delicate, and can be cooked in the same way.76 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 76.—UINCED BEEF. Ingredients— yi lb. best rump steak. I Pepper and salt, gill of cold water. | Sippets of toast. Method— Choose the beef, and select a nice juicy piece. Either get the butcher to mince it for you, or remove all fat and skin from it, and put it through the mincing machine yourself. Do not buy for an invalid the ready prepared mince from a shop, as it has too much fat about it. Take a small lined stewpan; put the minced beef into it, with half the water and the seasoning. Put the pan on the stove, and pound the meat well with a spoon for a few minutes, until it loses its red appearance. Then add the rest of the water, and simmer gently by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes. The greatest care must be taken that the meat is not allowed to cook too quickly. Remove any grease that may rise on it, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish with some neat sippets of toasted or fried bread. Time—15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. 77.—TO PREPARE TRIPE. Tripe is the inner lining of the stomach of the ox and the cow. It is exceedingly nourishing and suitable for invalids, being as easy of digestion as chicken. The best kinds are those known as the " blanket" or77 ME A T. "double" (because it is folded with fat between the "honeycomb," so called from its cellular appear- ance, and the " monk's hood," which is much darker in colour). Tripe requires very careful cleaning and boiling before it can be used. First wash it well in several waters, and scrape it with a knife, pulling away any pieces of fat from it. Cut it into pieces, and put it into a clean sauce- pan, with cold water to cover it, and bring it to the boil. Pour this water away, and repeat this until the tripe has no unpleasant smell. Then rinse the saucepan well, put in the tripe with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, and cook slowly from lo to 12 hours. As the water boils away, more cold water must be added. If allowed to boil too quickly, the tripe will become hard. When sufficiently cooked, it ought to be so tender that it will pull easily in pieces when you try it with the fingers. Pour it out into a basin, and cover it with the liquor in which it was cooked, and this will prevent its be- coming hard and dry. It is then ready for making up in any way you may ■wish. In England you can buy the tripe all ready pre- pared from the butcher, but in Scotland it always requires this long slow boiling first. . The water in which tripe is boiled should never be thrown away, as it contains a great deal of nourish-78 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. ment. It is sometimes served to invalids as a jelly (See page 132.) 78.—STEWED TRIPE, Ingredients— Yz lb. tripe. ^ oz. flour. gill of milk. Pepper and salt. % gill of tripe liquor. Some sippets of toasted % oz. butter. bread. Metbod— Prepare the tripe according to directions given, and cut it into small neat pieces. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the flour, and mix smoothly together with a wooden spoon. Pour in the milk and tripe liquor (the water in which the tripe was cooked), and stir over the fire until boiling. Lay in the pieces of tripe, put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly by the side of the fire for about 15 minutes. Season to taste, and serve hot with neat little sippets of toast round the dish. Notes.—If liked, half an onion may be boiled with the tripe for the last half hour, then chopped up, and put into the stew. Or a stick of celery well washed and brushed may be used instead of onion. The yolk of an egg or a little cream may be stirred into the stew just before serving. Instead of using the milk given in the recipe, a Yz gill of puree, made from fresh tomatoes, being rubbed through a sieve, may be substituted. Time—15 to 20 minutes, after the tripe Is prepared. Probable cost, 5d to 7d.79 MEAT. 79.—BAKED TBIFE. Ingredients— yi lb. tripe. K gi^ of xmW, or yi gill I slice of bread and butter. of tripe liquor. I egg. Pepper and salt. Metbod— Prepare the tripe according to directions given (No. 77), and cut it into small neat pieces. Remove the crust from the bread and butter, and cut it into little squares. Grease out a small pie dish, and put the tripe and bread into this in alternate layers. The last layer should be bread with the buttered side up. Beat up the egg in a basin with a fork, until it is light and frothy; add to it the milk or tripe liquor, and season with pepper and salt. Strain this into the pie dish, then wipe round the edge of the dish with a cloth. Let the mixture stand for at least ten minutes, until the bread gets thoroughly soaked. Then bake in a moderate oven for about 15, minutes until nicely browned, and serve hot. Time—15 minutes to bake. Probable cost, 6d. 80.—POTTED CHICKEN OR GAME. Ingredients— X lb. cooked chicken or Pepper. game of any kind. Salt. 2 oz. fresh butter. A little powdered mace. Method— Take all the meat from the remains of cold roast fowl or game; remove all skin and gristle; then weigh it, and allow butter in the above proportions.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 8o Mince the meat very finely, either with a sharp knife, or by putting it twice through a mincing machine. Put it into a mortar, with the butter (previously melted), and season to taste. Pound well together, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Pack this into little pots, and, if it has to be kept for any time, run a little melted butter over the top of it. Notes.—Almost any meat can be potted in the same way. Chicken by itself is rather tasteless, and, when ham and tongue are allowed, a little piece of either used along with the chicken is a great improvement. And the same with the other meats— two different meats used together are always more tasty than one. If a little ham fat is used, less butter will be required. The seasonings given in above recipe are very simple, but of course more can be added to suit different tastes. As a rule, invalids object to anything that is too highly seasoned. This potted meat makes nice sandwiches for an invalid's luncheon or supper. A little of this spread on bread will often tempt them to eat. Spread between thin slices of brown or white bread and butter, or on toast or water biscuits. 81.—RAW BEEF SANDWICHES. Take 2 oz. of lean, juicy beef. Wipe it with a cloth, and with a sharp knife shred it down as finely as you would for beef tea. Pound this in a mortar, with any seasoning that may be allowed, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Spread between thin slices of bread, with a little butter on it, if it is allowed, and cut it into neat strips. These sandwiches are generally ordered for special cases.MEAT. 8i 82.—GRATED GAME SANDWICHES. These are made of game finely grated, and served between thin slices of bread and butter. Cut a slice of bread JS^^ of an inch thick, and toast it carefully on both sides (see recipe No. 238). Then cut off the crust, and split it open. Toast both pieces again on the inner sides. Spread one piece with potted meat, put the other on the top, press together, and cut into neat pieces. A little butter may be spread on the toast first, if wished. 83.—TOAST SANDWICHES.82 CHAPTER IV.—VEGETABLES. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. As a class, vegetables require rather vigorous digestive powers. Only a few recipes for cooking the most suitable for an invalid diet are given. All root vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, par- snips, Jerusalem artichokes, &c., are indigestible. The most digestible of the green vegetables are cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, spinach, boiled lettuce, sea-kale, celery, and tomatoes; and these are con- sidered wholesome if well cooked. Potatoes can only be allowed if they are well cooked, dry, and mealy, and this is rather a rarity. When vegetables are given, it must always be in moderation. They must always be fresh, and, to be in perfection, they should be cooked very soon after they are taken from the ground. They must always be well cooked, but not allowed to remain in the water after they are ready. Boiled rice and boiled macaroni are very good substitutes when other vegetables are not allowed. RECIPES. 81.—BOILED POTATOES. First wash and brush the potatoes well in cold water, to get rid of all the dirt, and throw them into a basin of clean cold water, ready for peeling.VEGETABLES. 83 With a potato knife peel them as thinly as possible, and with the point of the knife remove all the " eyes " or black specks, and keep the potatoes in water until they are wanted. Have them all of one size. If some are larger than others, cut them in two or three, to make them equal. Put them into a saucepan, just large enough to hold them, sprinkle with salt, and cover them with cold water. Potatoes should neither have too much room while boiling, nor too much water to toss them about. Put the lid on the pan, and bring them quickly to the boil, and then draw the pan to the side of the fire, and allow the water just to simmer gently until the potatoes are ready. The time will vary from 20 to 30 minutes, accord- ing to the age and kind of potatoes used. Let them cook until they can be pierced pretty easily with a fork or skewer. Then pour off every drop of water, holding the lid against the top of the saucepan, to keep the potatoes from falling out. Cover the potatoes over with a clean cloth or piece of crumpled kitchen paper. Put the lid half on the pan, and let them stand by the side of the fire for from 5 to 10 minutes longer, until they are quite dry and mealy. It is better not to boil the potatoes too soft to begin with; they will finish cooking afterwards in their own steam. When cooking potatoes for invalids, it is always safer to peel them; then any tainted or diseased pare can be seen and removed.84 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 85.—POTATO SNOW FLAKES. Pass well cooked floury potatoes through a wire sieve or potato masher, on to a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. If they have become in the least cold, heat in the oven, or in front of the fire for a minute or two. 86.—BOILED CAULIFLOWER. Select a young fresh cauliflower, with a firm close head. Trim ofi" the thick part of the stalk and nearly all the leaves, leaving on a few of the smaller ones to protect the flower. Split the stalk across in opposite directions, that the water may get in to cook it well. Wash it in cold water, and then let it lie in fresh cold water, with a teaspoonful of vinegar in it to draw out any insects. Have ready on the fire a deep saucepan, three- quarters full of freshly boiling water, add salt to it in the proportion of a teaspoonful to a quart of water, and plunge the cauliflower into this with the flower downwards. Let it boil quickly, with the lid off the saucepan, from 15 minutes to Yz hour, until the flower feels tender, but not broken up. While it boils, remove any scum that rises. If this were allowed to remain it would settle down on the flower and discolour it; also it is not clean. When ready, lift it out, drain it for a minute or two on a sieve or colander, and serve with or without a white sauce poured over it.VEGETABLES. 85 87.—TOMATOES. These are better baked, as they will then have more flavour than if boiled or stewed. Wipe them first, and remove the stalks. Put them on to a greased baking tin or fire-proof dish, with a little pepper and salt, and a piece of well greased kitchen paper over them. Bake in a moderate oven from 7 to lo minute until they feel soft without being broken. Lift them on to a clean hot dish, and serve. 88.—SPINACH. Spinach reduces so enormously in cooking, that I lb. will make a very small dish. Double the leaves lengthways, and strip off the stalks. Then wash the spinach thoroughly in several waters until it is quite free from grit. It is a vegetable which requires most particular washing, growing as it does so near the ground. It is very earthy, and takes much water to make it clean. Handle it as lightly as possible, as touching it too much with the hands causes the leaves to lose all their crispness. Put it into a saucepan, without any water except that which adheres to the leaves; sprinkle it with salt, and put the lid on the pan. Spinach is the only green vegetable which is cooked with the lid on the pan; but, as no water is used, were the lid left off, evaporation would be so great that the spinach would soon burn. The green of itCOOKING FOR INVALIDS. 86 is so intense that there is no fear of it discolouring unless it is cooked too long. Cook until it is quite tender, from 20 to 30 minutes, stirring frequently with a spoon. When ready, drain it well on a fine wire sieve, with a basin below it, and press out as much water as possible with the back of a wooden spoon. Then remove the basin, put a clean dry plate underneath the sieve, rub the spinach through the sieve on to this, and scrape the sieve well underneath. Return the spinach to a saucepan, with a small piece of butter, pepper, and salt if necessary. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if liked, a little cream; but do not make the spinach too moist. Arrange it in a neat pyramid on a hot dish, marking it up the sides with the back of a fork, and garnish round the base with small sippets of toast or fried bread. Spinach is a particularly wholesome vegetable, and very easy of digestion. A poached egg served on the top of it will make a nice dinner for an invalid. 89.—CELERY. Choose this fresh and crisp. If the outside leaves are coarse, do not use them for an invalid; they can be kept for flavouring other dishes. Cut away the root, separate the stalks, and choose some of the young ones from the centre. Wash and brush these well in cold water, and scrape off" any brown or discoloured parts with a knife.87 VEGETABLES. Cut the stalks into pieces of eq.ual length, tie them together with a piece of tape—string would cut through —and throw them into a basin of clean cold water. Let them lie in that for a short time before cooking. To cook, put them into a saucepan of freshly boiling water, or half milk and half water, with a little salt in it, and boil with the lid off" the saucepan until tender, for from 20 to 30 minutes. Drain well, remove the tape, and serve on a small piece of toast, which is not intended to be eaten, but is for the purpose of draining it more perfectly. Note.—Sea-kale may be cooked in the same way. 90.—BOILED LETTUCE. Required— I or 2 lettuces. I Pepper, ounce of butter. \ Salt. Method— Wash the lettuces well, and remove any discoloured leaves from the outside. Separate the other leaves, and let them lie in cold water for a short time. Then drain the water from them, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt in it. Boil quickly with the lid ofif the pan, for 20 minutes, or until tender. Remove any scum that rises. When ready, drain, and chop up the leaves on a board. Return to the saucepan, with a small piece of butter, pepper, and more salt if necessary. Re-heat, and serve. Time—20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. 3d. or 4d.88 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 91.—VKGETABLE MARROW. Peel the marrow thinly, cut it into quarters, and remove the seeds. If large, the pieces may be cut smaller, or half only need be cooked at one time. Throw the pieces into cold water as they are prepared. Cook in a saucepan of freshly boiling water, with salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Boil gently, with the lid off the pan, until tender. The time depends very much upon the age of the marrow, and will vary from 20 minutes to 5^ of an hour. The pieces when ready should look quite trans- parent. Lift them out, and drain well. Serve on a hot dish, and, if sauce is not allowed, put a small piece of cold butter on the pieces, and sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. 92.—PLAINLY BOILED RICE. Use Patna rice for the purpose. This is a long and slender grain, with pointed ends. Well wash it in several waters, until the last water that is poured off looks quite clean. Have ready on the fire a saucepan, three parts full of freshly boiling water; add salt to it in the pro- portion of one teaspoonful to the quart, and throw the rice into this. Boil quickly with the lid off, stirring it frequentlyVEGETABLES. 89 with a fork to prevent it sticking to the pan, and so that it may get well tossed about with the water. Cook from 10 to 13 minutes, or until the grains will rub down easily when one is tested between the finger and thumb. Then strain through a sieve or strainer, and finish cooking and drying it, either by putting back into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or leaving it on the sieve and standing the sieve on the rack above the fire, or on a plate in a moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly with a fork every now and then, to keep the grains separate. 93.—BICE STEWED IN STOCK. Ingredients— 2 oz. Patna or Carolina rice. I gill of good stock. 1 gill of cold water. Pepper and salt. Method— Wash the rice in several waters, and put it into a saucepan with the cold water. Let it cook slowly until it has absorbed all the water, stirring it occasionally. Then add the stock, and continue cooking until the rice is quite tender and the mixture of a thick consistency. Season to taste, and serve hot. Notes.—Rice cooked in this way contains^much more nourish- ment than when boiled. Cooked as in preceding recipe, there is a great waste of its nutritious qualities. The pulp of a fresh tomato, rubbed through a sieve, may, if liked, be added to the mixture. Or }i teaspoonful of curry powder, mixed first with a little cold water, may be added to give it flavour.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 90 94.—MACARONI. Break the macaroni into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan of freshly boiling water, with salt in it. Boil quickly with the lid off the pan, until it has thoroughly swelled and is quite tender. Stir it occasionally with a spoon, to prevent it stick- ing. The time will depend upon the kind of macaroni used. The large pipe will take about hour, the smaller twisted kind very much longer. Keep plenty of water over it, and, if it boils down, add more boiling water. When ready, drain, and this may either be served plain, along with meat, or it may be put back into the saucepan with enough stock to cover, and allowed to stew for half-an-hour longer. The pulp of a fresh tomato, rubbed through a sieve, may also be added to this.91 CHAPTER v.—PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. In the recipes given for baked milk puddings, the egg can always be omitted if desired. Eggs make a pudding more nourishing, but more difficult of digestion. The pudding is always lighter when the white of egg is separated from the yolk, and beaten up to a stiff froth. This introduces air into the pudding and causes it to rise. Care must be taken to thoroughly cook all the farinaceous or starchy foods. Unless the grains are well burst, they may prove most unwholesome. A pinch of salt is an improvement to all puddings. This is frequently used in the beating up of the white of egg. Before putting milk into a saucepan, always rinse it out with cold water, or grease the foot of it. This prevents the milk or milky substance sticking to it and burning. The flavourings used should always be of the simplest. The amount of sugar used is very much a matter of taste. In some cases both will have to be omitted. Among the most suitable flavourings are fresh lemon rind or juice, grated nutmeg, and ground cinnamon. When lemon rind is used, it must be grated off92 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. very thinly, and none of the white taken. It is a good plan to rub it into the sugar used in the pudding, as this helps to draw out the flavour. Orange rind may be used in the same way. A bay leaf, or a piece of vanilla pod, cooked with the pudding, and lifted out again, also makes a nice flavouring. Essences should, as a rule, be avoided. They are not considered thoroughly wholesome. RECIPES. 95.—WATER ARROWKOOT. Ingredients— ^ oz. arrowroot. I i teaspoonful of sugar, pint of cold water. | Metliod— Put the arrowroot into a small basin, add to it a tablespoonful of the cold water, and break it with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Then pour on the rest of the water, mix well, and pour into a small lined saucepan. Stir this over the fire until it boils and thickens, and then let it boil from 7 to lo minutes longer, to thoroughly cook the arrowroot. Sweeten to taste, and serve in a cup or small basin. A little nutmeg may be grated over the top of it, and wine or cream added as wished. Note.—It is not sufiScient to break the arrowroot with a little cold water, and then to pour boiling water on to it until it turns clear. This only half cooks the arrowroot, and might prove most injurious to the patient, besides being so sticky that it is most disagreeable to eat.PUDDINGS <S- SWEETS. 93 96.—ARROWROOT MADE WITH MILK. Ingredients— y2 oz. arrowroot. Yz pint milk. Yz teaspoonful sugar. Uetbod— Prepare in exactly the same way as water arrowroot, using the milk instead of the water. Be sure to cook it thoroughly, and serve in a cup or small basin. Cream or wine may be added to it. Time—10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 97.—ARROWROOT PUDDING. Ingredients— Yz oz. arrowroot. I I egg. Y pint milk. | I teaspoonful sugar. Metbod— Break the arrowroot with a little of the cold milk, and, when smooth, pour on the rest of the milk. Rinse out a small lined saucepan, and put the arrowroot, and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire with a wooden spoon, until it boils and thickens, and let it boil for fully 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar and any flavouring that may be wished. Separate the yolk from the white of the egg, putting the yolk into a cup or small basin, and the white on to a flat dinner plate. When the arrowroot has cooled a little, add the yolk to it and mix it in. Add a pinch of salt to the white, and with a broad- bladed knife beat it up to a stiff" froth.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Stir this lightly into the mixture, and pour into a greased pie dish, wiping round the edges of the dish. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen, and of a nice light brown colour. Lift out, sprinkle a little sugar over it, and serve as quickly as possible, as it soon falls if allowed to stand. l^ote.—Arrowroot ia itself is not at all nourishing. It is one of the purest forms of starch, obtained from the roots of a plant of the Arum tribe. It is valuable chiefly for the sake of the milk it is made with, or as a means of giving wine. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 08.—A CUP OF CORNFLOUR AND CORNFLOUR PUDDING. These are made in exactly the same way as Arrowroot with Milk and Arrowroot Pudding. 99.—SEMOLINA PUDDING. Ingredients- ^ oz. semolina. I egg. pint milk. I teaspoonful sugar. Metbod— Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, and put the semolina and milk into it. Stir these over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and boil for a few minutes, until the semohna swells and thickens. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar and any seasoning; and, when it has cooled a little, drop in the yolk of the egg, and mbc it well. Beat up the white on a plate with a knife, until it is a stiff froth, and then mix it lightly but thoroughly.PUDDINGS (Sr' SWEETS. 95 Pour the mixture into a small greased pie dish, wiping round the edges of the dish. Bake in a moderate oven for about lo minutes, until nicely browned. Lift out, sprinkle with sugar, and serve without delay. If there is no oven, this pudding can be finished off in the front of the fire. Note,—Semolina is a very fine grain, and yellow in appearance. It is made from the red wheats which grow on the banks of the Danube. This wheat is of the richest and most nourishing kind. Semolina is flesh-forming as well as force-producing, and is one of the most valuable of our farinaceous foods. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 100.—GROUND BICE PUDDING. Made in exactly the same way as semolina. 101—BAKED RICE. Ingredients— Yz oz. Carolina rice. A small piece of butter, Yz pint milk. or a few fine shreds 1 teaspoonful sugar. of suet, Metbod— Wash the rice well, and place it with the sugar at the foot of a greased pie dish. Pour on the milk, and break in some tiny pieces of butter, or a few very fine shreds of suet. Wipe round the edges of the pie dish, place it on a baking tin in a rather cool oven, and bake slowly for about two hours. During the first hour, and before a brown skin has formed on the top of the rice, stir up now and then with a spoon to prevent all the rice settUng at the foot of the pie dish. Time—2 hours. Probable cost, 2d.96 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Time—30 mlnntes. Probable cost, 3d. 102.—BICE PUDDING. Ingredients— 1 oz. whole rice. Yz pint milk. I teaspoonful sugar. Method— Well wash the rice (Carolina is the best) in several waters. Put it into a lined saucepan, with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil, and pour the water off. This helps to burst the rice more quickly ; the oily matter in the milk retards the process if it is poured on first. Then pour on the milk, and let the rice simmer by the side of the fire until it is thoroughly cooked, stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon. When ready, it should be perfectly soft, and of a thick consistency. Remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar and any flavouring, and, when slightly cooled, the yolk of egg, mixing all well together. Put the white on a flat dinner plate, add a pinch of salt to it, and, with a knife, beat it up to a stiff froth. Stir this lightly, but thoroughly, into the mixture, and pour all into a greased pie dish. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven, until nicely browned. When ready, lift out, and sprinkle with sugar. I egg. Flavouring (if wished).97 PUDDINGS 6r» SWEETS. 103.—RICE STEWED WITH MILK. Ingredleuts- I oz. whole rice, r teaspoonful sugar. % pint of milk. Method- Well wash the rice, and cook it in exactly the same way as in last recipe; allowing it to simmer until it has absorbed all the milk, and is of a thick pulpy consistency. Sweeten to taste, and serve with stewed fruit. Another way of stewing rice is to cook it in a jar. Wash the rice thoroughly, and put it into a clean jar with the milk and sugar, but with no water. Cover the jar with a lid or greased paper, and place it in a saucepan with boiling water to come half way up the sides. Allow it to steam at least one hour. This plan is a very convenient one, as the rice requires no attention; there is no fear of it burning, and it is kept clean. Other grains, such as sago, tapioca, and semolina, can be cooked in the same way. If fruit is being stewed to serve with it, it may be put into another jar, and steamed in the same sauce- pan. (See recipes Nos. 121-127.) Time—\ hour in a pan, 1 hour in a jar. Probable cost, l^d. GCOOKING FOR INVALIDS. 98 104.—BICE AND APPLE PUDDING. Stew some rice according to above recipe, and one or two apples, according to directions given in recipes Nos. 121, 122. Grease out a small pie dish, put the stewed apple at the foot of it, and the stewed rice on the top. Sprinkle over some rough sugar, and place on some pieces of butter. Bake in the oven about 10 minutes, until orown. Any other fruit can be used instead of apples. Probable cost, 4d. 105.—TAPIOCA PUDDING. Ingredients— ^ oz. tapioca. I teaspoonful sugar. Yz pint cold milk. I egg. Flavouring (if wished). Metbod— Put the tapioca into a basin, and pour the milk on to it. Cover the basin, and let the tapioca soak about an hour. Rinse out a small lined saucepan, turn the tapioca and milk into it, and stir over the fire until it comes to the boil. Then simmer slowly until it turns quite clear, stir- ring it every now and then. The time will vary from 20 to 30 minutes, according to the size of the tapioca used. If it becomes too thick whilst cooking, add a little more milk.99 PUDDINGS (S- SWEETS. When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and sweeten and flavour to taste. After it has cooled a little, stir in the yolk of egg, and lastly the white, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a small greased pie dish, wiping round the edges of the dish. Bake in a moderate oven, until nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve at once. Note.—Tapioca is prepared from the root of the cassava plant. It is sold in several different forms. The finest kind, known as crushed tapioca, can be cooked in the same way as semolina, without previous soaking. Time—I hour after soaking. Probable cost, 3d. Method— Prepare in the same way as tapioca ; the time for cooking it will depend upon the size of the sago used. There is large and small sago. In any case, it must be cooked until thoroughly soft before the egg is added. Note.—Sago is the pith of the tree known as the sago palm. Time—i hour to f hour after soaking. Frobable 106.—SAGO PUDDING. Ingredients— ^ oz. sago. % pint milk. I teaspoonful sugar. Flavouring (if wished). I egg. cost, 3d.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. loo Time-l^ hours. Protoatole cost, 3d. 107.—WATER TAPIOCA, OR SAGO, WITH FRUIT. A nice light pudding can be made by cooking tapioca or sago in water instead of in milk, and then adding fruit to it. Soak the grain in the water, and cook it until it turns quite clear. Do not make it too thick. Then add the fruit. The most suitable are apples, peeled and sliced thinly; rhubarb, cut into small pieces; picked rasp- berries, or red currants. After the fruit is added, cook for a short time longer, and sweeten to taste. Serve hot or cold, with milk or cream. 108.—BIRDS' NEST PUDDING. Ingredients— V oz. tapioca. I apple. ^ pint of cold water, i teaspoonful sugar. Metbod— Cook the tapioca as in preceding recipe, until it turns quite clear. Pare and core the apple, keeping it whole, placing it at the foot of a small greased pie dish. Fill up the hole with sugar, and pour the tapioca over it. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake m a moderate oven about one hour, until the apple feels quite soft. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve.PUDDINGS &' SWEETS. loi 109.—PEAKL BARLEY PUDDING, Ingredients— I oz. pearl barley. '/2 pint milk. I teaspoonful sugar. Flavouring (if wished). Method— Wash the barley, put it into a saucepan, and cover well with cold water. Bring this to the boil, pour the water off, and then rinse the barley thoroughly. This blanching makes the barley a better colour. Put it into a basin with the milic, cover it, and let it stand over night if possible. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, and put the barley and milk into it. Simmer over the fire until the barley is quite soft —from 5i to I hour. If not previously soaked, it will take very much longer. If it becomes too thick, add milk, and stir frequently. V/hen ready, remove from the fire, and sweeten and flavour to taste. When slightly cooled, add the yolk of the egg, and lastly the white beaten to a stiff froth, mixing it lightly but thoroughly in. Pour the mixture into a small greased pie dish, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. Time—1 to 1^ hours after soaking. Probable cost, 3d. 110.—GROUND BARLEY PUDDING. Make according to recipe No. 99 (Semolina Pud- ding), using ground barley instead of semolina.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 111.—BREAD CRUMB PUDDING. Ingradients — lyi, oz. bread crumbs. Yz pint milk. Y oz. butter. I teaspoonful sugar. A little grated lemon rind. Method— Make the bread crumbs by rubbing the white part of some rather stale bread through a wire sieve. Rinse out a small lined saucepan, and put into it the bread crumbs, with the butter, milk, and grated lemon rind. Stir over the fire until boiling, and simmer from 5 to 7 minutes, until the bread crumbs swell and thicken the milk. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar and yolk of egg, and mix them well in. Have the white of egg beaten up to a stiff froth on a plate, and stir it lightly in at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, wiping round the edges of the dish. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 12 minutes, until nicely browned. —Sponge cake or biscuit crumbs may be used instead of bread crumbs. If liked, a little jam or stewed fruit may be put at the foot ot the pie dish, before the bread crumb mixture is poured in. Time 20 minutes. Probatle cost, 3d. 112.-BAKED BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Ingredients— I or 2 slices of thin bread | Yt pi"^ '^"^'^ I teaspoonful sugar. A little grated nutmeg. and butter. I egg. Method— Cut some bread and butter rather thin, remove the103 PUDDINGS 6- SWEETS. crusts from it, and cut it into small pieces about an inch square. Lay these pieces into a small greased pie dish, making the dish just about half full. Beat up the egg in a small basin, and add to it the nutmeg, sugar, and milk. Mix well together, and pour over the bread in the pie dish. Wipe round the edges of the dish,, and allow the pudding to stand about 10 minutes, until the bread gets thoroughly saturated. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, until nicely browned on the top. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve. Note.—A. little marmalade may be spread on the bread as well as the butter, if wished. Time—\ hour. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 113.—BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. Ingredients — 2 yolks and I white Of egg. I i teaspoonfiil sugar. lyi gills of milk. 1 Flavouring. Method— Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin, with the sugar and any flavouring that is used, and beat them well together with a fork. Pour on the milk, and mix again. Strain the custard into a greased pie dish, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Stand the pie dish in a Yorkshire pudding tin, with some cold water round it. Bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, until firm to the touch, and nicely browned.I04 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. The water in the tin tempers the heat, and prevents the custard from curdh'ng. When cooking a larger custard, it is a good plan to keep adding a little cold water occasionally, so that the water in the tin may never get too hot. Do not shake the custard when it is put into the oven, or it will become perforated. A perfect custard should be the same throughout. When ready, lift out, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Stewed fruit is nice served along with it. The custard can be made richer by using yolks of eggs alone. Three yolks to i|- gills of milk. A thin slice of sponge cake, or a water biscuit, may be placed on the top of the custard before baking. This makes the pudding a little more substantial, and soaks up the watery part of the egg. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 114.—lOACARONI PUDDING. Ingredients— 2 oz. macaroni. i teaspoonful sugar. pint milk. A little grated lemon I egg. rind. Method— Break the macaroni into small pieces, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt in it, and boil quickly for 20 minutes. Then pour off the water, add the milk, and simmer for 20 minutes longer, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. Then remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, flavouring, and, lastly, the egg well beaten.PUDDINGS -St* sweets. 105 Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, and wipe round the edges of the dish with a cloth. Bake in a moderate oven, until nicely browned; then lift out, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. Note.—Some kinds of macaroni will take a much longer time to cook than above. The large piped macaroni takes the shortest time to cook. Whichever is used, it must be boiled until it swells to about double its original size, and is perfectly- soft. Time—1 to 2 hours. Probable cost, 3d. 115.—RUSK PXTODING. Ingredients— I or 2 rusks (unsweetened). | i egg. I gill of milk. I I teaspoonfiil of sugar. Metbod— Grease out a small pie dish, and half fill it with broken rusks. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork, add the sugar and milk to it, and beat again. Strain this over the rusk in the pie dish, covering it well. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and allow the pudding to stand for 10 minutes, until the rusk is thoroughly soaked. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, until firm and nicely browned. Serve hot, with a little cream if liked. This makes an exceedingly light and simple pudding. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, Z^d.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. io6 116.—STEAMED MILK PUDDINGS. Many of these milk puddings can be steamed instead of baked. The most suitable for steaming are—rice, semolina, tapioca, sago, custard, and bread and butter. For steaming, use rather less milk, keeping the mixture somewhat thicker, as steaming is a moist heat, and does not dry up the puddings like baking. An extra egg may also be used to help to bind the ingredients, but it is not necessary in a small pudding for one person. The basin or mould used for steaming must be greased out very thoroughly with clarified butter, which must be allowed to cool. The mixture being light, any carele'-,sness in this matter will cause the pudding to stick to the basin. Also see that the basin is quite dry before beginning to grease it. Steam very slowly, or the eggs will curdle. Let the pudding stand for a minute or two before turning out. 117. —BOILED BATTER PUDDING. Ingredients— 2 oz. flour. I A pinch of salt. J gill of milk. I teaspoonfu) sugar. I egg. A little grated lemon oz. butter. | rind. Metbod — Sieve the flour, sugar, and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the grated lemon rind. Make a well in the centre, and drop in the egg.107 PUDDINGS 5r= SWEETS. jVIix a little of the flour into it, with the back of a wooden spoon, and add half the milk gradually, working in the flour by degrees. Beat well until perfectly smooth, and the batter looks full of air-bubbles. The bitter it is beaten, the lighter it will be. Then add the rest of the niilk and the butter melted. Half the milk is kept back until the end, as it is easier to beat the batter when it is rather thick. Cover the batter over, and, if possible, allow it to stand for at least an hour before cooking it. Pour the batter into a well greased basin, and tie over it a scalded and floured pudding cloth. Plunge it into a saucepan of fast boiling water, and boil quickly for ^ of an hour. The water must completely cover the pudding, and if it boils down, more boiling water must be added. After lifting it from the pan, let it stand for a minute or two, then turn out on a hot dish, sprinkle with sugar, and serve immediately. A piece of cut lemon may be served with it. Time—f hour. Probable cost, 3d. 118.—PLAIN SOUFFLE. Ingredients— ^ oz. butter. i teaspoonful sugar. )4 oz. flour. A little grated lemon X gill of milk. rind. 2 eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice. Method- Take a small lined saucepan, and melt in it the butter, add the flour, and mix smoothly together with a wooden spoon.io8 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Then pour on the milk, and stir over the fire until the mixture boils and thickens. This is called a panada, and it is very important that it should be thoroughly cooked, otherwise it will not bind the souffle together. When ready, it should draw away from the sides of the pan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, lemon rind and juice, and the yolks, one at a time, beating each one well into the mixture. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in at the end. Pour the mixture into a basin or plain mould, that has been well greased with clarified butter, and do not more than half fill it. Lay a piece of greased paper over the top, and steam very gently for about 20 minutes. The souffld should be well risen, and firm to the touch. Let it stand for a minute or two, then turn it out, sprinkle with sugar, and serve immediately. Time—4 hour. Probable cost, 5d. 119.—PLAIN SUET PUDDING. I teaspoonful sugar. About I gill cold water. Ingredients— % lb. flour. 2 oz. suet. A pinch of salt. Method— Fill a deep saucepan three-quarters full with fresh cold water, putting a plate or saucer at the foot of it, and place it on the fire to boil before commencing to make the dumpling.PUDDINGS Sr' SWEETS. 109 Sieve the flour, salt, and sugar into a clean dry basin. Take a piece of dry suet, remove the skin, dip it in the flour, and, with a sharp knife, flake off it 2 oz., and put the rest aside. (Do not cut the suet into thick pieces and then chop, as that would never make a Ught pudding. The flakes should be so thin that they curl up just like shavings of wood.) Sprinkle some flour from the basin over the flaked suet, and with a sharp knife chop it lightly, until it is as fine as bread crumbs. Hold the point of the knife steady while chopping, working the handle up and down. Use as much of the measured flour as is required to prevent the suet sticking to the board and knife. When ready, put it into the basin, and with the fingers rub it lightly into the remaining flour. Then add enough cold water to form it into a ball, mixing with the hand, which will be found lighter than a spoon. If made too wet, it will not be light. As a rule, flour will take up half its weight in water; the better the flour the more water it will take up. Roll the ball of paste round the sides of the basin till it leaves them quite clean. Dip the centre of the pudding cloth into the pan of boiling water on the fire, press the lid down on it, and draw it through. Dredge the centre of the cloth with a little flour, shaking off what does not adhere; put the dumpling in the centre of it, and, gathering up the edges evenly all round, tie with string in a bow knot, that it may be easily undone, leaving room for the pudding to swell.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Plunge the pudding into the saucepan of boiling water, having enough to cover it, and boil quickly for two hours at least. The pudding must never be allowed to go off the boil, or it will be heavy. When ready, Uft it out, let it stand for a minute or two, then turn out, and serve on a hot dry plate. Notes.—Milk may be used instead of water for mixing. Sometimes an egg is added; then less water is required. Beef suet is richer than mutton, but not so digestible. A suet pudding, when well made and thoroughly cooked, is considered very wholesome. Time—2 hours. Probable cost, 3d. 120.-SWEET OMELET. Ingredients— 2 eggs. % oz. sugar. A little flavouring. I tablespoonful raspberry or strawberry jam. Method— Take a small frying or omelet pan, grease it out well with clarified butter, and let the butter set on it. Put the yolks of eggs, sugar, and flavouring into a medium sized basin, and work them well together with a wooden spoon, until of a creamy consistency and pale in the colour. Put the white on to a fiat dinner plate, add a pinch of salt to them, and, with a broad-bladed knife or spatula, beat them to a stiff froth. They should be so stiff that you can turn the plate upside down with- out their falling off. Then with an iron spoon stir them lightly in among the yolks and sugar.Ill PUDDINGS SWEETS. Keep turning the mixture over and over until all is thoroughly mixed. Set the omelet pan on the stove, and pour the mixture into it, scraping out the basin well. Hold the pan over the fire for a few seconds, then place it in a rather quick oven from 7 to lo minutes, until well risen, brown, and firm to the touch. When the omelet is cooking, have the jam put into a saucepan to heat, and a piece of paper laid out, and sprinkled with sugar. Turn the omelet out on to the sugared paper, put the jam in the centre, and fold over. Lift the omelet on to a hot plate with a folded paper or dish paper, and serve at once. Notes.—The jam is heated, because cold jam would make the omelet heavy. The paper is sugared to prevent the omelet sticking to it. If the omelet is allowed to stand after it is ready, it will get heavy. The jam may be omitted, and the omelet served plain, or some stewed fruit may be used instead of the jam. Always remember that the handle of the omelet pan is hot, and must be held with a cloth. Hands have sometimes been badly burned through forgetfulness of this. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 121.—STEWED APPLES (l). Ingredients— yi lb. apples. I I gill water. 2 oz. sugar. | Rind of ^ lemon. Method— Put the sugar, water, and thinly peeled lemon rind into a small lined stewpan.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 112 Bring them to the boil, and let them boil for 5 minutes, skimming if necessary. Wipe the apples, cut them in quarters, peel them, and remove the cores. Put them into the syrup of sugar and water, and let them cook slowly, until the pieces turn clear— from 10 to 15 minutes. Then lift them out, reduce the syrup by letting it boil down quickly with the lid off the pan, and, when there is a sufficient quantity for use, strain it over the apples. Time—15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 122.—STEWED APPLES (2). Ingredients— ^ lb. apples. I Yz gill of water. 2 oz. sugar. | Grated rind of yi. lemon. Method- Wipe the apples, and cut them into quarters. Then peel them, and remove the cores. Slice them down thinly into a small lined saucepan. Sprinkle over them the grated lemon rind, and add the sugar and water. Put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly, until soft— from 15 to 20 minutes—stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. Serve hot or cold. Notes.—This method of stewing apples reduces them to a pulp ; the pieces are not preserved whole, as in the preceding recipe. Less sugar may be used if the apples are found too sweet, and one or two cloves used for flavouring instead of the lemon jrind. Time—15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d.PUDDINGS SWEETS. "3 123.—INVALID FRUIT TART. Ingredients— A id. sponge cake, or yi. gill of milk. 2 finger biscuits. i large apple. J egg. 2 tablespoonfols water. I teaspoonful castor sugar, i dessertspoonful sugar. Method— Stew the apple with the water and sugar, according to recipe No. 122, and put it at the foot of a small greased pie dish. Cut the sponge cake or finger biscuits in slices, and place it on the top. Separate the yolk from the white of the egg. Beat up the yolk in a basin with the milk, and pour it over the sponge cake. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, and then bake in a moderate oven for about 10 minutes, until the custard is set. Have the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, add the teaspoonful of sugar to it, and pile it on the top of the pudding. Return to the oven until the white is set and very lightly brown; then lift out, and sprinkle with sugar. Note.—Any other stewed fruit may be used instead of apples. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. 124.—SWISS APPLE PUDDING. Ingredients— A little grated lemon rind. I slice of bread and butter. 2 apples. I gill water. I oz. sugar. method— Stew the apples with the water, sugar, and lemon rind, as in recipe No. 122, and let them be very juicy, adding more water if necessary. HCOOKING FOR INVALIDS. 114 Remove the crust from the bread and butter, and cut it into fingers. Grease out a small pie dish, and put half the stewed apple at the foot of it, then half the bread and butter, the rest of the apple, and bread again, with the buttered side uppermost. Sprinkle a little granulated sugar over it, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Bake in the oven from lo to 12 minutes, until the bread on the top gets brown and crisp. Note.—Bread crumbs may be used instead of bread and butter. In that case, some pieces of butter must be put on the top of the pudding before baking. Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 125.—BAKED APPLES. Take as many apples as you wish ; wipe them well with a damp cloth, and place them on a greased Yorkshire pudding tin. Sprinkle them first with a little water, and then with granulated sugar. Bake in a moderate oven until soft. The time will depend upon the kind of apple used, and vary from 20 minutes to i hour. When ready, lift them on to a clean dish, and sprinkle with a little sugar. 126.—APPLE CREAM. Ingredients— 2 baked apples. 1 A squeeze of lemon juice. yi, gill of double cream. I Sugar to taste. Method— Remove the pulp from two baked apples, and rub itPUDDINGS SWEETS. ii5 through a fine wire or hair sieve, scraping the sieve -srell underneath, and putting the pulp into a basin. Add to it the cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, and sweeten to taste with castor sugar. Beat this well for a few minutes, and serve in a small glass dish. Note.—C\x?XaxA may be used instead of cream. Double cream is cream which has stood on the milk for 24 hours. Probable cost, 4d. 127.—STEWED PRUNES. Ingredients— % lb. prunes. 2 oz. granulated sugar. Cold water. Rind of yi lemon. Method— Wash the prunes well, and put them into a basin with the sugar, and enough cold water to cover them. Cover the basin, and, if possible, let the prunes soak over night. If this cannot be done, let them soak as long as possible. They swell much better, and cook more quickly, when thoroughly soaked. Then put them into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar in which they have been soaked, and add the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly for about 20 minutes, or until the prunes are quite soft. When cooked sufficiently, the stones should slip out quite easily. Lift the prunes out on to a dish, and strain the juice over them to keep back the lemon rind. Sometimes a little port wine is added.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. ii6 Cinnamon or cloves may be used for flavouring instead of lemon rind. The prunes may be stewed in a jar instead of a saucepan. Stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep the water boiling round them until they are soft. They will take a longer time to cook in a jar. Time—20 minutes after soaking. Probable cost, Cd. to lOd. per lb. 128. —BLANCMANGE. Ingredients— r gill of milk. I gill of cream. }^ oz. isinglass. Method— Rinse out a small saucepan, and put into the mUk isinglass and thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Let this stand by the side of the fire until the isinglass is dissolved, and the milk well flavoured with the lemon. Stir occasionally, but do not let it boil. Add the sugar, and strain into a basin to keep back the lemon rind. Add the cream, and stir occasionally until nearly cold. If not stirred, the milk and cream will separate. Then pour into a small basin or mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and put aside in a cool place to set. Rind of ]/2 lemon. 1 oz. sugar.PUDDINGS SWEETS. Ii7 When wanted, turn out on a clean cold dish, and serve. Noie.—h. little black or red currant jelly may be served with blancmange. Time—\ hour. Probable cost, 6d. 129.—SAVOURY CUSTARD (Steamed). Ingredients— I egg. I Yz gill beef tea. Method— Break the egg into a small basin or cup, remove the tread or speck from it, and beat up with a fork. Add to it the beef tea, hot or cold, and more seasoning if necessary. Mix well together, and pour into a well greased cup or gallipot. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, and steam very gendy for 15 minutes, or until it is firm to the touch. If steamed too quickly, it will be full of little holes. Let it stand for a minute or two before turning out, and serve hot or cold. This may be baked instead of steamed, and a good meat stock used instead of beef tea. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 130.—BEEF TEA PUDDING. Ingredients— I gill of beef tea. j i tablespoonful bread I egg. I crumbs. Method— Beat up the egg with the beef tea, as in last recipe.Time—20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. ii8 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Put the bread crumbs into a small greased pie dish, and pour the beef tea and egg over them. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and let the pudding stand about lo minutes, that the bread crumbs may get thoroughly soaked. Then bake in a moderate oven for about lo minutes, or until firm to the touch. Serve hot.CHAPTER VI.—JELLIES—SWEET AND SAVOURY. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. Jellies are often very acceptable to invalids, being cooling and easily taken. They should never be hard and stiff, but should melt easily in the mouth and require no mastication. Many people think they must always go to the trouble of making jelly from a calf s foot for an invalid. In reality, this is no better than jelly made from gelatine, provided the gelatine is pure. Whether the jelly is made from stock, made from a foot, or from gelatine, these in themselves are of little or no value, but rather a vehicle for conveying other forms of nourishment. The French sheet of gelatine is to be recommended for making jellies. It dissolves easily, has little taste, and is very moderate in price. Isinglass, which is also used for stiffening jellies, is the purest form of gelatine. It is made from the bladder of the sturgeon, and is more expensive than gelatine. It is frequently given to invalids, a little being dissolved in any of their warm drinks. Great care and cleanliness are required in the making of jellies; but, if the following directions are closely followed, the jellies cannot fail to be clear, and it should not be found such a difficult process. ti9I20 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. RECIPES. 131.—CALF'S FOOT JELLY. This jelly will take two days to make; the stock must be made the first day, and the jelly finished the second. TO MAKE THE STOCK. Required— I ox foot or 2 I 4 or S pints cold calf s feet. | water. Method— Cut the foot or feet into four pieces, spUtting the hoof piece into two. Wash and scrape them well in a basin of warm water, cutting away any discoloured parts. Remove all marrow from the bones with a skewer, and cut away the fat from between the claws. Put the pieces into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, and bring them quickly to the boil. Pour the water away, rinse the pieces in clean cold water, and rinse out the saucepan. This is to blanch the pieces, and to make the stock a better colour. Return them to the saucepan, and cover again with cold water—from 4 to 5 pints. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours, until the stock is reduced to about half the quantity. Then strain through a hair sieve, or a cloth stretched over a colander, into a basin, and allow theJELLIES. 121 Stock to stand until it is quite cold, when it should be a stiff jelly. The pieces of foot may be put on again with cold water to cover them, and a second stock taken off as before. TO MAKE AND CLEAR THE JELLY. Proportions— I pint stock. I gill lemon juice. I gill sherry wine. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 3 cloves. 1%, inches stick of cinnamon. %. gill brandy. Rind of 2 lemons. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Method— First remove every particle of grease from the top of the stock. To do this, have a basin of boiling water and two metal spoons. Heat the spoons in the water, and use first one and then the other to skim off the fat. When as much as possible has been removed with the spoons, dip a cloth into boiling water, and wipe over the surface of the stock. Then make up the jelly in the above proportions. This will not use all the stock; but, unless a large quantity of jelly is wanted, it is better not to make too much at one time. The stock will keep for a few days in cool weather, and can be made up as required. Take a clean Uned saucepan, rinse it out with cold water, and put into it the stock, sugar, sherry wine, cloves, and cinnamon stick. Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind very thinly off two of them. Do not peel off any of the white part, as this would give the jelly a bitter taste.123 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Then roll the lemons on the table to soften them, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice. Strain this, and measure i gill, which will take from three to four lemons. Wash the eggs before breaking them, separate the yolks very carefully from the whites, and crush up the shells. Add the lemon rind and juice, and the whites and shells of eggs, to the other ingredients in the sauce- pan, and put the pan on the fire. The pan should not be more than half full, as the jelly is very apt to boil over. Take a wire whisk, and whisk the jelly over the fire until a good froth rises on it, and it is just beginning to boil. If it is whisked after it comes to the boil, the scum is driven down through it again. Watch the jelly carefully, and let it boil up as high as it will without boiling over. Then draw the pan gently to one side of the fire, where it will keep warm without simmering, and cover it over with a lid or plate. Let it stand for lo minutes, and then strain. Any kind of cloth will do for straining it through, so long as it is not too close in texture and is kept for the purpose. Cheese cloth is what is generally bought for jelly cloths. Tie the cloth to a jelly stand, or the four legs of a kitchen chair turned upside down, and let it sink in the middle so as to form a bag. Have ready two basins and some boiling water. Pour the water through the cloth into one of the basins, so as to heat it thoroughly, and then put the dry basin underneath, and pour away the water.123 JELLIES. Remove the lid from the saucepan, lift it carefully over without shaking it, and pour all the contents into the cloth. The jelly will not be clear the first time, as it gets shaken up in pouring through ; so change the basin, and pour what has run through back again into the cloth. Repeat this several times, until the jelly runs through perfectly clear. Cover the stand over with a piece of flannel or blanket, and let it stand until all the jelly has run through. The brandy is added at the end, as cooking would destroy its strength. If wished moulded, pour the jelly into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and put in a cool place till set. Notes.—\n hot weather, if the stock has not stiffened sufficiently, it will be necessary to add a little gelatine or isinglass. On the other hand, if it is too stiff, it must be diluted with a little water. The amount of sugar used can be altered to suit different tastes. Sometimes an invalid will ask for jelly without any, and this makes no difference in the actual making of it. The amount of wine used can also be altered. If less is used, more lemon juice should be added. A little orange juice may be used instead of some of the lemon juice, as a variety. The whites and shells are added in to clear the jelly. The white of egg, being almost pure albumen, hardens as it boils, and rises to the top in the form of scum, bringing up all impurities with it. The lime in the shells helps to clear the jelly, and the shells form a filter in the cloth to strain the jelly through. The jelly should be strained in a warm place, and out of a124 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. draught. Should it stiffen in the cloth before it has all run through, place a small basin or cup in the centre, and fill it with boiling water. If this fails to melt the jelly, it must be returned to the pan, whisked up again, and strained as before. Probable cost. Is. 6d. por pint. 132 —WINE JELLY FROM GELATINE. Ingredients— I oz. P'rench sheet gelatine. 3 gills cold water. yi. gill lemon juice. gill sherry wine. I tablespoonful brandy. 3 oz. loaf sugar. Rind of I lemon. 2 or 3 cloves. I inch of cinnamon sticlc. White and shell of i egg. Method— Take a clean lined saucepan, rinse it out with cold water, and put into it the water, gelatine, sugar, sherry, cinnamon, and cloves. Prepare the other ingredients as in last recipe, and put all into the pan together, keeping back the brandy to add at the last. Whisk over the fire, and proceed in exactly the same way as recipe No. 131. Probable cost, 9d.to Is. 133.—WHIPPED JELLY. Ke^uired— Some calf's foot or gelatine jelly. Method— Melt the jelly by standing the basin containing it in a saucepan of hot water. When quite dissolved, put it into a large basin, and.JELLIES, 135 with a whisk, whip it until cold, when it should be a firm froth and perfectly white. Pile up on a small glass dish, and serve. 131.—MILK JELLY. Required— ox foot, or I pint milk. I calf's foot. I bay leaf. 2 oz. sugar. Rind of ^ lemon. Method— Prepare and blanch the foot in the same way as for Calfs Foot Jelly, page 120. Put the pieces into a jar with the other ingredients, and steam from 5 to 6 hours until the meat will slip easily off the bones. Strain, and set aside till cold. Remove any grease from the top, and it is ready to serve. Note.—The pieces of foot may either be rinsed and put into the stockpot, or they may be used for a dish of stewed cow heel. Time—5 to 6 hours. Probable cost, 7d. 135.—PORT WINS JELLY. Ingredients— 3 gills port wine. i inch cinnamon stick. I gill water. Rind and juice of i lemon. 1 tablespoonful red currant i oz. French sheet gelatine, jelly. or % oz. isinglass. 2 oz. loaf sugar. Method— Take a clean lined saucepan, rinse it out with cold water, and put into it the port wine (a pint bottle126 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. holds three gills) water, gelatine or isinglass, sugar, red currant jelly, and cinnamon stick. Let these soak while the lemon is prepared. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and peel the rind of it very thinly. Then roll it on the table to soften it, cut it in two, and squeeze out the juice. Strain the juice into the saucepan beside the other ingredients, and add the lemon rind. Stir all these over the fire until dissolved, then draw the pan to one side, and simmer very slowly for about ID minutes. Strain through a piece of muslin that has been rinsed in hot water, and set aside till cold. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 136.—APPLE JELLY. Ingredients— I lb. apples. 3 oz. sugar. "iYz gills cold water. Grated rind and juice of yi a lemon. aXethod— Wipe the apples with a damp cloth, cut them in quarters, peel, and take out the cores. Slice them down thinly, and put them into a small lined stewpan, with the i Yz gills of water, sugar, and grated lemon rind. Put the lid on the pan, and allow them to simmer slowly until reduced to a pulp; then rub through a hair sieve into a basin. oz. French sheet gela- tine, or X 02. isin- glass. Yz gill cold water.JELLIES. Dissolve the gelatine or isinglass in the ^ gill of cold water, and strain it into the apple pulp. Stir until nearly cold, pour into a wetted mould or basin, and put in a cool place until set. Turn out, and serve cold. A little cream may be served with it. Time—^ hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 137.—ORANGE JELLY. Ingredients— I gill orange juice. I gill cold water. Rind of I orange. Juice of I lemon. 1% oz. loaf sugar. Yz oz. French sheet gela- tine, or X oz. isin- glass. Method- Wipe one of the oranges, and peel the rind ofif it as thinly as possible. Put this into a small lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and gelatine or isinglass. Let these simmer over the fire for lo minutes, then skim, and strain into a basin. Strain the orange and lemon juice into this, and pour into a wetted mould or basin. Put into a cool place until set, then turn out, and serve. Some plain or whipped cream may be served with it. A'b/e.—This jelly may be whipped, see recipe No. 133. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 128 138.—COFFEE JELLY. Ingredients— ^ pint clear strong gelatine, or % oz. coffee. isinglass. 14. oz. French sheet ^ oz. loaf sugar. Method— The coffee must be very clear and strong (see Coffee, No. i8i). Put it into a small lined sauce- pan, with the gelatine or isinglass, and the sugar. Simmer these over the fire for about lo minutes, until dissolved. Then strain into a basin, and pour into a wetted mould to set. When firm, turn out, and serve with cream. ^ote. —The coftee may be made with milk, and this will give the jelly a more mellow flavour. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 139.—TEA JELLY. Made in the same way as Coffee Jelly (No. 138), and served with cream. 140.—FARINACEOUS JELLY. Ingredients— I oz. pearl barley. 2 pints cold water. I oz. whole rice. i oz. sugar. I oz. small sago. Rind and juice of }4 a lemon. Method— ■ Wash and blanch the barley, by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, pour the water off, and then rinse it.129 JELLIES. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the barley to it, with the rice and sago both well washed. Pour on the cold water, and add the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, skimming when necessary; then strain, and add the lemon juice and sugar. When cold, this will be a jelly, and very nourishing and refreshing. It can also be served hot as a drink. Time—2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 2d. Method— Toast the bread on both sides until dry and brown. Cut off the crusts, and break it up into small pieces. Put it into a small lined saucepan with the cold water, and let it simmer over the fire, about ij^ hours, until it becomes a jelly, adding more water if necessary. When cooked sufficiently, stir in a tablespoonful of cream or milk, and sweeten and flavour to taste with a lemon or nutmeg. Serve hot or cold. Note.—A yolk of egg may be used instead of milk or cream, and wine or brandy added if required. 141.—BREAD JELLY. Ingredients— I slice of bread. ^ pint cold water. I tablespoonful sugar. I teaspoonful cream. Time—IJ hours. Probable cost, 2d. II30 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. MEAT JELLIES. 112.—CHICKEN JELLY. A few parsley stalks. A pinch of salt. Required— I chicken, or part of one. Cold water. I bay leaf. Method— If the chicken is not drawn, see directions on page 60. The inferior joints will do very well for chicken jelly; the breast can be used for some other purpose. Cut the chicken into joints, and cut all the flesh from the bones. Wash any part that does not look perfectly clean, and keep back any fat. Cut the flesh into small pieces, and chop up the bones. The neck and gizzard may also be v/ashed, and used in the jelly, but not the liver, as it is too dark in colour. Put all into a lined saucepan with a little salt, and cover with cold water; bring to the boil, and skim well. Add the bay leaf and parsley stalks, and simmer slowly for from 3 to 4 hours. Keep it well skimmed, and add more water if it boils down too much. When ready, strain through a hair sieve, and stand till cold. Remove all fat from the top, first with a spoon dipped in hot water, and then with a cloth dipped in boiling water. This may now be served as it is, or it may be cleared.JELLIES. To clear the stock, put it into a clean lined sauce- pan, with the white of egg, and the shell washed and crushed up. Put the pan on the fire, and finish in exactly the same way as Calfs Foot Jelly, page 122. Notes.—Vlote. vegetable flavourings can be used in the making of the jelly if wished. Clearing the jelly with white of egg, while making it more attractive looking, rather impoverishes it. Instead of white of egg, % lb. lean, juicy beef may be shred down and used in its place, in exactly the same way. Ttie beef contains albumen, which clears on the same prin- ciple as white of egg. It will, of course, make the jelly a little stronger in flavour. Time—3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 8d. per glU. 143.—BEEF TEA JELLY. Ingredients— % pint beef tea. | % oz. isinglass. Metbod— Put the beef tea and isinglass into a saucepan together, and stir them over the fire until warm. Then stand the pan by the side of the fire until the isinglass is quite dissolved. Pour into a small basin that has been wet out with cold water, and set aside till firm. Time—10 minutes. Probabls cost, 8d. or 9d. 144.—RESTORATIVE JELLY. Ingredients— I lb. shin of beef. I calf's foot or one piece of ox foot. I lb. knuckle of veal. 3 pints cold water. A pinch of salt. Method— Prepare the ox or calfs foot in the same way as for calfs foot jelly.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Wipe both pieces of meat with a damp cloth, and cut the meat into small pieces away from the bone, keeping back all marrow and fat. Put the meat, bones, and piece of ox or calfs foot into a lined saucepan, with a little salt and the cold water. Bring to the boil, and skim well. Simmer slowly from 5 to 6 hours, until reduced to about half the quantity. Strain through a hair sieve into a basin, and stand till cold. Carefully remove all fat from the top, and the jelly is ready for serving. Notes.—T\as, may also be warmed, and served hot as a soup. Wine may be added to the stock when it is being strained. Time—5 to 6 hoiirs. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 145.—OTHER MEAT JELLIES. Many of the recipes given for soups will make jellies when cold, such as Restorative Soup, Game Soup, &c. 146.—TBIPE JELLY. This is the liquor in which tripe has been cooked, nicely seasoned and served cold. (See recipe No. 77, page 78.)CHAPTER VII.—DRINKS, INCLUDING TEA, COFFEE, &c. 147.—OATMEAL GBUEL. Ingredients— I tablespoonful fine oat- ; Yz pint cold water, meal. I Salt or sugar. Method— Put the oatmeal into a clean basin, and pour the water over it. Cover the basin over to keep the dust from it, and let it stand for at least half-an-hour, stirring occasionally. Then strain the liquid off into a small lined sauce- pan, and press the oatmeal as dry as possible. Stir over the fire until boiling, and let it boil from 5 to 7 minutes. The thickness of the gruel is very much a matter of taste; if too thick, more water can be added; or if too thin, use more oatmeaL Season to taste with salt or sugar. A small piece of butter may be added, and wine or brandy if required. Serve very hot Note.—Oatmeal powder can be used instead of oatmeal. The gruel would then be made according to directions g^ven for barley meal gruel. Time—10 minutes after soaking. Probable cost, Id. '33134 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 148.—MILK GRUEL. Ingredients— I tablespoonful fine oat- meal. % pint milk. Salt or sugar. Blethod— Prepare in exactly the same way as last recipe, using the milk in place of the water. Season to taste with salt or sugar. A small piece of butter may be added, and wine or brandy as required. Serve very hot. Note.—An egg may be beaten up and added if wished ; or it may be served with cream. Time—10 minutes after soaking. Probable cost, l^d. I gill beef tea. Salt. 149.—BEEF TEA GRUEL. Ingredients— I tablespoonful fine oat- meal. I gill of cold water or milk. Method— Make the gruel with the oatmeal and water, or milk, as above. When cooked, add to it the beef tea, and stir until quite hot, but do not boil again. Season to taste, and serve hot. Time—10 minutes after soaking. Probable cost, 4d. 150.—BARLEY MEAL GRUEL. Ingredients— I dessertspoonful barley meal. X pint milk. A small piece of butter. Sugar, or salt. Method— Mix the milk very gradually with the meal stirring until quite smooth.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 135 Take a small lined saucepan, rinse it out with cold water, and pour the barley and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire until boiling, and boil from 5 to 7 minutes. Season to taste with salt or sugar, and stir in a small piece of butter at the end. Serve very hot. Notes.—T^i^ gruel may be .made thicker or thinner according to taste, and a little cream may be served with it. Water may be used instead of milk, and wine or brandy added as required. A very good drink can be made by making the gruel with water, rather thick ; then thinning it down with port wine. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Barley gruel makes a change from the ordinary oatmeal gruel, and is very nourishing. Time—10 minutes. Probable, cost 2d. 161.—THICK BARLEY WATER. Ingredients— 2 oz. pearl barley. I Rind and juice of % lemon. 2 pints cold water. | Sugar to taste. Method— Wash the barley well, and put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring this water to the boil, and then pour it away. Rinse the barley with cold water, and rinse out the saucepan. (This is to blanch the barley, and if it were not done, the barley water would have a dark- coloured, unpleasant appearance.) Return the barley to the saucepan with the 2 pints of cold water, and the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon.136 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Simmer slowly for 2 hours, then strain, sweeten to taste, and strain in the lemon juice. This can be served either hot or cold. Notes.—Barley water can be made without the lemon, and with milk added to it after straining. It is a very nourishing drink, and, from its exceedingly pure taste, is a favourite with most invalids. The barley may be used a second time, more water being added to it, and this is even better. Time—2 bours. Probable cost, l^d. 152.—CIiEAR BARLEY WATER. Ingredients— 2 oz. pearl barley. I pint boiling water. Rind of % lemon. Sugar to taste. Method— Wash the barley well, and put it into a jug with the thinly peeled rind of a lemon, and a little sugar. Have the water freshly boiling, and pour it on the barley. Cover the jug, and let stand till cold. Strain, and it is ready for use. Probable cost, Id. 153.—RICE WATER. Ingredients— inch cinnamon stick. I oz. Carolina rice. I pint cold water. Method— Well wash the rice, and put it into a small lined pan with the water and cinnamon stick.i37 DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. Simmer it slowly for an hour, then strain, and it is ready for use. It may be served hot or cold. If cold, stir it oc- casionally while cooling, or it will jelly. A little sugar may be added, if allowed. Notes.—Carolina rice is the best for the purpose, as it contains most starch. A tablespoonfiil of sherry or port may be mixed with the rice water, if the patient has need of stimulant. A piece of ginger may be boiled with the rice water instead of cinnamon stick. Time—1 bour. Probable cost. Id. 151.—APPLE WATEK. Zngredlents— 2 large apples. I 3 or 4 lumps of sugar. Rind and juice of lemon. 1 I pint boiling water. Metbod— Select juicy apples with a sharp flavour, and wash them well, but do not peel them. Cut them down in thin slices, and put them into a jug. Add to them the sugar, and the thinly peeled rind and juice of half a lemon. Have the water freshly boiling, and pour it over them. Cover, and let stand till cold. Then strain, and it is ready for serving. Probable cost, 2d. 155.—BOILED APPLE WATER. Ingredients— 2 large apples. I Rind of ^ a lemon. 1 pint cold water. | i oz. sugar. Metbod— Wash the apples, and cut them down in thin slices without peeling them. »138 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Cut them into a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Boil gently for an hour, until the fruit is soft. Then strain through muslin, and cover until cold. Time—1 hour. Probable cost. 2d. 156.—TOAST WATEK. Ingredients— I slice of stale bread or I i pint cold water, the crust of bread. | Metbod— The crust of bread is to be preferred for this, as it does not turn so soon sour. Toast it well on both sides until dry, and nicely browned without being burnt. Have the water, which must be very fresh and cold, in a jug; break the toast into pieces, and put it into it. (If the water were poured on to the toast it would be thick and not so clear.) Cover the jug, and let the toast remain soaking until the water is the colour of sherry wine. Then strain, and serve cold. Note.—This makes a very refreshing drink. A little lemon juice may be added. 157.—PRUNE DRINK. Ingredients— I yi oz. prunes. I ^ oz. sugar. I pint cold water. | method— Wash the prunes, and cut them in halves. If time permits, soak them for an hour in the pint of cold water.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 139 Then put them into a Uned saucepan with the water and sugar, and simmer slowly for an hour. Strain, and let stand till cold. Noie.—This makes a refreshing and excellent drink. A little lemon juice or port wine may be added. Time—1 hoar. Probable cost, 2d. 1S8.—RICE MILK. Ingredients— j4t oz. rice. I Sugar to taste. % pint milk. | Method— Wash the rice well, and put it into a small lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water. Pour on the milk, and simmer slowly for an hour until the rice is reduced to a pulp. Be careful the milk does not boil over, and stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Sweeten to taste, and serve hot or cold. Note.—Tapioca or sago may be used in the same way. The crushed tapioca is the best for the purpose. The larger kind, and also sago, would require soaking first. Time—1 hour. Probable cost, l|d. 169.—THICK MILK (l). Ingredients— % oz. flour. I Sugar to taste. }4 pint milk. | Method— Put the flour into a basin, and add i tablespoonful of the milk to it.I40 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Stir with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, and then pour on the rest of the milk gradually, mix- ing well. Pour this into a small lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for lo minutes, so as to thoroughly cook the flour, and sweeten to taste. Serve hot, adding wine if required. Time—12 minutes. Probable cost, l|d. 160.—THICK MILK (2). Ingredients— oz. prepared flour. % pint milk. Sugar to taste. Metbod— To prepare the flour, tie some tightly in a pudding cloth, and boil for about 4 hours. It will then be a hard ball. Open it out, and grate down as much as is required, at one time. Then proceed as in last recipe. Time—12 minutes. Probable cost, l^d. 161.—STTET AND MILK. Ingredients— pint of new milk. | From >^ to i oz. mutton suet. . Method— Shred the suet down very finely, and tie it loosely in a piece of muslin. Rinse out a small lined saucepan, and put the milk and suet into it.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 141 Probable cost, 2d. to 3d. Simmer slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, then strain, and serve warm. Noie.—A small piece of cinnamon stick, or a few grains of nutmeg, may be served with the milk. It should be served with a piece of dry toast or biscuit. Time—15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 162.—LEMONADE. Ingredients— 2 lemons. | i pint boiling water. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. | Metbod— Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind off one of them as thinly as possible. Then roll them on the table to soften them, cut them in two, and squeeze out the juice. (A wooden spoon pressed into the fruit is a capital lemon squeezer.) Strain the juice into a jug, and put the rind and sugar in along with it. Have the water freshly boiling, and pour it on. Cover the jug closely, that none of the strength may escape, and let stand till cold. Then strain. Notes.—This may be made with less water, and may then have soda or potash water added to it just before serving. The quantity of sugar used must depend upon taste. Lemonade is a beverage which is more popular with invalids than almost any other. Sometimes a small slice from the middle of a lemon is served on the top of the lemonade. It must hot be forgotten that the minutest portion of white pith, and also the pips, if allowed to remain, will make the lemonade bitter. Lemonade may be made with barley or rice water, instead of plain water.142 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Probable cost, 3d. 163. —ORANGEADS. Ingredients— 2 oranges. The juice of i lemon. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. I pint boiling water. Method— Wipe the oranges with a damp cloth, and peel the rind off one of them very thinly. Put this into a jug with the sugar, and strain in the juice from both oranges and the lemon. Have the water freshly boiled, and pour it on. Cover closely until cold, and then strain. This makes a very cooling and refreshing drink. The juice of the lemon is required to give the drink piquancy. I tablespoonful sugar. Method— Strain the lemon juice, and add to it the sherry and sugar. Pour on the boiling water, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add the milk cold, and stir until the milk curdles. Strain through a piece of muslin that has been rinsed through warm water, and serve warm or Probable cost, 3d. 161.—MILK LEMONADE. Ingredients— Juice of I lemon. I tablespoonful sherry. I gill boiling water. I gill of millc. cold.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 143 Probable cost, 3d. to Sd. 165.—WINE WHEY. Ingredients— I gill of milk. I I lump of sugar. }4, gill sherry wine. | Metbod— Rinse out a small saucepan, put into it the milk and sugar, and bring them to the boil. When boiling, pour in the sherry wine, and this will curdle the milk. Let it boil up again, and strain through a piece of muslin. Note. —This makes a very soothing drink, and one that is vei-y easily digested. The curd, which is the heaviest part of the milk, is strained from it. Time—5 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 166.—LEMON WHEY. Ingredients— % pint milk. I Sugar to taste. I tablespoonful lemon juice. | Method— Prepare in the same way as above, using the lemon juice instead of the sherry wine. Time—5 minutes. Probable cost, IJd. 167.—CREAM WHEY. This can be made according to either of the two last recipes. Add one or two tablespoonfuls of cream, after straining. This whey will have the richness of the milk with- out the casein.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 144 168.—TREACLE FOSSET. Ingredients— I gill of milk. I I tablespoonful treacle. Metbod— Rinse out a small saucepan, put the milk into it, and bring it to the boil. Add the treacle, and boil up again. The acid of the treacle will curdle the milk. Strain through a piece of muslin, and serve hot for a cold. Time—5 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 169.—LINSEED TEA. Ingredients— I tablespoonful whole linseed. 1 pint boiling water. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. Rind and juice of >^ a lemon. Metbod— Put the linseed into a jug with the sugar, the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon, and the juice. Have the water freshly boiled, and pour it over. Cover the jug, let it stand till cold, and then strain. jV(,/i.j-._If this is wished thicker, it may be put on with cold water in the same proportions, and slowly boiled for 20 minutes. Add the lemon juice after straining. Do not bruise the linseed, or it will have a bitter taste. If the drink is used for a bad cold, a small piece of liquorice root or sugar candy may be soaked or boiled with it, or half a tablespoonful of honey may be used. Probable cost, l^d.'DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 145 170.—BRAN TEA. Ingredients— \]A tablespoonfuls bran. I A small piece of butter. I pint cold water. | tablespoonful honey. Hetbod— Put the bran into a saucepan with the cold water, bring to the boil, and simmer for 10 minutes. Be careful it does not boil over. Then add the honey, and, when dissolved strain. The butter may be added at the last, or it may be omitted. This recipe is a remedy for hoarseness. Time—15 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 171.—SAGO AND PORT WINE. Ingredients— I dessertspoonfal sago. I r glass of port wine, pint cold water. | Sutjar to taste. Blethod— Wash the sago, and soak it for an hour in the cold water Then put into a saucepan, and simmer slowly for an hour, until it is a clear jelly. If too thick add more water. ' Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the port wme, but do not boil again. Sweeten to taste, and serve. ^./..-Tapioca may be used in the same way, instead of sago Time-li hours. Probable cost, 6d K146 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 172.—EGG DRINK. Ingredients— I egg. 1 I tablespoonful sherry wine. I teaspoonful sugar. 1 i teacupful of milk. Metbod— Break the egg, and remove the speck. Add to it the wine and sugar, and beat together with a fork, but do not make them too frothy. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and, when almost boiling, pour it on to the egg, &c., stirring all the time. Serve hot. iVbfe.—The wine may be omitted. The yolk of egg only may be used, and soda water instead of milk. Probable cost, 3d. 173.—EGG FLIP. Ingredients— I teacupful of milk. I I white of egg. I teaspoonful of sugar. I Method— Boil the milk, and beat up the white of egg pretty stiffly. Pour the boiling milk over the white of egg, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, and serve. Sometimes a little pepper is added. Time—5 minutes. Probable cost, lid.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 174.—EGG WITH BKANDY AND CREAM. Ingredients— I white of egg. I tablespoonful of brandy. I tablespoonful of cream. Sugar to taste. Method— Beat up the white of egg pretty stiffly. Add to it the brandy and cream, with a Httle sugar, if wished. Mix very thoroughly, and serve. Probable cost, 3d. 175.—TO BOIL MILK. In order to boil a quantity of milk to keep over night, or for several hours, the milk must be quite fresh. Boil it either in a lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with water, or in a milk can put into a saucepan of boiling water. The fire must be clear to avoid smoking. The milk must not be brought to the boil too slowly, or it will curdle; for the same reason it must only boil for a few minutes after it comes to the boil. Boiled milk, that has been kept for several hours, will not bear being boiled up again, but it can be heated almost to boiling point. 176.—KOUMISS. Ingredients—(For each pint bottle.) 3 gills new milk | Gei-man yeast, size of a I small lump of sugar. | small nut. Method— The bottles must be very clean, and the milk as new as possible.148 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Fill the bottles nearly full, and put into each the small piece of yeast and the lump of sugar. Cork them tightly with new corks, and fasten them down very securely with wire. The corks should be soaked for some time before being used. Keep the bottles lying on their sides in a warm place, such as a dining-room cupboard, and shake them two or three times a day, for from four to six days. In cold weather koumiss will take longer to make than in warm. Note.—Be careful in opening the bottle, or half the contents may be lost. It is very effervescent. Koumiss is a very refreshing drink, and more easily digested than ordinary milk. Time—4 to 6 days. Probable cost, 3d. a bottle. 177.—TKA.. The first thing is to choose good tea. It is im- possible to make good tea from an inferior material. Good tea at a fair price will be found the cheapest in the end. It should be free from dust and stalks, and the leaves should be of about the same size, and well twisted. One of the most conspicuous tests of its goodness is its fragrance. The water used for making tea must be freshly boiled. It must never be drawn from a hot-water pipe or kitchen boiler. Water that has boiled for any length of time gets flat and insipid from the loss of its gases, and never makes good tea. Be sure that the water really is boiling; it should be bubbling all over, and steam coming out of the spout and from under the lid.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &^c. The kettle used for boiling the water must be clean both inside and out. Some people never think of washing their kettles, and will leave them untouched for months. The soot which collects on the bottom of the outside should frequently be scraped off, as it is a non-conductor of heat. If left on, the water will take much longer to boil than it need do. The inside of the kettle should be washed out occasionally with hot water and soda, and then well rinsed. It is just a question which kind of teapot is the best to use. In some ways one made of earthenware is to be preferred, as it can be so easily cleaned, but if a metal or silver one is kept in good condition, it certainly keeps the heat longer. The habit of leaving tea-leaves in a pot for any length of time after using it is a very bad one. The teapot ought to be thoroughly washed out, well dried, and left with the lid open, or off to air. TO MAKE THE TEA. Half fill the teapot with boiling water, and, when well heated, pour the water away. Put in as much tea as is required. The old- fashioned rule of " One teaspoonful for each person, and one for the pot" is a very good one. Take the teapot to the kettle, never the kettle to the teapot, and pour the water gently on. Cover with a cosy, or let it stand in a warm place to infuse. The length of time for infusing will vary with the quality of the tea. The better the tea, the longer time it will take to infuse. Tea is never good, however, if it is allowed to stand too long. For an150 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. invalid, five minutes, as a rule, will be long enough. Tea that has become bitter with long standing is most injurious. If the tea has to be kept hot for any length of time, the leaves must be removed from it. Some teapots now are fitted with an inner perforated case, which contains the leaves, and can be removed when the tea has infused sufficiently. Or tea can be kept hot by pouring it off into a second well heated teapot. When sugar and milk, or cream, are served with the tea, they should be put into the cup first, and the tea poured on to them. When lemon juice is used instead of the milk, it should be put in after the tea. When more tea has to be made, new leaves must never be put in on the top of the old. The teapot must be emptied out, well rinsed, and the tea made quite fresh as before. 178.—TEA MADE IN AN INFUSEB. Small tea infusers can now be bought, and are very useful when only one cup is required. "Hobb's" patent is the best. Place the infuser over a breakfast cup, and fill up the cup with boiling water. When thoroughly heated, pour off the water. Put a heaped teaspoonful of tea into the infuser, fill up with boiling water, put on the lid, and let it stand for the required time. Then lift out the infuser, and the tea is made.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 151 179.—TEA MADE WITH MILK. Make in the same way, using boiling milk in place of tlie water. Perhaps the most convenient way for making this kind of tea will be to use a tea infuser. 180.—TEA WITH AN EGG. Break the egg into a breakfast cup, removing the speck from it. Add a little sugar, if liked, and beat up with a fork. Pour in the hot tea gradually, stirring all the time. If the whole egg is found to be too much, the yolk only may be used. 181.—TO MAKE COFFEE. Coffee, to be good, should be freshly roasted and freshly ground. When this cannot be done at home, it should be bought in very small quantities, and kept in a tin box with a tight fitting lid. When coffee is kept, it very quickly loses its flavour. If pure coffee is wanted, chicory must not be used. Chicory gives colour to the coffee, and some prefer coffee with it. The usual proportions are 2 oz. of chicory to i lb. of coffee. The water, as for tea, must be freshly boiled. It is also very important to have the coffeepot clean. This is an article which will very soon get out of order if it is neglected. It will not be sufficient to rinse out the coffeepot with hot water, and then to put it away.152 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. There is an oily substance in coffee which not only adheres to the sides of the pot and clogs up the holes of a percolator, and so prevents the coffee running through, but if not removed will give the next coffee made in the pot a bad flavour. The coffeepot must be taken to pieces, and each piece well washed wiih boiling water, then rinsed and dried separately. There are many different kinds of cafetieres, and some of them are much more complicated than others. Whatever kind is chosen, it must be one in which the straining is perfect, or the coffee will not be clear. First fill the cafetibre with boiling water; let it stand till thoroughly heated, and pour the water away. Then put in the required amount of coffee on the perforated plate of the upper compartment. The usual allowance is i tablespoonful of coffee to pint of boiling water, but ideas differ very much as to the degree of strength desirable. Pour the boiling water gently and gradually over the coffee, and let it stand in a warm place until it has all filtered through. If it has to be poured into a different pot for serving, be sure to have it well heated first. Picard's circulating coffeepot is one to be much recommended. It can be had in various sizes, is moderate in price, and simple in construction. In this coffeepot the water is put in the lower com- partment first, and not poured over the coffee. The upper compartment is usually made with glass sides, and has a tube through it which passes down into the water. The coffee is put upon the perforated plate of this upper compartment, and the lid put on.DRINKS—TEA, COFFEE, 153 The coffeepot is then placed upon a spirit lamp or a stove, and as the water boils it forces its way up through the tube, and plays down upon the coffee like a fountain. It is allowed to boil up several times, and when the coffee has filtered through, it is ready. 182.—COFFEE MADE IN A JUG. Coffee may be made in a jug, although it will be decidedly inferior in quality. Heat the jug thoroughly with boiling water, and pour the water away. Put the coffee into the jug, pour the proper quantity of boiling water over it, and stir with a spoon. Cover the jug with a lid or a thickly folded cloth, and let stand by the side of the stove for 15 minutes. Have the jug or pot in which the coffee has to be served made very hot, stretch a piece of muslin over it, and strain the coffee through. 183.—TO SERVE COFFEE. When milk is served with coffee, it should be scalded, but not quite boiled. The proportions for strong coffee are equal quantities of strong coffee and scalded milk. This is Cafe au Lait. A little cream may be added. Cafe Noir is very strong coffee served without milk. Note.—If any coffee is left, it should be drained from the cafetiere, put into a bottle, and corked. Use this next day for making the coffee with a smaller quantity of water. Rather less coffee will be required.154 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 181.—A CUP OF CHOCOLATE. Required— I cupful of milk. i egg. I oz. good chocolate. Method— Shred down the chocolate with a knife, and put it into a saucepan with the milk. Stir over the fire until the chocolate is dissolved, but do not boil longer than is necessary. Break the egg, and remove the speck from it; put it into a jug, and beat it up with a wire whisk or a fork. Strain the chocolate over it, stirring all the time, and whisk for a few minutes longer until frothy. Notes.—The amount of chocolate required may vary slightly according to the different kinds, but after one trial of a particular kind any fault can easily be remedied. Avoid cheap chocolate, as it is quite unsuitable. If this way of making it is found too rich, half milk and half water may be used, or the egg may be omitted. If too sweet, use the unsweetened chocolate, which is more expensive, but of which less is required. Time—10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 185.—COCOA FROM THE NIBS. Ingredients— I oz. cocoa nibs. | i pint cold water. Metbod— Crush the nibs slightly, and if time permits let them soak over night in the cold water. Next day put them into a saucepan with the same water.Time—5 to 6 hours. Probable cost. Id. DRINKS-TEA, COFFEE, &-c. 155 Put the lid on the pan, and let them simmer slowly from 4 to 6 hours. If the water boils away, more must be added to keep up the quantity. Then strain, and when it has cooled remove the fat from the top. Re-heat as required, and add milk if liked. Note.—1V^ nibs are the broken kernel of the nut. This makes a much more valuable article of diet than cocoa made from the powder. When well made, it is clear like cofifee and most refreshing, but somewhat peculiar in flavour.156 CHAPTER VIII.—MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 186.—TO BOII. AN EGG. The excellence of an egg depends upon its being perfectly fresh and properly cooked. If cooked too long it becomes indigestible. Next to milk, an egg is one of the most valuable articles of an invalid's diet. Unfortunately some people cannot take one in any form. Raw or lightly cooked, it is very digestible; but overcooked, it becomes the reverse. If an egg is soaked in cold water for some time before cooking, it is said to be made more digestible. Put enough water into a small saucepan to entirely cover the egg. If only half the egg is immersed in the water, it will not cook equally. Allow the water to boil, and lower the egg gently into it. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and allow the water to simmer slowly. Cook the egg for 3 minutes, unless it is quite new laid, when it will cake from 3^ to 4 minutes. Then lift it out, and serve at once. If it is allowed to stand, it becomes hard. Another very good method of cooking an egg is to put it into quite boiUng water, then to put the lid on the pan, and place it on the hearth or well back on the stove, where the water will cease to boil and at the same time keep its heat.MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 157 Time—3 minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 2d. Allow the egg to remain in the water for 10 minutes, and then lift it out. The white will be found to have set without being tough, and the yolk will be creamy. 187.—POACHED EGG. Required— I Lemon juice. A pmch of salt. A round of toast. A few drops of vinegar, or Boiling water. Method— Break the egg into a small cup or basin, being care- ful to keep the yolk whole. Half fill a small saucepan with water, and put it on the fire to boil. Add to it a pinch of salt, and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, which will help to keep the white of the egg a good colour. When the water is gently simmering, slip the egg carefully into it. Let it cook slowly for 3 minutes, until the white is set, without being hard. Lift it out with a small fish slice or perforated spoon, and trim ofi^ any ragged edges of white. Place it neatly on a square or round of hot toast, garnish it with a sprig of parsley, and serve at once. Note.—Butter may be spread on the toast if allowed, or a little boiling milk, enough to soak the toast, may be poured over it. Sometimes a little hot cream is poured over the egg.iSS COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 188.—BAKED EGG. For this you require either a china or paper rame- quin case, or a Uttle brown French cup with a handle. Grease it out with a small piece of butter, and break an egg carefully into it. Add a pinch of white pepper and salt, and, if liked, a dessertspoonful of cream. Place in a moderate oven, and bake 3 or 4 minutes, or until lightly set. Serve at once. 189.—RUMBLED EGG. Ingredients— I egg. Pepper and salt. I tablespoonful milk or % oz. butter. cream. A round of toast. Method— Heat the butter and the milk or cream in a small saucepan. Beat up the egg in a cup, with a Httle pepper and salt, and pour it into the saucepan. Stir quickly over the fire until it begins to thicken ; then remove at once, and stir again until it forms a creamy mixture. If cooked too long it will become leathery, and indigestible. Turn it on to a neat square of toast, which may have a httle butter on it, if allowed. Serve at once. Time—3 minutes. ProliaWe cost, 2d.MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 159 190.—SAVOURY OMELBT. Ingredients— 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. I teaspoonful chopped parsley, i oz. butter. Uetbod— Make in the same way as fish omelet. (See recipe No. 43.) Time—5 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 191.—OATMEAL PORRIDGE (l). Ingredients— 1 pint of water. 2 oz. oatmeal. A pinch of salt. Sugar (if liked). Sletbod— Draw the water fresh, put it into a saucepan, and bring it quickly to the boil. When boiling, sprinkle in the meal with the left hand, letting it fall through the fingers, and keep stirring all the time with the right. When it begins to thicken, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add a pinch of salt. Simmer slowly from ^ to i hour, and stir occa- sionally to prevent it sticking to the pan. Or make in a double saucepan, keeping the water in the under part boiling all the time. Cooked in this way it requires little or no attention, and there is no fear of its burning. The thickness of the porridge is very much a matter of taste. More or less oatmeal can be used if desired. Add more salt if necessary, or sugar if liked. Serve with milk or cream. Time—f to 1 boor. Probable cost, ^d.i6o COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 192.—OATMEAL PORRIDGE (2). Use the same proportions as above. Soak the oatmeal in the cold water over night. Next day turn it into a saucepan, and stir over tlie fire until boiling. Finish as in last recipe. U'otes.—Oatmeal porridge is exceedingly wholesome and nour- ishing to those who can take it; but a great deal depends upon the way in which it is made: it must always be thoroughly well cooked. There are three kinds of oatmeal—" coarse," " medium," and "fine" ; and which kind to use is a question of taste. "Medium" is the one most frequently used for porridge. The oatmeal must be good, and it should be kept in a dry place ; if allowed to become damp, it will have a bitter taste. For an invalid, it is perhaps better to soak the oatmeal over night, as it makes it more digestible. But this somewhat alters the taste, and is not always so much liked. Crushed or rolled oats can now be had, and form a nice variety to the ordinary oatmeal. 193.—WHEATEN MEAIi PORRIDGE. Make according to either of the recipes given for oatmeal porridge. It will take rather a longer time to cook. Wheaten meal porridge is not so heating as oatmeal, and it makes a nice variety. 191.—HOMINY PORRIDGE. Ingredients— I oz. hominy. I Sugar (if liked). ]A pint milk or water. | A pinch of salt. Method- Put the hominy into a basin with the milk or water; cover it over, and let it stand all night.MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. i6i Then turn it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until boih'ng. Simmer slowly for i hour or longer, and season to taste. A small piece of butter may be stirred in at the last. Serve with milk or cream. If the hominy is made with water, a tablespoonful'of cream added to it at the end is a great improvement. A double saucepan is the best for cooking this in, as there is then no chance of its burning. Time—14 to 2 bonrs. Probable cost. Id. to Ijd. 195.—TOASTED BACON. Cut the bacon into thin slices; remove the rind from it, and any rust. Toast it in front of a clear fire, until the fat is trans- parent, and the pieces begin to curl up. This can be done on a toasting fork, a Dutch oven, or a hanging grill. Serve very hot. This will have a finer flavour, and is more whole- some, than fried bacon. 196—SPONGE CAKE. Ingredients— 4 eggs. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. potato flour. Metbod— 6 or. castor sugar. Grated lemon rind. First prepare a plain or fancy mould by brushing it out with clarified butter, and then dusting it over with equal quantities of flour and castor sugar, which havei62 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. beea sieved together and dried in the oven. Every part of the mould must be covered with this coating; allow it to dry whilst the ca ke is being prepared. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add a little grated lemon rind to it, and mix them together with the hands. Then add the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, beat- ing each one well in before another is added. Beat all well together until the mixture looks light and creamy. Have the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth in a basin, and the two kinds of flour sieved together. Mix these in by degrees to the yolks and sugar, stirring as lightly as possible, and turning the mbcture over and over. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, and do not more than half fill it, or tie a band of paper round the outside of the top of the tin, to allow for the cake rising. Stand the tin on a baking sheet with a little sand or a thick fold of paper below it, and bake in a moderate oven for about ^ of an hour. When ready, the cake should feel firm to the touch, and be of a nice brown colour. Time—% hour. Probable cost, 6d. 197.-mAITBE D'HOTEL BUTTER. Required— I oz. butter. I i teaspoonful lemon juice. I teaspoonful chopped parsley. | Method- Put all on to a plate, and with a knife work tl well together, to form a neat pat.MISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 163 Stand the plate slightly on end, that the lemon juice may run out of the butter again; and set in a cool place, or on ice, until wanted. The parsley should be very green and very finely chopped to make this butter look well. Metbod— Take about three parts of the flour, and, putting it into a basin, mix it thoroughly with the quart of warm water. Dissolve the yeast in the 2 tablespoonfuls of warm water. Strain it into the basin, and mix again, adding the rest of the flour. Put into greased tins immediately, and set to rise in a warm place from 20 to 40 minutes. Then bake thoroughly, rather longer than ordinary bread. Notes.—Xise. no salt. The dough should be thin enough to be unpleasantly sticky, and no other flour should be used with it. Do not attempt to knead or mould it in the ordinary way (it will not be firm enough for these operations), but put it in the tins direct from mixing. This Hovis bread, which has been recently introduced, is a most valuable article of food on account of the large percentage of phosphates it contains. It is palatable, nourishing, and easy 198.—HOVZS BREAD. Ingredients— JiYz lb. Hovis flour. I oz. or 2 tablespoonfuls warm water. I quart warm water. I oz. French or German yeast.164 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. of digestion, being much less exciting to an irritable stomach than any form of whole-meal bread. Many invalids are able to eat and enjoy this bread when all other kinds have been refused. Time to bake—15 to 20 minutes. 199.—GLUTEN BREAD. Ingredients — I oz. German yeast. ■ ' i oz. butter. 3 gills warm water. i lb. Callard's gluten flour. 4 eggs. A pinch of salt. Method— Dissolve the yeast and salt in the warm water. Put the gluten flour into a basin, and strain the yeast into it. Add the eggs, and the butter melted, and knead until perfectly smooth. Cover the basin with a cloth, and set it to rise in a warm place for i hour. Then divide it, and bake it in tins. Note.—2 oz. almond flour added to this is an improvement. These specialities can be bought from Messrs. Callard & Co., 95 Regent Street, London, W. :—Gluten flour, 2s. 6d. per lb. ; almond flour, 2s. This bread is specially recommended for diabetic patients. 200.—IRISH MOSS DRINK.* Proportions— 1 oz. Irish moss. | Lemon juice. 2 quarts cold water. I Sugar. Method— Wash the Irish moss well, and soak it for several hours in cold water. * Irish or Carrageen moss is a sea weed, and is collected on the northernMISCELLANEOUS DISHES. 165 Then lift it out of this water, and put it into a saucepan with the 2 quarts of cold water, and simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours. Strain, and sweeten to taste. Lemon juice may be added if liked. Time—1 to 5 bours. Probable cost, S^d. 201.—IRISH MOSS JSLLY. Proportions— I oz. Irish moss. I Lemon juice. I quart cold water. I Sugar. Hetbod— Make in the same way as the Irish Moss Drink, using the smaller proportion of water. Pour into a wetted mould, and set aside until cold. 202.—IRISH MOSS BLANCMANGE. Proportions— I oz. Irish moss. I Sugar to taste. I quart milk. I Lemon rind. Metbod— Prepare in the same way as Irish Moss Jelly, using milk instead of water, and lemon rind boiled with it instead of lemon juice. iVo/e,—Wine may be added to any of these Irish moss recipes, if liked. shores of Ireland. Its nutritive value is considerable ; and, from the amount of mucilage it contains, it is used as a remedy in diseases of the chest. It also contains iodine and sulphur. It should be well washed, and soaked for some hours previous to cooking. It can be made either into a drink or a jelly. Irish moss is pleasanter to the taste than Iceland moss.l66 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 203.—ICELAND MOSS. This can be used in the same way as Irish moss. Iceland moss is a lichen, which grows on barren rocks, principally in northern latitudes. It contains an acid which gives it an unpleasantly bitter taste. A pinch of soda added to the water in which it is soaked will help to remove this. Like Irish moss, it is given to people suffering from chest complaints. 204. - JUNKET. Ingredients— % pint new milk. i teaspoonful sugar. I teaspoonful rennet. A pinch of cinna- I teaspoonful brandy. mon. Method— Heat the milk until it is lukewarm, and add to it the sugar and cinnamon. Pour it into the dish in which it has to be served, and stir into it the brandy and rennet. Then let it stand until firm, and serve cream with it. Noie.—As rennet varies in strength, more may sometimes be required. This may be made without brandy. Time—1 to 2 bours. Probable cost, 3d.167 CHAPTER IX.—PEPTONISED FOODS. 205.—PEPTONISED MILK. Proportions— Two thirds of a pint of 2 teaspoonfuls of Liqtcor fresh milk. pancreaticus. One-third of a pint of ^ a level teaspoonfUl water. bi-carbonate of soda. Method- Mix the milk with the water, and warm in a sauce- pan to a temperature of about 140° Fahrenheit, or as hot as it can be tasted without burning the mouth. Pour into a jug or basin, and stir in the soda and Liquor pancreaticus (Benger's). Cover over to keep out any dust, and keep in a warm place or under a tea cosy. In most cases it is best to allow the digestive pro- cess to go on from 10 to 20 minutes, according to the degree of peptonisation or predigestion desired. Partially peptonised milk is scarcely distinguishable from ordinary new milk, and it is very much more easily digested. As the process of peptonisation goes on, a slight bitterness is developed which is unob- jectionable to many palates. A few trials will indicate the limit most acceptable to the individual patient. As soon as this is reached, the milk must, if not required by the parient at once, be boiled up to pre- vent the further action of the Liquor pancreaticus. It will then keep like ordinary milk. If peptonised milk is consumed as soon as theCOOKING FOR INVALIDS. process is carried far enough, it need not undergo any final boiling. In fact, it is better to use it without boiling, because then the half finished process of digestion will go on for a time in the stomach. Note.—The practical rule for guidance in peptonising milk, or any milk food, is to allow the process to go on until a perceptible bitterness is developed, and not until it is unpleasantly pro- nounced. In peptonising these, it is important not to carry the process so far as to render them unpalatable. The extent of the peptonising process can be regulated either by increasing or diminishing the quantity of the Liquor pancreaticus, or by increasing or diminishing the time during which it is allowed to act upon the food. 206.—PEPTONISED GRUEL, ARROWROOT, &C. Proportions— I pint gruel. I 2 teaspoonfwl Benger's Liquor I pancreaticus. Method— The gruel should be very well boiled, and made thick and strong (see recipe No. 147, et seq.) Pour it into a jug, and let it cool down to a luke- warm temperature, not exceeding 140° Fahrenheit (60° centigrade). ' ' . Add to it tlie Liquor pancreaticus, and mix it well in ; cover the jug, and keep it warm as before. Stand from % hour to i hour, then bring to the boiling point, and strain. The action of the Liquor pancreaticus on gruel is two-fold: the starch of the meal is converted into sugar, and the albuminoid matters are peptonised.PEPTONISED FOODS. 169 The conversion of the starch into sugar causes the gruel, however thick it may have been at starting, to become quite thin. l^ote.—The gruel need not necessarily be made of oatmeal; it may be prepared from any of the numerous farinaceous articles in common use—such as wheaten flour, arrowroot, sago, pearl barley, tapioca, pea or lentil flour, &c. Whichever is used, it must be thoroughly cooked, and then cooled down before the extract is added to it. 207.—PEPTONISED MILK GRUEL. Proportions— % pint thick gruel. I ^ pint new milk. 2 teaspoonfuls Benger's j A pinch of bi-carbonate Liquor pancreatictis. \ of soda. Metbod— First prepare a good thick gruel from any of the farinaceous articles. Add to the gruel while still boiling hot an equal quantity of cold milk. The mixture will then be of the required temperature. Add the Liquor pancreaticus and the soda in the above proportions. Pour it into a jug, cover over, and keep in a warm place for an hour. Then boil for a few minutes, and strain. Note.—1\d% is a complete and highly nutritious food for weak digestions. The slight bitterness of the digested milk is almost completely covered in the peptonised milk gruel, and invalids take it much more readily.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 170 208.—PEPTONISED BEEF TEA. Proportions— lb. lean, juicy beef. I i tablespoonful of Banger's I pint of cold water. | Liquor pancreaticus. Method— Shred down the meat finely, put it into a lined saucepan with the cold water, and simmer very slowly for an hour and a half. Then pour it into a jug, and let it cool down to a lukewarm temperature not exceeding 140° Fahrenheit. Add to it the Liquor pancreaticus in the above pro- portions, and stir it well in. Cover the jug over, and keep warm for about two hours, stirring occasionally. At the end of this time bring it to the boil, and strain off the liquid part ready for use. 209.—BEEF TEA JELLY. Proportions— l4 pint peptonised beef tea. I % oz. French sheet gelatine, I or X oz- isinglass. Slethod— The beef must first be boiled to stop the peptonising process, or the extract would act upon the gelatine and dissolve it also. Then strain it, and return to the saucepan with the above proportion of gelatine or isinglass. Stir over the fire until this is dissolved. Pour into a small mould or basin that has been rinsed out with cold water, and keep in a cool place, or on ice, until set. Then turn out, and serve cold.PEPTONISED FOODS. 171 210.—PKPTONISED BLANCMANGE. Proportions— ^ pint peptonised milk % oz. French sheet gela- tine, or X 0=^- isinglass. Flavouring if wished. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Method— Prepare in the same way as peptonised beef tea jelly, adding the cream at the end. Instead of using plain milk, peptonised milk gruel may be used. Any flavouring may be added if thought desirable. 211.—PEPTONISED SOUPS. These can be prepared in two ways. The first is to add good soup or stock, without any thickening, to an equal quantity of peptonised gruel or milk gruel. A second, and better, way is to use peptonised gruel, which is quite thin and water}-, instead of water, in the making of the soups. 212.—PEPTONISED CUSTARD PUDDING. Proportions— Sugar to taste. Flavouring if desired. Yz pint peptonised milk gruel. 2 eggs. Method— Allow the milk gruel to undergo the final boiling. Then let it cool slightly, and add sugar and flavour- ing if desired. Beat the two eggs well, and stir them in. Pour into a greased pie dish, and bake in a slow oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Note.—Malt extract may be used instead of sugar for sweeten- ing purposes.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 172 % pint boiling milk or milk and water. 213.—BENOER'S FOOD. Proportions— I oz. or I tablespoonful Benger's Food. 4 tablespoonfuls cold milk. Method— Put the Benger's Food into a basin, and mix to a smooth paste with the 4 tablespoonfuls of cold milk. Make the pint of milk, or milk and water, boiling hot, and add it gradually, stirring all the time. Set aside in a warm place. In a quarter of an hour the digestive process will have sufficiently advanced. In cases where an invalid's digestive powers are very much impaired, the mixture may be allowed to stand for or ^ of an hour. By this means the digestive process is carried further. Then boil the whole for a minute, stirring all the time, and strain if necessary. Benger's Food contains no sugar, but the digestive process renders it agreeably sweet. j^ote.—Benger's Food is a delicious and highly nutritive food, easily digested and absorbed. Its composition is much approved of by medical men. It is sold in tins from is. 6d. to los. each. 214.—CUSTARD PUDDING (from Benger's Food). Proportions— pint Benger's Food, j 2 teaspoonfuls castor 2 eggs. I sugar. Method— Prepare the Benger's Food as in last recipe. After it has been brought to the boil, let it cool slightly. Add to it the sugar or a little malt extract, and the two eggs well beaten.PEPTONISED FOODS. 173 Pour into a small greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. A little flavouring, such as nutmeg, cinnamon, or grated lemon rind, may be added. This may be served either hot or cold. 215.—BATTER PUDDING (from Benger's Food). Proportions— yi pint Benger's Food. 1 A pinch of salt. 2 eggs. I Method— Prepare the Benger's Food according to the direc- tions given, and let it undergo a final boiling. Let it cool slightly, and add the salt, and the two eggs well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well greased basin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly for an hour. The basin should not be filled too full, as the pudding will rise. When ready, it will be firm to the touch. Turn out. and sprinkle with sugar. 216. —BLANCMANGE. 2 tablespoonfuls cream. Flavouring (if desired). Proportions— Yz pint Benger's Food. 3 teaspoonfuls cornflour. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. Method— Make the Benger's Food according to directions given, and let it cool. Put the cornflour into a basin, and add the Benger's Food gradually to it, mixing well together.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Turn out, and serve cold. Pour into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for 5 minutes. Add the sugar, flavouring, and cream. Pour into a wetted mould, and put in a cool place until set. Turn out, and serve with stewed fruit. 217.—BENGER'S FOOD JELLY. Proportions— 2 teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. pint of Benger's Food. ^ oz. isinglass, or about oz. French sheet gelatine. method- Make the Benger's Food according to directions. When it has undergone the final boiUng, add the gelatine or isinglass to it, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Add the sugar, and any suitable flavouring, such as port or sherry wine. Pour into a wetted mould, and put in a cool place until set.CHAPTER X.—POULTICES AND FOMENTATIONS. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. The making of poultices requires neatness, practice, and speed. All fomentations and poultices should be removed, or renewed before they become cold. When poultices or fomentations are no longer required, the part treated should be wiped dry with a soft cloth, and a piece of flannel or cotton wool should be applied, to prevent poultice rash. RECIPES. 219.—LINSEED MEAL POULTICE. Required— Linseed meal. Boiling water. A piece of flannel. Some thin muslin. A small basin and spatula. Method— Heat the basin thoroughly by pouring boiling water into it, and also heat the spatula. Empty the basin, and then pour into it the quantity of boiling water required for making the poultice. Sift in the meal through the fingers, stirring all the time with the spatula. '75176 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Mix to a good consistency, but avoid heaviness, and beat quickly and lightly. Turn boiling hot out of the basin on to a piece of flannel, and spread smoothly over with a knife, leaving a margin all round. Turn the edges neatly over, and cover with the piece of muslin. Apply as hot as possible, and cover with a piece of absorbent cotton wool to keep in the heat. The poultice may be kept in position by a bandage if necessary. Note.—The linseed meal must be fresh, and the best should always be used. If the poultice has to be carried from one room to another, place it between two hot plates, to prevent its cooling. 220.—BKEAD FOULTICE. Required— Some crumbs of bread. 1 A piece of muslin or soft linen. Boiling water. | A small basin. Method— Heat the basin thoroughly with boiling water, empty it, and put into it some broken crumbs of bread. Pour boiling water over this, cover over, and let it stand for 2 minutes. Then pour off the superfluous water, and spread on the piece of muslin or fine linen. Apply as hot as possible without anything between it and the affected part. A piece of oil-silk may be placed over it, to keep in the moisture. A bread poultice is very cleansing and soothing, but it does not retain its heat so long as linseed meal.POULTICES <Sr= FOMENTATIONS. 177 221.—CHARCOAIi FOTJIiTICE. Required— A bread or Unseed poultice I Some powdered vegetable (as above). | charcoal. Uetbod— Make either a bread or a linseed poultice according to directions given above. After spreading it out, sprinkle the charcoal over the surface before applying. Put the charcoal next the part affected. 222.—MUSTARD POULTICE. Prepare in the same way as a linseed meal poultice, with the addition of one or more spoonfuls of dry mustard added to the linseed meal. These can be made of any strength according to what the patient can bear, and what is required. 223.—SEDATIVE POULTICE. A good sedative poultice can be made by boiling a lettuce in some water, and then using this water for mixing a linseed poultice. Note.—This poultice has a very soothing effect. 224.—HOT WATER FOMENTATION. Place a strong towel in a basin with the ends hanging over the sides. Put on this three layers of flannel the size required, and pour boiling water thoroughly over it. Fold the towel on the flannel, and wring very tightly with the dry ends. M178 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Shake out once quickly, and apply immediately. Cover with a layer of dry flannel and cotton wool, and bandage if necessary. Note.—A small roller towel may be made for the purpose of wringing the fomentations, and in this case two sticks could be slipped through the double ends and used for twisting. 225.—SODA FOMENTATION. Make in the same way as above, with the addition of strong soda to the boiling water. Note.—This is useful for rheumatism. 226—TURPENTINE STUPES. These are made like ordinary hot fomentations, with 30 to 80 drops of turpentine sprinkled over the surface before applying. 227.—MUSTARD PLASTER. Rciiuired— Dry mustard. I Brown paper or linen. Cold water. | A piece of muslin. Method— Make a smooth paste of mustard, mixed with cold water. Spread this on a piece of brown paper or linen, leaving a margin all round. Cover with muslin or a piece of thin pocket hand- kerchief, and fold down the edges to prevent the mustard escaping. Apply, and keep on from 5 to 15 minutes, accord- ing to what the patient can bear. Note.—Do not make the poultice larger than is necessary.179 APPENDIX. 223.—TO CHOP PARSLEY. Wash the parsley well to get rid of all the earth. Pick it from the stalks, and put the heads into a cloth, and squeeze them quite dry. Then put them on a chopping board; and, with a sharp dry knife, cut them across, and chop as finely as possible. In chopping, hold the point of the knife steady on the table, and keep working the handle quickly up and down. Unless the parsley is very finely chopped, it is most irritating to the throat. 229.—TO CLEAN A CARROT. Wash in cold water, and brush well with a vegetable brush. Then cut off the top, and any green part, and with a knife scrape the outside lightly until the carrot is quite clean. Scrape from the thick end downwards, and do not take off more than is necessary, as the best part of the carrot lies on the outside. Throw into clean cold water until required.i8o COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 230.—TO CLEAN A TURNIP. Wash in cold water, and brush well with a vege- table brush. Then with a knife cut off the top, and peel rather thickly, as far as a yellow line which will be seen a little way in from the skin. The outside of the turnip is hard, indigestible, and bitter in flavour. Throw into clean cold water until wanted. 231.—TO CLEAN AN ONION. Cut off the root and top, and remove all the brown outside skin. Put the onion into a small basin with a pinch of salt or small piece of washing soda. Cover it with boiling water, and let it stand for, at least, five minutes. This draws out the unwholesome properties of the onion, and helps to make it more digestible. The water in which it soaks turns quite green in colour. 232.—TO BLANCH, AND TO SCALD. TO BLANCH. To put on in cold water, bring to the boil, and pour the water away. This is to whiten, or to facilitate the cleaning of anything. TO SCALD. Put into boiling water for a few minutes. To scald milk is to bring it almost to the boil.APPENDIX. i8i 233.—TO BREAK ARROWKOOT OR FLOUR, &c.. Mix with a small quantity of liquid until a smooth paste is formed. 234.—TO MAKE BREAD CRUMBS. The best way is to remove the crust from some rather stale bread, and then to rub the crumb part through a wire sieve. In this way the bread crumbs are fine and equal in size, such as they will never be if they are made on a grater or rubbed between the hands. 235.—TO SIEVE. Always when sieving have two spoons in readiness, one to rub the mixture through with, and the other for scraping the sieve underneath. Stand the sieve with the naiTOwer rim uppermost, and do not put too much of the mixture on at one time. For most mixtures iron spoons are to be preferred to wooden. Keep the fingers on the bowl of the spoon, and use the edge for rubbing through with. Sieves should be well washed and brushed after using, and dried in a warm or airy place, and not too near a fire. 236.—TO CLARIFY BUTTER. Put the butter into a lined saucepan, and bring it slowly to the boil. Let it simmer a few minutes, then draw the pan to182 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. the side of the fire, and let it stand until it has ceased bubbling. Then, with an iron spoon, remove all the froth from tlie top, and pour the clear oil into a dish ready for use, leaving the sediment at the foot of the pan. 237.—TO REMOVE FAT FROM STOCK. Have in readiness two iron spoons, a basin of boil- ing water, a cloth, and a small basin or dish into which to put the fat. Heat the spoons in the boiling water, and use first one and then the other to skim off the fat The spoons, being hot, melt the fat, and make it much more easily removed. When as much as possible has been taken off with the spoons, dip the end of the cloth into boiling water, and wipe the stock over with this until quite free from grease. If the stock is not a jelly, pieces of kitchen paper must be passed over the top of it instead of the cloth. Do not remove fat from stock or soup until it is just going to be used, as it keeps out the air and helps to preserve it. 238.—TO MAKE TOAST. The bread used should not be less than two days old. Cut it about the third of an inch in thickness, that it may get toasted through. When it is cut too thick.APPENDIX. 183 and there is a soft piece left in the middle, the un- toasted part is less digestible than plain bread. Put the toast on a toasting fork, and hold it at a little distance from a clear, bright fire. Let it slowly dry, and become a nice uniform brown colour, without being at all black. Then turn, and toast the second side in the same way. Stand it on end until cold, and serve at once. If kept for any length of time, it becomes tough. 239.—TO SKIN AND FILLET A HADDOCK. TO SKIN. First wash it in cold water, and cut off all the fins. Make a slit in the skin up both sides, so that it can easily be removed. Make a cut across the skin just below the head, and commence at the flap part. Loosen the skin there, keeping down the flesh with a knife, and beginning very carefully; then pull down- wards towards the tail. Turn, and do the other side in the same way. TO FILLET. To fillet it, remove the flesh cleanly from the bones on both sides of the fish. Commence at the open side of the fish, slipping the knife along close to the bone and laying the flesh backwards, but do not separate it from the other side. Turn, and do the other side in the same way. A filleted haddock should be in one piece.COOKING FOR INVALIDS. 210.—TO SKIN AND FILLET A SOLE OR PLAICE. TO SKIN. First wash the fish, and cut off all the fins. Lay the fish on a board with the tail-end nearest to you. Make a cut across the skin just above the tail, slip a knife under it, and commence raising the skin from the flesh. Then with the right thumb loosen the skin all the way up the right-hand side. Loosen up the other side in the same way, this time using the thumb of the left hand. Hold the tail of the fish firmly down on the board ; take hold of the loosened skin with a cloth, and pull it off quickly, drawing it upwards towards the head. The white skin may be removed in the same way, but this is frequently left on. TO FILLET. To fillet the fish, make a cut straight down the middle of the back to the back bone. Then remove the flesh first from one side, and then from the other. Two fillets are taken from each side. It will be found easiest to raise the first fillet from the left-hand side of the fish, working from the head towards the tail; and then turn the fish round, and to raise the second fillet, working from the tail towards the head. Turn the fish right over, and do the other side in the same way. Uoie.—Filleting is really best learnt by watching a fishmonger or other competent person at work.APPENDIX. 185 211.—PRAIRIE OYSTER. Required— I fresh egg. | i tablespoonful of vinegar. Hetbod— Put the vinegar into a small cup or wine glass, and break the egg into it whole. Serve at once. Note.—This is considered one of the most digestible ways of serving an egg. 242.—WHEY. Required— I pint new millt. | i teaspoonful of rennet. Metbod— Warm the milk in a basin to a lukewarm tempera- ture, or about the heat of new milk, and stir in the rennet. Let it stand in a warm place about 15 minutes until the curd forms, and the whey is quite clear. Then let it cool; break up the curd, and strain off the whey.186 INDEX. [ The -figures refer to the numbers of the Recipes unless otherwise stated?^ Apple and Rice Pudding Baked - Cream - Jelly - : - Pudding, Swiss Stewed Water - Boiled - 121, Arrowroot, Water Milk - Pudding Peptonised 104 I2S 126 136 124 122 - 154 - ISS - 95 96 - 97 206, 207 Beef Tea I Essence - 4 Gruel - - 149 Jelly(Peptonised) 209 Jellies - - 143 Peptonised - 20S Pudding - 13a Quickly-Made 2 Raw - - 3 Savoury - 5 Benger's Food - - 213 — Batter Pud- ding- - 215 Custard Pud- ding from - 214 Jelly - - 217 Birds' Nest Pudding - loS Blanch, To - - - 232 Blancmange - - - 128 Peptonised 210, 216 170 Bran Tea Bread and Butter Pud ding, Baked - - Ii2 Bread Crumbs, to make Crumb Pudding - Gluten - Hovis - Jelly - - - Bacon, Rolls of Toasted Barley, Cream of - Meal Gruel - (Pearl) Pudding - Water, Thick Clear - Batter Pudding (Benger) Pudding, Boiled - Beef Cream - Minced Puree - Quenelles (Raw) Sandwiches Bread Poultice Sauce - Break, to (Arrowroot &c.) Broth, Chicken Mutton Veal - Butter, to Clarify - Calf s Foot Jelly - Carrot, to Clean - Cauliflower, Boiled Celery - - - - Charcoal Poultice - Chicken, Broiled - Broth - Essence of - Jelly - - ■ 231 III 199 198 141 62 195 19 150 109 151 152 215 117 57 76 8 54 81 220 61 233 12 9, 10 II 236 131 229 86 89 221 67 12 14 142187 INDEX. Chicken Potted - - 80 Soup - - - 15 Stewed - -65 in Milk - 66 or Veal Cream - 56 Panada - 68 Quenelles - 55 See also Fowl. Chocolate - - - 184 Chop, Broiled or Grilled 48 Fried - - • 49 Mutton, in Paste - 52 Steamed - - 51 Stewed - - 53 Cocoa from the Nibs - 185 Cod or Haddock Roes, Boiled - - - 46 Coffee, to make - - 181 made in a Jug • 182 to Serve - - 183 Jelly - - - 138 Cornflour Pudding - 98 Cream, Chicken or Veal 56 Beef ... 57 Fish - - - 40 of Barley • - 19 Whey - - - 167 Custard Pudding, Baked 113 (from Benger's Food) - 214 Peptonised • 212 Savoury - 129 Drawing Fowl - -58 Egg, Baked - - - 188 Boiled - - - 186 Poached - - 1S7 Rumbled - - 189 Drink - - - 172 Flip - - - 173 Sauce - - - 31 with Brandy and Cream - - - 174 Essence of Beef - - 4 Chicken - -14 Farinaceous Jelly - - 140 Fat, to remove from Stock 237 Fillet, How to - 239, 240 Fillets of Sole, with To- matoes - - - 45 Fish, General Remarks, p. 25 and Rice - - 44 Baked - - 36, 37 in Batter - 38 Broiled - - 34 Cream - - - 40 Fried - - - 32 Omelet - - 43 Pudding, Steamed 42 Quenelles - - 39 SouflSe - - - 41 Soup - - - 24 with Oysters 25 Steamed - - 26 Stewed - 27 Fomentations 17s Fowl, to Boil 64 Roast - 60 to Draw 58 Trussing for Roast- ing 59 Trussing for Boiling 63 See also Chicken. Fruit Tart, Invalid 123 Game, General Remarks, p • 49 Jelly - - - 145 Potted - 80 Sandwiches - 82 Soup 22 Gelatine, Jelly from 132 Giblet Soup - 21 Gluten Bread 199 Gravy Soup - 23 Ground Barley Pudding no Rice 100 Gruel - - 147, ISO Peptonised - 206, 207 Haddock, Boiled - - 28 or Cod Roes Boiled 46 to Skin - - 239 to Fillet - - 239 Hominy Porridge - - 194 Hot Water Fomentation 224 Hovis Bread - - 198 Iceland Moss - - 203i88 COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Irish Moss Blancmange - 202 Drink - 200 Jelly - - 201 Jellies—Sweet and Sa- voury—General Re- marks - 119 Jelly, Beef Tea, Pep- tonised - 209 Benger's Food 217 Bread - 141 Calf s Foot - 131 Chicken 142 Coffee - 138 ■ Farinaceous - 140 Game - HS from Gelatine 132 Irish Moss - 201 Milk - 134 Orange ji Port Wine 135 Restorative - 144 Tea 139 Tripe - 146 Whipped 133 Junket . - - - 204 Koumiss 176 Lemonade . - - 162 Milk - 164 Lemon Whey 166 Lettuce, Boiled 90 Linseed Meal Poultice - 219 Tea 169 Macaroni 94 Pudding 114 Maitre d'Hotel Butter - 197 Measures - - p- vni Meat, General Remarks, P- 49 Meat Teas, Broths, and Soups - - - P- I Milk, to Boil - - 175 Gruel - - - 148 Gruel, Peptonised - 207 Jelly - - - 134 Lemonade - - 164 Peptonised - - 205 Puddings, Steamed 116 Milk, Thick- - 159, l6o Minced Beef - - 76 Mustard Plaster - - 227 Poultice - - 222 Mutton Broth - ■ 9, 10 Chop, in Paste - 52 Quenelles - - 54 Oatmeal Gruel - - 147 Porridge - 191, 192 Omelet, Fish - - 43 Savoury - - 190 Sweet - - - 120 Onion, to Clean - - 231 Orangeade - - - 163 Orange Jelly - - I37 Panada, Veal or Chicken 68 Parsley, to Chop - - 228 Sauce - - - 30 Partridge or Pigeon Roast, 69 Broiled - 7° Pearl Barley Pudding - 109 Peptonised Arrowroot - 206 Beef Tea - - 208 Beef Tea Jelly - 209 Blancmange - - 210 Custard Pudding - 212 Gruel - - - 206 Milk - - - 205 Soups - - - 211 Pigeon, Stewed - - 71 or Partridge Roast 69 Broiled - 7° Plaice, to Skin and Fillet 240 Porridge, Hominy - 194 Oatmeal - 191, 192 Wheaten Meal - 193 Port Wine Jelly - - I35 Posset, Treacle - - 168 Potatoes, Boiled • - 84 Snow Flakes - - 85 Potted Chicken or Game So Poultices - - p- 175 Prairie Oyster - - 241 Prune Drink - - 157 Stewed - - 127 Puddings and Sweets, General Remarks -p. 91 Pudding, Apple and Rice 104INDEX. Pudding, Arrowroot - 97 Batter (Benger's) - 215 Boiled - - - 117 Beef Tea - - 130 Birds' Nest - - 108 Bread and Butter, Baked - - - 112 ■ Bread Crumb - ill • Cornflour - - 98 • Custard, Baked - 113 Custard (Benger's) 214 Custard, Peptonised 212 Custard, Savoury - 129 Fish, Steamed - 42 Ground Barley - 110 Ground Rice - 100 Pearl Barley - - 109 • Plain Suet - - 119 ——• Rice - - loi, 102 Rice and Apple - 104 Rice, Baked - - loi -— Rusk - - - 115 Sago - - - 106 with Fruit - 107 Semolina - - 99 Steamed - - 116 Swiss Apple - - 124 Puree, Beef ... 8 Quenelles, Fish - - 39 Mutton or Beef - 54 Veal or Chicken - 55 Rabbit, Boiled - - 72 • Soup - - - 20 Stewed - - 73 Stewed in Milk - 74 Raw Beef Sandwiches - 81 Restorative Jelly - 144 Soup - - - 13 Rice and Apple Pudding 104 and Fish - - 44 and Tomato Soup 18 (Baked) Pudding - loi (Ground) Pudding - 100 Milk - - - 158 Plainly Boiled - 92 Pudding - - 102 Soup - - - 16 Stewed with Milk 103 Rice Stewed in stock - 93 Water - 153 Roe, Boiled Cod or Had- dock 40 Grilled or Fried - 47 Rolls of Bacon 02 Rusk Pudding US Sago Pudding 100 with Fruit 107 and Port Wine 171 Soup - 17 Sandwiches, Game 82 Raw Beef 81 Toast - S3 Sauce, Bread 61 Egg - 31 Parsley 30 -White - 29 Savoury Beef Tea 5 Omelet 190 Scald, to - - - 232 Sea-Kale - - {nolu ) S9 Sedative Poultice - 223 Semolina Pudding 99 Sieve, to - - - 235 Soda Fomentation 225 Sole, to Skin and to Fillet - 240 Fillets of, with To- matoes - 45 Sourne, tish 41 Plain - 118 Soup, Chicken Fish 15 24 with Oysters - 25 Game - 22 Giblet • 21 Gravy - 23 Peptonised - 211 Rabbit - 20 Restorative - 13 Rice 16 Rice and Tomato - iS Sago 17 Tapioca, 17 Spinach 88 Sponge Cake 196 Steak, Fried or Grilled - i;o Suet and Milk - 161COOKING FOR INVALIDS. Suet Pudding, Plain - 119 Sweetbread, Stewed - 75 Sweet Omelet - - 120 Sweets, General Re- marks - - ■ p- 91 Swiss Apple Pudding - 124 Tapioca Soup - - 17 Tart, Invalid Fruit - 123 Tea - - - - 177 made in an Infuser 178 made with Milk - 179 with an Egg - - 180 Jelly - - - 139 Thick Milk - - 159, 160 Toast, to make - - 238 Sandwiches - • 83 Water - - - 156 Toasted Bacon - - I95 Tomatoes ... 87 Tomato and Rice Soup 18 Treacle Posset - - 168 Tripe, to Prepare - - 77 Baked - - - 79 Jelly - - • 14b Stewed - - 78 Trout, Broiled - - 35 Trussing a Fowl for Roasting - - 59 for Boiling - 63 Turnip, to Clean - - 230 Turpentine Stupes - 226 Veal Broth - - - 11 or Chicken Cream 56 Panada - 6S Quenelles - 55 Vegetables, General Re- marks - - - p. 82 Vegetable Marrow .- 91 Water Arrowroot - - 95 Tapioca, with Fruit 107 Weights - - p. viii Wheaten Meal Porridge 193 Whey - - - - 242 Cream - - - 167 Lemon - - - 166 Wine - - - 165 Whipped Jelly ■ - I33 Whiting, Fried - - 33 White Sauce for Fish - 29 Wine Jelly from Gelatine 132 -Whey - - - 165A D VRR TISEMENTS. WILL OPEN IN NOVEMBER, 1896. SCHOOL OF THE DOMESTIC ARTS, 26 HOWE STREET, Edinburgh, principal- Miss FLORENCE B. JACK. Lectures and Practical Training on Cookery (all branches), Laundry-Work, Household Economy, &c., &c. Prospectus, giving Details of the various Courses and Tables of Fees, on application. 26 HOWE STREET, EDINBURGH, 3 minutes by Cable Car from Princes St. (Frederick St.). Invalid Cookery.—Miss Jack is prepared to supply Invalid Dishes of any kind, on short notice. Special Classes for Doctors or Nurses on Invalid Dietary (or Private Instruction) can be arranged. SCHOOL OF DOMESTIC ARTS, 26 Howe St., EdinburghADVERTISEMENTS. Handbook by Miss Jack. THE ART OF LAUNDRY-WORK PRACTICALLY DEMONSTRATED FOR USE IN HOMES AND SCHOOLS. By FLORENCE B. JACK. MANY ILLUSTRATIONS, CLOTH, 2/- ARTICLES. MUSLINS, LACE, CURTAINS, NET. SILKS, PRINTS, SATEENS, AND FANCY ARTICLES. INFANTS' AND CHILDREN'S CLOTHES COLLARS, CUFFS, SHIRTS, AND POLISHING. MAKING OF STARCH AND CONTENTS. rRELIMINARY REMARKS, AND FLANNELS ANDOTHER WOOLLEN PREPARATION FOR WASH- ING. WASHING, BOILING, RINSING, AND BLUEING. WRINGING, DRYING, AND MANG- LING. IRONING. BODY-LINEN. BED, TABLE, AND OTHER HOUSEHOLD LINEN. 1 VARIOUS RECIPES. A FEW OPINIONS. The Oueen—"The very book we have been sighing for for long enough. Thoroughly practical, giving directions as excellent as they are plainly expressed, and apparently provided forever,- difficulty over which the beginner may stumble. It is emphatically a book that should be on the shelf of every house-mother. The Manchester Guardian.—" is the work of a practical teacher, and is sensibly and clearly written." The Scotsman.—'' Thorough-going and practical." The Bristol Mercury—" Her instructions are thoroughly scientific and nractical, and so clearly given, that we believe even the infenor being, man, Sac^uire the art from studying this book . . The mystery is a myste^ no loneer to those who take the trouble to study the careful diagrams which M ss Jack provides to the various steps in the proper folding of a complicated garment. naseo-W Daily MaU.—" A work we can recommend with entire confidence norc^fy tT teachers, but to all housewives. The book exhausts the subject, There ^ evidence, it might be said, in every page, not only of practical experience, but of keenest observation on the part of the authoress. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK. London : WHITTAKER & CO., Paternoster Sq., E.G., & Booksellers.A D VER TISEMENTS. HERR WILLY'S SCHOOL OF PIPING L ORNAMENTING, 24 FRANCIS STREET, Tottenham Court Road, Loudon, W.C. PUPILS—Ladies and Confec= tioners—rapidly promoted to Decorate their Home = made Cakes, &c., in First=Class Style ASK FOR PROSPECTUS. A, BLACK & CO,, 30 St. Andrew Square, Edinburgh. HATHERLEY STEP LADDER. WASHING BOARDS. MATS—WIRE, BRUSH, BORDERED, &c. BRUSHES, WOOD WARE, BASKETS. Black's Patent Oven Top Bri/sh, indispensable in keeping a Close Range in perfect order. Once used, always used.PROMOTE DIGESTION THEREFORE BUILD UP THE CONSTITUTION. THE BREAD IS MORE EASILY AND MORE QUICKLY MADE UP WITH THIS FLOUR THAN ANY ORDINARY BROWN OR WHITE FLOUR. TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED DAILY. BAKERS RECOMMENDING ANY OTHER BREAD IN THE PLACE OF "HOVIS" DO SO FOR THEIR OWN PROFIT BEWARE! Purchasers are requested io see that all bread.supplied to them as "-HOVIS" is stamped ''HOVIS," and if any difficulty be experienced in obtaining ''HOVIS," or if what is supplied to you is unsatisfactory, please write, sending sample {the cost of which will be defrayed), to S. FITTON & SON, MILLERS, MACCLESFIELD. 6d. &=■ IS. Sa)ii/les on receipt of Stamps. Apply to your Baker or Grocer for " Hovis" Flour for Home Use, packed in Bags of z\ lbs. and 7 lbs.THE PERFECT WHEAT FOOD. DAINTY, NOURISHING. " FA-ROLiA. is immeasurably superior to arrowroot, corn flour, sago, &c. Witl) milk, it forms exquisite puddings, and in tlie nursery it will prove a valuable variety which children will take with avidity."—i»M»7><i(;/ Medico-Chiriirg^cal "An ideal form of giving farinaceous food witli miil<."—A London Physician. Supplied to tlie Household of H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES. Awarded Gold Medals at the two important International Exhibitions held in 1886— Edinburgh and Liverpool—two years be/ore any ij}iilattons were iti the ijiarket. FAHOLA is a highly refined preparation of Wheat, which conserves all the nutritive elements and fine flavoul naturally belonging to the purest part of the grain. All irritating and indigestible matter has been removed by careful treatment, mechanical means only being employed. FABOLA will satisfy a robust appetite, but it is specially suited for invalids and children. Send Post Card for^Descriptive Book with Recipes (post free). JAMES MJRSHAll, 28 EAST CUMBERUm STREET, CUSGOW. IMPORTANT TO IVIOTHERS AND I4URSES. BO HOME SHODLD BE WITHODT HUBBARD'S CELEBRATED SCOTCH RUSKS, LIGHT, NOURISHING, ATTRACTIVE. These Rusks have a reputation of nearly fifty years as the most Nutri= tious and easily prepared Food for Infants and Invalids. Sold in Tins at 1/6, 3/-, & 5/6 everywliere. WALTER HUBBARD, PARTICK, GLASGOW.