9- . f^oH^ DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY.■i » JDEMONSTEATIONS j/ i OP / ANATOMY; BEING A GUIDE TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE HUMAN BODY BY DISSECTION. BY GEOEGE VINEK ELLIS, EMERITUS PROrESSOR OF ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON. NINTH EDITION, REVISED. ILLUSTRATED BY 248 ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD. LONDON: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE. 1882. \^All Hghts reserved.']LONDON : BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.PEEFACE. The plan of this work is designed to teach the Anatomy of the Human Body by dissection in successive stages after the following manner :— In the dissection of a Part of the Body the attention of the Student is directed first to the superficial prominences of bone and muscle, and to the hollows that point out the situation of the subjacent vessels. Next the cutaneous structures, and the different layers of muscles with their appertaining vessels and nerves are examined in succession, so that the several objects between the surface and the bones may be observed in much the same • order as they would be met with in a Surgical operation. And, lastly, the joints and ligaments receive due notice. In the dissection also of the viscera and the organs of the senses the manner in which the composition of each may be shown, is fully indicated for the guidance of the Student. The Anatomical description of the Part under examination is arranged in conformity with the dissection in regions, and each muscle, bloodvessel, nerve, or other structure, is described only to such an extent as it may be laid bare.vi PEEFACE. And as the chief purpose of this book is to treat of the cha- racters and connections of the component parts of the Body which are visible to the naked eye, I have not thought it neces- sary to add to the short account of the microscopic structure of the different organs in the former edition. In this, as in the preceding editions, I have endeavoured to make the work more efficient as a guide to practical knowledge. Ja/moA']!, 1882. G. V. ELLIS.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK, 0 PAGE Section 1. External Parts of the Head 1 2. Internal Parts of the Head 9 3. The Face 20 4. The Orbit 39 5. The Neck, right side 51 Posterior triangular space 53 Front of the ITeck 58 Anterior triangukr space . . . . . 60 6. Pterygo-maxillary Region ....... 81 7. Submaxillary Region 93 8. Sux^erior Maxillary Nerve and Vessels 100 9. Deep Vessels and Nei-ves of the Neck 102 10. Left side of the Neck 116 11. The Pharynx 121 12. The Mouth 132 13. Cavity of the Nose 134 14. Spheno-palatine and Otic Ganglia, Facial and Nasal Nerves, and Internal MaxUlary Artery, . . . . .139 15. The Tongue 148 16. The Larynx 154 17. Hyoid Bone, Cartilages and Ligaments of the Larynx, Struc- ture of the Trachea 162 18. Prevertebral Muscles and the Vertebral Vessels . . . 168 19. Ligaments of the first two Cervical Vertebraj, and of the Clavicle 171 CHAPTER II. dissection of the brain. Section 1. Membranes and Vessels 178 2. Origin of the Cranial Nerves ; 184 3, Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii 189viii CONTENTS. SjiiCTiON 4. The Cerebrum, or Great Brain 198 The under Surfaee, or the Base 198 The upper Surface and Lobes 201 Convolutions 203 The Interior 208 Ventricles of the Brain 210 Floor of the lateral Ventricle 213 Central Parts of Cerebruni 215 Structure of the Cerebrum 219 5. The Cerebellum, or little Brain 222 Surfaces and Lobes 223 Structure of the Mass 226 Fourth Ventricle 227 • CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Section 1. The "Wall of the Thorax 236 The Axillary Space 240 2. Scapular Muscles, Vessels, Nerves, and Ligaments . . 254 3. The Front of the Arm 263 Back of the Arm 273 4. The Front of the Forearm 276 5. The Palm of the Hand . . . ... . .289 6. The Back of the Forearm 301 7. Ligaments of the Shoulder, Elbow, Wrist, and Hand . . 309 CHAPTER IV. dissection of the thorax. Section 1. Cavity of the Thorax The Pleuraj 328 Connections of the Lungs 330 The Pericardium 332 The Heart and its large Vessels 333 Nerves of the Thorax 353 The Trachea, and the Characters and Sti-ucture of the Lung ^^"^ Parts in Front of the Spine, and the Cord of the Sym- pathetic Parietes of the Thorax 368 2. Ligaments of the Trunlc Articulation of the Ribs to the Vertobra5 ... 370 Articulation of the Ribs to the Sternum . ■ . . 372 Articulations of the Sternum 372 Articulations of the Vertebra 372CONTENTS. ix CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. PAGE 381 First Layer of Muscles Second Layer of Muscles THrd Layer of Muscles Foiirth Layer of Muscles with Vessels and Nerves 389 Fifth Muscular Layer, and the Sacral Nerves 398 CHAPTER VI. DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Membranes of the Cord Roots of the Spinal Nerves Vessels of the Cord Fonn and Divisions of the Cord . . . • Structure of the Cord, and the deep origin of the Nerves Intraspinal Vessels CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section 1. Perineum of the Male ........ 417 Posterior Half of the Space ...... 418 Anterior Half of the Space . . . . . . 423 Lateral Operation of Lithotomy ..... 432 2. Perinteum of the Female........ 433 404 408 410 411 413 415 ( CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section 1. Wall of the Abdomen 43g 2. Hernia of the Abdomen ........ 455 3. Cavity of the Abdomen 466 Connections of the Viscera ...... 467 Peritoneum and its Folds . . . ' . . . 472 Mesenteric Vessels, and Part of the Sympathetic Nerve 476 Connections of the Aorta and Vena Cava . . . . 482 Connections of the Duodenum and Pancreas . . . 483 Cceliac Axis and Vena Portre ...... 434 Sympathetic and Vagus Nei-ves . . . . .489 4. Anatomy of the Abdominal Viscera 49I The Stomach _ The Small Intestine 495 The Large Intestine The Pancreas gQgX CONTENTS. Section 4—continued. page The Spleen 506 The Liver 507 The Gall Bladder 514 The Kidney and the Ureter 515 Tlie Suprarenal Body 521 The Testis and the Vas Deferens 622 5. Diaphragm with Aorta and Vena Cava .... 528 Deep Muscles of the Abdomen 537 6. Lumbar Plexus and the Cord of the Sympathetic Nei-vo . 540 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section 1. Fascia of the Cavity and the Muscles of the Pelvic Outlet . 545 2. Connections of the Viscera in the Male .... 550 3. Connections of the Viscera in the Female . . . . 556 4. Vessels and Nerves of the Pelvis ...... 560 6. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Male 569 The Prostate Gland and the Seminal Vesicles . . 569 The Urinary Bladder 572 The Urethra and the Penis 575 The Kectum 582 6. Anatomy of the Viscera of the Female 583 Genital Organs . 584 The Vagina 586 The Uterus 588 Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes 590 Bladder, Urethra, and Rectum 593 7. Internal Muscles of the Pelvis 594 Articulations of the Pelvis .595 CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section 1. The Front of the Thigh 60* Femoral Hernia Scarpa's Space Deep Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves on the Front of the • Thigh Deep parts on the inner Side of the Thigh . . .629 2. The Buttock, or the Gluteal Eegion 637 3. The Back of the Thigh 650 The Popliteal Space 651 Hamstring Muscles and Vessels 656 The Hip Joint 4. The Back of the Leg 5. The Sole of the Foot 6. The Front of the Leg and the Dorsum of the Foot . • 688 7. Ligaments of the Knee, Ankle, and Foot . • . . 697CONTENTS. xi CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. PAGE Sclerotic Coat and Cornea 723 Choroid Coat and Ciliary Processes 726 Ciliary Muscle 728 The Iris 729 Ciliary Vessels and Nerves 730 Chamber of the Aqueous Humour 731 The Ketina and Jacob's Membrane 731 Vitreous Body, and Hyaloid Membrane, with the Suspensory Ligament, and the Canal of Petit 735 Ciystalliue Lens and its Capsule 737 CHAPTER XI. DISSECTION OF THE EAE. The Auditory Canal 739 The Tympanum, with its Vessels and Nei-ves 741 Ossicles of the Tympanum, and their Muscles and Ligaments . . . 744 The Osseous Labyi'inth of the Inner Ear ....... 749 Vestibule • 749 Semicircular" Canals • 750 Cochlea, its Septum and Passages ....... 751 Organ of Corti ........... 755 The Membranous Sacs, or Labyrinth ....... 756 Utricle 755 Saccule 755 Bloodvessels of the Labjninth 753 Nerves of the Cochlea and Membranous Sacs 758DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Section I. EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Directions. In the dissection of the head and neck, the student ^^f^^^^^^.^ should endeavour to learn the parts described in the first fifty- the body is eight pages, before the position of the body is changed ; but if turned, want of time necessitates an omission of some part, the examina- tion of the facial nerve (p. 35) can be best deferred till a subse- quent stage. The exterior and the interior of the head, the orbit on one side, and the posterior triangular space on both sides of the neck, should be examined whilst the body lies in its first position on the Back. The student begins with the dissection of the muscles of the scalp and ear. On the left side the muscles are to be seen, and on the opposite half the vessels and nerves are to be displayed. Position. .The body lying on the Back, raise the head to a suitable J^g'^j^j" °^ height, and turn the face to the right side. Extrinsic muscles of the Ear. Three muscles attach the ear Muscles of to the side of the head. Two are above it,—one elevating, the other drawing it fowards ; and the third, a retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special or intrinsic muscles of the cartilage of the ear, which will be afterwards noticed, p. 34. Dissection. When the ear has been drawn down by hooks, the Dissection position of the upper muscle will be indicated by a slight pro- "mST, minencc between it and the head ; and the muscular fibres may be laid bare by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than the skin ;—One is to be carried upwards on the side of the head, for about three inches, along the cutaneous ridge before mentioned ; and the other, about the same length, is to be directed from before backwards close above the ear, so that the two may join at a right angle. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from below2 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. of posterior muscle. Attrahens aiuem muscle. Attollens am-eiu muscle. Eetraliens am'em con- sists of two or three bimcUes. Use of ear muscles. Occipito- frontalis. how seen: take care not to cut it away. upwards, and removing the subjacent tissue, a thin fan-shaped muscular, layer will come into view—the more anterior fibres consti- tutmg the attrahens, and the posterior the attollens aurem muscle. On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be drawn about an inch behind the ear, from the transverse cut above as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by those cuts has been reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle must be sought beneath the subcutaneous tissue ; it consists of rounded bundles of fibres, and is stronger and deeper than the others. The ATTRAHENS AUREM (fig. 1, jg a small fan-shaped muscle, and arises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis. Its fibres are directed backwards, and ai-e inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. Beneath it are the superficial temporal vessels and nerve. The ATTOLLENS AUREM (fig. 1, has the same form as the preceding, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Arising also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear,—into an eminence corresponding with a fossa (that of the anti-helix) on the opposite aspect. The RETRAHENS AUREM (muscuH rctrahentes, Alb., fig. 1, i') con- sists of two or three roundish but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost transversely forwards to be inserted by aponeurotic fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) at its cranial aspect. The posterior amicular artery and nerve are in contact Avith this muscle. Action. The tlu-ee preceding muscles will move the outer ear slightly in the directions indicated by their names : the anterior drawing it upwards and forwards, the middle one upwards, and the posterior backwards. The OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS MUSCLE (fig. 1, i) covers the arch of the skull, and consists of an anterior and a posterior fleshy part, with an intervening tendon. Dissection. On the same side of the head (the left) the occipito- frontalis is to be dissected. To bring this muscle into view, a cut may be made along the middle fine of the skull, from the root of the nose to the occipital protuberance ; and it may be connected in front with the transverse incision on the side of the head. The flap of sldn, thus marked out, is to be raised fi-om before back with the subjacent fat ; whilst doing this the dissector will meet first with the anterior fleshy part of the muscle, next with a white shining thin aponeurosis, and lastly with the posterior fleshy belly towards the lateral aspect of the cranium. The aponeurosis of the muscle is easily taken away with the granular fat superficial to it; and if the under surface of the flap of integuments presents a white instead of a yellow appearance, the student may suspect he is removing that aponeurosis.OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS MUSCLE. The anterior ov frontal part (') is a tliin muscular layer over the Fro..tai OS frontis, which is said to take its origin below. Along the line of the eyebrow the fibres are blended with the following muscles, orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, and pyramidalis nasi ; and they are also fixed to the subjacent bone, viz., to the os nasi Fig. 1.* internally, and to the outer angular process of the frontal bone externally (Theile). From these attachments the fibres are directed upwards to the aponeurosis, and end in it rather below the level of Ending. the coronal suture. Tlie posterior or occipital part ('') is stronger than the anterior ; Ocnipital it arises from the outer half or two thirds of the upper cui-ved line of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The fibres are about one inch and a half in length, and how 1 , • attached, ascend to the aponeurosis. The tendon, or epicranial aponeurosis, extends over the upper part Aponeu- of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the like structure of the opposite half of the head. On tlie side it its attach- gives origin to the auricular muscles ; and a thin membrane is here prolonged from it, over the fascia covering the temporal muscle, to be fixed to the side of the head. Posteriorly, the aponeurosis is attached to the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone between the fleshy parts of the muscles of opposite sides. The aponeurotic expansion is closely united to the skin ; but it is connected to the ment, * Extrinsic muscles of the car. 15, Attollens aurem, 16, Attrabeiis aurem. 17, Retrahens aurem only partly seen. B 2DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 4 and connec- tions. Use of an- terior and posteiior Lolly. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia. Attach- ments, connections. and layers. To see tem- poral muscle. Temporal muscle. Origin. Insertion and connections. Use. pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull. Superficial to the occipito-frontalis are the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the scal]x In front the fleshy fibres of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it elevates the eye- brow, making- smooth the skin at the root of the nose, and wrink- ling transversely that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move back the scalp ; and the bellies acting hi succession can carry the hairy scalp forwards and backwards. Dissection. After the removal of the upper auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, wliich is stronger than the epicranial aponem-osis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull ; and inferiorly, where it is nan-ower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, Avhich are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with its artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. A soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it near the zygoma is to be taken away. The difference in thiclaiess of parts of the fascia will be e\adent. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker at the lower end. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia, and fi'om all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend, converging to a tendon, wliich is inserted into the under surface and fore part of the coronoid process of the lower jaw (p. 82). On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, wiili the parts superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal A-essels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle underneath the zygomatic arch will be afterwards followed. The temporal belongs to the group of masticatoiy muscles ; and its action will be referred to with the description of the pterygoid region..5 CUTiVNEOUS ARTERIES. Dissection. For tlie ilissection of the vessels and nerves, let How to the face be now turned to the left side, and let an incision be carried along the eyebrow and the zygomatic arch to a little behind side, the ear, so as to allow the skin on the right half of the head to be reflected. Tlie flap of the skin is to be raised fi-om before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the sldn should be raised as on the other side, to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and ner^^e. Along the eyebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves seek nerves which come from the orbit (fig. 2), viz., the supra-orbital vessels «Te'' and nerve opposite the middle, and the supra-trochlear nerve and front; fi-ontal vessels near the inner angle of the orbit ; they lie at first beneath the occipito-firontaHs, and the muscular fibres must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial oif tjie^si^ temporal vessels and nerve are to be traced to the Ai-ertex ; and ° ' above the zygomatic aixh the branches of the facial which join an ofliset ("*) of the superior maxillary nei-ve, are to be sought. Behind the ear the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and iieiiind ear, below it branches fi-om the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the ear, are to be found ; one or more offsets of the last should be foUoAved to the junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital vessels, '^^^^^ also the large and small occipital nerves, should be denuded ; the former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. Cutaneous Arteries. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 2), are Vessels of furnished by the internal and external carotid trunks, and anasto- mose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supra-orbital and frontal, come from the former ; whilst three, viz., the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular, are derived from the latter. The supra-orhital artery (c) leaves the orbit through the notch in Supra-orbi- the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some '"'ery- of its branches are. superficial to the occipito-frontalis, and ascend to the top of the head ; whilst others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. Hha frontal branch (b) is close to the inner angle of the orbit. Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The superficial. temporal artery (d) is one. of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After ascending above the has^°'''^ zygomatic arch for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior :— The anterior branch nins forwards with a serpentine course to anterior and the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery : this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 6 posterior ■branch. Occipital •irterv. Posterior inuicular. Veins of the scalp; how they join other veins. Nerves of the scalp are: Siipra-orbi- tal nerve; The posterior Iranch is larger than the other, and arches back- wards above the ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its offsets to the parts around are similar to those of the anterior, and it communicates with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. Occipital artery (a). The terminal part of this artery, after perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-fi-ontalis muscle. Communications take place with the arteiy of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the follow- ing arteiy. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipito-fi-on- talis muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. The posterior auricular artery (/) appears in front of the mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mastoid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (amicular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and the back of the pinna of the ear ; and an offset from this pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. The VEINS of the exterior of the head are so similar to the arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the veins corresponding with branches of the internal carotid artery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with. the veins occupying the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, where it receives the supra-orhital vein, the two gi^^ng rise to the angular vein of the face : near its ending it receives small veins fi-om the eyebrow, and from the upper eyelid and the nose. Both the superficial temporal and posterior auricular, veins open into the external jugular ; and the occipital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nekves (fig. 2). The nerves of the scalp are fm-- nished fi-om cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spmal nei-ves. The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few twigs from the facial nerve. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primaiy branches), except close behind the ear, where there is an offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The supra-orhital nerve (fig. 2, ^ comes from the first ti-unk of the fifth nerve, and escapes fi-om the orbit with its companion artery; whilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nei-ve gives offsets to it and the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication its two cuta- neous and IS estab- lished between this and the facial nei-ve. Finally the nei-ve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify in the teguments :— One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The other branch7 CUT.INEOUS NERVES. (outer) is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, extends over the arch of the head as far as the ear. As the ner^-e escapes from the supra-orbital notch it furmshes palpebral some iMlpehral filaments to the upper eyelid. Fiff. 2.* At the inner angle of the orbit is the small supra-trochlear Supra-troch- branch (fig. 2, of the same nerve. It ascends to the forehead close to the bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the * Cutaneous nerves of the scalp. 1. Great auricular nerve. 2. Small occipital. 3. Great occipital. 4. Posterior auricular of the facial. Auriculo- temporal (not numbered) in front of the ear, by the side of the temporal artery, d. 5. Supra-trochlear. 6. Supra-orbital. 10. Superficial temporal of the upper maxillary, and crossing it are the s\iperficial temporal branches of the facial nerve. Cutaneous arteries of the scalp, a. Occipital artery. h. Frontal, c. Supra-orbital, d. Superficial temporal. /. Posterior auri- cular, h. Lateral superficial temporal.8. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. palpebral brunch. Temporal iiervos ; of superior maxillary; of inferior maxillary, its auricular branch; and of facial nerve. Posterior auricular nerve has occipital branch, and auii- cular. Great anri- oular nerve. Great occipi till nerve: junctions. Small occi- pital nerve integument. Branches are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some pulpehral twigs enter the eyelid. The superficial temporal nerves are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and fi-om the facial nerve. The temporal branch of the sibperior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig (fig. 2, '"), which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates with the facial nei-ve, also some- times with the next. The auriculo-temporal hranch (fig. 2, d) of the inferior maxillary nerve (tliird trunk of the fifth) lies near the ear, and accompanies the temporal artery to the top of the head. As soon as the nerve emerges fi-om beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches :—The more posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens am'em muscle and the integument above the ear. The other branch ascends vertically in the teguments to the top of the head. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the antei-ior part of the ear above the auditory meatus. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed upwards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle : they will be described with the dissection of the trunk of the facial nerve. The posterior auricular nerve (fig. 2, ■*) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends m fi-ont of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express :— The occipital hranch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-fi-ontahs muscle. It hes near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structm-e, and furnishes ofEsets to the integuments. The auricular hranch ascends to the back of the ear, suppling the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pmna. The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The great occipital (fig 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing fi'om the posterior primary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large oflisets ; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-fi-ontalis muscle, ending mostly in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nei-ve ; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, *) lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is continued9 DURA MATER. upwards in tho integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each fiidc, viz., the postenor auricular and the great occipital. Usually tliis nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the ear at the cranial aspect, h';«.a^j^^ wliich supplies also the attoUens aurem muscle. brancii. Section II. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to bo opened, but before sawing Dissectim the bone the dissector should detach, on the right side, the temporal ^^^^"^ muscle nearl)' down to the zygoma, Avithout separating the fascia of the same name from the Heshy fibres ; and all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the fore- head, and as low as the protuberance of the occiput behind. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, but the saw is to cut only tlu-ough the y,ro"gj"fiie outer osseous plate. The inner plate is to be broken through with i)oiie. a chisel, in order that the .subjacent membrane of the brain (dm-a mater) may not be injured. The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the fingers between the cut surfaces in fi'ont, and the dura mater will then come into view. The DURA MATER is the most external of the membranes in- Dura mater, vesting the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, which serves as an endosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now the bone is separated Aprearance fi'om it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; but these sui-face. are most madced along the line of the sutures, where the attach- ment of the dura mater to the bone is the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen alono: Glands of . Pacchioni the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable; they are found but seldom before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the interior of the dura cut tlu-ough mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to the margin Ji'.jty"'"' of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised on the right side towards the top of the head ; and the veins connecting it witli the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is smooth and polished; and inner this appearance is due to an epithelial layer similar to that lining serous membranes. Tliis external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous and Structure.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 10 and pro- cesses. Falx. Form aiul attacli- iiients. Borders. Sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal Situation and ending its interior. Veins open- ing into it. Current of Wood in it. Directions for removal of brain. Mode of pro elastic tissues so disposed as to give rise to two strata, viz. an external or endosteal, and an internal or supporting. At certain spots those layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri (fig. 3) is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, which dips in the middle line between the hemispheres of the large brain. Its fonn and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated from it. Nan-ow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens posteriorly, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the tentorium cerebelli. The upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the occipital protuberance ; and the lower or fi-ee border, concave, is tiu-ned towards the central piece of the brain (corpus callosum), with which it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The superior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, 5) extends fi-om the ethmoid bone to the occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood tlu-ough numerous small veins, when pressure is made fi-om before back with the finger along the middle line of the brain. When the sinus is opened it is seen to be narrow in front, and to widen behind, where it ends in a common point of tmion of certain sinuses (torcular Herophili) at the centre of the occipital bone. Its ca^dty is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx; and across it are stretched small tendinous cords —chordfe Wilhsii—near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Occasionally small glandulte Pacchioni are present in the sinus. The sinus receives small veins fi-om the substance and exterior of the skull, and larger ones fi-om the brain ; and the blood flows backwards in it. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the posterior part of the brain, and lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate the dura mater ; their com-se is directed fi-om behind forwards, so that the current of the blood in them is evidently opposed to that in the sinus : this disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of the brain, where the parts ai-e undisturbed. Directions. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, the brain must be taken fi-om the head. To facilitate its removal, let the head incline backwards, wliilst the shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the division of the cranial nerves a sharp scalpel will be necessary ; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than the other. ■ Removal of the brain. As a first step cut across the anterior partREMOVAL OF BRAIN. 11 of the falx cerebri, and the difiEerent cerebral veins entering the j^/^«.'/]"S;^".>;;i longitudinal sinus ; rise and tluw backwards the falx, but leave succession. it uncut in the middle line behind. Gently raise with the fingers the fi-ontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of the large brain. Next Ai'terior^^ cut through the internal carotid arteiy and the second and third ne^es^^" nen-es, which then appear; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. A small brajich of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at tliis time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife fi'om the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. A strong horizontal process of the dm-a mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view at the back of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nei-ve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injm-ing the parts underneath : the follo^ving nerves, which will be then visible, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth posterior nerve, consistmg of a large and small root; whilst towards the middle line of the skull is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the thi-ee trunks of the eighth nerve in one line :—of these, the upjDer small piece is the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the pneumo-gastric ; and the long round nerve ascending fi-om the spinal caiial, the spinal accessoiy. The remaining nerve nearer the middle line is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, and they wind round the upper end of the spinal cord. Lastlj-, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of lastly the tlie spinal nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing spinal cord, the first two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be taken readily fi-om the skull in the left hand. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- How to pre- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures tlu-ough '^^''Y" tl'^ them on the imder surface, the brain may be immersed in spirit to harden the texture ; and methylated spirit may be used on account of its cheapness. Placing the brain upside down on a piece of calico long enough to wrap over it, put it in the spirit. Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the Kxaminn- dissector should examine the other membranes, and the vessels. As °^ soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed fi-om the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial neiwes at the under surface. The brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow tlie spirit to penetrate its substance.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 12 Directions. Duva'niater ill base of skull; its prolonga- tions {ind connec- tions to Ijonc. Tentorium cerel)elli; surfaces, edges, and the sinuso in it Falx cerebri. Falx cerebelli The description of the brain and its vessels will be found after that of the head and neck (p. 178). Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For tliis purpose raise the head to a conA-^enient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull while studying the following parts. Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it dips into the different inequahties of the osseous surfaces ; and it sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found to send a prolongation into the foramen ca2cum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and through the optic foramen a covering is continued on the optic nei-ve to the eyeball. Behind the sella Turcica, the dura mater adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and it may be traced into the spinal canal tln-ough the foramen magnum, to the margin of wliich it is very fii-mly united. The tentorium cerehelli is the piece of the dura mater which is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small brain (cerebellum), and the posterior part of the large brain (cere- brum). Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed laterally for the reception of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres. Its under surface touches the little brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a nan-ow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or convex edge is cormected to the folloAving'j bones :— occipital (transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus : and in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinus on each side. Falx cerebri. The characters of this fold have been given in page 10. The Falx cerehelli has the same position below the tentorium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the middle ridge of the occipital bone below tlie protuberance, and projects between the hemispheres of the small brain. Its base is directed to the ten- torium ; and the apex reaches the foramen magnum, to each sideSINUSES OF CRANIUM. la of which it gives a small slip. In it is contained the occipital ^-^jg^", sinus. The SINUSES are venous spaces between the ayers of the dura Snu^en of mater, into which blood is received. AH the smuses open eithe into a large space named torcular Hcrophili, opposite the occipital protuberance; or into the two cavernous sinuses on the sides ot the hodv of the sphenoid bone. , , ^ • • -x i I The TOUCULAK HEROPHiLi (fig. 3, «) is placed in the tentonum, o.o,p.tai opposite the centre of the occipital bone. It is of an n-regular Fig, 3.* shape, and numerous sinuses open into it, viz., the superior longi- tudinal above, and the occipital below ; the straight in fi-ont, and the lateral sinus on each side. The superior lonqitudinal sinus has been already described (see Superior p. 10). The inferior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, c) resembles a small vein, inferior lon~ and is contained in the lower border of the f alx cerebri at the ^ °* posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and the larger brain, and ends in the straight sinus {d) at the edge of the tentorium. The straiqlit sinus (fig. 3, cl) lies along the middle of the ten- Straight ' . sinus torium, and seems to continue the preceding sinus to the common point of union. Its form is triangular, like the superior longi- tudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of the large brain, and some small veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The occipital sinus (fig. 3, g) is a small space in the falx cere- Occipital belli, which reaches to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood from the occipital fossas. This sinus may be double. The lateral sinus (fig. 3, e) is the channel by which most of the Lateral sinus, * Some of the sinuses of the skull, a. Torcular Herophili. h. Superior longitudinal sinus, c. Inferior longitudinal, d. Straight sinus, e. Lateral sinus, fj. Occipital sinus, f, Superior, and h, inferior petrosal sinus.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 14 position to Done, and sinuses joining it: situation in the foramen jugulare. Dissection. Cavernous sinus lias nerves in outer wall; contains carotid artery and sixth nerve; and is joined ■by the fol- lowing sinuses, \'iz. Circular sinus, blood passes from the kIcuII. Tliere is one on each side, right and left, which extends from the occipital protuberance to the foramen jugulare, where it ends in the internal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus occupies the winding groove in the interior of the skull between the two points of bone before mentioned : and the right is fi'equently larger than the left. Besides small veins from the brain, it is joined bj-- the superior petrosal sinus (/), opposite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and by the inferior petrosal (h) at the fora- men jugulare. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with veins of the diploe of the skull. The foramen jugulare is divided into three compartments by bands of the dura mater. Through the posterior interval the lateral sinus passes ; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus ; and through the central one the pieces of the eighth ner^^e. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone fi'om the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve : behind the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a blow-pipe ynW be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS SINUS, which has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The piece of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth ner^-^es, with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve ; these lie in their numerical order from above down. The ca^aty of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shi-eds of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel; but all these are shut out from the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit, some inferior cerebral veins, and twigs fi-om the pterj'goid veins outside the skull. It communicates with its fellow on the opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses ; and its blood is trans- mitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and inferior petrosal channels. The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and reaches from the one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle Ime. Besides serving as the means of communication between those15 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. sinuses, it receives small veins from the pituitary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process of the Tnuisverse occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal ' bone, and unites the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second trans- verse sinus is sometimes found nearer the foramen magnum. The superior petrosal sirms (fig. 3, /) lies in a groove in the Snpenm- upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another fi-om the internal ear, are received into it. The infm-ior petrosal sinus (fig. 3, h) extends between the same inforior sinuses as the precedmg, and lies in a groove along the line of • junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein fi'om the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum in the base of the cranium. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Meningeal Akteries. These arteries supplying the cranium and the dura mater come through the base of the skull; they have been IJef— named from their situation in the thi-ee foss£e, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are veiy small branches of the ethmoidal Anterior arteries (p. 46), which enter the skull by apertures between the frontal and ethmoid bones : they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number : two, named Middle large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary ti-unk ; and '"'^'""seal, the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal hrancli of the internal maxillary artery from inter- appears through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and il^y'"'^"^" ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the cranium, and ends in ramifications which spread over the side of the head, some of them reaching to the top and the occiput, whilst others perforate the bone, and end on the exterior of the head. Two veins accompany its veins, the artery. Branches. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, gives it furnishes branches to the dura mater and osseous structure, and dm-a'iualer' to the ganglion of the fifth nerA'^e. One small offset, petrosal, entei's the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the suiTOunding bone (Hyrtl). and bone. One or two branches pass into the orbit, and anastomose with tlie ophthalmic artery. h. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one small outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to meningeal, the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal hrancli from the ascending pharyno-eal One of artery comes through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Thi^^s is 'i,i'aS"fai seldom injected, and is not often visible. ' ° The p)osterior meningeal branches are small, and are furnished by Posterior the occipital and vertebral arteries. meningeal,16 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. from occi- pital and vertebral. Nen'cs of dura mater. Cranial ner\'es in the Ijase of the skull : only partly seen. Olfactory nerve, ends in the nose. Optic nei-ve enters the eye. Dissection of third and fourth nerves; of fifth nerve. Motor oculi nerve That from the occiijital, one on each side, enters the skull hy the jugular foramen ; and that from the vertebral arises opposite the foramen magnum. Both vessels ramify m the posterior fossa of the skull. Meningeal Nehves. Offsets to the dura mater are said to be derived from the fourth, fifth, glosso-pharyngeal, and vagus, cranial nerves ; and from the sympathetic nerve. To make these nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid. Cranial Nerves (fig. 4). The cranial nerves pass from the encephalon through apertures in the base of the skull. As each leaA'es the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed :—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve ; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane is reflected back, after a short distance, to the interior of the skull. Some of the nerves, those m the middle fossa of the skull for instance, receive sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. The nerves will be referred to now as nine pairs, but notice will be subsequently taken of a different mode of enumerating them. Only part of the course of each nerve Avill be seen at this stage, the rest will be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The FIRST nerve (fig. 33) ends anteriorly in the enlargement of the olfactory bulb. This swelHng lies on the cribiiform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies about twenty branches to the nose through the small foramina in the subjacent bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, and their arrangement will be noted in the dissection of the nose. The SECOND NERVE (fig. 4,2) diverging to the eyeball from its commissure, enters the orbit through the optic foramen ; accom- panying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection. The tliird and fom-th nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifrh nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and to see them, it will be necessary to trace them through the dura mater towards the orbit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 4, taking away the dura mater from them, and from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which Hes on the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the front of the ganglion arise other two large trunks besides the ophthalmic, viz superior and inferior maxillaiy, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit fr'om the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely from the bone near the nerves a better dissection will be obtained. , „ , i f u The THIRD NERVE (fig. 4,^) is destmed for the muscles of the orbit It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is deprived at that spot of its tube of arach- noid mcmbranL In the wall of the sinus it is placed above theKEEVES IN BASE OF SKULL. other nerves ; but when it is abont to enter the orl)it tlirough the sphenoidal fissure, it sinks below the fourth and a part of the fifth, and divides into two branches. masses to Near the orbit the nerve is joined by one or two delicate fila- P-^c»to nients of the cavernous plexus (p. 20). The Fouirrii nerve (fig ceding, to one muscle in 17 4, courses forwards, like the pre- Tv^w«.r the orbit. It is the smallest of the Fig. 4." nerves in the wall of the sinus, and is placed below the third ; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it rises higher than all the other nerves. In the wall of the sinus the fourth nerve is joined by twigs of in tiie wall the sympathetic ; and it is sometimes united with the ophthalmic " trunk of the fifth. Fifth nekve (fig. 4,This nerve is distributed to the face Trifacial , , , 1 . « , 1 nerve lias and head, and consists or two parts or roots—a large or sensory, two roots. and a small or motory. Tlie large root of the nei"ve passes through an aperture in the Largo root, and * Cranial nerves in the base of the skiill. Tbo dura mater has been, removed in the middle fossa, on the left side, to show the nerves in the wall of the cavernous sinus, and especially the ganglion, and the three tnuiks of the fifth nerve. Each nerve, except the first wliich is absent, is raai-ked by its corresponding numeral. On the right side the dura mater is untouched, t Offsets to the dura mater from the fifth nerve. iDISSECTION OF TEE HEAD. 18 Gasseviau ganglion on it; sympa- gives tliree ■branches. Small root. Difiference in the use of the roots. Ophthalmic uerve enters orbit, supplies dura uiater in its coiu-se- Aladucens nerve is in (iavemous sinus; joins sym- pathetic. Seventh dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, where it enters immediately the Gasserian ganglion. The cjangHon of the root of the fifth nerve (Gasserian ganglion), placed in a depression on the point of tlie petrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and is nearly as wide as the thumb- nail. The upper surface of the ganglion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, whose convexity looks foi-wards. Some filaments from the plexus of the thetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and forehead. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary ner^'-e, passes through the foramen, ovale to reach the loAver jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The smaller root lying in the same tube of the dura mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion, Avithout communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion which are unconnected with the smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. But the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve has not this double function, for the motor root is mixed nearly altogether with the part which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw; and it is, there- fore, cliiefly that small mixed joiece of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nei-ve. The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sphenoidal fissure and the orbit to the forehead. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it diAndes into three branches (p. 40). In tliis situation it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig. 4, f) to that part of the dura mater forming the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 4,") enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, instead of lying in the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery ; and it is joined by one or two large branches of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. Seventh Nerve according to Willis (fig. 4, 0- This cranial19 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. nen'e consists of two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter nerve ims the meatus auditorius intenius. In the bottom of the meatus i'^'^^- they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth Nerve (fig. 4, Three trunks are combmed in the Eighth eighth cranial nerve of Willis, viz. glosso-pharjoigeal, pneumo- tliree'pai-ts; gastric, and spinal accessoiy. All three pass through the central ■compartment of the foramen jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of the membranes of the brain. The glosso-pharyn- «'e>'-r^«;g^ o-eal nci-ve is external to the other two, being separated from them fommeu hy the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the dura jugulare- mater and the arachnoid membrane ; but the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory ners'-es are inclosed in the same tube of the dura mater, only the sheaths of the arachnoid intervening between them. The NINTH NEHVE (fig. 4,'"') is the motor nen-e of the tongue, and Ninth nerve, •consists of two small pieces, which pierce separately the dura , mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these imite after passing through that aperture. Dissection. The dissector may now return to the exammation of Dissection the trunk of the carotid artery as it winds through the cavernous °' -:inus. On the opposite side of the head, yiz. that on which the nerves of sympa- in the Avail of the cavernous smus are untouched, an attempt may uses'° l)e made to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery, though in an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of these (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid cavernous in-ocess ; and to bring it into view it Avill be necessary to cut off that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth carotid, nerves, suiTOunds the artery as this enters the sinus. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in the base of the skull internal at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In its artery^ ascent to the brain the A'-essel lies in the space of the caA^ernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to look like the letter S rechned. At first the artery ascends to the posterior clinoid process ; it is tlien winds <lirected forwards to the root of the ajiterior process of the same cavernous name ; and lastly it turns upAvards internal to this last point of sinus, ^lone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides uito cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived fi-om the sympathetic in the neck (p. 115). The branches of the artery here are few. In the sinus there are nmneiies to some small arteries (arteriaj receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body ; and at the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. c 2DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 20 Sympathetic forms carotid plexus. caveriiouK plexus; Tinion witli cranial nerves. Bistiibii- tioii. Tliree petro- sal nen'cs. Two seen in base of skull. Directions for preser- ving parts. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissec- tion of the base of the brain (p. 182). Sympathetic Nervk. Around the carotid arteiy is a prolongation of the sympathetic nen'c of the neck, which forms the following plexuses :— Tlie carotid plextis is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and commimicates Avith the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is connected with that oifset of the upper cei-vical ganglion which courses along the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic ner^^es. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming those plexuses, the nei"ves suiTound the trunk o£ the carotid, and are lost chiefly in the cerebral membrane named pia mater : but some ascend on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of that vessel, and one offset is said to enter the eyeball with the central artery of the retina. Petrosal nerves (fig. 35). Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large superficial loetrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^) entering the liiatus Fallopii to join the facial nerve. External to this is occasionally seen another smo\\petrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^) (external superficial), which springs fi'om the sympathetic on the lai'ge meningeal arteiy, and enters the bone to join the facial ners'^e. A third, the small petrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^), is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source, and the destination of those three small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will sufiice now for the student to note the two first, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of the teguments should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTIOJT OF THE FACE. Directions. Directions. The left side of the face may be used for learning the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position Position. The previous position of the head for the examination of body. q£ ^j^g i^j^gg p£ ^1^3 ^^iji require to be changed :—the head is to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dissected is to be put upwards and fixed with hooks. Dissection. Dissection., As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres of the apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantityMUSCLES OF NOSE. 21 of tow or cotton wool between tlie eyelids and tlie eyeball, and between the lips and the teeth. First lay bare the sphincter muscle of the eyelids by a skin-deep Howto^ circular incision over the margin of tlie orbit, and by raising the f,.o„i skin of the lids towards the aperture of the eye. Much care must "^^^^^^"^ be taken in detaching the skin from the thin, and oftentimes pale fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, else they will be cut away in consequence of the little areolar tissue between the two. Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face from the by one incision in front of the ear, from above the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw, and then along the base of the jaw to the chin ; and by another cut carried backwards horizontally from the corner of the mouth into the first. The flaps of skin are to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On tlie side of the nose tlie skin is closely united to the subjacent from the parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth are many fleshy slips extending both upwards and downwards from the orbicular muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape injury, with the exception of the small risorius muscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards the ramus of the lower jaw. Whilst removing the fat from the muscles, each fleshy slip nnd around may be tightened with hooks. mouth. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as Facial the muscles ai-e cleaned ; but the nei-ves may be disregarded on "^'^s^eis this side. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, whose duct is to be and pai-otid preserved; this is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces sl^ud- , the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face (fig. 6). The superficial muscles of the face in the face are gathered around the apertures of the nose, eye, and mouth. An g^J^ro^itf ^ orbicular or sphincter muscle encircles the apertures of the eye and the aper- mouth; and other muscles ai-e blended with each to enlarge the opening in the centre of the fibres. There are three distinct groups of muscles : one of the eyelids ; another of the nostril ; and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One of the muscles of mastica- tion, -vniz. the masseter, is seen between the jaws. Muscles of the Nose. These muscles are the following : pyra- Muscles of midalis nasi, compressor naris, levator ala3 nasi, dilator naris, and depressor alaj nasi. The I'YKAMiDALis NASI (fig. 5, ^) is a small fleshy slip that covers P>-ramiaalis the nasal bone, and is continuous above with the occipito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous part of the nose its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins tliat of the compressor naris. Along its inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Action. This muscle makes tight the skin over the nasal carti- Use. lages, but renders lax, and sometimes wrinkles transversely the skin towards the root of the nose. CoMPUESSOR Nauis. This muscle (fig. 5, ^) is not well seen till Compressor after the examination of the following one. Triangular in shape, it arises by its apex from the canine fossa of the upper maxillaiyDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 Use. Elevator of wing of nose. Use. Dilator of iiosti'il; anterior and posterior parts. Use. Depressor of wing. Use. Four mus- cles of eye- lids. Fig. 5.' hone. The filJi-es are directed inAvarda, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, wliicli covers the cartiLnginouf* part of tlie nose, and joins the tendon of the opposite muscle. Tliis muscle is partly concealed by the next—the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose. The LEVATOE LABTi surERiORis ALiEQUE NASI (fig. 5, ^) is placed by the side of the nose, and arises fi'oni the top of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attachment of the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a nan-ow slip to the wing of the nose, wliilst the rest are blended mferiorly with the orbicularis oiis. Near its origin the muscle is partly con- cealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous- Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Actio7i. As the name expresses, it can raise the upper lip, and draw outwards the wing of the nose, dilating the aperture ; but when the mouth is shut it can enlarge the' nostril independently of the lip. Dilatator Naris. In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore and back part of that aperture (fig. 5, and ^), to wliich the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom -v-isible Avithout a lens. The anterior slip, passes fi-om the cartilage of the aperture to the integmnent of the margin of the nostril; and the posterior,arising from the upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raismg and everting the outer edge. The DEPRESSOR ALvE NASI (fig. 5,") will be seen if the upper lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed fz-om the side of the fi-tenum of the Hp. It arises below the nose fi-om a depression of the upper jawbone above the roots of the second incisor and canine teeth ; and ascends to be inserted into the septum nasi and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down imd turnmg in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the apertm-e to its usual size. Muscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow ai-e four in number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator * Muscles of the nose. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. Tlie two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alai nasi. 7. Orbicukuis oris, attached to the septum nasi.MUSCLES OF EYELIDS. 23 supcrcilii, levator palpebra; siipcrioris, and tensor tarsi : the two latter are dissected in the orbit, and -will be described with it. The ORBICULARIS rALPEBRARUM (fig. G,') is the sphincter muscle OrWeuiaris closing the opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, J.^,,''? wliich extends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumfer- ence of the orbit. From a difference in the characters of the fibres, a di\asion has been made of them into two parts—outer and inner, two parts. The exteiiial fibres (orbital part), the best marked, are fixed only orbital or at one point, viz., the inner angle of the orbit. This attachment (origin) is connected with the surface and borders of the small futernally tendo palpebrarum ; above the tendon with the nasal process of the upper maxillaiy, and the internal angular process of the fi-ontal bone; and below the tendon with the superior maxillary bone, and the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the outer edge of the muscle where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. The internal fibres (palpebral part), paler and finer than J^^^^^^^^j'"' outer, occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner part, angles of the orbit. Internally (origin) they are united with the attaclied at ] tendo palpebrarum, and externally (insertion) with the external ^^^^ tarsal ligament and the malar bone, and some few may blend with the orbital part. Close to the cilia or eyelashes the fibres form a Ciliary small pale bundle, which is sometimes called ciliary. The muscle is subcutaneous ; and its circumference is blended Connection above with the occipito-fi-ontalis. Beneath the upper half of the '''"^ i'"'"*'^- orbiculaiis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the comigator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and neiwe ; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The inner fibres cause the lids to approach each other. Use of inner shutting the eye; and in forced contraction the outer commissure ''^"^^ is drawn inwards. In closure of the eye the lids move unequally —the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. When the outer fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the outer fibres, skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper lip follows contraction of the outer part of the orbicularis, in consequence of fibres being prolonged to the levator labii superioris. The CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII is beneath the orbicularis, near the Corragator inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed outwards to join the orbicular muscle about tlic middle of the orbital arch. It ^^'!*^» is a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Action. It d?.a,w8 inwards and downwards the mid-part of the Use. * Tlie tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of the orbiculans.24 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Muscles of the mouth. eyebrow, wrinkling vertically tlic skin near the nose, and etretchinff that outside its point of insertion. AIuscLKs OF TIIK MouTH. The muscles of the aperture of the month consist of a sphincter ; an elevator of the upper lip and angle o± the mouth ; an elevator and depressor of the lower lip anc angle of the mouth ; and retractors of the corner. Lastly, a wide muscle of the cheek closes the space between the jaws. FiK. 6.* Spliincter of the mouth consists of two parts, <|niler or scircular, not fixed to bone. Outer, irregular, The ORBICULARIS ORIS MUSCLE (fig. 6,") suiTOunds the opening of the mouth, and is united Avith the several muscles acting on that aperture. It consists of two parts, inner and outer, which differ in the appearance and arrangement of the fibres, like the sphincter muscle of the ej^elids. The inner jiart (fig. 5,'), whose fibres are pale in colour and fine in texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus, wliich corresponds with the red margin of the lip. The fibres of this portion of the muscle, unattached to bone, blend with the buccinator at the corner of the mouth, and some jjass from to lip. The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, and is connected with the subjacent bone, besides its union with the * 1. Occipito-frontalis, anterior belly ; 4. Posterior belly. 2. Orbicularis 2)alpebraruin. 3. Levator labii superioris alreque nasi. 5. Compressor nasi. 6. Levator labii supcrioris. 7. Zygomaticus minor (too large). 8. Zygo- maticus major. 9. Eisorius. 10. Masseter. 11. Orbicularis oris. 12. Depressor labii inferioris. 13. Depressor anguli oris. 14. Buccinator, t Levator anguli oris.25 MUSCLES OF MOUTH. adjacent muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the middle line, by one slip (naso-labial) to the back of the septum of the nose (fig. 6, ') ; and by a thin stratum to the outer surface of the upper jaw, opposite the canine tooth, and external to the depressor of the wing of the nose. In the lower lip it is fixed on n^f^^.^on^ eacii side into the mferior jawbone, opposite the canme tooth, ^^^^^^^ external to the levator labii inferioris muscle. To see these attach- ments the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane carefully raised. The inner margin of the muscle is fi-ee, and bounds the aperture Conncc- of the mouth; while the outer edge blends with the different muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary arteiy, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. Action. Both parts of the muscle contracting, the lips are pressed '^1^^''^°^ together and projected forwards, and the aperture of the mouth is diminished transversely by the approximation of the corners towards each other. The inner fibres acting alone will turn inwards the red part of inner alone, the lip, and diminish the width of the buccal opening. The outer fibres press the lips against the dental arches, the fi-ee Outer alone edges being protruded and somewhat everted. At the same time the centre part of the nose is depressed and the chin raised by means of the fleshy slips connected with those parts. The LEVATOR LABii surERiORis (fig. 6, extends vertically from Elevator of the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises ivom ^^^^'^ ^1'- , the upper maxillary and malar bones above the infra-orbital fora- men, and blends inferiorly with the orbicularis oris. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbiculazis palpebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the connnon Connec- olevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. Actio7i. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and Use. the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. 6, is Opposite the elevator Depressor of of the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres. ''f The muscle has a wide origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching backwards fi-om near the symphysis to a little licyond the hole for the labial vessels and nerve ; ascending thence it is united with the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border is in the joins in the lip the muscle of the opposite side ; and its outer is °^ overlapped below by the dejDressor anguli oris. ' Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same use. side is depressed and everted ; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS (levator menti) is a small muscle levator on the side of tlie fn-pnum of the lower lip, which is opposite the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the lip26 Use. Elevntoi' of the iuiglii .loiiis cleijressor. Use. Depressor of angle. Use. Zygoiiintic muscles; large ami small. Use. Kisorius muscle. Use. Buccinator muscle. Origin. Insertion at t:orner.s of the muuth. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. has been everted and tl.o mucous membrane removed, the muscle wdl be seen to arise from a fossa near tlie symphysis of the h.wer 3aw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position IS internal to the depressor of the lip and the attach- ment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the cliin opposite its insertion, and assists in raising the lower hp. The levator anguli oris (fig. 6, f) has well-marked fibres, and is partly concealed by the levator hibii superioris. Arising fi-om the canine fossa beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the muscles, but the greater number are continued into the depressor anguli oris and the lower hp. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts as an antagonist to the depressor. The DEPRESSOR AKGULi ORIS (fig. G, is triangular in shape ; it arises from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw ; and ascending to the angle of the mouth, its fibres are prolonged into the elevator of the angle. The muscle conceals the labial branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At its origin the depressor is united with the platysma myoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards and back- wards by it, as is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The ZYGOMATIC MUSCLES (fig. 6) are directed obliquely from the arch of the same name towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is longer and larger than the other ; they are there- fore named major and minor. The zycjomaticns major^ arises fi-oin the outer part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor,^ is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upiaer lip. Action. The large muscle inclines upwards and backwards the corner of the mouth ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lip. The RISORIUS MUSCLE (Santorini) (fig, 6,") is a thin and narrow bmidle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Action. The use of this muscle is indicated by its name, as it retracts the corner of the mouth in laughing. The BUCCINATOR (fig. 6, '■*) is the flat and thin muscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. The muscle ar/scs fronj the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxilh-c, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the interval between the jaws behind it is attached to a band of fascia—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From the origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix27 VESSELS OF FACE. ^viththe other muscles and with both parts of the orbicuLans ; and as some of the central hbres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner o± the mouth. . -i ^ ■ On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the diflEerent muscles c-?^- converging to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle oppo- site the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngeal) that is continued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and the cheek wrinkled. By the action of both the aperture of the ' mouth is widened transversely. In mastication the cheek is pressed by the muscular contraction o'^ cheek, agamst the dental arches, when the comer of the mouth is fixed by the sphincter. In the expulsion of air fi-om the mouth, as in whistling, the m expelling: muscle is contracted so as to prevent bulging of the cheek ; but in the use of a blow-pipe it is distended over the volume of air con- tained in the mouth, and drives out a continuous stream of air by its contraction. The VESSELS OF THE FACE (fig. 17) are the facial and transverse Arteries of ^ . . , . the tace. facial artenes with then- accompanying veins, ihe artenes are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery (fig. 17, /), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and appears on the lower jaw anterior to the masseter "■^^^^'^ • muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial in the mass of course, fat of the inner part of the cheek. At first it is concealed by the platysma whilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not t/o,'ig'^°""^"' prevent pulsation being recognised during life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elcAMtor of the upjoer lip. Accompanjnng the arteiy is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to the outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches Plan of the are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anas- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches :— The inferior labial branch (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor Inferior anguli^ oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin ; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r aiul a). There is one for each lip Csunerior ^ coronaryDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 28 Brniu'li to Lateral uasiil Jjmiicli. Angular liraiiuli. Facial vein away from arteiy; .ioincd liy Ijrauclio.s, nivhin" ^^'^ inferior), wliicli arise togetlicr or separately from tlie facial, oaclili'i.. ^"f^ "^'^ directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip, till tliey inosculate with the corres- ponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum of the nose,—artery of ihe neptum. The lateral nasal branch (j)) arises opposite the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alasque nasi to the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the internal nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The amjular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch (external nasal) of the ophthalmic arterj'. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose in a small vein named angular (p. 6). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and separating fi-om the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches. At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from the lower eyelid, (inferior ^lalpebral) and fi-om the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orhital vein, also hy a large branch, anterior internal maxillary, that comes fi-om the pteiygoid region ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the artery in the face and neck. The transverse facial artery (fig. 17) is a branch of the temporal, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in fi-ont of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin fi-om the surface towards the ear by means of a cut fi-om the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued in front over the face ; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular nen-e Avill be seen ascending to' the lobe of the ear ; and one or two small glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The PAROTID (fig. 16, ^'') is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure; the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub-maxillary gland, though separated connections; from it by a process of the cervical fascia; a line from the angle Transverse fecial artery Juay bare tlio jiarotid. Parni-id Kland. Jn-cgular 7)1 sliaiie:PAROTID GLAND. 29 of the law to the stemo-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the -land in this direction. Above the parotid is limited by the zy-omatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly the gland projects somewhat on the face, and in this direction a small accessory part, accessory socia parotidis, is prolonged over the masseter. ^ . , ^ Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct—duct The duct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis, fig. 17), which crosses the masseter ,„<,utu: below the socia parotidis, and perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn fi-om the meatus auditorius to a httle below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the open- in"- into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches itsleiijjtli and a half ; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and one or two Smface of lymphatic glands are seated on it; but fi-om the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the hollows Disaection that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dissector will part's!' '^^^ see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attend- ing any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the n.eck. Deep P*^^ One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the |"w. mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, wliilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid liolloAV behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillaiy arterj\ Coursing tlirough the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels ana artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficial to the artery lies the trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, from which the external jugular vein springs; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from the parotid, is connected with the internal jugular vein by a branch through the gland.** Crossing the gland fi'om behind "ei-^'cs the glami * Oftentimes there is a difTerciit arrangement of tliese veins. In sucli case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (half or all) and posterior auricular veins ; whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), which receives the facial below the jaw, and opens into tlie internal jugular vein opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary vein accompanies the external carotid artery.so DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Structure of gliUUl. The duct lias two coats. Tassels and nerves. Molar glands. H'asal car- tilages. Take away tissue from ■surface. The upper •cartilage touches its fellow. forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which passes over the artery, and distributes its branches tlirough the parotid. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nei-vc lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. The structure of the parotid resembles that of the other salivaiy glands. The glandular mass is divided into numerous small lobules by intervening processes of fascia; and each lobule consists of a set of the fine closed saccular extremities of the branched excretory duct, which are lined by flattened and nucleated epithe- lium, and surrounded by capillary vessels. These little sacs form by their aggregation the mass of each lobiile. From the lobules issue small ducts, which imite to form larger tubes, and finally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. The common duct (duct of Stenson) is composed of an external fibrous coat, consisting of white and elastic fibres; and of an internal mucous coat which is clothed with columnar epithelium. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands he along the origin of the buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar tooth by separate ducts. Cartilages of the Nose (fig. 7). These close the anterior nasal aperture in the skeleton, and form part of the outer nose and the septum. They are five in number, two on each side—lateral cartilage and cartilage of the aper- ture ; together with a central one, or the cai-- tilage of the septum of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen when the muscular and fibrous structure of the left side of the nose, and the skin of the loweri part of the nostril of the same side, have be^ taken away. By turning aside the lateral car- tilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The upper lateral cartilage (fig. 7, ^) is flat- tened, and is somewhat triangular in form. Posteriorly it is at- tached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it meets the one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but the two are separated beloAv by an intei-val, in which the cartilage of the septtmi appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. * Lateral cartOages of the nose. 1. Triangular septal cartilage. 2 Upper lateral cartilage. I Lower lateral, or the cartilage of tl^^^Perture, the outer pTrt 4 Inner part of the cartilage of the aperture. 5. Nasal bone.31 ArrENDAGES OF EYE. Tlie cartilage of the aperture (fig. 7) forms a ring around the Tiie lower opening of the nose except behind. It lias not any attachment ^J-™^« directly to bone ; but it is united above to the lateral cartilage by „ot inserted fibrous tissue, and below with the dense teguments forming the bone, margin of the aperture of the nostril. The part of the cartilage which bounds the opening exter- Tially, is narrow and pointed behind, where it ends in two or three "^l^l^^:^ small pieces of cartilage—cartilacjines minores vel sesamoidea:; but cartilages; swells out in fi-ont where it touches its fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. The inner part (•*) projects backwards along the septum of the ^JJig^^^'^^J^^ nose nearly to the superior maxillary bone ; it assists in the for- mation of the partition between the nostrils, and extends below the level of the septum nasi. The Appendages of the Eye include the eyebrow, the eyelid. Appendages and the lachrj^al apparatus. Some of these can be examined" "^"^i*^- now on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been completed. The ei/ehroio (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the Eyebrow, eye which is placed over the orbital arch of the fi'ontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids' are two moveable semilmiar parts in front of the Eyelids, eye, which can be approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the largest and the most moveable, and descends below Upper the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided largest: Avith a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named Jissicra palpebrarum. Externally and intei-nally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free margin is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is semi- shape of lunar in form ; but towards the inner side, about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it becomes straighten At the spot PapiUa. where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 13, the papilla lachrymalis ; and in this is the punctum lachrymale, or the Panctmn. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near Hairs and the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian ^P^rtures. glands : but both the cilia and the glands are absent fi-om the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The fi-ee margin of each lid is sharp at the anterior edge where it Edge sloped touches its fellow ; but is sloped at the posterior, so as to leave an interval between it and the eyeball for the passage inwards of fluid. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which Eyelashes, are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid'; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre to the sides. The cilia are convex towards one another, and cross when the lids are shut. The Structure of the Eyelids. Each lid consists fundament- Different ally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bone bv li"-amentR i"""*^"^ J tj">n\-uiD. eyelids.S2 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Exninino structui-o of lids. Tjayer of orbicularis. A fibrous layer. Cartilage forms part of the lid : difference in the two lids. Xiigament of eyelids attaches cartilages. Setaceous tubes beneath cartilage. their stnicture. Tendon of Superlici.al to this framework are the integuments witli a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator palpebras. Vessels and nerves are contained in the lids. Dissection. The student may learn the sti'ucture of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids ; and the palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle is to be thrown inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral ligament beneath, and of vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis palpelrarum. The palpebral fibres of this muscle form a pale layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids (p. 23). A thin stratum of areolar tissue without fat unites the muscle with the skin. The palpehral ligament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, which is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the free edge of each tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the hgament is tliin and loose, but at the outer part it is somewhat thicker and stronger. The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, are elongated trans- versely, and give strength to the lids. Each is fixed internally by the ligament of the eyelids ; and externally by a fibrous band— external tarsal ligament, to the outer side of the orbit. The margin corresponding with the edge of the lid is fi"ee, and thicker than the rest of the cartilage. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous membrane or conjunctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the two lids. In the upper eyelid, where the cartilage is largest, it is crescentic in shape, and is about half an inch wide in the centre ; and to its fore part the tendon of the levator palpebras is attached. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow band, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight. Ligament of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, internal tarsal liga- ment) is a small fibrous band at the inner side of the orbit, which serves to fix the lids, and is attached to the anterior margin of the lachrjmial groove in the upper jaw. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and divides mto two processes, which are united with the tarsal cartilages one to each. This ligament crosses the lachry- mal sac, to which it gives a fibrous expansion ; and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise fr-om it. The Meibomian glands or follicles are placed in grooves on the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend, parallel to one another, from the tliick towards the opposite margm of the cartilage ; and their number is about thirty in the upper, and twenty in the lower hd. The apertures of the glands open in a line at the fr-ee border of the lid near the posterior edge. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral cascal appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by flattened epithelium, the palpebral ligament be cut through in the upper Ud, the33 AURICLE OF TUE EAR. tendon of the levator 2}(dpehrce will be seen to be inserted into the levat >r fore part of the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeurotic expansion. palpei-nc. The conjunctiva, or the mucous membrane, lines the iiitei-ior of Mucous^ the eyelids, and covers the anterior part of the eye-ball. Inside '"'"^ the lids it is inseparably united to the tarsal cartilages, and has nmnerous fine papilltc. At the free margin of the lids this mem- brane joins the common integuments. Through the lachrymal canals and sac it is continuous with the pituitary membrane of the nose. At the inner commissm-e of the eyelids the conjunctiva forms a prominent and fleshy-looking body — caninculu lachrymalis, (fig. 13, ■*) which contains a group of mucous follicles, and has a few mimite hairs on its surface. External to the caruncle is a small t/^^,o°"^o]d. vertical fold of the mucous membrane—plica semilunaris; this extends to the ball of the eye, and represents the membrana nictitans of birds. Bloodvessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries fm-nislied by the paljjebral and lachrymal bi'anclies of the opli- thalmic artery :— The palpebral arteries, one for each ej'^elid, run outwards fi'om Palpebral the inner canthus, lying between the tarsal cartilage and tlie tendon of the special elevator in the upper lid, and between the cartilage and the palpebral ligament in the lower lid ; and they anastomose externally with the lachr^anal arteiy. From each arch branches are distributed to the lid. The laclmjmal artery furnishes an offset to each lid to form '''"^ lacliiy- arches ^vith the palpebral arteries, and then perforates the palpebral ligament at the outer part of the orbit to end in the upper eye-lid. The veins of the lids open into the fi-ontal and angular veins at Veins, the root of the nose (pp. 6, 28). The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic and Nerves of facial ner^•e8. ^'^^^ The branches of the ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth) which give from fifth oflisets to the upper lid, ai-e the foUowmg : lachrymal, near the outer part ; supra-orbital, about the middle ; and supra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (pp. 41,44). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a palpebral branch of the superior maxillary tnmk of the fifth nerve. Branches of the facial nerve (p. 38) enter both lids at the outer seventh angle, and supply the orbicularis muscle ; they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nen'e. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a trumpet-shaped ^''""^^ox- structure, named pinna or auricle, which receives the undulations ^"'""^ of the air ; and of a tube—meatus auditorius, which conveys them to the inner ear. The pinna may be now examined on the left side of the head; but the anatomy of the meatus will be described with the ear (p. 739). Tlie pinna, or auricle, is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, Te.xture m.d which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of the ^""'^ °^ meatus auditorius externus. It is of an oval form, with the margin folded and the larger end placed upwards.34 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Surfaces marked by fossiB and eiiuuences Margin. _ The surface next tlie head is generally convex ; but the opposite IS excavated, and presents the undermentioned elevations and de- pressions. In the centre is a deep liollow named concha, which is wide above but narrow below; it conducts to the meatus auditorius In fi-ont of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the trarjus, which has some hairs on the under sm-face ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection —the antitrafjus. ' The round rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into tlie concha, is called the helix ; and the depression internal to it is the gi-oove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, between it and the Fig. 8.* Lol)iile. Five small muscles of external ear. How to finrl the muscles. One muscle on tragus. One on aiititnvgus. concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a well-marked depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the external ear is terminated by a soft pendulous part, the lohule. The special muscles of the pinna, which extend fi'om one part of the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. Five small muscles are to be recognised; and these receive then* names for the most part from the several eminences of the external ear. Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the integu- ments be removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessaiy for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will not find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 8 ^) is always fomid on the external aspect of the jDrocess from which it takes its name. The fibres are short, oblique, or transverse, and extend fi-om the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 8 -) is the best marked of all. * Muscles on the outer surface of tbe ear cartilage. 1. ^luscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the ear cartilage. 7. Oblique muscle (Tod) sometimes seen. 6. Transverse muscle.35 CARTILAGE OF AURICLE. It anses from the outer part of the antitragns, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antilichx. ^ The small muscle of the helix (fig. 8, is often mdistmct or One^on^root absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends into the concha. . « The large muscle of the helix (fig. 8, arises above the small muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse muscle of the auricle (fig. 8,«) forms a wide layer, ^^^^^^^^^^ wliich is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between concha, the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen Avhen that tissue is removed. Actions. These muscles are said to alter slightly the condition of Use. the outer ear ; the muscles of the helix assisting, and those of the tragus and antitragus retarding the passage of sonorous undulations to the meatus. Dissection. The pinna may now be detached by cutting it close Clean the to the bone. When the integuments are entirely taken off, the ' cartilage of the pinna will be apparent ; but in removing the integuments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 8. The cartilage of the j^inna (fig. 8) resembles much the external Cartilage ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim of the of'erferaia helix subsides posteriorly in the antihelix about the middle of the ear. pinna ; whilst anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The antihelix is divided about peficieut two-thirds down into two pieces; one of these is pointed, and jg "''"^""'^J' joined by the helix, the other is continued into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical i^rocess of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external and at npper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion of the maitus. meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and outer part that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the outer end of the meatus its fissures, are two fissures (Santorini) : one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, but others pass Ligaments: from one point to another of the cartilage. The external ligaments are condensed bands of fibrous tissue, and i^xtomal; are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passes from the back of the concha to the mastoid process. The chief sjjecial ligament crosses the interval between the tragus and special, the helix, and completes the tube of the auditory meatus. The FACIAL NKKVK (portio dura, fig. 9) or the seventh cranial ontiino of nerve, confers contractility on the muscles of the face. Numerous "orve, D 236 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Dissection of nerve beyond parotid, on temple, in eyelids in the face. on lower jaw. The nerve in the parotid, and muscu- lar branches, Branches outside tlie skull. Posterior auricular branch. Branch to digastric. communications take place between it and the fiftli nerve ; the chief of these are fomid above and below the orbit, and over tlie side of the lower jaw. Dissection. ^ The facial nerve is to be displayed on the riglit side of the face if there is time sufficient before the body is turned, otherwise it is to be omitted for the present (see p. 1). Some of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose the ramifications of the nerve beyond the parotid gland, raise the skin from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have been already partly dissected above the zj^gomatic arch ; and then- junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary and the supra-orbital nerve has been seen. Other still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and com- municate with the other nerves in the lids ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar nerve of the fifth. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction Avith the infra-orbital, nasal, and infi-a-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size. One joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip, and to the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trunk of the nerve through the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface of the jjarotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding its small branches of communication with the great auricular nerve, and the deep branches from it to the auriculo- temporal nerve (of the fifth), are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the ear and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the nerve enters the parotid. The Nerve outside the Skull (fig. 9, ^^). The nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— The posterior auricular branch (fig. 9, ■*) turns upwards in front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an offset of the great auricular, and is said to be joined by a branch to the ear fi-om the pneumo-gastric (cranial) nerve ; it ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). The branch to the digastric muscle arises generally in common with the next. It is distributed by many offsets to the posterior belly of the muscle near the skull.37 FACIAL NERVE. The Imnch to the stuh-hjouleus is a long slender nerve, which ^^^i^.^j.^i. is directed inwards, and enters its muscle about the mKldle. This deus. branch communicates with tlie sympathetic nerve on the exteraal """^^i the facial nerve has given off those branches, it is D^s^n directed forwards through the gland, and divides near tlie ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TKSirORO-FACiAL TRUNK furnishes offsets to the side of the The upper head and face, whose ramifications extend as low as the corner of the mouth. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid arteiy, * Cutaneous brandies of the fifth nerve in the face. 7. Nasal nerve. 8. Infra-trochlear. 9. Sub-cutaneous malar. 11. Infra-orbital. 12. Buccal. l.'J. Labial of inferior dental, l.o. Facial or seventh cranial neiTc, sending back the posterior auricular branch, 4, and forwards its numerous oflsets to join the branches of the fifth nerve above enumerated.38 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. it sends downwards branches to join tlie auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxiUary nerve ; and in front of the ear it gives lias throo some lilaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of terminal braiicLs. hranches, temporal, malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the temporo-facial piece. Temiioiiil The temporal hranches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch tosuie'of *° orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the head. anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis; they are united with offsets of the supra-orbital nerve ("). The attrahens aurem muscle receives a branch from this set ; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary ner^'^e Mniiir The malar hranches are directed to the outer angle of the orbit, to'eyeiicin. fii'S distributed to the orbicularis muscle. In the eyelids com- munications take place with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve ; and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small sub- cutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve Branches The infra-orhital hranches are larger than the rest, and are and^molitii^ furnishcd to the muscles and the integument between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication—infra-orhital plexus^ is formed between these nerves and the infi'a-orbital branches of the superior masillaiy (^'). After crossing the branches of the fifth nen'^e, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply the muscles, and to join the nasal (") and infi-a-trochlear (^) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. ' Lower part The CERVico-FAClAL is smaller than the other trunk, and distri- of the trunk j^^^gg nerves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face. This three sets of trunk, wMlst in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united branches. ^^^-^j^ great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed fi-om it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. Buccal to The huccal hranches pass forwards towards the angle of the comer of mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle, and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. Htipi,"- The supra-maxillary hranches course imvards above the base of Sveen^ the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and supply the nunlthm.d muscles and the integument between the chin and mouth. In their com-se to the middle line the branches of the facial join beneath the depressor anguU oris offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nei-ve ("). The infra-maxillary hranches lie below the jaw, and are dis- maxii'lary tributcd to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these to neck. jiei^ygg be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 59).39 PERIOSTEUM OF ORBIT, Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be Icamt on that side on whicli the muscles of the face have been seen. Position. In the examination of that cavity the head is to be r;'s>tw'^of placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. For the display of the contents of the orbit, it will be ^ow to open necessary to take away the cotton wool fi-om beneath the eyelids, ^aw, To remove the bones forming the roof of the space, two cuts may be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of tlie cavity ; and these should be continued backwards with a chisel, along the t-hisel, roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by '^^^^^°^]'' the small -wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a naiTOw ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, which may interfere ■with the dissection, may be likewse removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit, which has been detached fi-om the Periosteum bone in the dissection, sm-rounds the contents of the orbital cavity, °^ and joins the dura mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It encases the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the mem- Apertures brane for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and ^ * laterally prolongations of the periosteum accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. Tlie periosteum is next to be divided along the middle Open of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little Periosteum, fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into Aaew ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat in this stage of tlie di.ssection. The frontal neiwe and the supra-orbital vessels lie in the centre ; Position of the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall; and the cavitv." small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves enter the cavity above the muscles. The superior oblique muscle is re- cognised by the fourth neiwe entering it: the levator palpebral and superior rectus lie beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards Trace super- to their exit from the orbit, and backwards with the fourth nerve, "ei'ves. tlirough the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernous40 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Orbit has seven muscles, several cra- nial nerves ; their distri- bution ; iuiil some vessels. Lachrymal gland at outer part of orbit. Ducts open on upper eyelid. Fourth i^erve supplies superior oblique. Ophthalmic gives three branclies. i*'runtal branch su])plies followiu}' sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, shotdd this still remain ; and some Ciire will be required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its com- mencement. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball and the lachrymal gland, and a great quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Con- nected with the eye are six nmscles—four straight and two obli que ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves hi this small space are numerous, viz. the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the jsmall temporo-inalar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and offsets of the sympathetic ; their general distribution is as follows :—The second nerve penetrates the eyeball; the tliird is furnished to all the muscles of the cavity but two ; the fourth enters the superior obhque (one of the two excepted) ; and the sixth is spent in the extenial rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sympathetic, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. The lachrymal gland (fig. 10, F) secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something like an almond, and lies across the eye. From its anterior part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland ; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. In structure the lachrymal resembles the salivaiy glands; and its very fine ducts, fi'om eight to twelve in number, open by as many apertures in a semicircular line on the inner aspect of the upper eyelid towards the outer canthus. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 10, ^) is the most internal of the three nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. After reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior oblique muscle, which it pierces at the orbital surface,—the rest of the nerves of the muscles except one entering the ocular surface. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK of the fifth nerve (fig. 10, p. 18), as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, fiu-nishes fi-om its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the fi'ontal and lachrymal branches ; the former passes into the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. The frontal nerve (fig. 10, ") is close to tiie outer side of tlie fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the orbit, and supplying anterioriy a supra-trochlear branch (•*), leaves that cavity by the supra-orbital notch. Taking41 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. tl.e name supra-orhital it ascends on the forehead, and supplies the external part of tlie head (p. G). ^ ^ ,.u ' Whilst in the notch the nerve gives palpelral filaments to the v^^^ ''^'^Ctpm-trochlear hranch (') passes inwards a^bove the pulley B^nch of the upi)er oblique nnisclo, and leaves the orbit to end m the p^uiey: eyeli.l and forehead (p. 7). Before the nerve turns round the Fig. 10.* margin of the frontal hone, it sends downwards a branch of com- nnmication to the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. Fre- quently there arc two supra-troclilear branches ; in such instances one arises near the back of the orbit. The lachrymal nerve (fig. 10, ^) after entering the orbit in a separate tube of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland to the upper l yelid, where it pierces tlie palpebral ligament, and is distributed to the stractures of the lid. The neiwe furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland ; and near * First view of tlio orbit (lUusfcnitions of Dissections). Muscles .-—A. Su- Ijcrinr oblique, ii. Levator palpcbrre. o. E.xternal rectus, d. Superior rectus, y. Liicliryinul gland. iV«avs . — l. Fourth. 2. Frontal. 3. Lacliry- nial. 4. Supra-troclilear. 6. Offset of lachrymal to join teniporo-nialar. sometimes two. Lftclirymal nerve ends in eyelid; ofTsets .join superior insixillary.DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 42 Nftsal, aftov wards. Dissectiiiii. Elevator of upper eyeliu attjiclied to tarsal car- tilage. Connec- tions. Use. Upper rec- tus iiiiiscle. Origin. Iiisertiun. Position to other parts. Use. Upper obliiiuc muscle enters a loop. In.sertioii. Connec- tiuns. Pulley of the imiHcIe. the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments (") to join the temporo-malai- or orhital hranch of the superior maxillary nerve. Occasionally it has a communicating filament hehind with the fourth nei-ve. The nasal nerve is not visihle at this stage of the dissection : it will he noticed afterwards in p. 43. Dissection. Divide the frontal nei-ve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior piece of the nerve, the separate origin of the nasal hranch from the ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR rALPKBR;E SUPERIORIS (fig. 10, B) is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in fi-ont of the.optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the eyelid to be inserted by a wide tendon into the front of the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the fi-ontal nen'-e and the periosteum ; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the centre a small branch of the third nei-ve will be seen entering the posterior half at the under surface. Action. The lid-cartilage is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the teguments of the lid being drawn inwards at the same time. If the eyeball is directed down, the movement of the lid is less free, because the conjunctiva is put on the stretch. The RECTUS SUPERIOR ("fig. 10, ^) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises fi-om the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In fi-ont the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the ti-ans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact Avith the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwaixls seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 47). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 10, ^) is tliin and narrow, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises beliind fi-om the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11) is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat beliind the middle of the ball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle Hes between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The imlley, or trochlea (fig. H), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring43 THIRD AND NASAL NERVES. nearly a quarter of an inch wide, wliich is attached by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inTicr angle o± the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margins of tlie pulley on the tendon ; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the free motion of the tendon, this pro- longation may be cut away. , . For the use of the muscle, see the description of the mfenor Use. oblique, p. 49. . i n rv- r Dmection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided Di.s.ecfon. about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 11), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein Avill come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve : these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the pos- terior part of the orbit. By talung away the fat between the optic nerve and the external To^jind len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fine gangiiou, nerve-threads (ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nen^e ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, they will guide to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head) and its branches. The dissector should find then two branches and offsets, from the nasal and third nerves to tlie ganglion; the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind, and that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, ^ll^^gg*"^ third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Third nen-e sinus (fi^. 4, *) ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachry- mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between as it enters the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two parts. The upper piece (fig. 11, ^), the smallest in size, ends in the its upper imder surface of the levator palpebraj and superior rectus muscles. ^^'''""^^''> The lower piece supplies some of the other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). The nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve (fig. 11, ^) enters the Nasal nerve, orbit between the heads of the rectus, lying between the two parts of the tliird nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal General (nasal) artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margin tiie nu;e° of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the ' nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate ; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed outwards between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orUt the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath in the orbit.44 Branches. Long root lentiruliir ganglion. Long cilinr bnuiL-lies. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. the superior rectus and levator palpebraj muscles, and lies afterwards bclo-vv tlie superior oblique ; in tliis part of its course it furnishes the lolJowiiig- branches :— The branch to ihe lenticular ganglion is about halP an inch long and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve comes into the orbit: this is the long- root of the lenticular ganglion, ■y Long ciliary branches. As the nasal cro.sscs the optic nerve, it supplies two or more ciliary branches (fig. 11) to the eyeball. Fig. 11.* Infra-trocli- lear tauKh. These lie on the inner side of the optic, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. The infra-trochlear branch ("■) arises as the nasal nerve is about to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, to end in the upper eyelid, the con- junctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the siipra-troch- lear nei-ve. * Second view of the orbit (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles :— A. Suxjerior oblique, b. Levator palpebrce and upper rectus tlirown baclc to- gether, c. External rectus, d. Fore part of upper rectus, i'. Lachr^aual gland. Nerves :—1. Nasal nerve beginning outside tlie orbit. 2. Its infi-a- troclilear branch. 3. Lenticular ganglion :—4. its branch to the third nerve ; 5. its branch (too large) to the nasal nerve. 7. ISranch of third to inferior oblique muscle. 7. Ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. 8. Upper branch of the third. 9. Sixth nerve. 10. Third nerve, outside the orbit.45 OPIITnALMIC ARTERY. In the nose (fig. 34). Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- Na^^,^'■■"^^ve nishes branches to the lining membrane of the septum narmm and outer wall; these will be subsequently referred to with the nerves of the nose (p. 14.3). Terminathn of the nasal nerve (fig. 9). After the nerve becomes .™i i" the cutaneous on the side of the nose, as seen in the dissection of tlie facial nerve (p. 3G), it descends beneath the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the wing and tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC or LENTICULAK GANGLIO.V of the sympatllctlC Lonticul.ir nerve (fig. 11, ^) is a small round body, of the size of a pin's head, and of a slight red colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit Situation. between the optic nen-e and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to the ophthalmic artery. By its pos- Coiinec- terior part tlie ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary nerves to the eyeball. The ganglion communicates with sensory, motoiy, and sympathetic nerves. The offsets of communication are three in number. One, the loncj Tiiree roots: root is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins long, the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thickness (^sliort root "*) passes from the inferior angle to join the branch of siiort, the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the third root is derived from the sympathetic (the cavernous plexus), and sym- either in union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the I'^it'i^tic. posterior border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nei-ves (fig. 11) are ten or twelve in Ciliary number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper t™yebaii. and lower angles at the front of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy the outer and under parts, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal neiwe. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY, a branch of the internal carotid, is Ophtiialmic transmitted into the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the '"'t'^ry. vessel is outside the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards, over or under the nerve, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it ends in a nasal branch (external) on the side of the nose (fig. 17, "), and in the orbit, anastomoses with the angular and nasal branches of the facial. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable Branches, in size, and may be arranged in three sets:—one arising outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on the inner side. Tlie lachn/mal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name Ladirymal to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and ^'"""^'^ anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva; and it t;i gland: anastomoses with the large meningeal artery by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. At the front of the orbit it sends a small branch with each of offsets.46 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Branch to retina. Sui)rn-()rlii- tiil branrli. Ciliary arteries are posterior— two named long ciliary ; and an- terior. Muscular. Etlnnoidal , branches, posterior and an- terior. Branches to eyelids. Frontal branch. Ophthalmic vein ends in ca- vernous sinus. Optic nerve the terminal pieces of the teniporo-malar nerve ; and tlicse join the temporal and transverse facial arteries. The central arteiij of the retina is a very small branch wliich pierces the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eye- ball. The supra-orhital branch arises beneath the levator palpebras and superior rectus muscles; it then takes the course of the nerve of tlie same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 5). As it winds round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. The ciliary brandies are imcertain in their place of origin and enter the eyeball at the fi-ont and back :— The ]}osterior ciliary, about twelve in number, are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the i30sterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nen^e), named long ciliary, pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise fi'om muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the eyeball (p. 730). The muscular branches are uncertam in their place of origin ; and those to the lower muscles often arise together as one tnink. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are directed through the foramina in the inner wall of the orbit :— The posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishing small meningeal offsets (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull, descends into the nose cavity, through the openings in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nasal nerve to the cavity of the nose (Section XIV.), and gives likeA\ase meningeal offsets to the dura mater, and the fore part of the falx cerebri. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyehds (p. 33). "i^he frontal branch tams round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 5). The ophthalmic vein con-esponds in its course and most of its branches with the artery of the same name. It begins at the inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tribu- tary branches in its progress to the back of the ca-saty. Posteriorly it leaves the artery, and escapes from the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is surrounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot the ciliary47 RECTI MUSCLES. arteries and nei-ves entwine around it. It tenninates in the retinal expansion of the eye. ^ Dissection (fig. 12). Take away the ophthahnic vessels, and divide DisHeet.on. the optic nerve about its middle, together witli the small ciliary vessels and nen^es. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it m that position with hooks. On removing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, Avill appear; and lying on the two first, are the oflisets of the lower branch of the third nerve. The lowei' branch of the third nerve (fig. 12) supplies tlu-ee L..wer muscles in the orbit. Whilst entering this space between the tiiiiiMicive heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve di\ades into three branches. One C) enters the internal rectus ; sm'pHes another (*), the inferior rectus ; and the third (^), the longest and """"^ most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the and joins lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. 11, =*) of that sanglion. body ; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle. The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 12, *) Hes below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, above the ophthalmic vein, in the intei-val between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it is distributed to the external rectus muscle. Eecti Muscles. The internal D, inferior C, and external rectus B straiglit (fig. 12) are placed with reference to the eyeball as theii- names "'"^^^jl^ °^ express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of the oi.;,,!,!. optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads :—The upper joins the superior rectus in the common origin. The lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin ; it is attached in addition to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near the inner end, whilst some of its muscular fibres are connected with a tendinous band between the heads. All the insertion, muscles are directed forwards, but the lower obhquely outwards, and liave a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and in fi-ont of the transverse diameter of the ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different Between nerves before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz. the outerreetus tliird, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Action. The four recti muscles, attached to the eyeball at oppo- Use of nil. site sides in front of the transverse diameter, are able to turn the pupil in opposite directions. The inner and the outer rectus move the ball horizontally around i„ner nn.l a vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple.48 DISSECTION OF THE OllBIT. Uiiper mill lower, and two I'OHtigUOUK ssect infe- rior obliiiuc. Ihe upper and the lower rectus elevate and depress tl.e fore part of the ball around a transverse axis; but as their fibres are directed obhquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil up and in and tlie lower muscle turns it down and in. By the simultaneous action of two contiguous recti, the ball will be moved to a point intermediate to that to which it would be directed by either muscle singly. Dissection. By opening tlie optic foramen, tlie attachment of the recti muscles will be more fully laid bare. To dissect out the Fig. 12.* Lower obliqnc muscle. inferior oblique muscle, let the ej'^eball be replaced in its natural position ; then by taldng away the conjunctival Iming of the lower eyelid near the inner part of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball, bending fi-om the inner to the outer side : it may be followed outwards to its insertion into the ball. The INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 12, ") is situatc near the anterior margin of the orbit, and differs fi-om the other muscles in being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. * Third view of the orbit (inustratioris of Dissections). Muscles :—a. Upper rectus and levator palpebriE thrown back together, f. External rectus, c. Inferior rectus. t>. Internal rectus, f. Upper oblique cut, showing the insertion, ii. Insertion of inferior oblique. Nerves:—1. Upper branch of the third. 2. Sixth nerve. 3. Inferior oblique branch of the tliird. i. Branch of third to inferior rectus. 5. Branch of third to internal rectus.49 ACTIOX OF OBLIQUE MUSCLES. It arises from the superior maxillary bone betwixt the margin of Origin, the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle passes outwards between the inferior rectus • and the Course, bone, then between the eyeball and the external rectus, to ^ be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the outer and upper recti. Insertion. The bordei-s of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the Connec- posterior receives its branch of the third nerve. The tendon of insertion is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action. The oblique muscles rotate tlie eyeball around an Use of antero-posterior axis, and are supposed to be used in maintaining the parallelism of the axes of the two eyes. The upper muscle, acting on the eye by itself, Avould rotate the upper ball in such a way as to cause the inner end of the transverse axis to sink, and the pupil to be directed down and out, as in looking-to the shoulder. The lower muscle would produce by itself rotation of the ball in an'l lower muscles the opposite direction, viz. the inner end of the transverse axis would be raised, and the pupil would be inclined up and out, as in looking to the outer part of the orbit. Dm-ing life the rotary movement is supposed to be chiefly em- with recti, ployed in controlling the oblique action of the upper and lower recti. For instance, as the upper rectus alone would turn the pupil upwards and too much inwards, its inner movement will be counteracted by the rotation out of the inferior oblique. And as the lower rectus will incline the pupil down and too much in, the motion inwards will be checked by the rotation out of the superior oblique. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the palpe- Seek tensor bral ligament uniting the eyelids to the margin of the orbit is to be cut tlu-ough, where this has not been done ; but the lids must be left attached at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendo pal- pebrarum, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be recognised. The TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE arises fi-om the ridge on the os unguis, Tensor taisi and slightly fi-om the bone behind the ridge. Its fibres are pale, and form a veiy small flat band, behind the ligamentum palpebra- rum, which divides like that structure into a slip for each eyelid. In each hd the sHp lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and insertion, blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Action. By its contraction the muscle draws inwards and back- Use. wards the puncta of the lids, so as to favour the reception and passage of the tears. Dissection. ^ A small nerve, the temporo-malar or orbital branch Trace offset of the superior maxillary trunk, lies along the outer angle of the °''™penor floor of the orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal of the eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). BDISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 50 Orbital branch of superior iiia>dllary nerve: its malar and tempo- ral offsets. Orbitalis muscle attacli- ments. Apparatus for the tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelids. Canals for the tears: difference in the two lids. Receptacle of the tears. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it: and the junction of a filament of the laciirymal nerve with the former is to be sought in the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The temporo-malar or orlital hrancli of the superior maxillary nerve (fig. 26) arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides at the back of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head with companion vessels. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malas) is directed forwards through a foramen in the malar bone : after emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and communicates with the facial nerve (p. 38). The temporal branch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit ; and being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone: it is then directed upwards between the tem- poral muscle aad the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit a thin fleshy layer is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the malar branch of the temporo-malar nerve. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 13). The lachrymal gland, puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (p. 40). Dissection. A bristle should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the punctum of the eyelid. The lachiymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue fi-om its surface, as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation fi-om the ligamentum palpebraimm over the sac should be defined. The puncta lacJirymalia Q) are two small apertures, one for each lid, by which the lachrymal canals receive the tears. Each is situate in the fi-ee margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lachrj'-- malis. The lachrymal canals (fig. 13, ^ ^nd a-j i^^^^i f^gj^ ^he puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac ; their situation is marked by the bristles inserted in them. In their course inwards the canals lie along the ligamentum palpebrarum, one (^) above and the other (^) below it, and they are somewhat arched with the con- cavity towards each other. Internally they open near together into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal in the upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the lower lid. The lachrymal sac and tluct (fig. 13) extend fi-om the inner side of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac, and the lower constricted end the duct.LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 61 The sac % is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Externally it is crossed by the ligament of the eyelids, and is covered by an expan- sion derived from that band, which is fixed to the margin of the bony groove. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous membrane lining the interior will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct, " (ductus ad nasum), is the narrow part of the tube, and is about half an inch long. It is entkely encased by bone, and corresponds ■\\ath the ductus ad nasum in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the fi'ont of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a piece of the mucous membrane. A bent probe introduced through the nos- tril may be passed into the duct from the meatus, but only with destruction of the valve. As the duct is continuous with the mucous membrane of the nose it has the same sti'ucture, viz. a fibrous external layer with a mucous lining. The epithelium of the sac and duct is ciliated as in the nose, but in the lachiymal canals it is scaly. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with more advantage to the student till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of the eye will be found at page 722. Situation of tlie sac, or dilate<l part. Canal lead- ing to the nose. Its opening. Structure of tlie duct. Anatomy of eyeball afterwards. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck let the Position of head be supported on a block of a moderate height, and let the ^^'^ face be turned to the left side and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the region, the right arm may be drawn tightly under the body, with the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position will be obtained by placing the upper limb over, instead of under the chest. Surface-marlcincj. The side of the neck presents a somewhat Boundaries square outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the oftheltlfk. * The eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Puncta lachrymalia. 2 Upper und 3 lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruncula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac' t. Liaclirymal duct. E 252 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Division into two triangles by sterno- luastoitl. Hollows. Pi'onii- nences in the iniddlo line of neck, hyoicl bone, thjToiil, cricoid cartilage, and snpra- sternal de- pression. Dissection of the pla- tysma. Platj'snia muscle arises at shoulder; in-serteii into jaw ; prominence of the clavicle ; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front the boundary is a line from the cliin to the sternum; and behind, another line from the occiput to th& acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is di^^■de(I into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the diagonal line of the projecting stemo-mastoid muscle. And in consequence of the position of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in fi-ont of the stemo-mastoid is depressed at tlie upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another shght hollow which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the middle' line of the neck the following parts can be recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the base of the jaw is the eminence of the os hyoides, with its cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this maybe felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami,. Avhich is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thyroid membrane. From the cricoid cartilage to the sternum, and between the stemo- mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose depth is much increased in emaciated persons, in which the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air tube. Direction. As the time for turning the body will not alloAv the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare now only the parts beliind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin fi'om the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the stemo-mastoid muscle fi-om the one end to the other, and afterwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The triangular flap of sldn is to be reflected fi-om before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia which will then be brought into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous layer from the surface of the fibres. The PLATYSMA MYOiDES is a thin subcutaneous muscular layer^ which is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle is placed across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fleshy fibres take oriqin by fibrous bands from the clavicle and the acromion, and below those bones from the superficial fatty layer covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw. The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the53 rOSTERIOR TRLiJJGULAR SPACE. lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the muscle arc tliin and scattered, but they increase in strength as they ascend. The oblique direction of the fibres should be _ noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them across. The use will be found with the description of the remainder of Use. the muscle (p. 59). Dissection. The platysma is to be cut across near the clavicle, Dissection, and to be reflected upwards as far as the incision over the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck ; and he should dissect out the external jugular vem, with the superficial descending branches of the cer\'ical plexus, which are close beneath the platysma. The external jugular vein (S.^. 14, ^) commences in the parotid l^'^^^'^gj^ gland (p. 29), and is du-ected backwards beneath the platysma to ^^'"^ the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into tlie subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be crosses skle marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the subclavian. claAacle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part (sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,—one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size and the height at wliich it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia, like the aponeuroses in other regions of the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck ■ continuously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and mdistinct. In its extent roimd the neck the membrane incases the sterno- mastoideus, and presents a different disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards fi'om the muscle, Part lieliind the fascia continues over the posterior triangular space, and encloses toj^j^^^le the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebras. At the lower part of the neck it is attached to the cla^dcle, and is perforated by tlie external jugular vein and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the clavicle, a sends a pro- <ieep process may be observed to surround the small omo-hyoid omo-hyoidf muscle, to extend under the clavicle, and to be fixed to the back of that bone, and the inner end of the first rib. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space (fig. 14), having the form and position before noted, Posterior 's about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial ^yjl'Vf"!-''^' Icxuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a the neck, ligature is usually placed, and some offsets of the vessel and the iier\'es. Dissection. By the removal of the cei-vical fascia and the fat Dissection of the space.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 54 PiiKl oino- liyoitlcus. Nerves above omo- hyoid ; vessels below. and a small nen'e. Define serratiis, and nerves piercing .scalenus. Bovindaries. Is di\'ided by omo- hyoideus. Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, the posterior triangle of tlio neck will be displaj^ed. In the execution of this somewliat difficult task the student should proceed cautiously, to aA^oid injm-ing the small nei-ves and vessels in the space. Seek first the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 14, which crosses the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and divides it into two. Close to or under the upper border of the muscle lie the small nerve and vessels to it: the nerve is to be traced to the descendens noni, and the artery to the supra-scapular. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifications of the branches of the cenacal plexus, together witli the spinal acces- sory nerve ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the stenio- raastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and gi-eat auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed fore^ards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoideus find the large subclavian artery and tlie brachial plexus, wliich have a deep position, and run down and out. Also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular vessels behind the claAacle ; the transverse cervical vessels, which are higher in the neck, but take an outward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. Underneath the trapezius, where it is attached to the clavicle, define the serratus magnus muscle ; and behind the large cervical nerves, towards the lower part of the space, the middle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus issue two small muscular nerves ; one, formed by two roots, for the seiTatus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the space. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle, ^ ; and behind by the trapezius, Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above doAvn, viz. splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulse " ; and middle scalenus ^; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, lies the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, viz. the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or two thirds, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle, ^, crosses the lower part of the space, so as to divide it into two, a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital. The clavicular part is small in size and close to the clavicle, and contains the subcla^dan artery. It is triangular in form, with its base directed fomards; and is bounded in fi-ont by the sterno- mastoid, ' ; above by the omo-hyoid muscle, ^; and beloAv by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch and a half from before baclnvards, and about half that in extent across at its base.CLAVICULAR TART OF TRIANGLE. 00 Crossing the area of this space, rather above the level of the Trunks of _^ clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery, (its tlnid pa t), ^^^^^.^^^ which issues fx-oni beneath the anterior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the companion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing Fig. U* ,Jfiti!,i;'l.iu,,>i.;i&.uAi to its situation being lower down beneath the clavicle. Above the and their artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus, wliicli accom- p^gj^j^g^, pany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the * Part of the posterior triangle of the neck is here displaj'ed, but the student sliould carry tlic dissection as high as the head, so as to lay bare the whole of that space. 1. Sterno-niastoideus. 2. Trapezius. 3. Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. 4. Anterior scalenus, with the phrenic nerve on it. 5. Middle scalenus muscle. 6. Elevator of the angle of the scapula. 7. Third part of the subclavian artery. 8. External jugular vein joining the subclavian below. 9. Nerves of the brachial plexus. 10. Spinal accessory nerve. (Blandin's Surgical Anatomy.)DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 Branches of vessels. Variations in tlie size of the space; also in the depth, hotli natiu'al and arti- ficial. Depai-ture from the ordinary state of the artery, and its branches. Position ofS'eins. Occipital part of space contains clavicle. Behind the artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle,And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boundary of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle lie the supra-scapular vessels; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein, which descends over or under the omo-hyoideus near the anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and trans- verse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein over the clavicle, fi-om the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the space fi-om before back is influenced by the attachment of the trapezius and sterao-mastoid muscles along the cla^ncle : in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that bone, lea-sang but a small inters'al between them ; and in others they meet, so as to cover the under- lying vessels. The space may be further increased or diminished from above down by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck ; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attached thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half fi-om that bone. In dej)th the space varies naturally ; and in a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the pai-ts. But the depth may be altered much more by the position of the cla-sdcle, according as the limb may be raised or depressed. And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The situation of the trunk of the subcla-snan artery may vary much, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual level just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be changed ; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in fi-ont of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch (fig. 14) may take origin fi-om it at different distances fi'om the scalenus, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). The subclavian vein rises upwards not unfrequently as high as the artery ; or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclaA-ian artery is very uncertain ; and the branches connected with its lower end may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital xmrt of the posterior triangle is larger tlian the other. Its boundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius; and it is separated from the claAacular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cers'ical plexus;57 BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. and a chain of lymphatic ghnuls hes along the sterno-mastoid muscle. The spinal accessory nerve, is directed obhqnely across jj^^ . this interval from the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it pierces, to a,;cessory the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place nerve, between it and the spinal nerves in the space. , . , SurEUFicLVL Branches of the Cervical Plexus. Behind the Nerv^s^of^^ sterno-mastoid muscle appear the ramifications of the cervical ^.i^^as nerves in the plexus of the same name ; and superficial branches are furnished from these both upwards and downwards. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 14) are three in number, viz. small occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital branch (fig. 2, comes from the second SmaJi^^^ cerNacal ners-e, and is directed upwards to the head along the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. The great auricidar nerve (fig. 2, 0 is a branch of the part of ^^^^^'^'^^ the plexus formed by the second and third cervical nerves. Per- forating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards beneath the platysma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches :— T\iQ facial branches are sent forwards to the integuments over the ^^^^^'^^ parotid, and a few slender filaments pass thi-ough the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly auriciilai-, distributed on its cranial aspect ; one or more reach the opposite surface by piercing the pinna. On the ear they communicate with branches fmnished from the facial and pneumogastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the integuments inastoid , , , , ., 1 • • • .1 . • biauohes. between the ear and the mastoid process ; and it ]oms the posterior auricular branch of tlie facial nerve (p. 8). The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 2, springs from the same Superacial source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the sterno-mastoid JierVe!'' muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia and platysma, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space (see p. 59). There may be more than one branch to represent this neiwe. The DESCENDING SET of branches (fig. 2), (supra-cla-^ncular) are Nen-es that derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are '^'^'''•'^'^'^'^ directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three on the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its sup^a-cIa^•i- inner end ; the middle branch lies about the middle of that bone ; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All arc distributed in the integuments of the chest and shoulder. Derived from tlic descending set are two or vnovQ posterior cutaneous Posterior cervical nerves, which ramify in the integument over the lower two of nock'.""'' tliirds of the fore part of the trapezius.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 58 gianas'ofThe /?/m;257ja/iic rjlanch (glanduUo coiicatcnatic) lie along the sterno- ueck."" mastoid muscle, and ara continuous at tlie lower part of the neck with the glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a super- ficial chain along the extenial jugular vein. Directions. Directions. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be obsen'ed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid or salt having been previously applied. be examined ^he body now is to be turned on tlie fore part for the examina- iiow. tion of the Back ; and durmg the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (Dissection of the Back.) fXaTcord ^^^^ completion of the Back, the student should take out spina cou. ^j^^ spinal cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. FEONT OF THE NECK. Detach the head. Examine right side of necl<. Position of part. Dissertion to raise skin to show platysina. Anterior part of platysnia. Insertion into jaw. Crossing of tlie fibres. Directions. After the thorax and Back are finished, the bead and neck may be detached fi-om the trunk by di-^ading the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebras, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the head. The dissector con- tinues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 35). Position. Supposing the facial nerve completed, a small naiTow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Further, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin bemg well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will readily allow the piece of integument in front of the stemo-mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fat, containing very fine offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat -wliich covers it, carrying the knife down and back in the direction of the fleshy fibres. Platysma Myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz. fi-om the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers the greater portion of the anterior triangular space. At the base of the jaw it is inserted betAveen the symphysis and the masseter muscle \ while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek bone. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle (p. 62), but they are rather stronger. Below the chin59 FORE PART OF NECK. the inner fibres of opposite muscles cross for about an inch, but those which are superficial do not belong always to the same side in difl'erent bodies. , , xi i • tt Action. The ordinary action of this muscle is confined to the skin Usoonsk.n, of tlie neck, which it throws into longitudinal wrinkles ; but wlien acting strongly it can depress the comer of the mouth by the slip ...outh, prolonged to the face. Through its attachment to the jaw it will jaw. assist in opening the mouth. Dissection. Eaise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect Dissection, out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branches of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its orig-in in ^^^j^l^^j^"'^ the cei-vical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of the neck uerve, (p. 57); the nei-ve may take origin from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it di-\ddes into an ascending and a descending branch :— The ascending branch perforates the platysma, supplying it, and ascending, ends in the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down the neck. Whilst this branch is beneath the platysma it joins the facial nerve. The descending branch likewise passes tkrough the platysma, and is distributed to the teguments below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. The infra-maxillary branches of the facial or seventh cranial nerve Branches of (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 38) pierce the deep cer\acal fascia, and to tiie neck, pass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck (fig. 9), which reach as low as the hyoid bone.. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a com- munication between the branches of the facial and the offsets of the superficial cervical ners'e. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the Dissection- middle, and thi'ow the ends up and down. Aftei-wards the super- ficial nerves of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia in fi'ont of the sterno- Cervical mastoideus is stronger than that behind the muscle (p. 53), and has ftont'^d" the following an-angement. Near the sternum the fascia forms a stemo- white finn membrane, which is attached to that bone ; but liigher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the parotid gland. From the ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged deeply, between the parotid and sub- maxillary glands, to join the styloid process ; this piece is named the Htyln-maxillarg ligament. And fi-om the angle of the jaw a forms stj-lo- strong piece is continued to the sterno-mastoideus, which fixes ''>i'''"">"y forAvards the anterior border of that muscle. ligament.^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ^•uiiirstm'tn ^'^y^^'^ mcml)i-anc are prolonged between tlie muscles ; and <.u lu H ui n ^i^j^^ beneath the sterno-mastoideus is connected with the sheath of the cei-vical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Autoriov tiiiiiigular space. Dissection o<' anterior triangle. Trace arteries. Seek longi- tudinal nerves, and trans- verse nerves. Spinal accessory. Laryngeal iier\'es. Clean gland, seek nerve to inylo- liyoid. Boundaries. This space (fig. 15) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, with many nerves ; and it corresponds with tlie hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents take aAvay the deep fascia of the neck, and the fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the hj^-oid muscles that cover the windpipe, lea-\ang untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into wliich the large carotid arterj^ bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath fi'om the A-^essels, as these appear fi-om beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypo-glossal nen^e in fi-ont of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Seek the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, with several nen'es directed transversely. Thus lymg below them is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another (small) to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Above the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo-phaiyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the stemo-mastoideus, is the spmal accessory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larynx, Avith the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The inter^^al between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle,^ ; and in front, a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle ofANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. CI the neck Above, at the base of the space, will be the lower iaw the skull, and the ear ; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space ai-e placed the skin, the superlicial fascia with the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. Muscles in the space. In the area of the triangular interval, as it Cr^itentsof is above defined, are seen the larynx, and pharynx in part, and many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone as a centre, some being above and some below it. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz. omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, - to ■* ; and above the os hyoides are tlie elevator muscles, viz. mylo-liyoid, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are some of the constrictor muscles of the gullet. Vessels in the triangular space. The carotid blood-vessels, " and ^, jj'j^™.*^''!^^ occupy the hinder and deeper part of the space along the side of space, the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and their course would be marked on course, the surface by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the jaw and the mastoid process. As high covering.?, as the level of the cricoid cartilage they are buried beneath the depressor muscles of the os hyoides ; but beyond that spot they are covered by the superficial layers over the space, and by the stemo-mastoid muscle which, before it is displaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit firom beneath the depressor Bifurcation, muscles of the os hyoides, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk, "; but opposite the upper border of the thyroid carti- lage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these trunks are continued onwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the Position of internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the more posterior 'one'"''^** or external of the two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes anotiier. deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part Branclie.?. of the head, -viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear; and others upwards to the head. But the common carotid does not always divide, as here said. Clmnges in For the point of branching of the vessel may be moved fi-oni the J^'ivisfon of^ upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- carotid, wards, so that the trunk may remain undivided till it is beyond the OS hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond tlie usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely), furnishing offsets to the neck and head. In close contact with the outer side of both the common and the Jugular internal carotid artery, and incased in a sheath of fascia with them "^""^ is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches m the€2 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. alters Ijosition. Nerves with the arteries. lying along and crossing tlieni. neck con-espondiiiff with some of the brandies of the superficial artciy. In some bodies the vein may cover the arterj-- ; and tlie branches joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of tlie common carotid. Nerves in the space. In connection, more or less intimate, with tlie large vessels, are the following nerves with a longitudinal direction :—In fi-ont of the sheath lies the descending brancli of the hypo-glossal ner^'-e ; within the sheath between the carotid artery and jugular vein, is the pneumo-gastric nerve ; and behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, till it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. Several nerves are placed across the vessels :—thus, directed transversely over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypo-glossal nen^e, which gives downwards its branch (descendens noni) most commonly in fi-ont of the sheath. Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharjaigeal nerve, wliich coui-ses forwards between them. Inside the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight; whilst a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve. Glands in the space. Two glandular bodies, the submaxillaiy, and thyi'oid, have their seat in this ti-iangular space of the neck. The submaxillary gland is situate altogether in front of the vessels, and is partly concealed by the jaw ; and beneath it on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus is the small nerve to that muscle, with the submental artery. By the side of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the common carotid arterj', lies the thyroid body beneath the stemo-thyroid muscle: in the female this body is more largely developed than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, would be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projects somewhat below the level of the jaw. Its connections have been noticed at p. 28. Directions. The student has to proceed next with the examination of the indi-sadual parts that have been referred to in the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein. Tliis small vem occupies the middle line of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of development of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends out- wards beneath the stemo-mastoid muscle, to open into the sub- clavian vein, or into the external jugular. In the neck the anterior and external jugular veins communicate. There are two anterior veins, one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. Stenio-nias- The STEHNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE (fig. 15, ) forms the super- toid muscle £^,^^1 prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower m the Glands; submaxil- lary and thyroid "body. Parotid gland. Anterior jugular vein joins suhela- vian vein.STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOIDEUS. centre than at the ends, and is attaclied below by two heads of origin which arc separated by an elongated interval. The inner head is hxed by a narrow tendon to the anterior surface of the stcrnuia, first piece of the sternum ; and the outer head has a wide fleshy andciavi, attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards, Fig. 15*. and the external alniost vertically, and are blended about the middle of the neck in a roundish belly. Near the skull the muscle and inser- cnds in a tendon, which is inserted into the mastoid process at the *>°"a*skuU. outer aspect from tip to base, and by a thin aponeurosis into a rough surface behind that process, and into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The muscle divides the lateral surface of the neck into two Position to triangular spaces. On its cutaneous aspect the sterno-mastoid is l'*"^' * View of the anterior triangular space of tlie neck (Quain's " Arteries ") 1. Stemo-maatoitleus. 2. Sterne-hyoidcus. 3. Anterior belly of the omo- hyoideus. 4. Thyro-hyoidcus. 6. Common carotid artery dividing. 7. In- ternal jugular vein. 8. External jugular vein.—In the Drawing from which this woodcut is copied the sterno-mastoid is partly cut through.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 61 covered by the cominoii integuments, by the platysma and deep fascia, and by the external jugidar vein and the superficial branches of the cei-vical plexus (across the middle). If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts :—The clavicular origin is superficial to the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles ; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, and the middle scalenus and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital arteiy, and part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. Use. Action. Both muscles acting bend the head forwards ; but one muscle will tm-n the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with the muscles attached to the mastoid process one stemo-mastoideus will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoid '^^^ OMO-HYOID MUSCLE crosses beneath the sterno-mastoideus, muscle and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small round inter- tteTcapula, mediate tendon (fig. 14, ^). The origin of the muscle fi-om the scapula, and the connections of the posterior part, are to be and ends at studied in the dissection of the Back. From the intei-vening liyoidboue. tendon the anterior fleshy belly (fig. 15, ^) is directed upwards along the outer border of the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great comu. Connec- The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escaping- tions. from beneath the sterno-mastoid; and rests on the sterno-thyroideus. This part of the muscle crosses the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Use. Action. The anterior belly depresses the hyoid bone ; and the posterior is said by Theile to make tense the deep fascia of the neck with which it is connected. Sterno- The STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 15, ") is a flat thin band nearer hyokT the middle line than the precedmg. It arises from the posterior nius'^ie. gyj-f ace of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. From this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. Parts over One smiace is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked andbeneath. -[^y ^ tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to touch the sterno-thyroideus, and the superior th>Toid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by an inten'al which is largest below. . Use. Action. It draws the os hyoides downwards after swallowmg; and in laborious respiration it will act as an elevator of the sternum. The STERNO-THYROID MUSCLE is wider and shorter tiian the sterno- roiTmusJre hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other hyoid muscle, it arises65 DErRESSORS OF OS HYOIDES. from tlie posterior surface of the sternum, and fi'om the cartilage of the first rib below the former ; it is inserted into the oblique line on tlie side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the tliyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border touches its fellow for about an inch, along the Parts over middle line of the neck, whilst the outer reaches over the carotid andbeneath. artery. The superficial surface is concealed by the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body. A tnmsverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to aid the preceding muscle in lowering Use. rapidly the hyoid bone after deglutition ; but it can draw down and forwards the thyroid cartilage, and assist in rendering tight the vocal cords. Like the stemo-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRO-HYOIDEUS (fig. 15, "*) is a continuation in direction of Thyro-hyoid the last muscle. Beginning on the side of the thyi-oid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the inner half of the great corau of the os hyoides, and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the muscle lies the omo-hyoideus ; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. It is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx. Action. Raising the thyroid cartilage towards the os hyoides, it Use. renders lax the vocal cords, and assists in placing the cartilage under the tongue preparatory to swallowing. Directions. The remaining parts included in this SECTION are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, with the cer\acal nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. The student may examine them in the order here given. Dissection (fig. 16). Supposing the sterno-mastoid cut, the fat Dissection and fascia ai-e to be taken away from the lower part of the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebra, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in fi'ont of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the of the sub- scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its !jrter'-'^ branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which' "^'^ course over and along it fi'om the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of a piece or the whole of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found and except the superior intercostal, which may be sought in the thorax ' in front of tlie neck of the first rib. On the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and the dissector should follow downwards from it a small cardiac nerve to the thorax.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 66 of lympha- tic (.luut: Only tlie origin and first part of the arterial branches can be now seen ; then- termination is met with in other stages of this dissec- tion, or in the dissection of other parts of the body. Next the student should seek the small right lymphatic duct that opens into the subclavian vein near the junction of this with Fig. 16.* of brachial ple.ms; the jugular. A notice of it will be given with the lymphatics of the thorax (p. 366). The outer part of the subclavian artery having been already prepared, let the dissector remove more completely the fibrous tissue from the nerves of the brachial plexus. From the plexus trace the small branch to the subclavius muscle ; and the branches to the rhomboid and serratus muscles, wloich pierce the middle scalenus. * A view of t'fie common carotid and subcla^^an ai-teries (Quain's "Ar- teries"). 1. Anterior scalenus, with the phrenic nerve on it. 2. Middle scalenus. 3. Levator anguli scapulse. 4. Omohyoideus. 5. Rectus capitis anticus major. 6. Common carotid ai-tery. 7. Subclavian vein. 8. Sub- clavian artery. 9. Digastric muscle. 10. P.arotid gland. 11. Submaxillary gland. 12. Thyroid body. 13. Trapezius muscle, reflected.67 SCALEJ^I MUSCLES. I£ it is thought necessary, tlic anterior scalenus may be cut tlu-ough after the artery has been studied Clean the cervical plexus, and seek its muscular branches, the "[^^'^^-i'^ai all twigs to join the descendens noni, and the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the middle scalenus muscle be defined, iis it lies beneath the cervical nerves. The SCALENI muscles are usually described as three in number. Number of ?ind are named from their relative position, anterior, middle, and muscles, posterior ; they extend from the first two ribs to the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrre. The SCALENUS ANTicus (fig. 16, ') extends from the first rib to Scalenus the lower vertebrte of the neck, and is somewhat conical in shape. '^^ It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper surface Origin; of the first rib, so as to surround the rough surface or projection on this aspect of the bone ; and by its base it is inserted into the insertion; interior transverse processes of four of the cervical vertebra, viz. ■sixth, fifth, fourth, and third (fig. 45 More deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed connections, by the clavicle and the subclavius, and by the clavicular part of tlie sterno-mastoid : the phrenic nerve lies along its cutaneous vessels, sm-face, and the subcla-\nan vein crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath the scalenus and nei-ves. are the pleura, the subclavian artery, and the nerves of the brachial plexus. The insertion into the vertebree corresponds with the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Action. The anterior muscle raises strongly the first rib, in conse- Use. quence of its forward attachment. If the rib is fixed, it bends forwards the lower part of the neck.^ The SCALENUS MEDIUS MUSCLE (fig,^ 16, ^) is larger than the Scalenus anterior, and extends farthest of all on the vertebrae. Inferiorly it is attached to a groove on the upper surface of the first rib, extending obliquely forwards for one inch and a half fi-om the tubercle to the outer border. The muscle ascends behind the spinal nerves, and is inserted into the tips of the posterior transverse insertion, processes of all the cervical vertebras (fig. 45, ^). In contact with the anterior surface are the subclavian artery ^"•'■ts and the spinal nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle ; vnth it. the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus, and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The outer border is per- forated by the nei-ves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. Action. Usually it elevates the first rib. With the rib fixed, the Use. cervical part of the spine can be inclined laterally by one muscle. The SCALENUS POSTICUS (fig. 45, is inconsiderable in size, and Scalenus appears to be part of the preceding. It is attached below to the 1'°''^'^'''"^- second rib, in front of the serratus posticus superior, by a slip about merits'" half an inch wide ; and it is inserted above with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cervical transverse processes. Action. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and its fibres Use. having the same direction as those of the medius, it will help to incline the neck in the same way. F 268 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. Sulielavinn artery ; extends to Tipper limb, is dhiilcd into tliiee parts. First part internal to scalenus is deep. In front, TDsliind, telow it. Yeins witli the artery. Position of nerves before, and beneath Second part beneath scalenus. ]n front, behind, ■below. Position of veins; of nerves to the artery. Tlie SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY (fig. 16) is the beginning of the large vessel siippljnng the upper limb with blood, which is thus desig- nated from its position beneath the clavicle. This vessel, (^), is: derived from the branching of the innominate artery behind the stemo-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni muscles. For the puqjose of describing its numerous connections the vessel may be divided into three parts ; the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the tliird, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia; the stemo- mastoid, stemo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles ; and a strong deep process of fascia from the inner border of the scalenus muscle This part of the subclavian lies over the longus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated fr'om it by fat and nei-ves. Below the artery is the pleura, which ascends into the arcli formed by the vessel. Veins. The innominate vein, and the ending of the subclavian form an arch below that of the artery. The large internal jugular vein crosses the arterial trunk close to the scalenus ; and under- neath this vein, with the same direction, hes the vertebral vein. Much more superficial, and separated from the arteiy by muscles,, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumogastric neiT^e, near to the internal jugular vein; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery winds the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric ; and still deeper is the cord of the sympathetic neiwe with its cardiac branches, one or more of its offsets entwining rornid the vessel. Second part. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less deep than when placed internal to that muscle, and at this spot it rises highest above the clavicle. The second part, like the first, is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia; then by the clavicular origin of the stemo-mastoideus; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind the vessel is the middle scalenus. Below the artery is the bag of the pleura, which ascends between the scaleni. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein. Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nei-ve. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large cervical nerves ; and the trunk formed by the last cen-ical and first dorsal is interposed between the artery and the middle scalenus.69 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Third part. Beyond the scalenus the artery is contained in the Tlilrd part clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 54), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course : this part of the jsj^l"^""- vessel is enclosed in a tube of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively superficial whilst in the space before mentioned, for it is covered parts cover- only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia ; but near its termination the vessel gets under cover of the suprascapular artery iuid veui, and the clavicle and subclavius muscle. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib, which is ^^^^ interposed between it and the pleui-a. Veins. The arch of the subcla-saan vein is close to the artery, not Position Jjeing separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower level. °' ' The external jugular vein crosses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, wliich enter the jugular, form sometimes a jjlexus over this part of the artery. Nerves. The large cords of the brachial plexus are placed above of nerves to and close to the vessel; and the small wqi-yq of the subclavius "'^'^''y- crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cer-\acal plexus. Peculiarities. The arteiy may spi-ing as a separate trunk from the Peculiarities arch of the aorta ; and in such a deviation the vessel takes a deeper °^ ""sm, place than usual to reach the scaleni muscles. It has been before said (p. 56) that the subclavian may be in com-se and fi-ont of the scalenus or in its fibres ; and that it may be placed one inch and a half above the level of the clavicle. Branches of subclavian. Usually there ai-e four chief branches on Branches of the subclavian artery. Tlu-ee branches arise fi'om the first part of subclavian, the arterial trunk ;—one (vertebral) ascends to the head ; another From first, (internal mammary) descends to the chest ; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short tliick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards to the thyroid body and the shoulder. These arise commonly neai- the scalenus muscle, so as to leave an interval at the origin fi-ee from offsets. This interval varies in length fi-om half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery (Quam).* The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises beneath the an- second, terior scalenus from the second part of the artery, and gives off the deep cervical branch : a small spinal artery comes sometimes from this part of the trunk. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is and third commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, this same branch with the external mammary ; and if more than two, an offset be- longmg to the thyroid axis will be added. * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the pecuHarities ot the yesse s, and the practical applications to be deduced from them to the Porlv'l ^ f/!^ °^ ^"^teries of the Human aody, by Richard Quaiu, F.R.S.70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vertebral nrteiy in tlie neck. SiiifUI branches. Vertebriil vein, and bi-anclies. Internal manmiary artery iu tlie ueck. Thyroid axis tlivides into three. Suijra- scapiilar branch. Transverse cer\acal branch. Offsets. Size and ending vaiy Inferior tliyroid branch The vertehral arto'y is generally the first and largest brancli of the subclavian, and aiises from the upper and posterior part. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture in the lateral mass of the sixth cer^'ical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrfc. Before the artery enters its aperture it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nei-ve, and supplies, small muscular offsets. Its course and distribution will be givert afterwards. The vertehral vein issu6s with its accompanying arteiy, to whicli it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the deep cei-vicalvein^ and the hranch that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammary irancJi leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, sub- clavius, and the right innominate vein, enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery disappeara in the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be learnt with the cUssection of those parts. Thyroid axis. Tliis is a short thick trunk (fig. 16) wliich arises fi-om the fi-ont of the arteiy near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon di-^ddes into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two> over the scapula. The suprascapular hrancli com'ses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula ; and entering the supraspinal fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen m the dissection of the Back (p. 387). The transverse cervical hrcmch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical and posterior scapular ai-teries. (" Dissection ov the Back.") In its course outwards through the space containing the thkd part of the subclavian artery, tins branch crosses the anterior scalenus, tho phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus. Some small offsets are supplied by it to the posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cer^dcal artery supplies ordinarily the posterior scapular branch, there are many bodies in which it is toa small to give origin to so large an offset. In such mstances tho diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle ; whilst the posterior scapular branch arises separately fi'om the tliird, or even the second part of the subclavian artery (fig. 16). The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous com-se to the thyroid body, the branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accompanying vein and nen^es, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the rccun-ent nerve. At the lower part of the thyroidSUBCLAVIAN VEIN. "^^ body it divides into branches which ramify in the under surface, and conununicate with the superior thyroid, and its fellow, tormnig a A'ery free anastomosis between those vessels. Near the larynx a lunjngeal branch is distributed to that tube, and other offsets are furnished to the trachea. _ The ascending cemcal branch of the thyroid is directed upwards ing cervical between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends m branch, branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nei-ves to the cord and its membranes. The veins corresponding with the branches of the thyroid axis Ven^^cor-^^ have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and to arteries" ti-ansverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein, beginning in the thyroid body, descends in fi-ont of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to the mnoniinate vein. The supenor intercostal artery &r\B<is fvom the posterior pai't of f„"ie^4°ta^ the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck of the first rib : branch, its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax (p. 363). Aiismg in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery '^^^l^^^^Xu (art. profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an intercostal arteiy (Quain), it passes backwards between the trans- A'^erse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying intei-nal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips con- tinued upwards from the erector spinse, to end beneath the com- plexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spinal branch (Quain) is frequently given from the second part of the arteiy ; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intei-vertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVI^VN VEIN has not the same limits as the companion Sui)cla\'ian arteiy, reacliing only from the lower edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a contmuation of the axillaiy vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the inno- minate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the arteiy, from which it is separated by the scalenus. Branches. The anterior and external jugular join the subcla^dan its bi"anches • vein outside the scalenus, and the vertebral vein enters it inside that muscle. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 27, ") ; and at the like opening of spot, on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends JiiJyt's""'^'*' (fig. 27, *). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is valves, placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein.* It should be borne in mind that not unfrequently the vem is as Position liigh in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that '""^ the vein has been seen twice with the arteiy beneath the anterior scalenus. • See a paper on tlio Valves in the Veins of the Neck in the Edin Med Journal of Nov., 1856, by Dr. Struthers.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 72 Cei-vlcal nerves. Position and niunber. First two differ from rest. Brachial jilexus, 1'onnedpjy five nerves. Disposition of nerves in the plexus. Branches : in the neck are:— Nerve of subclavius. Ner\'e of rhoinboi- deus. Nci-ve of serratus. The ANTEnioR primary branches of the cervical nerves spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. Tliese nen'es are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four bemg combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. The nerves receive offsets of communication fi-om the sympathetic at their beginning, and intermix by means of numerous branches near the spine. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nei-ves ; and their peculiarities will be noticed in Sectiok 18. Brachial Plexus. The four lower cervical nen^es and part of the first intercostal are blended m this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them fi-om the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches fi-om the neck to the axilla, where it ends ill nei-ves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nen^es have but little of a plexiform disposition : they he at first between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebras, and have the following an-angement:— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebrse ; the seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the mitMle scalenus ; and the last cervical and the piece of the first mSmmfmm^ are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus; so that they make at first thi-ee cords. Near the attachment of the middle scalenus to the rib, the seventh nerve throws itself mto the trunk of the miited fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus :—the one (upper) formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; and the other (lower) by the eighth cendcal and the first intercostal nerve. These two trunks accompany the sub- clavian arteiy, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where they are more intimately blended. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; whilst the other set consist of the termuial branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be refeiTcd to. Branches above the Clavicle. The hranch of the subclavius muscle is a slender twig, which arises fi-om the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The hranch of the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, mid perforates the fibres of tliat muscle ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapuljB to its destination. Branches are given usually fi-om this nerve to the levator anguH scapulas. The nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth andCERVICAL TLEXUS. 73 sixth nerves near the interv'ertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is con- tinued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on the axillary surface. Branches of the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small Ne^J^'cs of ^ twigs are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided : tliey arise iongu.s colli, from the beginning of the trunks of the nerves. The suprascapular nerve is larger than either of the others. It j^^^'Jl^^g^^gi"^" arises near the subcla\nan branch from the cord of the plexus formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is to the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and it will be dissected with the arm. Occasionally an offset fi-om the fifth cer\acal trunk joins the Offset to the , , . 1 1 Ijlirenic. phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. The CERVICAL PLEXUS is formed by the first four cervical nerves. Cervical Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguir scapulcE. It difliers much fi'om the brachial plexus, for it resembles fonnsa a network more than a bundle of large cords. The following is the general aiTangement of the nerves in the plexus :—Each nerve, Airange- except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, ugi^es.^ ^^'^ and these unite with similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these.loops or arches the different branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deejD. The superficial set has offsets been described with the triangular space of the neck, as consisting nda™^^'^ of agcending and descending (p. 67). The ascending branches may be now seen to spring from the imion of the second and third nerves ; and the descending, to take origin fi-om the loop between tbe third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remains to and deep, be examined : they are muscular and communicating, and may be wiiichare:— arranged into an internal and an external series. Interxal Series. The phrenic or muscular nerve of the dia- P'lrenic phragm (fig. IG) is derived from the fom-th, or thii-d and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined by a fasciculus fi-om the fifth cen'ical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of tl'e anterior scalenus fi-om tlie outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, liut behind the sub- clavian rein, and traverses that cavity toj-each the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first part of the subclavian artery. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two in Nerves to number. One arises from the second, and the other from the^iird j"'" cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards over the internal jugular vein, and communicate in front of the carotid sheath with the descending muscular brancli (descendens noni') of the hypoglossal nerve. Sometimes these nerves pass under the jugular vein.74 DISSECTION OF TUE NECK. IBranches to recti. 13rmu;lics to otlier nerves. Brandies to muscles. Branehe.s joining spinal ac- cessory. Common carotid artery. Origin. Course. Situation. Pai-ts cover- ing it. beneath it, and on its sides. Position of veins; Muscular hrcmches are furnished to the anterior recti muscles; they ni-ise fronTiire loop between tlie first two nerves, and from the trunks of the other nerves close to the intei-\'ertebrai foramina. Some connecting hranches from the loop between the first two nerves inuie'with the sympathetic and some cranial nerves near the base of the skull : these will be aftenvards described. External or Postkrior Seriks. Muscular hranches are supplied fi-om the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus ; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapuhe ; and fi-om the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches enter the substance of the middle scalenus. Connectincj hranches with the sjnnal accessory nerve exist in three places. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with the branches distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the leading vessel for the supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. 16, The origin of the vessel differs on opposite sides of the body, beginning at the lower part of the neck on the right side, and in the thorax on the left side. The riglit vessel commences opposite the stemo-claAacular articu- lation in the bifurcation of the innomhiate arterj', and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividmg into external and internal carotids. The coiu-se of the arteiy is along the side of the trachea and larjmx, gradually diverging fi-om the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the m creasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line fi-om the sterno- cla-vicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cenncal fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artei-y has the following connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is con- cealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fascia? ; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno- mastoid (sternal origin), stemo-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termmation the artery is less deep, being covered only by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the neck. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid He the trachea and larynx, the oesophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid body, the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the lai-jmx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular lies on the outer side and close to the carotid at the upper end, but separated fi-om it below by an interval of about half an inch : on the left side the vein is over the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or twoCOMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 75 upper thyroid veins and their branches cross tlie upper end of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body another small veui (middle thyroid) is directed back over the vessel. Near the clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes out under the sterno-mastoideus : it is superficial to the artery, and separated from it by the sterno- hyoid and tiiyi'oid muscles. Arteries. Offsets of the upper thyroid artery descend over the of arteries, top of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses under it below the level of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descendens noni lies in front of the sheath, crossing from the outer to tlie inner side, and is joined there by the cer\acal nerves. The pneumogastric lies within the sheath, behind and be- tween the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and branches rest on the spine behind the sheath. All the nerves above men- tioned have a longitudinal du-ection ; but the inferior laryngeal or recim-ent crosses obliquely inwards beneath the sheath towards the lower end of the artery. Branches of carotid. As a rule, the common carotid artery does ]^™J_<^^®-'' not furnish any collateral branch, though it is very common for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the arteiy is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN extends upwards to the base of the internal skull, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid is now seen. Placed outside its arteiy, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the lower part of the neck the vein inclines backwards, lea^^ng a space between it artery, and the artery, in wliich the vagus nerve is seen about midway except between the two. Sometimes the vein is superficial to the carotid, '•'eiow- as on the left side. The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or smus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a pair of valves (Struthers). In tliis part of its course the vein receives the superior and Brauclies. middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities of the carotid. Tlie origin of the artery on the right pifferences side may be above or below the point stated. Mention has been "i-tely made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the common carotid may not be divided into two (p. 61). In- in mnnijer. stead of one, there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the hyoid muscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the trunk Dissection, of the external carotid (fig. 17), and follow its branches until they disappear beneatli different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid ; and may define their origin and insertion. The DiOASTiiia muscle (fig. 15, ") consists of two fleshy bellies. Digastric united by an intervening tendon, whence its name. The posterior, two bellies, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beneath the mastoid process ; whilst the anterior belly is fixed on the side of the sym-DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 7G vliuOi nve joined by 41 tuiuloii. Position to otlier jiarts. "Die muscle Jjounds a. •containing slauds. Use. Stylo- liyoideus. Origin. Insertion. .Surrounds digastric. vtendon. Use. Ninth nerv( in the aii- 'terior tri- .iiugle. Branches : to hyoid muscles is joined pliysis of the lower jaw. From these attachments the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, wliich is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoideus, and is united by an aponeurotic expansion to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great comu of the os hyoides. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the outer end, where it is beneath the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line fi'om the mastoid process to a little above the hyoid bone. Along its lower border lie the oc- cipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; the former passing back- wards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo- hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundaiy of a space between it, the jaw, and the base of the;'skull, M^hich is subdivided into two by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion ai-e contained the parotid gland, ("'), and the vessels and nerves in connection Avith it (p. 29) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland, ("), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses that bone and opens the mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two belhes act- ing will elevate the hyoid bone. It is supposed that the posterior belly may assist in moving back the head when the jaw is fixed. The STYLO-HYOiD MUSCLE is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It anses fi-om the outer surface of the styloid process, near the base, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In some bodies the stylo-hyoideus is absent. Action. This muscle elevates the os hyoides preparatory to swai- lowuig ; and checks, with the posterior belly of the digastric, the too forward movement of that bone by the other elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth cranial) appears in the anterior triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks round the occipital artery ; it is then directed fonvards to the tongue below that muscle, and disappears in front beneath the mylo-hyoideus. In this course the nen^e passes over the two carotids ; and near the comu of the os hyoides it crosses also the lingual ai-tery, so as to become liigher than the vessel. From this pai-t arise the descendens noni branch, and a small muscular ofliset to the thyro-hyoideus. + i 4= The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) leaves the tmnkot the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and de- scends on the fi-ont of (sometimes in) the sheath of the vessel to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by tie communi-EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 77 eating branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of tlie with cervi- spinal nerves, ofEsets are suppHed to the depressor muscles of the os hyoides, viz., omo-hyoid (both bellies), sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid : sometimes another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descendens noni and the spinal by flbrils. nerves is formed by two or more cross filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity upwards ; and an interchange of fibrils between the two nerves is supposed to take place. The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 17, d) Springs from the bi- ^^^^"^'^ furcation of the common carotid at the upper border of the thyroid vessel, cartilage, and fmiiishes branches to the neck, the face, and the outer part of the head. From the place of origin it ascends in front of the mastoid pro- Extent, cess, and ends near the condyle of the jaw in the internal maxillaiy and temporal branches. The artery lies at first to the inner side of Com-se and the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes superficial to that vessel; and its direction is somewhat arched forwards, though the position would be marked sufiiciently by a fine fr-om the fi-ont of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is overlaid by the stemo-mastoideus, pai-ts supei-- and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. ^'^^^^ *° the sldn, and the superficial and deep fascife with the platysma. But above the level of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and higher still it is concealed by the parotid gland. At its beginning the artery rests against the phaiynx : but above the angle of the beneatli it^ jaw it is placed over the styloid process and stylo-phaiyngeus muscle, which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner side of the vessel at first is the pharynx ; and still higher, are the and on inner ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. '^"l''- Veins. There is not any companion vein with the external carotid, Veins in as with most arteries; but sometimes a vein, formed by the union the arteiy'-*^ of the temporal and internal maxillary bi-anches (p. 29), will accom- pany it. Near the beginning it is crossed by the facial and lingual branches joining the internal jugular vein ; and near the ending the external jugular vein lies over it. Nerves are directed from behind forwards over and under the and nerves artery. At the lower border of the digastric muscle the hypo- glossal hes over the vessel, and near the ending the ramifications of the facial nerve are superficial to it. Three nerves lie beneath it:—beginning below, the small external laryngeal ; a little higher the superior laryngeal ; and near the base of the jaw, the o-losso- pharyngeal. The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and are its classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The '^'™'<'hes anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, toio?," and the face, viz., superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries' In the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricular posterior branches. And the ascending set include the ascending pharyn- and ascend- ing:78 <?liaiigc in origin iiml in number. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. geal temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. BeBides these the carotid gives other branches to the sterno-raastoid muscle and the parotid gland. The origin of the branches of the carotid may be altered bv their closer aggregation on the trunk. The usual number may be Fig. 17.* diminished by two or more uniting into one ; or the number may be increased by some of the secondary offsets being transferred to the parent trimk. Branches Directions. All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal, iiOTvseen Ungual, and internal maxillary, may be now examined ; but those three will be described afterwards ^vith the regions they occupy. Surerior The superior thyroid artery (e) arises near the comu of the os thyroid, * External carotid and its superficial brandies ("Anatomy of the Arteries," Quain). a. Common carotid, h. Internal jugular vein. c. Internal carotid. d. External carotid, e. Upper thyroid branch. /. Lingual, g. Facial. h. Internal maxillary, i. Superficial temporal, in. Supra-orbital, n. Ex- ternal nasal, o. Angular branch of facial, p. Lateral nasal, r. Superior coronary, s. Inferior coronary, t. Inferior labial, u. Submental artery.79 BRANCHES OF CAROTID. hyoides, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and fiterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to which it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. This artery is superficial in the i.as tiiese anterior triangle, and furnislies offsets to the lowest constrictor and o««ct.s; the other muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— o. The hijokl branch is very 'inconsiderable in size, and runs *\'.^,[^^,"'^^ inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to muscle, the muscle fi'om which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to larynx, bone and the thyi-oid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. cl. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- to "^co- tween the cricoid and the thyi-oid cartilage, and communicates with membrane, the con-esponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid Accompany- body, and crosses the end of the common carotid arteiy to open into ^^'"* the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) aiises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery ^^^'^^ passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is after- wards lodged on the submaxillaiy gland, on which it makes a sig- moid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been referred to (p. 27). j^^^gj?^'®^ From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to branches the structures below the jaw, viz. :—■ a. The inferior palatine branch ascends to the phaiyns beneath to the the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, after furnishing a branch to the tonsil. This branch fi-equently arises from the ascending phaiyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes tonsU, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland submaxii- from the part of the artery in contact with it. ^^"^ d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and and mylo- courses forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the muicie. digastric muscle, where it ends in offsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone,—one or two perforating the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding with the off- sets of the artery. Not unfrequently it opens into the temporo- maxillary trunk. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined for ^^^J'y^^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 80 ends on occiput; offset to dui-a mater. Occipital vein. Posterior auricular; • a 'branch to the ear. Vein with artery Temporal artery termination. Branches to parotid, to articula- tion, and ear. Branch to face. Branch to temporal muscle and fascia. the back of the head. It springs from the carotid opposite the facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Next it turns horizontally backwards on the occipital bone, passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally be- comes cutaneous near the middle line (p. 6). In the neck this arterj- lies beneath the digastiic muscle and the parotid gland; and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. The only offset from the artery in the front of the neck is a small posterior meningeal branch: this ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen jugulare (p. 16). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. The occipital vein begins at the back of the head (p. 6), and has the same course as the artery : it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and coalesces with the internal (sometimes the external) jugular vein. The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the preceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides mto two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6). A small branch, stijlo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same name, and supplies the tympanum of the ear. The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and internal max- illary veins. The temporal artery (t) is in direction the continuation of the external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending under the parotid gland it di^ades on the tem- poral fascia into anterior and posterior branches, about two inches above the zygoma ; these are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 5). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the sm- rounding parts, viz. :— a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland of the same name. Articular twigs are supplied to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. b. The transverse facial branch quits the temporal arterj- oppo- site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over the masseter muscle (p. 28) ; on the side of the face it supplies tlie muscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial arteiy. c. The middle temporal branch arises just above the zygoma, and pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the tem- poral muscle: it anastomoses with branches of the internal maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal artery is likewise found between the layers of the temporal fascia; this anastomoses with an offset of the lachrymal (p. 45).MASSETER MUSCLE. 81 The temporal vein begins on the side of the head (p. 6) and Correspond- is contiguous to its companion artery. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; next it receives branches which are companions of the offsets of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will not be used again for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied salt to presence it. Section VI. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath the'^^^^,^'^ the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the articulation of that bone. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary bloodvessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Dissection, bones, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the facial nerve. To see it more fully the branches of the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery should be cut tlu-ough, and turned back- wards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to define the origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be any tow or cotton wool in the mouth let it be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 6, ^'') is partly aponeurotic at the upper Masseter. •attachment. It arises from all the lower border of the zygomatic Origin, ■arch, extending forwards to the upper jaw ; and firom the inner surface of the arch by fine fleshy fibres. Most of the fibres are inclined down and somewhat back, and are inserted into the outer Insertion, surface of the coronoid process, ramus, and angle of the lower jaM'; but a few are fixed into the contiguous part of the body of the bone as far as the second molar tooth. Some of the hinder and deeper fibres are inclined downwards and forwards across the others. The lower part of the masseter is subcutaneous, but the upper is Muscle partly concealed by the parotid gland (socia parotidis), and is "utiii^ous- crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels aildi the facial nerve. The anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat resembUng that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ramus of the jaw, and the lies on the masseteric branches of nerve and artery entering it at the under f"^' surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterj^goid in the tose. mastication of the food. 1 Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion the following dissection may be made :—The temporal fascia is to be ^'"^'^ °^.82 DISSECTION OF THE TTERYGOID REGION. poml muscle. To seethe insertion. Origin of temporal muscle. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use. To dissect pterygoid muscles, saw tliimigb ramus of the jaw. detached from the upper border of the zygomatic arch, and to b© removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, the arch of the zygoma is to be sawn througli in front and behind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut off) with the masseter muscle still attached to it, by separating the- fibres of that muscle from the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter muscle, its nerve and vessels, which pass through the sigmoid notch, will come into view. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned. And to expose its insertion and deep origin, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole insertion of the muscle. Before sawing the bone let the student find and separate fi-om the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing- fi'om beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat removed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external pterygoid below them,, may be observed. The temporal muscle (fig. 18, ^) takes its origin from the whole- of the temporal fossa (p. 4), reaching up to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. From this exten- sive attachment, as well - as fi'om the fascia over it, the fibres con- verge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the same process which reaches from the apex to near the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric- vessels and nerve, and in fi'ont of it the buccal vessels and nerve : the last nerve perforates occasionally some of the fibres of the muscle. Action. All the fibres contracting the muscle will raise the mandible and press it forcibly agamst the upper jaw ; but the hinder fibres may retract the lower jaw after it has been moved forwards by the external pterygoid. Dissection. For the display of the pterygoid muscles (fig. 18),. it will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be first de- tached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scdpel, and the deep temporal vessels and nerves are to be sought in its: fibres. A piece of the ramus is next to be taken away by sawing across-, the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dental foramen ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve in contact with its inner surface secure from injury, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted between them and the bone, and earned down- wards to their entrance into the foramen. The masseteric arteiy and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should these be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and afterwards tie together the ends. IG 2 POSITION OF VESSELS AND NERVES. After the loose piece of bone has been removed and the sub- ^Ue it away jacent parts fi-eed from much fat, the pterygoid muscles ^vi l-"^^ ■ appear,—the external ('-) being directed outwards to the condyle of the jaw, and the internal (="), which is parallel in direction to the masseter, being inclined to the angle of the jaw. In removing the fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin internal lateral ligament, which lies on the internal pterygoid muscle beneath the ramus. • Position of vessels. Crossing mwards over the external pteiygoid Position of muscle, is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets Fig. 18.* upwards and downwards : sometimes the artery will be placed beneath the muscle. The veins with the artery are large and plexiform : they may be taken away. Position of nei-ves. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillaiy Nerves, nerve appear in this^dissection. Thus, issuing fi'om beneath the lower border of the external pterygoid are the large dental and gustatory nerves, the latter being the more internal of the two ; and coming out behind the joint of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. Appearing between the upper border of the muscle and the cranium, are the small masseteric and deep temporal nerves. The buccal branch of the nerve perforates the fibres of the same muscle near the inner attachment. Branches of the internal * Superficial view of the pterygoid region (Quain's "Arteries "). 1. Tem- poral muscle. 2. External pterygoid. 3. Internal pterygoid. 4. Buccinator. 5. Digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles cut and thrown back. 6. Common carotid dividing into external and internal trunks. 8. Internal maxillary artery (beneath the pterygoid instead of over it) and its branches.—The nerves are omitted in this woodcut.DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 84 Intermaxil- lary baud. External ptcrygoiil. Attach- ineuts. Insertion. Contiguous parts. A second head. Use of both muscles. of one muscle. Internal pterygoid is tooneatli the ramus of the jaw. Attach- ments. Vessels and nerves arodnd. Use. maxillary artery accompany the nei-ves. Coursing along the pos- terior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery. Between the jaws is tlie whitish narrow band of the pterygo- maxillary ligament, to which the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles are connected. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 18, 2) extends almost hori- zontally from the zygomatic fossa to the neck of the lower jaw. Its origin is from the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone below the crest, and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attaclied to the upper margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure forming at first a separate bundle, and are inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep surface it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament of the joint of the jaw. The parts in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enumerated before. Sometimes the slip of the muscle, which is attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillaiy fissm-e and the root of the external ptery- goid plate (fig. 18,) is described as a separate head with an insertion into the interarticular cartilage. Action. If both muscles act the jaw is jnoved forwards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in fi-ont of the upper, and the grinding teeth are rubbed together in an antero-posterior direction. In order that the lower front teeth may be able to pass the others the jaw is depressed. One muscle contracting (say the right), the condyle of the same side is drawn inwards and forwards, and the grindmg teeth of the lower jaw are moved horizontally to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is eflEected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 18, ^) IS nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw, and its fibres are longer than those of the preceding muscle. Arising in the pterygoid fossa, and chiefly from the iimer surface of the external pterj^goid plate, the muscle is fiuiher attached below, outside the fossa, to the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and to the tuberosity of the upper jaw bone. The fibres descend to be inserted into the angle, and into the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw as high as the inferior dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and gustatory nerves, the dental artery, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Tlie deep surface is in relation below with the superior constrictor, and at its origin with the tensor palati muscle. Action. From the direction and attachment of the fibres the muscle will unite with the masseter in elevating the jaw.85 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. Directions. Before proceeding further in the dissection, the student may learn the anatomy of the articulation of the lower jaw. T • <• f Temporo-maxillauy AnTicuL.\TioN. In this articulation are com- f^^"* Lined the condyle of the jaw and the anteiior part of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone ; but the osseous surfaces are not in contact, for a piece of fibro-cartilago with two synovial sacs is interposed between them. The bones are retained in apposition mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw ; but the following ligaments serve to unite them. Capsule. This is a thm fibrous tube enclosing the bones, and is Capsu^^of wider above than below. By the upper end it is fixed around the articular surface of the temporal bone in front of the Glaserian fissure ; and it is inserted below around the condyle of the lower jaw. The space in the interior is divided into two,—upper and lower, by a piece of fibro-cartilage, which is united to the capsule by the circumference. The extei-nal lateral is a short ligamentous band, being but a piece j^^^^^^^^^j of the capsule, which is attached above to the tubercle at the root * ' of the zj-goma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 19, ^) is a long, thin, mem- internal branous band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it j^g^™ is connected to a projection inside the glenoid fossa, which consists of the spinous process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and the internal pterygoid ; and its origin is concealed by the external pteiygoid muscle. Between the ligament and the jaw the internal maxillaiy vessels intei'vene. Dissection. After the external lateral ligament and the capsule Dissection, of the joint have been examined, an interarticular fibro-cartilage, with a hollow above and below it, will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 20). The interarticular fihro-cartilage (fig. 20,'') is adapted to the sur- Fibro-cartl- faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thinner in the ^^^^ '■ centre than at the margins ; and an aperture is sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded and attach- on the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule and the external lateral ligament; and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular pad allows greater freedom of movement in the Use. joint witliout dislocation ; diminishes the injurious effect of pressure; and deadens the sound of the jaw striking the skull. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation—one above, Two syno- and one below the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is the smaller of """^^^ tlie two. Another structure—the stylo-maxillanj ligament (fig. 20, •'') is Stylo-iiiaxil- described as a uniting band to this articulation. It is a process of ment!^""86 Surface of jaw and tfim- poral bone. DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw : it gives attaclmient to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Artimlar surfaces of the bones. The lower jaw possesses a thin narrow condyle, which is elongated transversely, and directed back- wards and inwards. On the temporal bone is a narrow deep articular hollow (glenoid fossa), which is lengthened ffom without in, and is placed in front of Fig. 19.* Fig. 20. t Kinds of movement. In opening tlie mouth, liow jaw moves. Dislocation. State of ligaments. Shutting mouth ; condyle moves. State of ligaments. the Glaserian fissure. In front of this is a prominence of bone, (transverse root of the zygomatic process) which is convex fi-om before back. Movements of the joint. This condyloid articulation is provided with an up and down, a to and fi'O, and a lateral movement. In depressing the Jaio, as in opening the mouth, the articular con- dyle moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity at the fore part of the articular hollow ; but the mterposed concave fibro- cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this pro^^sion, a slight degree more of sudden motion throws the condyle oS. the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and gives rise to dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are made tight; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the con- dyle by the external pterygoid muscle. When the jaio is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and the fibro-cartilage ghde back into the glenoid fossa. In tliis posi- tion the jaw is placed in the state of greatest security against dis- location. The ligaments and the surrounding muscles, which were sti-etched in the previous mo^^ement, are then set at rest. * Ligament of tlie jaw—an inner view (Bonrgery and Jacob), 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillary. t A view of the interior of the compound tempore-maxillary joint (Bonrgery and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interai-ticular fibro-cartilage— the dark intervals above and below show the hollows containing the sjniovial membranes.87 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. During the liorizontnl motion forwards and hackwarch of tlie jaw Fomar'J^^n'l the condyle is moved successively to the front and back ot tlie ,„ove.uent. temporal articular surface ; and the lower jaw is slightly depressed, condyle in order that the fore teeth in the upper dental arch should not moves, impede those of the lower. By turns the front and back of the capsule will be stretched ; f.^te of^^ and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Too great motion forwards will be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and that backwards, by the meeting of the condyle and tlie auditoiy process of the OS temporis. Lateral horizontal movement puts the jaw first to one side and Laterai^^^^^ then to the other. When the jaw is forced to the left side, the right condyle smks into its articular hollow, whilst the left is pro- ^^^^^^^ jected ; and the grinding teeth of the lower dental arch are moved to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. The inner part of the capsule on the right, and the outer part on ^^^^ of^^ the left side, will be put on the stretch when the jaw is caiiied to ^" the left of the middle line ; and the opposite. With old edentulous jaws the capsule is much enlarged, and per- mits the condyle to wander backwards beliind the Glaserian fissure. Without this provision the altered lower jaw would not meet the upper to crush the food. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated, the external pterygoid muscle being still uncut ; and it with the uerve, attached muscle is to be di'awn forwards so as to allow the fifth nerve to be seen. Whilst cutting through the joint capsule, the tUssector must be careful of the amiculo-temporal nerve close be- neath (fig. 21). On dra^ving forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some fat, the dissector will find the trunk of the mferior maxillary ners'e. All the small muscular' branches of the nerve, before noted, should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The auriculo-temporal branch should be followed backwards with care behind the articulation ; and the dental and gustatory nerves beneath the muscle should be cleaned. The small chorda tympaiii chorda may be found joining the posterior part of the gustatory nerve ty^P^Ji'' near the skull. The large meningeal artery and its branches are to be sought and arteries, beneath the external pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in such case, it and its branches are to be traced out. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 18, IS OnC of the tcr- Internal, niinal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course a'rtery.'*'^ beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, between Course and couuections.DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 88 Varies in its position. Brandies are tlireo sets. Those be- neath jaw, inferior dental: has a brancli to mylo-hyoicl muscle. Great meningeal arteiy, ends in skull, tut gives Iranch to tympanum, to meatus, to dni-a mater. Branch with gustatory. Branches of second part are to the temporal muscle; that bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nei-ve. Next, the vessel winds over the external ptery- goid muscle-, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And lastly, the arteiy enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the pieces of origin of the external pterygoid. Tlie course of the- artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the external pterygoid r in such a state the artery gains'the spheno-maxillary fossa by coming upwards tln-ough the origin of the muscle, as in the woodcut. The hranches of this artery are very numerous, and are classed into three sets: thus one set arises beneath the jaw; another between the muscles ; and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two branches, viz., the inferior dental and great meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery whilst it is in contact with the ramus; of the jaw. The inferior dental branch descends between the mternal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve ; it supplies the teeth,, and ends in the lower part of the face. As tliis arterjr is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small twig, mylo-hyoicl bruJich, to the muscle of that name ; this is con- ducted by a gi-oove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superiicial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the largest branch, and arises oppo- site the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle^ and (oftentimes) between the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve ; crossing the internal lateral ligament, it enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. When in the skull the artery ascends to the vertex of the head, and supplies the bone and the dura mater (p. 15). Before'the arteiy enters the skull, it furnishes the following small branches :— a. The tympanic branch (mferior) passes into the tympanuni through the Glaserian iissure, and is distributed to the membrana tympani and that cavity. b. A deep auricular branch arises with the former or separately,, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the membrana tympani. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve ; it ramifies in the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the mtemal maxillary trunk, and accompanying the gustatory nei-ve, ends in the cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches fi-om the second part of the arteiy, viz., Avhilst it is between the temporalis and pteiygoideus extemus are distributed to the temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid muscles. The deep temporal arteries are two in number (anterior and pos- terior) ; and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indicated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anas-INFERIOR MAXILLiVRY NERVE. 8» tomose with the superficial temporal arteiy: the anterior communi- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery (p. 45). . . , ^, When the parent trank has the unusual position beneath tlie pterj-goideus, the anterior branch lies under that muscle, mstead of over it. The masseteric arteri/ is directed outwards with the nerve o± the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle; and passing througli the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in tlie "j^^^:'"- imusual position of the arteiy it may perforate the fibres of the pterygoideus ; it descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The iHeryrjoid branches are uncertain in their position ; whether *°^P^^^ysoiiT derived fi-om the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter both pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise fi'om the arteiy when it enters the Branches of spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, the superior dental, will be now oi"iyone' ' described. The remainder will be examined with the superior now seen, maxillary nerve, and Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, vidian, and pteiygo-palatine (Section 14). The superior or posterior dental branch takes origin near the top Superior of the upper maxilla, and descends with a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillarj'^ nei^ve. It sends twigs into the foramma in the bone, and supplies the upper molar and bicuspid teeth ; but some external offsets are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the Linmg membrane of the antrum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEINS receive the offsets accompanying internal the branches of the arteiy in the first two parts of its course: these TC^in'begins veins form a plexus—pterycjoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, i» plexus, and between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This anastomosis communicates with the alveolar plexus ; with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary) ; and with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull, by veinules that pass through the base of the cranium. Escaping from the plexus, the vein accompanies the arteiy to the and ends m parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein,—the ^ji^ijia"^ union of the two giving rise to the external jugular. Sometimes this vessel enters the internal jugular vein (p. 29). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 21) is the largest of the inferior three trunks arising from tlic Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves "iel?^,e''^'"^ the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides beneath the external pterygoid muscle into two chief pieces, viz. an anterior, small, moto-sensoiy piece; and a large, posterior, chiefly sensory portion. %DISSECTION OF THE TTERYGOID REGIOX. 90 MuRculftr piece Dh-ections. Should the internal maxillary arteiy obstruct the view o± the nerve, it may be cut through. The SMALLER PART, formed mainly by its contribution from the trunk of the nei-ve, receives nearly all the fibrils of the motor root and ends in branches for the muscles of the jaw, viz. temporal masseter, and one pterygoid ; and for the muscle of the cheek, the buccmator. t''^' ^'-""^^^^^ furnished to the under surface of the temporal muscle. Like the arteries, they are two in number, Fig. 21.* posterior -and ■anterior. Masseteric. Articular. anterior and posterior, and course upwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle. The posterior hranch is the smallest, and is often derived from the masseteric nerve ; it is placed near the back of the temporal fossa. The anterior hranch supplies the greater part of the muscle, and communicates sometimes with the buccal nerve. The masseteric hranch (-) takes a backward course above the external pterj-goid muscle, and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle : in the masseter the nerve can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articulation of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. * Deep view of the pterygoid region (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Temporal reflected, b. Condyle of the jaw disai-ticulated, with the external pterygoid attached to it. c. Internal pterygoid, d. Buccinator. F. jMasseter thrown down. Nerves: 1. Buccal. 2. Masseteric, cut. 3. Deep temporal. 4. Auriculo-temporal. 6. Chorda tympani. 7. Inferior dental. 8. Gusta- tory. 10. Internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The arteries are not figured, with the exception of the internal maxillary trunk which is marked with 9 : the offsets of the artery accompany the nerves, being named like them. 491 INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. The ptemoid branches come from both parts of the inferior n-^n j^ t« niaxiUary nerve. muscles:— Tlie branch or branches to the external ptenjgoid springs fromtlie extemal smaller piece of the trmik, or from the buccal nerve, and enters the under surface of the muscle. The nen-e to the internal iJiei-ycjoid arises fi-om the large part ol internal, tlie maxillary trunk close to the s'iaill, and maybe followed beneath the upper border to the deep surface of its muscle ; it will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section 14). The buccal branch ('), longer and larger than the others, perfo-Buccinatoi rates the external pterygoid, and is directed inwards, beneath the coronoid process to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in terminal branches. As it perforates the pteiygoid muscle filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed through ^^^f^l^^ the iibres it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle. The nerve is directed towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integu- ment, the buccinator muscle, and the lining mucous membrane. It ^^'^^jj^™"^*;"^^^ is united fi-eely with the facial nerve, the two forming a plexus. The LARGER PART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into ^,^"j°7 three tnmks—auriculo-temporal, dental, and gustatory. A few of |Jjf'-^';i<j'^^.. the fibrils of the small (motor) root are applied to it, and are con- veyed to certain muscles, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, pterygoideus internus, mylo-hyoideus, and digastricus. The AUKICULO-TEIIPORAL NERVE (*) Separates fi'om the others ^mpw^ near the base of the skull, and has commonly two roots. Its course to the surface of the head is directed first backwards be- neath the external pterygoid muscle, as far as the articulation of j^®^ Ijeneath the jaw ; and then upwards with the temporal artery in fi'ont of the ear. The nerve furnishes branches to the surrounding parts, braiiiches^^^ viz., the joint, the ear, and the parotid gland ; and it communicates with the facial nerve. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the follow- ing :— a. Branches of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to *° t''"' the meatus from the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enter that tube between the cartilage and bone. b. Auricular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises near the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to the meatus. " "'"'^^' c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the external ear below the ear, and the meatus auditorius : it sends offsets along the internal maxillaiy -nrteiy, which communicate with the sympathetic nerve. d. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, parotid; e. Communicating branches. Two or more branches around the ex- to join facial temal carotid artery communicate with the facial and sympathetic thetiT"^"'' nei-ves. The INFERIOR DENTAL (^) is the largest of the three trunks of the inferior inferior maxillary nen^e. In its course to the canal in the lower '^""^^ jaw, the ner^'e is external to the gustatory, and lies at first beneath is between the external pterygoid muscle ; it is aftenvards placed on the in- }^usi:£'^DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. thou in tbo jaw. and supplies ■branch to mylo- liyoideus. T)oiital braiinlies to grinding and cutting teetli. Brand) to lower ill). Dental artery lias an incisor and labial branch. Gustatoiy nerve courses to the tongue; no branch here. Cliorda tyinpaui joins gustatoi-y, ends in tongue. ternal pterygoid, and on the internal lateral ligament near the dental foramen. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a labial branch. Only one muscular offset (niylo-hyoid) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the bone. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid branch arises near the dental foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-liyoideus, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. h. The dental Ircmches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve may be laid open so as to expose these branches. c. The incisor hranch continues the trunk of the nerve onwards to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath Avhich it lies. d. The labial branch (mental) (fig. 19, issues on the face be- neath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. It gives offsets to the muscles below the aperture of the mouth, and communicates with the facial nerve; but the greater part of the branch is directed, upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer sm-f aces of the lower lip. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies off- sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, -where it ends in the bone ; it lies beneath the canine and incisor teeth, to which it furnishes twigs. The labial branch, issuing by the labial foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and communicates \dth. the branches of the facial artery. The GUSTATORY Or LINGUAL NERVE (^) is concealed at first, like the others, by the external pteiygoid muscle. It is then inclined inwards with a small artery over the internal pterj'goid muscle, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 97). In its course under the jaw the nerve does not distiibute any branch to the muscles around, but the following communicating- nerve is received by it. The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is dis- tributed to the tongue. Escaping from the tympanum by the Glaserian fissure, this small branch (") is applied to the gustatory nerve at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibrils communicate with the gustatory, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum to its position beneath the external pterygoid, arc described in Section 14.93 MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE. Section VII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and the hyoicl bone. In it are contained the muscles of the os hyoides Parts in it. and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same Positi^onof iis for the examination of the anterior triangle. ^ e ne . Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland (fig. 16, ") lies below the jaw in the situation anterior part of the space Umited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery winds over the surface. It rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and sends a deep and connec- process round the posterior or free border of that muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind is the suhmax- stylo-maxillary ligament separatmg it from the parotid. Occupying gland, a position somewhat below the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and the deep fascia. In stractm-e the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 30) ; Structnre. and its duct—duct of Wharton—issuing from the deep process, •extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without mjmy the submaxillary gland fr-om beneath the bone. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 33, ^) is triangular in shape, with Mylo- the base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid bone, and unites ^'yoi'ieus along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises arises from from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth ; and is inserted into the middle inserted of the body of the os hyoides, as well as into a central tendinous b°oM'^^*'^'^ band between that bone and the jaw. On the cutaneous surface lie the digastric muscle, and the sub- Parts maxillary gland, the facial artery with the submental offset, and its own branch of ner^'-e and artery. Its fibres are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the next muscle to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep siu-face of the muscle will be perceived after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The lower jaw being fixed the muscle approaches the os use: on os hyoides to the jaw, enlarging the pharynx preparatory to swallowing, ''yoi^es. With the hyoid bone immoveable, the mylo-hyoideus can help in depressing the jaw, and opening the mouth.DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGIOX. Dissection, to detncli Jiiylo-liyoiil. To see deep muscles saw the jaw. fasten tongue. and cut mucous membrane. Define nerves, and vessels Parts be- neatli mylo- hyoidcus Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- hyoid, and to trace the A^essels and nerves to the substance of the tongne (as in fig. 23), the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the superficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the mylo-hyoideus, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus ; and detacliing that muscle from the jaw and its fellow, should throw it down to the OS hyoides, but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Afterwards the bone is to be sawn through on the right of, but close to the muscles attached to the symphysis, the soft parts covering the jaw having been previously cut. The loose side of the jaw (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up out of the way with a stitch ; but it should not be detached fi'om the mucous membrane of the mouth. The apex of the tongue is to be now pulled well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, whilst the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be then passed from below ujDwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. By means of a stitch the os hyoides may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing tlais the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct ; of the hypo-glossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stjdo-glossus muscle ; also of the gustatoiy nerve nearer the jaw. Between the gustatoiy nei-ve and the deep part of the submaxillaiy gland the dissector should seek the small submaxillary ganglion (smaller than a pin's head), with its offsets ; and should endeavour to separate from the trunk of the gustatory the small chorda tympani nerve (p. 92), and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the Ungual vessels, the stylo-hyoid 'ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nei-ve, all passing beneath that muscle ; and at the anterior border find the issuing ranine vessels wliich, with the gustatory and hypo-glossal nerves, are to be traced on the under surface of the tongue to the tip. Parts beneath mylo-hyoideus (fig. 23). The relative position of the objects brought into view by the "steps of the previous dissection is now apparent :—Extending from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo-glossus.is to be made to the dissection of the tongae, Section 15. ' HYOID AND STYLOID MUSCLES. 96 On the hyo-g-lossns are placed, fi-ora below upwards, the hypo-glossal ""^^^e of iien-e, the Wliartonian duct, and the gustatoiy nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the inner border of the muscle the two ner\'es are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery with its vein, the stylo- hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo- glossus is tlie mucous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior con- strictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the clun and the os hyoides, along the middle line, is "^.'^^long^^ situate the genio-hyoid muscle ; and larger and deeper than it is "^'^ ^ a fan-shaped muscle, the genio-hyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs fi-om the lingual arter}- at the inner border of the hyo-glossus. On the imder surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the gustatoiy ners^e; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus runs the hypo-glossal nerve. The HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (fig. 22, ^) is thin and somewhat square Hyo-glossus in shape. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of attaeli\i?ent\ the OS hyoides (basio-glossus), and from all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus). The two pieces form a thin sheet, and enter the hinder part and side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with fibres of the palato- and stjdo- glossus.* The parts in contact with the surfaces of the hyo-glossus have in contact been already enumerated ; and beneath the muscle also are portions ^Jts.™*''^ of the genio-hyo-glossus and middle constrictor. Along the anterior border is the genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Action. When the tongue is at rest the muscle can bring tbat Use]: organ to the floor of the mouth, drawing down the sides and tongue free; giving a rounded form to the dorsum; but if the tongue is protruded fi-om the mouth, the fibres will retract it into that cavity. If the tongue is fixed against the roof of the mouth by other tongue muscles, even though the lower jaw is depressed, this muscle mth the genio-hyo-glossus will elevate the os hyoides, and allow swallowing to take place. The STYLO-GLOSSUS (fig. 22, -) is a slender muscle, whose attach- stylo- ments are expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process g^o^sus near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillaiy ligament, the muscle is continued foi-wards to the side of the tongue. • Here it gives comes to fibres to the dorsum, and turning to the under surface, extends to tongue, the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. Action. Both muscles will raise the back of the tongue against Useof botli * A third part (chondro-glossus) is distinct from the others, and is not dis- sected ; it ends on the upper surface of the tongue near the root. For further details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles, reference96 <of one. <3enio- liyoiileiis. Connec- tions. Use. 'Genio-hyo- .slossus. Origin. Insertion. ■Contiguous parts. Use: the tongue free; tongue Jixeil. DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. the roof of the mouth, but if the tongue is protruded they will restore it to tlie cavit3^ _ One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The GENio-HYoiD MUSCLE (fig. 22,") arises from the lower of the two lateral tubercles on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the P'g- 22.* middle of the hyoid bone. Covered by the mylo-hyoi- deus, this muscle rests on the genio - hyo - glossus (=*). The inner border touches the mus- cle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Action. As long as the mouth is shut it raises the hyoid bone ; but acting from the OS hyoides, and the closers of the mouth being relaxed, it can depress the jaw and open the mouth. The GENIO - HYO - GLOSSUS (fig. 22, =•) is the largest muscle of this region ; it has a triangular form, with the apex at the jaw, and the base at the middle line of the tongue. It takes origin fi-om the upper tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw. From tliis spot the fibres radiate, the pos- terior passing downwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate to the tongue fi-om root to point. Ljdng along the middle of the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow. The lower border of the muscle corresponds with the genio- hyoideus, and the upper with the fraenum lingufe. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the posterior fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of all the fibres the tongue is depressed in the floor of the mouth, and hollowed along the middle. But difEerent parts of the muscle are thought to have different uses when they act fi'om the jaw :—Thus the fibres attached to the OS hyoides advance and fix that bone before swallowing ; the hinder tongue fibres raise the root of the tongue and protrude the tip ; and the anterior turn down the tip of the tongue over the teeth. When the mouth is open swallowing can be performed if the tongue is fixed against the teeth and roof of the mouth, because this muscle and the hyo-glossus can then raise the hyoid bone. * Muscles of the tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. 2. Stylo-glossus. 3. Gfcnio- hyo-glossus. 4. Genio-hyoideus. 5. Stylo-pliaryngeus. *97 GUSTATORY NERVE. Tlie lingual artery (fig. 17,/), arises from the external carotid Lingual between the superior thyroid and facial branches. At first it is ^^^^^^ directed inwards above the os hyoides, and then upwards beneath tj.e tongue the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 23) ; it ends J-^*'';''^"- at the anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and ramne branches. Near the hyo-glossus the artery is crossed by tlie ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle constrictor and genio- hyo-glossus muscles, and is below the level of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its branches are these :— a. A small hijoid branch is distributed on the upper border of the its tonches OS hyoides, supplying the muscles ; it anastomoses with its fellow j^^^.^ of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior bone; thyroid artery of the same side. b. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- ^^^^^ . glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue ^ ' and the tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to sec it. c. The sublingual branch springs fi-om the final division of the to tiie sub- arteiy at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards to giami; the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums and the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (9) is the terminal part of the lingual to the sub- StrclTlCG of artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the genio-hyo- tongue, glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery Ues along the fi-£enum lingua, but is embedded in the muscular fibres. The lingual vein commences on both the upper and under surfaces Lingual of the tongue. It lies with its companion artery, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The GUSTATORY or LINGUAL NERVE (fig. 23, ') has been followed I'ingual I161'V6 in the pterygo-maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 92). In this region the nerve is inclined forwards to the side of the tongue, ^'/'"Q^j'^jfg^ across the mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the sub- maxillary gland. Lastly, it is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are fur- S'ves nislied to the surroimding parts, thus :— bianclies Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillaiy ganglion, to the gan- near the gland of that name. ^iion, Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite to ninth in a kind of plexus with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the to mucous mouth, the gums, and the sublingual gland. membrane, Lastly, the branches for the tongue ascend through the muscular to tho substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papilla;, i"*!''"'"- The submaxillary ganglion (fig. 23, ^) resembles the other ganglia HDISSECTION OP THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 98 fan'S-'" ^^'jtli the tliree trunks of the fiftli nen^e, and com- glioui municates with sensory, motory, and sympathetic nerves. It is natui-e; smaller in size than the lenticular ganglion, is sometimes rather red, and is placed above the deep process of the submaxillaiy gland. Offsets proceed upwards to connect it with other nerves; and from the lower part arise the branches to tlie adjacent structures. iS'S" '"^^^^ nerves—roots. Two or three branches, in the form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatoiy nerve. At Fig. 23.* and sym- pathetic nerves. Branches. Chorda tympani; course. the posterior part the ganglion is fm-ther joined by an offset fi-om the chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies m contact with the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the ner^'^es around the facial artery. Branches. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and fi"om the fore part other filaments are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the Wliartonian duct. Chorda tympani. Joining the gustatory above by fibrils (p. 92), it is applied to the back of that nerve till near the tongue, and c&n be easily separated fi-om it; but beyond that point it enters amongst the fibres of the gustatorj^ nerve and is conveyed to the tongue. Near the submaxillar}^ gland an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. * Deep view of the submaxillary region (Illustrations of Dissections) Muscles: a. Genio-hyo-glossus. b. Genio-hyoideus. c. Hyo-glossus. d. Stylo- glossus. K. Mylo-hyoideus ^ail^ected. h. Stylo-hyoidcus. j. Posterior belly of digastricus. Nerves : 1. j(J*statory. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 3. Whar- ton's duct, 4. Qlosso-pliiir-xngeal nerve. 6. Hypo-glossal. 7. Upper laryn- geal. The lingual arterx. ramifies in this region, lying by the side of the hypoglossal nerve : the r^ne offset is marked with 9.99 SUBLINGUAL GLAND. The iiYPO-GLOSSAL Or NINTH NERVE (fig. 23,") in the Bubmaxillary Ninth region lies on the hyo-glossus muscle, being concealed by the be- mylo-hyoideus: but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it 5='""^^'^^^^ enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. Branches. On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes branches ^ J^Jj^""^''^" to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the mylo-hyoid muscles and the digastric, \'va., to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, gem'o- hyoideus, and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, some offsets communi- cate with the gustatory nerve on the hyo-glossus. Along the ^ddle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long ^^^^^ filaments which supply the lingual structure, and communicate vnih. the giistatoiy nerve. The (jlosso-pliaryngeal cranial nei-ve (fig. 23, ••), crossing between Glosso- the two carotid arteries, com-ses over the stylo-pharyngeus and nlvll^^'^^^ the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and ends under the hyo- glossus in branches for the tongue. See Dissection of the Tongue. The duct of the siihnaxilla'fiy gland (fig. 23, AVharton's duct, AViiarton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the '^^'^^ border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is du-ected upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side of the frasnum lingute in opens by the centre of an emmence : its opening in the mouth will be seen iJjfJJ™^ if a bristle be passed along it. The duct has a thin wall, and consists externally of a fibrous layer with much elastic tissue and a few pale muscular fibres ; and internally of a mucous lining Avith flattened epitheUum. The deep part of the submaxillaiy gland extends along the Sublingual side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland, fjeueath The sublingual glaml (fig. 23, ^) is somewhat of the shape of an tongue, almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath the tip of the tongue, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, and close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual is an aggregation of small glandular masses. Structure, each being provided with a separate duct (Henle). The ducts pucts open (ductus Eiviniani) are from ten to eighteen in number. Some of '"outii. them open beneath the tongue along a crescent-shaped fold of the mucous membrane, and others join the Whartonian duct ; one or more form a larger tube, which either joins that duct or opens near it. H 2100 DISSECTION OF MAXILLARY NERVE. Section VITI. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. Learn right orbit. Dissection of riglit orbit. Directions. Directions. The student may examine next tlie right orbit, and the remaining trunk, superior maxillaiy, of tlie fifth nei-ve. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vaiy liis former examination of the left cavity (p. 39) by dissecting it fi'om the outer side. Dissection. For this puipose divide tlie margin of the orbit with a saw through the supra-orbital notch ; and the roof with a chisel back to the sphenoidal fissure. Cut also with a chisel (fi-om the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and outside the line of the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is next to be sawn vertical^ in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards the otiter wall of the orbit is to be sawn horizontally into the spheno-maxillaiy fissure. The piece of bone forming part of the cranium and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. If the piece of the roof of the orbit, which is left, should interfere with the sight of the contents of the cavity, let it he taken away with a bone-forceps. The description of the left orbit (p. 40) Avill serve in a general way for the right cavity. The superior maxillary di-^asion of the fifth nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal. The beginning of the nerve in the cranium has been already demonstrated (p. 17). Dissection. In the spheno-maxillary fossa the ners^e can be partly fossa'*'""'''' seen by the dissection already made for the orbit, and its exposm-e here will be completed by removing the fat, and cutting away some of the wing of the sphenoid bone, so as to leaA'-e only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fossa the student seeks the following offsets,—the orbital braiich entering the cavity of the orbit: branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend in the fossa ; and a dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the con- tents of tlie cavity having been taken away, the bony canal in which it lies must be opened to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards for Infra-orbital some distance in the bone. The infraorbital vessels are prepared vessels. ^-^^^i the nei-ve. Upper max- The SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 24) commences m the bas- iiiary nerve ^^^..^^^ ganglion (p. 18), and leaves the cranium by the foramen Superior maxillary nerve. Dissection In floor of tlie orbit.101 UPPER MAXILLARY NERVE. rotundum. The course of tlie nerve is almost straight to the face, across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and through the infi-aorbital canal, along the orbital plate of the upper maxilla. Issumg froni the canal by the infraorbital foramen, it is concealed by the elevator of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip :— a. The orhital hrancli {*) arises in the spheno-maxillary tossa, and entering the orbit, divides into malar and temporal branches as before said (p. 50). h. The spheno-palatine branches C) descend from the nerve m the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are connected with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section 14). f. A jMSterior dental branch (■"*) leaves the ner\^e near the upper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and sujiplies branches to Fig. 24.* paHBes to face, through infraorbital Ciimil. Its branches are, to orbit ; to the nose and iiahite : to the teeth and buc- cinator ; the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; it joins the anterior dental branch near the teeth. Before entering the canal it furnishes one or more offsets to the gums and the buc- cinator muscle. d. The anterior dental branch (") quits the nei-ve trank in the to anterior floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special canal in fi-ont of the antrum : it is distributed by two branches. One (inner) gives nerves to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose ; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. e. Before the trunk ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Branch of smaXlpalpebi-al offset to the lower eyelid ; this is directed upwards eyelid. to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. /. Infraorbital or facial branches ('). These are larger than Infraorbital branches, * Diagram of the upper maxillary nerve and its branches. 2. Ti-unk of the nerve leaving the Gasserian ganglion. 3. Splieno-palatine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5. Posterior dental nerves. 6. Auterior dental. 7. Facial branches.102 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. join facial nerve, ami supply the and upper lip. Infraorbital artery ends in face; brandies to orbit and one to anterior teetli. Infraorbital vein. the other oiTscts of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifica- tions. Some incline inwards to tlie side of the nose, and tlie rest descend to the upper lip. Near the orbit they are crossed by branches of the facial nerve (fig. 9, with which they communi- cate, the whole forming the infraorhital plexus (p. 38), g. The hrancJies for the side of the nose supply the muscular and tegumentary structures. h. The branches for the upper lip are three or four in number, which divide as they descend, and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they supply as well the muscles and the labial glands. The infraorhital arteri/ is a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 89). Taldng the course of the nen'e through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between tRe eye and mouth. In the face its branches anastomose with offsets of the facial and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes small branches to the orbit. Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth : this gives offsets to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery (p. 89). The vein, accompanying the artery, communicates in fi-ont with the facial vein ; and terminates behmd in a plexus of veins (alveolar, p. 144) corresponding with the branches of the internal maxillaiy artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Section IX. Parts in this section. Position of head. Dissection of the stylo- pharyngeus, and glofsso- pharyngeal Stylo- pharyngeus. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and sympathetic nerves. Position. The position of tlie part is to remain as before, Anz., the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection. To see the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle, should be de- tached fi-om their origm and thro-wn down. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hjT)oglossal nerve crosses it, and by di-sadmg those branches of it that have been already examined ; any veins accom- panymg the arteries are to be taken away. In cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and the stylo-hyoid hgament may be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be drawn foi-wards on the face. The STYLO-PHARYNGEUS MUSCLE (levator phaiyngis externus) resembles the other styloid muscles in its elongated form. The103 STYLO-rHARYNGEUS MUSCLE. fibres arise from the root of the styloid process on tlie inner surface, and descend between the superior and middle constrictors to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper border Action. It elevates and draws outwards the part of the phaiynx Use. above the hyoid bone, raaldng the tube ready for the reception of the morsel to be swallowed. From its attachment to the thyroid cartilage it will assist in raising the larynx; and by its position it will control the movement forwards of the air tube. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, which extends from f>yi°;i^y°^'^ the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the os hyoides. ^ ^.'^^ Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus ofpreced- muscles, and over the internal carotid artery ; whilst the lower end is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To the posterior border, the middle constrictor muscle is attached below. It is frequently cai-tilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. Occasionally a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies parts within the head, internal viz., the brain, the eye and orbit, and the nose ; and takes a artery, circuitous course thi-ough and along the base of the skull before it terminates in the brain. The arterial tnmk in the cranium, and its offset to the orbit, have some parts been already learnt; but the portions in the neck and the temporal f^^^^ bone remain to be dissected. The branches of the carotid to the brain are examined with the encephalon. Dissection. For the display of the cei-vical part of the artery Dissection (fig. 25) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching tbeTeok";" the styloid process at the root, and throwing it with its muscles to the middle Hne, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them, but this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed inwards oA^er the artery, seek the and cranial glosso-phaiyngeal nerve and its branches near the skull, and the"^'^^^' small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and arteiy, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypo-glossal, and sympathetic nerves ; and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nei-ve. External to the vessels a loop of the first and second cen'ical nei-ves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nen'^es. Ascenduig to * Anatomie und Phisiologie des Menscbliclien Stimm und Spracli Organs. Leipzig, 1857. Yon Dr. Merkel.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 104 in the tem- poral bone. Nerves on it. Tjnipanum obtained. Internal carotid enters the skull. Its course is first tlu-ough the neck; less deep below, but very deep above rests on rectus. Position of vein, of vessels, of nerves. the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending phaiyn- geal artery will be met with. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the skull in the following manner :—the saw beijig placed beneath the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the Aving of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be du-ected through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and in a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised Avith care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other fi-om the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may prepare very readily the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tjaiipani nerve. The internal carotid artery (fig. 25, d) sprmgs from the bifurcation of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of the thyi'oid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery' may be divided into three portions :—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a tliird in the cranium. Cervical part. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth fi'om the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle may be taken as the index of this difference. Thus, beloAV that muscle, the internal carotid is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and coA^ered by the common teguments, fascia, and the platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther back. But, above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is%-ossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Whilst in the neck the internal corotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebras. Vein. The internal jugular vem accompanies the artery, being contained in a sheath Avith it, and placed on the outer side. Small vessels. BeloAV the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid; and the offset from it to the sterno-mastoideus may run doAvn on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular vessels cross the carotid. Nerves. The pneumogastric is contained in the sheath betAveenINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. tlie artery and vein, being parallel to them ; and the sympathetic, io mnLg logitudinally, lies behind the sheath of the vessels. Soss g the^.rtSy superlieially, from below up, is the hypoglossal, which sends the descendens noni along it; next the small pharyn- geal branch of the vagus; and lastly tlie glosso pharyngeal. Directed inwards beneath the carotid is the superior laryngeal * Deep vessels and Nei-\-es of tlic Neck (Ilhistrations of Dissections). Arteries: a. Subclavian trunk, h. Common Carotid, c. External carotid, cut. cl. Internal carotid. /. Inferior palatine branch of the facial, g. As- cending pharyngeal. Nerves: 1. Grlosso-phaiyngeal. 2. Spinal accessory. 3. Pneumo-gastric or vagus. 4. Hypoglossal. 5. Pharyngeal branch of the vagus. 6. Upper laryngeal branch of the vagus. 7. K.\ternal laryngeal branch of the last. 8. Thyro-hyoid branch of the liypoglossal. 9. Descendens noni of hypo-glossal, cut. 10. Phrenic nerve of cervical plexus. 11. Brachial plexus. Recurrent of the vagus winds round the subclavian artery, a.106 mSSECTIOX OF THE NECK. Pavt in tempoval bunc'. Offset to the tyiiipamun. Cranial part. Internal jugular vein. joins sub- clavian. Is on out- side of earotiils. Size. Below OS hyoicles, is joined by branches. Asc^ending pharyngeal artery gives near skull nei-ve, furnishing the external laryngeal branch ; together with pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous; and it usually does not fm-nish any branch. Part in the temporal hone. In the carotid canal the winding course of the vessel commences. The arteiy first ascends in front of the inner ear (cochlea and tympanum) ; next it is directed forwards almost horizontally ; and lastly it turns upwards into tlie cranium opposite the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid in the bone. Whilst in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the cavity of the tympanum. The cranial xmrt of the arteiy is described with the base of the skull (p. 19). The INTEENAL JUGULAR VEIN is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the foramen jugulare nearly to the first rib. At the lower part of the neck it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein (p. 71). As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close thi-oughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger intervening space (p. 75), in wliich the pneumogastric nerve with its cardiac branch is found. The size of the upper part of the vein remains much the same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased by the addition of those branches of the head and neck, corresponding with branches of the external carotid artery, which do not join the external jugular- vein.'* Its lower dilatation and its valves have been before referred to (p. 75). The following branches open into the internal jugular, yiz., the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pharyngeal; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. The ascending pharyngeal artery (fig. 25, g) is a long slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column between the internal carotid and the pharynx, it becomes tortuous near the skull, and enters the pharynx above the upper constrictor to end in the soft palate. In the neck the artery gives some small offsets to * Soraetimes the tei-m internal cephalic is applied to the vein between the skull and the liyoid bone ; and the name internal jugular, to the part below that bone and the junction of its large branches.ASCENDING rHAEYNGEAL VESSELS. 107 the surrounrling parts, viz., the muscles on the vertebra?, the nen'cs, and the lymphatic glands. A menimjeal branch enters the cranium tlu'ough the foramen a^j;;""^!'^*" lacerum (basis cranii), and is distributed in the dura mater of the middle fossa o"f the skull (p. 15) ; this is seldom seen ni the cranium because it is but rarely injected. The iMlatine bnmch, which is larger than the preceding, divides in an.ljmls in the pharynx into two main pieces, which are directed across the fore l'''^■ part of the palate beneath the mucous membrane, and form arches with like branches of the opposite side ; one of these is near the upper, and the other near the lower edge of the soft palate.** The size of the palatine artery depends upon that of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery. Phcmjngeal hrancJies. Other small arteries ramify in the upper Pliarjmgeal constrictor, the Eustachian tube, the back of the soft palate, and the tonsil. The vein accompanying the pharyngeal artery receives branches Its vein, from the cranium, the palate, and the phaiynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the nech. By the time tliis stage Directions of the dissection has been aiTived at, the condition of the parts will e°ghth"'"° not permit the ti-acing of the very minute filaments of the cranial nerve, nei-ves in the foramen jugulare of the skull; and all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk are therefore to be omitted for the present. Aftenvards, if afi-esh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the bone has been softened by acid, and the neiwes hardened in spirit, the examination of the branches, now passed over, may be made. ® In the foramen lacerum (fig. 26). Supposing the dissection of Dissection the internal carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 104, let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skull, foramen. Let him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vein, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be fomrd ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric nerves Follow through the aperture, by opening the fibrous sheath around them. ^JnTaim*''^**' Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should imennio- be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the ^^^^'^^'^ ■ vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of tliat nerve. A commu- nication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion, from which the auricular branch before referred to takes origin ; and from the ganglion filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * The Anatomy of the Arteiies. By R. Quain, F.E.S., p. 110.108 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. | aftcvwiinls glosso-plm- ryugeal and its brandies. Dissection of the nerves in the neck : of spinal accessory of glosso- phiu-yngeal; of vagus; pharyngeal Ijlexus, cardiac offsets, and recur- rent : of hypo- glossal ; of sympa- thetic iu part. Eighth nerve Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part of the foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This nerve presents two ganglia as it passes from the slcuU (fig. 26) : one (jugular), wliich is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrous), is situate at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve of Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal ; and another filament of communication with the ganglion of the sympathetic. Sometimes the dissector will be able to find a filament fi-om the lower ganglion to join the auricu- lar branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Beloio the foramen of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have been greatly denuded by the dissection of the internal carotid (fig. 25) ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypo-glossal, sympathetic, and fii-st two spinal ners^es near the skull, are to be traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufficiently laid bare already ; but its small piece i(6 to be traced to the vagus, close to the skull, and onwards by the side of that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has been also dissected ; but the offsets on the carotid, and others to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and the pharyngeal plexus are to be displayed. On the pneumo-gastnc trunk the student should define an enlarge- ment close to the skull (ganglion of the trunk), to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the parts indicated by their names, especially the first wliich enters the pharyngeal plexus. The task of disentangling the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the glosso-phai-jaigeal and symjiathetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. Two or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at the lower part of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly the dissector may prepare more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower end of the common carotid : by removing the fat aroimd it, offsets may be seen entering the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypo-glossal ner^'e remains to be made ready for learning ; its communications with the vagus, sympathetic, and the spinal nerves are to be shown. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (p. 114) ; but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should be defined, and the branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The three cranial nerves, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, which constitute the eighth nerve of Willis, leave the cranium by the foramen jugulare (p. 19). Outside the skull the nen^es take different directions to their destination ; thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwaaxls to the tongue and pharynx ;GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE, 109 the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno-mastoideus and coiisist.s of trapezius muscles ; and the pneunio-gastric nerve descends to the tn,„k3 viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The OLOSSO-PHARYNOEAL NKUVK (fig. 25, ') is the smallest of the Glosso-pha- three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in front Jje^ve* of the other two, and lies in a gi-oove in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the has two nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being ^',"i*fl,'e,l" the jugular, and the lower the petrous ganglion. laceram. * Ganglia. The jugular ganglion,^, (ganglion supcrius) is very its upper small, and is sit'.iate at the upper end of the osseous groove con- taining the nen'e. It is placed on the outer surface of the glosso- pharjmgeal trunk, and includes only some fibrils of the nerve. The petrosal ganglion, ^, (gang, inferius) is much larger tlian the pre- ceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovalish in form, '° it is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone ; and from it spring the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen it comes forwards between In the neck the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 25, and crossing inwards over the arteiy, reaches the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. At this spot the nerve becomes almost trans- courses to verse in direction in its course to the pharynx ; it crosses over the and*°"a"^ stylo-phar^-ngeus, and forms an arch across the side of the neck rjTix. above the superior laryngeal nen^e. Finally it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. Tlie branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those Branches connecting it with other ner^'es at the base of the skull, and those distributed in the neck. « Connecting branches arise chiefly from the petrosal ganglion ; with otliers, and in this set is the tympanic nei-ve. viz., « A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to sympathetic join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the ^"'I'^'^g^s. ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the upper ganglion of this nerve. « The tympanic branch (fig. 26,») (nerve of Jacobson) enters the facial and aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid ^5'"'P'''- foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the mner Avail of the tympanum, where it ends in branches : its distribution is given with the tjTnpanum of the ear. Branches for Distribution. In the neck the branches are fm-- Distributed nished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. t" a. Carotid branches suiTound the internal artery of that name carotid and communicate with the pharyngeal branch of the vao-us and '"'''"^> with the sympathetic nerve. & '' ' b. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst the styio-pha- nerve is m contact with it. ryngeus, wi^bfr'''t'° '^'^^/'«'-y«^ foi-m the pharyngeal plexus by uniting ana phary.,- with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus. ^ geui pio.xus.no DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and the tongue. Vagus nerve in foramen juguliu-e, and in the neck, the tonsil, d. The toimlUlic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former tliey end in a kind of plexus-circulus tonsillaris. e. Lingual hranches. The terminal branches of the nerve supply the root and posterior part of the tongue, as well as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15). ^ The PNEUMO-GASTRic NERVE (fig. 26, ^ vagus nen^e) is the largest of the cranial nei-ves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheatli of dura mater as the spinal acces- sory. In the aperture of exit it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nei-ve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a ganglion neai-ly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies betAveen the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates Avith several nerA'-es. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost A^ertically (fig. 25, ^) betAveen the internal jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries ; and enters that caAnty, on the right side, by crossing over the sub- claAaan artery, but beneath the innominate vein. Ganglia. The ganglion of the root (gang, superius, fig. 26, ^), is of a gi-eyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerA'^e. Small branches in the foramen jugulare come fi'om this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunh (gang, infe- rius), (^) is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch m length ; it communicates Avith the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympathetic nei-ves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are smTounded by the ganglionic substance, but those denA'ed fi'om the spinal accessoiy nerve Q^) pass OA^er the ganglion AAithout being inclosed in it. Branches The hranches of the pneumo-gastric nerve may be arranged into conrses to the tliorax. One gan- glion in foramen, anotlier below. * Diagram of the eighth nerve. 1. Grlosso-pharyngeal trunk. 2. Vagus. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Jacob- son's nerve. 7. Auricular branch. 8. Root ganglion of vagus. 9. Trunk ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrosal and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Chief part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal branch of vagus. 14. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus.Ill PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. those uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to parts cLiec</«f/ Iranclm (fig. 26) aiise from the ganglia of the root to unite and trunk of the vagus. ^ . o From the ganglion of the root. The auncular hranch is the chief oflEset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an apertm-e near the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. Its fai-ther course vnW be described with the anatomy of the ear. » One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the spinal vrith signal accessoiy nerve ; and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck symj)',!- enters it. Occasionally there is an oiiset, ('") to join the lower «'etic, (petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Fro7n the ganglion of the trunh. Communicating filaments connect with ninth, it with tlie hypo-glossal nei-ve. Other branches pass between it thetlcs'siiinal and the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it and the nerves, loop of the first two cervical nei-ves. Branches for Distribution (fig. 25). The cenncal branches arise Branches to from the inner side of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to '^"i^i^'y supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal hranch (fig. 26, ^^) is an offset fi-om the upper pharynx part of the ganglion of the trunk, and terminates in the pharynx. The nerve is dii-ected inwards over the internal carotid artery and join (fig. 25, ^), and joins the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on that vessel. Finally it com'ses to the side of the middle con- sti-ictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso- pharyngeal, superior laiyngeal, and sympathetic nei-ves, to form the pharyngeal plexus. From the plexus branches are fm'nislied to the and phai-jm- constrictors, and palato-glossus and pharyngeus, and to the pliaryn- Plexus, geal mucous membrane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. h. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 26, ''') is much larger than Upper the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion ia™Jfx *° of the trunk. From this point it inclmes obliquely inwards be- neath the internal carotid artery (fig. 25,"), and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thjToid car- tilage. The nerve then perforates the thjro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous lining of the larynx. (See "Larynx.") to supply In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the fol- ' "'"^ leaving offset to one laryngeal muscle and the pharjmx :— The external laryngeal branch (fig. 25, ^) arises beneath the a branch internal carotid artery, and runs below the superior laryngeal nerve lar^x'' to the side of the larynx. Here it gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus; and it is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus to the crico-thyroid muscle and the inferior constrictor. Near its origin to crico-thy tills branch communicates with the superficial cardiac branch of the ' uaV""- sympathetic nerve. ^ »aiyiix. c. Cardiac branches. Some small cardiac nerves spring fr-om the ]}ranches to pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac ""^ '""''■'^» branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on Ito''''*^ each side, there is a single cardiac nerve :—the right one enters theDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 112 Lower Ijitinch to larynx, ends in muscles in interior, gives branches to heart, to trachea cesojiliagus, and pha- rynx. Left recur- rent nerve. Spinal accessory lias two X)arts. Accessory to vagus in foramen : below foi'anien : how ends. Spinal part in foramen : in the neck, crosses to trapezius : supplies muscles. Ninth nerve chest, and joins the deep nen^es to the lieart from the sympathetic; and the left nerve terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus in the thorax. ch The inferior lurymjeal or recurrent nerve (fig. 25) leaves the pneunio-gastric trunk on the right side opposite the subclavian artery, and vi^inding round that vessel, takes an upward course in tlie neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and between the trachea and the oesophagus. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, Avhere it will be afterwards traced. The following branches arise from it:— Some cardiac branches leave the nei-ve as it turns round the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. Muscular branches spring from it whilst it lies between the trachea and the oesophagus, and are distributed to both those tubes. Near the larynx some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor muscle. On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, but lies between the trachea and oesophagus in the neck, as on the right side. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (fig. 26, courses through the foramen jugulare with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion. The nerve is constructed of two parts, viz., ac- cessory to the vagus, and spinal, Avhich have a different origin and distribution. (Origin of the cranial nerves.) The part accessory to the vagus, (") is the smaller of the two, and finally blends with the pneumo-gastric beyond the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and joins the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it is contmued over the lower ganglion of the vagus, and blends with the trunk beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper larjoigeal branches of the pneumo- gastric, and, according to Bendz, to many other branches of that nerve. The spinal part (fig. 26, ^^) is much larger, is round and cord-like, and is connected with the smaller piece whilst it is passing through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the neiwe (fig. 25, ") takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the neck to end in the trapezius muscle : at first it is concealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vesseL The connections of the nerve beyond the stemo-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 57). The nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mastoideus and the trapezius. ... The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis),^ issumg from the anium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply between e internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 25, "). It next comes forwards between the vein and artery, tummg round the outer side of the vagus to which it is united. The nerve now cr the113 SUB-OCCIPITAL NERVE. descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric croRscB^ ^ muscle in the anterior triangular space; from this spot it is tongue; directed inwards to the tongue and its muscles. Connecting hranches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united wches by branches with the vagus nerve, the two being inseparably Vagus, joined. Rather lower down the nerve is connected by ofEsets with the sympa-^^^ sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. s^nU; The hranches for distribution have been met with in the fore- and supply going dissections. Thus in the neck it supplies, in union Avith the "'uscles. spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone (p. 76). In the submaxillaiy region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio- hyoid) of the OS hyoides, to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palato- and pharyngeo-glossus (p. 99) : and to all the intrinsic of the tongue. Dissection.—The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between Dissection the transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is {fterali's! now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop on the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 25) is small and thin, and Rectus represents an intertransverse muscle. It arises fi-om the anterior lateralis transverse process, and the tip of the united transverse processes t^a^gverse of the atlas ; and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the muscle, occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact Parts with the posterior is the vertebral artery. To the inner side lies the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nei"ve. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in Use. inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior Dissection branch of the first cer^ncal nerve di^dde the rectus lateralis muscle, nerve^* and observe the offset to it ; then cut off the end of the lateral mass of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The anterior primary branch of the first or sub-occipital nerve is Sub-occlpi- slender in size, and arises from the common trunk on the neural ^^^^ arch of the atlas. From that spot it is directed forwards on the lies on atlas, arch, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis : here it bends down in fi-ont of the lateral mass of the atl as and forms a loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve forms a loop passes forwards it supplies the rectus lateralis muscle, and branches ^^'"^ second, connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic Brandies, nerves. Sympathktic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve consists, Sympathetic on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral '^^^^ column, and is continued into the thorax. On this portion of the uas three nerve are thre ganglia:—One near the skull, another on the neck eaiie'ia- of the first rib, and a third somewhere between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganglion. FromDISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. lU Other pans lia on lU'th nerve. Dissection or upjier giuigliou. Middle and inferior ganglion. Superior ganglion is near skull, ■beneath carotid. Branches with spinal nei-ves, with cranial outside skull, and in jugular foramen: Aud with the ganglia proceed connecting branches with the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck ; and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck in connection with the tlu-ee trmiks of the lifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be requii-ed, to biing them mto view :—The jugular vein having been cut thi'ough, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the trunks of the vagus and hypo- glossal nei-ves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop between the first and second spinal nerv€s. The several branches of the gaugHon are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down along the neck, and outwards to other nei^ves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nei-ves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut thi-ough, inside the scalenus, and drawn aside, without however destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. The clavicle is sup- posed not to be in position. The ganglion is placed on the neok of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed out- wards to the vertebral artery and the spinal nerves, and downwards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the three, and is of a reddish-gi-ey colour. Of a fusiform shape, it is as long as the second and third cervical vertebrte, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the phai-ynx, and the heart. Connecting branches imite the sympathetic with both the spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves. The four highest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the ofEset to the fourth nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. '■'-With the cranial nerves. Near the skull the trunks of the vagus (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by branches of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the peti-osal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the vagus receive small filaments, one to each, fi'om an ascending offset of the ganglion. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves byCERVICAL GANGLIA OF SYMPATHETIC. 115 means of the ascending offset from the ganglion into the carotid some in the , . . ° skull. canal (p. 20). Branches for Distribution. This set of branchea is more numerous Branches, than the preceding, and the nerves are larger in size. Branches for blood-vessels (nervi-molles). These nerves surround To external the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches so as to ' ' form plexuses on the arteries with the same names as the vessels : some small gangha are occasionally found on these ramifymg nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the sub- forming maxillary ganglion communicates with the sympathetic ; and ai'^fganglia; tlu-ough the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic gang- lion obtains a similar communication. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion accompanies g^j.^jj^™"'' the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces, which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel : and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary plexuses on the ophthalmic and cerebal arteries. In the carotid canal communica- nerves; tions are formeJ with the tympanic nerve (p. 109) and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 142) ; with the former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 20. The pharyngeal nerves pa^s inwards to the side of the pharynx, to pharyn- where they join with other branches of the cranial nerves in the Pl^xus, pharyngeal plexus (p. 111). Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the plexuses of the to cardiac heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, P^®^^* > middle, and inferior, each taking its name fi-om the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior cardiac nerve (superficial) of the right side courses superficial behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax °^<"*° beneath the subclavian artery. In the neck the nei-ve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining joins others one of the other cardiac nerves. in neck. The MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION (gang, thyroideum) is of small Middle size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually on ganglion, or near the inferior thyroid artery. It has a roundish shape, and Situation, lies beneath the great vessels. Its branches are the following : Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the Is .joined to borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth ^p'*"*^ and sixth cervical nerves. ""^"^^' Branches for Distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid oiTsets body, togather with the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyi-oid artery, thyroid and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The mi^ldle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across middle tne subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus will I 2DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 116 Inferior ganglion on neck of lirgt rib. Branches to ■blood- vessels, and spinal nerves, and inferior cardiac. Directions. be learnt in tlie chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size but irregular in shape, and occupies the interval between the first rib and the lateral mass of the last certical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it extends in fi-ont of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelHng of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia. One or two branches sun-ound the trunk of the subclavian artery, and supply filaments to that blood-vessel. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming a plexus—vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerv^e, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. Directions. Dissection of anterior triangle of neck: of scaleni, and subcla- ■vian artery of thoracic duct. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differences observ^able between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be only made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 58 to 65) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoideus, and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni-muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be . learnt. The dissection, and description of the muscles on the right ' side (p. 65 to 67), will serve for those on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is contiguous to the part of the subclavian artery inside the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill; and it mil be found by separating the jugular vem from the carotid artery, about half an inch above the claA^cle, coursing from beneath the artery to the end in the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle may remain articulated, in order that the joint may be learnt.117 ENDING OF THORACIC DUCT. Tlie LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY arises from tlie arch of tlie aorta, L^oft^^^^ instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascenda thence over the ^^^^^ iirst rib in its course to the upper limb. With this difference on tlie ai„ers jn.ich two sides in the origin of the subclavian,—the one vessel begmnmg 1^°^'^^^^!^^ opposite tlie sterno-claviculai- articulation, the other m the thorax, it is evident that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite sides* First part. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus ii^ttie first is much longer on the left than the right side, and is almost vertical ^'^ in dii-ection, instead of being horizontal like its fellow. After leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the arteiy and the surface are structures like those on Connections the right side, viz. the common teguments with the platysma and rounding deep fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. V!<-rts. Behind the vessel is the longus colli muscle. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct ; and the pleura is in contact with the outer and anterior surfaces. Its connections lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular vein is superficial to the arteiy and Veins, parallel to it. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel instead Position of of across it as on the right side ; and the phrenic nerve crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the chest; and beneath it is the inferior cei-vical ganglion. The second and third parts of the artery, viz. beneath and beyond Best of the scalenus, are nearly the same as on the right side (p. 68) ; but the student must note for himseK the slight variations that may exist in the connections. The branches of this arteiy resemble so closely those of the right Brandies trunk, that one description will serve for both (p. 69 to 71). It tSof^ may be remarked, that the superior intercostal of the left side is rigUt vessel, usually internal to, instead of beneath the scalenus as on the right side; in other words, this branch arises sooner. The thoracic duct (fig. 27, *) conveys the chyle and lymph of the Thoracic greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escai^ing from ^^'^^ the thorax on the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as high tii™tho^ax" as the seventh or sixth cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid trunk, and arches outwards above or over the subclavian artery, and in front of the scalenus muscle and joins and the phrenic nerve, to open into the subclavian close to the union ygj^j''^'^^**" with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the valves, veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Frequently the upper part of the duct is di-sdded ; and there may be separate openings into the large vein, coiTespond- ing with those divisions.118 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Branches. Strnctiue. Large lymphatic vesself? from the left side of the head and neck, and from the left upper limb, open into the upper part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the vein ("•). ^ Structure. This tube is formed of three coats like tlie blood-vessels, viz. inner, middle, and outer. The iimer is an elastic layer of longitudinal fibres covered by flattened epithelium; the middle is Fig. 27.* Spinal nerves. Difference in origin of right and left carotids, In the neck difference in vein and nerve. Parts in the aperture of tliorax. muscular and elastic Avith transverse fibres ; and the outer is constructed chiefly of fibrous tissues aiTanged longitudinally and obliquely. Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using the des- cription of the right side (p. 72 to 74). Common caeotids. On opposite sides these vessels have differ- ences like those between the right and left subclavian arteries ; for the left vessel arises fi'om the arch of the aorta, and is there- ' fore deep in the chest, and longer than the right. The description of the artery between its origin and the top of the sternum will be included in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation the vessels, on both sides, so nearly resemble one another that the same descrijDtion may serve for the two (p. 74). On the left side, however, the jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are much nearer to the carotid than on the right side, and are placed over the artery in the lower thu-d of the neck.f Paets in the uppee apeetuee of the thoeax. The relative position of the several parts entering or leavmg the thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. * Diagram of the ending 'of the lymph duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Eight, and 3, left innominate vein. 4. Left, and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7, riglit subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic vessel joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. t Occasionally these differences will be reversed—the vein and nerve being over the artery on the right side, and away from it on the left.119 THYROID BODY. In the middle line lie the remains of the thjmius gland, and the jJ^^'^^^^ trachea and oesophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and stcrno-thyroid muscles with layers of the cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe is the longus colli muscle. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung On each project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and ^ the trachea and oesophagus, are placed the vessels and nerves pass- ing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both ^^^,^^1^^« sides lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nerve, and the internal both sides, mammary artery; but the vessels and nerves next met with are and partly different on the two sides :—On the right side come the innominate artery, with the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid arter}^ the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian arterj^ with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first intercostal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior intercostal vessels. The THYROID BODY (fig. 16, is a soft reddish mass, which is Thyroid situate opposite the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two ^"^^J.^^^ lobes, one on each side, which are united by a narrow piece across two^iobes the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, about half an a?<i a cross inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between Connections the -svindpipe and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the stemo-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually it reaches as high as the extent of middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most commonly Accessory from the left lobe, a conical piece—pyramid, ascends towards the pjTundd. hyoid hone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the os hyoides by a slip of muscle, the leva- tor fjlandulos tliyroidem of Soemmerring. This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular in tex- Weight and ture, and weighs from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yel- no duct, lowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretoiy tube or duct. Structure. The thyroid body is not pro^^ded with a distinct cap- No distinct sule ; but it is surrounded by areolar and fine elastic tissues, which ''^p^^^- project into the substance and divide it into masses. The substance of the gland consists of spherical or elongated consists of vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a '^■esicies, small pin, and others only g-ioth of an inch. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellowish fluid with a with corpuscles. The walh of the vesicles consists of a thin proper membrane, with a nucleated epithelial lining. Fme vessels and coat.^^^'^''"^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 120 Bloocl- vcssoIm, superior, inferior, and sonie- times lowest thyroid. Veins. Superior. Inferior, form a plexus on trachea. Trachea lies in neck and thorax. Size. Form. Cervical part is amongst muscles and vessels. CEsoiihagus occupies neck and thorax. Length. Position in neclc and connec- tions. areolar tissue unite togetlier the vesicles into small irregular masses or lobules ol; the size of the little finger nail. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—superior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect; while those from> the subclavians (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the mass. A very fi-ee communication is established between all the vessels ; and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a capillary network around the vesicles. Occasionally there is a third thyroid branch {art. thyroid, ima} which arises fi-om the innominate artery in the tliorax, and ascend- ing in fi-ont of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The veins are large and numerous ; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 75). The inferior thyroid vein issues fi'om th& lower part of tha thyroid body, and descends on the trachea,—the two fomiing a plexus on that tube beneath the stemo-thjToid muscles ; it enters finally the innominate vein of its own side. The TRACHEA, or air tube, is continued fi-om the larynx to the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronclii), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- monly fi-om the fifth cervical to the fourth dorsal vertebra, measur- ing about four inches and a half m length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea is roimded in consequence of the- existence of firm cartilaginous bands in the anterior wall ; but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has th& following relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it in fi'ont are the small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus: of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recm-rent nerves. On each side are the common carotid arteiy and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described in Section XVII. The ossoPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharjTix to the stomach. It commences, hke the trachea, opposite the fifth cei-vical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax; and occupies the middle line of the body. In length it measures about nine inches. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax where it projects to the left side of the air tube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli muscle. On each side is the common carotid arteiy, the proximity of the left being greatest because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the asophagus will be examined in the dissec- tion of the thorax.121 PREPARATION OF PHARYNX. DirecHons. The dissector may learn next the d.gash-ic and styb- M-des and hvoid muscles, witii the hypo-glossal nerve (p. 75). ^t^T,^'^^.^"*""'-^^^^ niay take the trmik of the external carotid, with the followmg tnai.tic branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auncular, and superficial temporal (p. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- negions to maxillary regions on the left side because such a proceeding would - interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the display of the two lower ganglia of the sym- cisseetion pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the °i^|t^j{!|i"'" great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., mWdle near the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen gaugua. on the neck of the first rib, after the subclavian artery has been divided. The upper cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is to be Reserve taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; |oi,it and the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cei-vical ganglia of the sympathetic nen'e Ganglia of are so similar to the coiTesponding gangHa of the right side, that nerve?*'^'^*^'^ the same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on the right Cardiac side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they present some ""^^ ^ differences. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both Upper, sides ; but the left in entering the chest lies between and parallel to the carotid and subclavian arteries. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the next, and Middle, passes beneath the subclavian arteiy to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiacnen-eis generally a small branch, which enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceding, to end in the cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHAKYNX. The phaiynx, or the commencement of the ahmentary passage, Directions. can be examined only when it has been separated from the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned below, 80 as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the To detjK'li pharynx,122 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. cut base of the skull from iuside. Saw the side of skull, and chisel thi-ough the base, then cut soft parts. Preserve piece of spine. Fasten pharynx. Dissect nerves on left side, then muscles, \iz., lower and middle eon- strictor, upper con- sti'ictor. head is to be placed downwards, so tliat it may stand on tlie cut f dge of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nen^es, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occcipital bone ; and without injuring, on the left side, the vessels and nei-ves near the skull. For the division of the skull turn upwards the inner surface of the base, and make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the right side a cut, with the chisel, is to be carried along the line of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital bone. On the left side another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone internal to the foramen jugulare and the inferior petrosal sinus : this is to begin rather beliind that foramen, and to end opposite the one on the other side. The skull is to be sawn through vertically on the left side close behind the mastoid part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the outer end of the cut made with the chisel. Finally placing the skull again upside down, let the student chisel tlu^ough the basilar process of the occipital bone between the attach- ments of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal colunm, the instrument being directed backwai-ds. The base of the skull is now divided into two parts (one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal column with the piece of the occipital bone connected with it should be set aside, and kept for after examination. Dissection of the pharynx (fig. 28). Let the student take the an- terior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oeso- phagus may be pendent and towards him. On the left side of the pharynx a different view, from that of the right side, may be obtained of the cranial and sympathetic nerves near the skull (p. 109), when some loose areolar tissue, and the styloid process with its muscles, have been removed : if the lower ends of the nerves are fixed with pieces of tln-ead, a more satisfac- tory examination can be made of them. Afterwards the dissector may proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles of the right side (fig. 28), in the direction of the fibres,—these radiating fi-om the side to the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor muscles (middle and in- ferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one near the lai-jmx, will be found the recurrent nerve with vessels ; whilst intervenmg between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the ptery go-maxillary ligament, it will be necessary to cut tln-ough the internal pterygoid muscle of the right side. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull, are two small muscles of the palate (F and H) entering the pharynx :—one,123 CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. —tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle ; and the other,—levator palati, is farther in, and larger. The PHARYNX is situate behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. Its ^^^aryi'x. extent is from the base of the skull to the cricoid cartilage of the '^''tent. larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus. In form it is somewhat form, conical, with the dilated part upwards ; and in length it measures length, from five to six inches. The tube of the phaiynx is incomplete in front, where it com- municates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite closed behind. On each side of it are placed the trunks of the carotid Connec- arteries, with the internal jugular vein, and the accompanying cranial and sympathetic nerves. Keliind it is the spinal column, covered by muscles, viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. In front the pharynx is united to the larynx, the hyoid bone, and the tongue, and to the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but behind it is unattached, and is formed chiefly of thin, fleshy strata. In the posterior wall are contained elevator and constrictor muscles ; Constmo- and at the upper end the bag is further completed by an aponeurotic expansion which fixes it to the base of the skull. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of the pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube to the base of the skull, and to complete the posterior boundary. Superiorly it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone, as well as to the cartilage between the two ; but inferiorly it becomes thin, and extends between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. The CONSTRICTORS are three thin muscles, which are arranged like Constric- scales, the lower partly overlaying the middle, and the middle the upper. The inferior constrictor (fig. 28,^), the most superficial and lowest, j^^^g^fg arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage ; from the oblique line arises from and upper and lower borders of the thyroid cartilage, and from ^'""y"^ the surface of the latter behind the oblique Hne. The origin is ^iie m'iddle^ small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres are directed line, backwards, radiating, and are inserted into a raphe along the middle line, where the muscles of opposite sides meet. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of p^^^J^^ the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, with it. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus ; whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of the middle constrictor (b). The recm-rent nerve and vessels Q) enter beneath the lower border. The middle constrictor (fig. 28, ^), has nearly the same shape as Middle con the preceding, that is to say, it is narrowed in front and expanded behind. Its fibres arise from the great cornu of the os hyoides, from origin from the small cornu of the same bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament. ^^"^^ From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with the opposite muscle.124 DISSECTION OF THE PnAEYXX. Connee- tious. The surfaces have connections shnilar to those of the preceding constrictor. Tlie upper border is separated from the superior con- strictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle d, and ends on the aponeu- Fig. 28.' rosis of the pharynx, about an inch from the base of the skull. Tlie lower border descends beneath the inferior constrictor ; and opposite the interval between the two is the upper laryngeal nen'e (^). Upper con- The sujjevior constrictor (fig. 28, is the least strong of the three strictor. * External view of tlie pharynx (Ilhistrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Inferior constrictor, b. Middle constrictor. C. Upper constrictor. D. Stylo-pLaryngeus. F, Levator palati. h. Tensor palnti. i. Buccinator. K. Hyo-glossus. Nerves: 1. Glosso-pliaryngeal. 2. Hypo-Glossal. 3. Supe- rior laryngeal. 4. External laryngeal, 5. KecuiTent laryngeal. 6. Gusta- tory nerve.125 ELEVATORS OF PHARYNX. muscles, and wants the usual triangular form. Its origin is extensive, OHsin from and is connected successively, from above down, with the inner surface and tongJe. of the internal pterygoid plate (the lower third or less), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and with the mucous membrane of the mouth and the side of the tongue. The fleshy fibres pass backwards, and j;^«°rtion^ are inserted on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, as well as into a tiie others. raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact externally with this muscle are, the deep Contiguous vessels and nerves of the neck ; and internally it is lined by the ^""^ ^^ aponeurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of arched fibres which are directed baclcwards from the pterygoid plate ; and above it the levator palati muscle F is seen. The lower liorder is overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the buccinator muscle i. Action of constrictors. The muscles of both sides contracting at ^^ctora™' the same time will diminish the size of the pharynx ; and as the anterior attachments of the lower muscles are nearer together than those of the upper, the tube will be contracted more beliind the larynx than near the head. In swallowing the morsel is seized first by the middle constrictor, ?" swaUow- and is delivered over to the inferior, by Avliich it is conveyed to the oesophagus : both muscles act involuntarily. By the contraction of the upper muscle the space above the mouth will be narrowed, so that the soft palate being raised, the upper portion of the phan,'n- geal space can be shut off from the lower. Dissection (fig. 29). Open the phaiynx by an incision along its Dissection, middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The mucous mem- brane is to be carefully removed below the dilated extremity of the Eustachian tube on the right side, for the purpose of finding some pale muscular fibres, salpingo-pharyngeus c, which descend from it. The ELEVATORS of the pharynx are two in number on each side—an Elevators of external (stylo-pharyngeus), and an internal (salpingo-pharyngeus). P^^'y^- The stylo-pharyngeus (external elevator) may be read again with stylo-pha- the pharynx. Its description is given in p. 102. ryngeus. Salpingo-pharyngeus, C (internal elevator). This little band is Salpingo- fixed by tendon to the lower border of the cartilage of the Eusta- chian tube near the orifice. Its fleshy fibres end below by joining those of the palato-pharyngeus Q. If the pharynx is not tolerably meute!" fresh the muscle may not be visible. Action. Tliis thin muscle elevates the upper and lateral part of tJse. the pharynx above the spot where the large external elevator enters the wall : but it is probably used chiefly in opening' the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The interior of the pharynx (fig, 29) is wider from side to side interior ot than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid r^''^''^"^DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 126 Objects to lae noted. Seven aper- tures, viz., Posterior naris. Eustachian tube : cartilagi- nous part has a wide opening; is a bent piece of cartilage. Mucous membrane covers and lines it. Fauces. bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction! Through the part of the passage above the mouth the air moves in respiration ; Avhilst through that below the mouth both air and food are transmitted—the air passing to the aperture of the wind-pipe, and the food to the oesophagus. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures, g, of the nasal ca-^aty, which are separated by the septum nasi ; and below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube, F. Below the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—^isthmus faucium, H, is to be recognised ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, K, which is placed in a hollow between two prominences named pillars of the soft palate,—the one, i, proceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and the other, l, from the palate to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, comes the aperture of the larjux, N ; and close in front of it is the epiglottis, or the valve which assists to close that opening during deglutition. Lowest of all is the opening, o, fi'om the pharynx into the cesojphagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries :— The posterior openings of the nasal fossce, G, are oval inform, and measure about an inch from above doAvn, but only half an inch across. Each is consti-ucted in the dried skull by the sphenoid and palate bones above, and by the palate below ; by the vomer inside, and by the internal pterygoid plate outside. It is Kned by mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube, f, is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear communicates with the external air. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on the right side, the cartilaginous part appears to be nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margms of a groove between the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bone : but it increases in width as it is du-ected downwards to the phaiynx, and ends by a wide aperture inside the internal pterygoid plate, on a level with the inferior meatus. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form ; and the inner side, Avhich is larger than the outer, projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed by a triangular piece of car- tilage, whose margins are bent downwards so as to enclose a narrow space ; but at the under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the wall is formed by fibrous membrane. Closely united to the pteiy- goid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane ; and through it the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharj^nx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the arches127 OPENINGS OF PHARYNX. of the soft palate on opposite sides is called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and .'^^t'^^]^^^^^^^^ of communica- 0,.e,.n«.f The isthmus fauctum, H, is the nan owed apeiiuiu v, the fauces, tion bet^rern the mouth and the pharynx, whose s.ze is altered by Fig. 29.* the elevated or pendent position of the soft palate. Laterally it is bounded by the anterior arches of the soft palate, which are named pillars of the fauces. The aperture of the larynx, N, is wide in front, where it is bounded Upper by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the aiytajnoid carti- Srynx.^ * Internal view of the pharynx (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles of the palate, and named jDarts. a. Levator palati. b. Tensor palati. o. Sal- pingo-pharyngeus. D. Azygos uvuliE. E. Internal ijterygoid muscle, f. End of the Eustachian tube. g. Posterior naris. n. Mouth cavity, i. Anterior pillar of the fauces, k. Apertures of the tonsil, l. Posterior pillar of the fauces. K. Opening of the larynx, o. Opening of the oesophagus, p. Uvula. Q. Superficial part of Palato-pharyngeus.DISSECTION OF THE rHARYNX. 128 Beginning of cesopliagus. Soft palate nt back of inoutli; surfaces, "borders; from it liangs uvula. Arches or pillars anterior, posterior. Constituents of velum. Dissect levator and tensor on right half. lages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by- folds of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Posteriorly it is limited by the comi- cula laryngis, and by the arytasnoideus muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration tliis aperture is unobstructed, but in the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. The opening into the ccsophaxjus, o, is the narrowest part of the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the fifth cervical vertebra. At this spot the mucous membrane in the oesophagus becomes paler than in the pharynx ; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The SOFT TALATE, Q (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable struc- ture between the mouth and the pharjoix, which can either close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the passage to the nose, accord- ing as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth, whilst the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard palate ; and each lateral part joms the pharynx. The lower border is free, and presents in the centre a conical pendulous part—the uvula, p. Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative of the original separa- tion into two halves. Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near the uvula, are two folds on each side, containing muscular fibres, whicli ai-e directed downwards on the sides of the fauces. These are named arches or pillars of the palate, and are distinguished fi-om one another by their relative position. The anterior, i, reaches from the fore part to the side of the tongue near the middle ; and the posterior, L, longer than the other, is continued fi-om the lower border to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space in which the tonsil Hes. The velum consists of an aponeurosis, -with muscles, vessels, ner^^es, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- played, but others require care in their dissection. On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate— the elevator and tensor, are very plain. These have been partly- dissected on the right side ; but to follow them to their termmation, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the same side, and the pai-t of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal ptery- goid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane, and a few muscular fibres covering its lower end. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be ascertained.129 MUSCLES OF PALATE. On the left side, the mucous incinbrane is to be raised with great ^^'^j.Jeft ^^^^ care fi'om the posterior surface of the palate, to obtain a view of j-ynyu^'/"' the superficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus nuiscle ; and beneath them, in the middle line, are the longitudinal fibres of tlie azygos uvulas. A deeper set of fibres of the palato- azygos pharjmgeus is to be followed, on the right side, beneath the levator ^^''^ and azygos muscles. The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the and ].alato- muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and should glo^^'iis- follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see them in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior siu-face of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fi-esh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate. Giving strength to the velum is a Aponeuro thin but firm aponeurosis, wliich is attached to the hard palate. l'''''-'*^'-'- This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES of the soft palate are four on each side,—an elevator Nine mus- and tensor ; Avith the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, wliich '^^'^^ act as depressors. In addition there is a small median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 29, is a thick, roundish muscle. Elevator which is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the ™-is*es out- mider surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal side plia- hone (fig. 30, and fi-om the inner and hinder part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres enter the phaiynx above the superior constrictor, and then spread out in the soft palate, where i,^ lost in vGlvuii they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side. Outside the phaiynx this muscle rests against the Eustachian Connec- tube. In the palate it forms a stratum that reaches the whole depth of that structure, and is embraced by two planes of fibres of the palato-pliaiyngeus (■*). Action. It tilts backwards the fi'ee edge of the soft palate towards Use the phaiynx so as to enlarge the isthmus faucium, and to shut oflE °" Palate, with the contracted pharynx the nose openings. In swallowing the palate is raised, and is arched over the bolus passing fi-om the mouth to the pharynx. For its action on the Eustachian tube, see Tensor on tube, palati. The TENSOR vel circumflexus palati (fig. 29, ^) arises like the Tensor preceding outside the pharynx, and is a thin riband-like band, situate between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle. About arises out- one inch and a half wide at its origin, it is attached to the slight '^'j'^^.^^"^- depression (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer and fore part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal (tympanic) process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the fleshy fibres end in a tendon wliicli, entering the pharynx between the attachments of the buccinator muscle, is reflected round the130 DISSECTION OF THE THAIIYNX. turns around lianuilar process is (leejier tlmn tho other. liairiular process (fif?. 30, -) ; and is mserted into about one third of an^ mcli of the posterior border of the palate, viz. from the central spme to a projecting point; and blends inferiorly with the aponeu- rosis of the velum. As tho tendon winds round the bone, it is throwi into folds; and between the two is a bm-sa. In the soft palate it lies beneath the Fig. 30.* Use ill palate, on tube. Palato-glos- sus. Attach- ments. Connec- tions. Use: tongue fixed. Palnto-pha- levator muscle. The Eustachian tube is directed inwards between tlais muscle and the preceduig. Action. Acting fi-om the skull the muscle will fix and make tense the lateral part of the soft palate; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. If the soft palate is fixed by the depressor muscles, the levator and tensor, and the salpingo-pharyngeus, taking their fixed points below, open the Eustachian tube in swallowuig. The PALATO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch, i, of the soft palate. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral surface and the dorsum of the tongue ; fi-om this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus narrows the isthmus of the fauces ; the muscles of opposite sides mo-vang inwards towards each other, and separating from the mouth the morsel to be swallowed. When the tongue is fixed the muscle will render tense and draw down the soft palate. The PALATO-PHARYNGEUS is much larger in size than the preceding, * 1. Azygos uviilse. 2. pharyngeus—upper end. 5, Tensor palati. 3. Levator External pterygoid. palati. 4. Palato-131 THE TONSIL. aiul gives rise to the eminence of tlie posterior pillar, L, of the soft jwus, in palate The muscle is attached below to the postenor border of the l,^,^^^. thyroid cartilage, some fibres blending with the contiguous portion of the pharynx ; and it decussates across the middle line with ^^^^^^^ corresponding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side (Merkel) ,,,^^4., Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of tlie palate, and separate into layers (fig. 30, ')• The posterior, thin strata in and in contact with the jnucous membrane, joins at the middle line a like offset of its fellow. The deeper or anterior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins at the middle line the corresponding part of ' the opposite muscle, whilst some of the upper fibres end on the aponeurosis of the palate. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos uvuliV) between its two strata. Action. Taldng its fixed pomt at the thyroid cartilage the muscle U^^^^j^^^ depresses and makes tense the soft palate. During the act of swallowing both muscles move back the lower in^swaUow edge of the velum towards the phaiynx ; and approaching each other form an oblique plane for the du-ection of the food : in that state the uvula lies in the interval between the two. The AZYGOS uvuL/E ("fig. 29is situate along the middle line of Azygos IllllSClG IS the veliun near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two single along narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise fi'om the spine at the posterior ""'i^le ; border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Behind this muscle, attadi- separating it fi-om the mucous membrane, is the tliin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres elevate the uvula, shortening the mid-part of xjse. the soft palate, and dnect that process backwards. The tonsil, k, is a collection of follicular capsules resembling Tonsil is those on the dorsum ling UcB, which is placed close above the base pfi^"itf of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate. Each is palate, roundish in shape, but variable in size ; and apertm'es are apparent on its surface. Externally the tonsil is situate opposite the superior constrictor muscle and the angle of the lower jaw; and when en- larged it may press against the internal carotid blood-vessel. The apertures on the sm-f ace lead to rounded terminal recesses or Formed of hollows which are lined by mucous membrane. Aromid each recess gjj|^.^!'^^ "'"^l'" is a ring of small closed capsules, which are seated in the tissue beneath the mucous membrane, and are filled with a grayish sub- stance containing cells and nuclear-looking bodies. No openings fi'om the capsules are to be recognised in the recesses. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lingual. Vessels, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillaiy branches of the ex- ternal carotid. Its veins have a plexiforin arrangement on the outer * Dr. Merkel, in the work before referred to, states that this muscle has no firm fixed attachment below, and tliat it ends altogether in the wall of the pharj-nx, decussating with the muscle of the opposite side. This assertion does not accord with my experience. K 2132 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. Nen'ea. !Mncous membrano of pharynx superiorly has cohiiii- iiar, infe- riorly scaly epithelium. Beginning of oesopha- gus. Formecl of two layers; outer or lon- gitudinal, and inner or circuliur. side. Nerves are furnished to it fi-om the fifth and glosso-pharyn- geal nen'^es. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous anteriorly with the lining of the mouth, nose, and larynx. Covering the soft palate and its numerous small glands (palatine), the membrane is con- tinued to the tonsils on each side, and is prolonged by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum. In fi-ont of each arytosnoid cartilage it encloses a mass of muciparous glands (aiytasnoid). Inferiorly, it is continued by the oesophagus to the stomach. The mucous membrane is provided with more glands in the upper, than in the lower part of the pharynx ; and its character, near the different apertures, resembles that of the membrane lining the cavities communicatmg with the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the nares (Henle) ; but is columnar and ciliated above that spot, Avhere only the air is transmitted. Beginning of the oasojjhagus. This tube is much smaller than the pharynx, and the Avails are flaccid. For its commencement, and its connections in the neck, see p. 120. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining of mucous membrane. The external layer, is formed of longitudinal fibres, Avhich begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, anterior and two lateral; the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constrictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, is formed of circular fibres, Avhich are continuous Avith those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is described more ftUly in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. Mouth. Situation, form, CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, are to be examined Avith the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. The Mouth. The caAaty of the mouth is situate beloAv that of the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces behmd. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw bone When the loAver jaw is moderately removed from the upper the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The and hounda-roof, concave, is constituted by the hard and soft palate, and as liniited anterioriy by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath the tip of that body is the fi-c^num linguae, with the subhngual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth m the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The an e o opening of the mouth is bounded by the hps ; and the posteuor corresponds with the anterior pillars of the soft palate.133 THE CHEEK AND TEETH. The mucous membrane is less sensitive on the hard than the soft Lining of boundaries of the mouth ; it lines the interior ot the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. Anteriorly it is contuuious with the tegument, and posteriorly with the lining of the pharynx. The epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly variety. epithelium, Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the durers in membrane fonns a small fold—fiv-enulum. On the bony part of the roof it blends with the dense tissue covering the vessels and on roof, nerves. On the soft palate it is smooth, and thinner ; and along the middle of the roof is a ridge which ends in front in a small papilla. In the floor of the mouth the membrane fonns the floor, frfcnum hnguaj beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into tlie openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts ; whilst on each side of the fi-tenum it is raised into a ridge by the sub- eiieel;, and lingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous ''i'"- Iming is smooth, and is separated fi'om the muscles by small buccal and labial glands. Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips, are papillse for PapiUifi. the purpose of touch. The CHEEK extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus Cheek; of the lower jaw, and is; attached above and below to the alveolar extent process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of and struc- the cheek is the fleshy part of the buccinator muscle, on the^^"'*^- inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth; they consist chiefly Lips, of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally by integument, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular stnicture and the mucous covering lie the labial glands; and in the substance of each lip, nearer the inner than the outer surface, and at the line of junction of the two portions of the contains orbicularis, is placed the arch of the coronaiy artery. artery. Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in the jaw, which Teeth, are set in the alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are sur- a\"nii'^enient rounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned i" J'^i^v; forwards; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the mandible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names :—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; and the last three are molar teeth. Moreover, the last molar tooth different has been called also " dens sapiential," from the late period of its appearance. The names apphcd to the teeth indicate very nearly the part they perform in mastication ; thus the incisor and canine Use in mas- teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar teeth serve to grind the aliment. The several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fang, and neck ; Fuilernotico elsewhere.134 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. the general and special cliaracters of the different gi-oups of teeth ; and the structure of them must be referred to in some treatise on the anatomy of the textures. Section XIII. Directions. Dissection. Cut tlii'ongli the bone witli saw. Situation of nose. Division into two. Form. Openings. Roof. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be necessary to make a vertical longitudinal section through the nasal cavity. Whilst the student is examining the boundaries of the nose he will derive advantage from the use of a vertical section of a dried nasal ca^aty. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side should be taken away; fm-ther, the tongue, hyoid bone, and lai-jmx, all united, may be detached from tlae opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw through the fi'ontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right of the median line opposite the cut in the roof of the nose. The saw is then to be carried through the floor of the nose and the body of the sphenoid bone in such a line as to join the incision above. The piece of the skull is now separated into two parts, right and left; the right half will seiwe for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will shoAV the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is placed in the centre of the bones of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. This space is divided into two halves—nasal fossfE,—by a vertical partition. Each fossa is larger below than above ; and is flattened in form, so that the measm-ement from before back or above down exceeds much that fi-om wthin out. It communicates with both tlie face and the phar;yTix by apertures named nares ; and has also apertures of commimication with the sinuses m the surrounding bones, viz. fi-ontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. The student has to examine in each fossa a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the cartilages in fi-ont; and by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the os palati, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the135 SPONGY BONES AND MEATUSES. ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nen^e and vessels ; in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed fi-om side to side, and ni it are Floor, the palate and superior maxillary bones—their palate processes. Near the front m the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner boundary (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and l)y those parts of the V^'^^^^^ fi-ontal and nasal with wliich this last bone articulates. The irregu- lar space in front in the prepared skull is filled in the recent state Pjy^j^Jy^^!'''*'- by the triangular cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the anterior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, tliis cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillae, and projects even between the carti- lages of each nostril. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. The outer lowulary has the greatest extent and the most irregular surface. Six bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwai-ds :—the nasal and superior maxillary : the small os unguis with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the |j°™?^[,o^eg nasal, imgual, and ethmoidal reach only about half way from roof to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth. Altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to construct part of this boimdary. On this wall are tlu-ee convoluted osseous pieces, named spongy or turbinate bones (fig. 31), which project into the cavity :—the two g^^g^^^f upper (') and (-), are processes of the ethmoid, but the lower one (^), spongy is a separate bone—the inferior spongy. The spongy bones are con- ' fined to a certain portion of the outer wall, and their extent would be limited by a line continued nearly vertically upwai'ds to the roof of the cavity fi'om both the fi'ont and back of the hard palate. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the nose is a longitu- presents dinal hollow or meatus; and into these hollows the nasal duct and the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces arched over by the spongy bones; and Meatuses, as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so are the spaces beneath them. The ujyper one (fig. 31,") is the smallest and straightest of the Upper thi-ee meatuses, and occupies the posterior half of the space included "leat^is- by the vertical lines before mentioned. Into it the posterior eth- moidal sinuses open at the front ; and at its posterior end, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatinc foramen by which ners'es and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus (fig. 31,') is longer than the precedmg ; it is Middle curved upwards in front, and reaches all across the space referred136 DISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. Lower moiitiis. to on the outer wall. Anterior]}' it communicates by a funnel-shaped passage (infundibulum) with the frontal sinus and the anterior eth- moidal cells ; and near its middle is a small aperture, which leads into the hollow of the upper jaw. The inferior meatus (fig. 31,") is sti-aighter than the middle one, and rather exceeds the width of the limited space on the outer wall ; Fig. 31.* and when the bone is clothed by the mucous membrane it extends still farther foi-wards. In its front is the opening of the ductus ad nasum. meatus Occasionally there is a small fourth or rudimentary meatus above the rest (fig. 31, which communicates with a posterior ethmoidal cell. Nares. The nares. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a distinct anterior opening in the face, and another in the pharynx ; but in the skeleton there is only one common openmg in fi-ont for both sides. These apertures and the boundaries, have been before described (pp. 30 and 126). Mucous The mucous lining of the nasal fossa is called the pituitarj^ or nosef °^ ^^^^ Scluieiderian membrane ; and from its blending with the periosteum it acquires much strength. It is continuous Avith the integument at the nostril, and with the membrane lining the pharynx tlu-ough the posterior opening : moreover, it is also continuous with the mucous membrane of the eyeball, and with that of the different sinuses, viz., frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. Some fora- -pj^g foramina in the dry bones, which transmit nerves and vessels, mnia closed, * Spongy bones and meatuses of the nasal cavity. 1. Upper spongy bone. 2. Middle spongy bone. 3. Inferior spongy bone. 4. Square part of the ethmoid bone. 6. Upper meatus. 7. Middle meatus. S. Lower meatus. 9. Eudimentary fourth meatus. 10. Vestibule of the nasal cavity. The woodcut shows the apertures of the glands of the nose.137 OLFACTOEY REGION. Fig. 32.* are entirely closed by the membrane, A'iz., incisor, the holes in the cribriform plate, spheno-palatine, and the foramen for the nasal uervu and vessels ; but the apertures that lead to the sinuses and the orbit arc only somewhat iliminished by the lining they receive. The membrane is stretched over the opening of the ductus ad nasum, forming a flap or valve to close the aperture. The characters of the membrane m the lower or respiratory por- tion of the Jiose differ greatly fi-om those of the same layer in the olfactorial region near the roof. In the lower region of the nose, through which the air passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely united to the sub- jacent periosteum and perichondrium; and on the margins of the two inferior spongy bones it is projected somcAvhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface. In the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillffi, and small haii's (vibrissas). The surface is covered by the apertures of branched mucous glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of largest size, about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossa. In tliis lower region of the nose, and in the sinuses, the epithelium is of the columnar ciliated kind; but it becomes laminated or scaly in the dilata- tion or vestibule inside the nostril (fig. 31, The olfactory region (fig. 32) is situate at the top of the nasal cavity, and is confined to the surface of the roof formed by the cribrifonn plate of the eth- moid ; to a portion of the outer wall constructed by the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and to a coiTcsponding extent of the septum, viz., about one third. The mucous membrane in the olfactory region receives the olfactory nerve, and is therefore the seat of the sense of smell. It differs much from that in the lower portion of the nose, for it is less strong and vascular ; and is of a yellowisli colour, which is due to pigment in the epithehum and the glands. 'J'he epithelium (fig. 32 a) is thicker but softer hen others (liiiiinishecl by it. Character in lower part of nose, on bones mid in sinuses. Apertures of glands; and epithe- lium. Olfactory region. Extent. Mucous membrane. re than lower Epithelium. * Magnified vertical section of the mucous membrane of tlic nose (altered trom Henle). A. 1 Columnar epithelium at the free surface. 2. Granulai- or middle layer of the same. 3. Deepest layer of elongated ceils placed vertically, Secretuig tubular glands. B. a. Pieces of the columniir epithelium greatly enlar'^ed ccUa amongst the epithehum particles. ° 4. h. Olfactorial138 mSSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. Olfactoriiil colls. Glands. Dissection of nerves ;md vessels, Olfactoiy nerve is distri- buted to olfactory region. Ending. in the cavity, and it is columnar on the surface, but not ciliated. Beneath tlie surface layer arc strata of granules and ovalisii cells (-), amongst which sink the pointed or attached ends of the pieces of epithelium. Around the pieces of the columnar epitheliimi stand numerous bodies named olfactoHal cells by Schultze (fig. 32 B. ^). They con- sist of small spindle-shaped nucleated cells, with a rounded fi^lament prolonged from each end towards the attached and free surfaces of the mucous membrane : that to the free surface, the larger, ends on a level with the pieces of the columnar epithelium. But the con- nections of the deeper threads or processes are unknown ; they ha\-e been supposed to unite with the olfactory nerve. The glands in the olfactory region are simple lengthened tubes (fig. 32 A."*) like those in the stomach, but are slightly wavy, and end in the submucous tissue by closed extremities. A flattened epithelium, with coloured granular contents, lines the tubes.— (Henle.) Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution of the olfactory nen'c. If the septum nasi be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the sm-face, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane too, near the fi-ont of the septum, is an ofi^set of the nasal nerve. The naso-palatine nei-ve and artery (fig. 33, ^) are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa : the artery is readily seen, especiallj^ if it is injected, but the fine nerve, which is about as large as a coarse hair, is embedded in the membrane and will be found by scrapmg with the point of the scalpel. By cutting thi-ough the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactoiy nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVE (fig. 33forms a bulb on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends branches to the olfactory region of the nose tlii-ough the apertures in the roof. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three sets. An inner set, the largest, descend in the grooves on the septum nasi, and branching, extend over the upper third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the nose. And an external set (fig. 34), is distributed on the upper spongy bone, on the anterior square surface of the os etlunoides, and on the anterior end of the middle spongy bone. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes fr-om the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nen^es ramify in the pituitary membrane in tufts of filaments which connnunicate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unlaiown. It has been suggested by Schulze that they join the deep processes or ends of the so-called olfactorial cells.OLFACTORY NERVE. 139 The olfactorj' nerve differs in structure from the otlier cramd Steucture. nerves ; for its bnuiches are deficient in the white substance ol Schwann, and are nucleated and granular in texture. They resemble Fig. 33.* ilie ganglionic fibres : and seem to consist of an extension of the nerve substance of the olfactory bulb. The other nerves in the nose will be described in the foUowmg section. Blood vessels. For a statement of the difEerent vessels of tbe nose, Blood-ves- Hee p. 143. The arteries form a network in the pituitary membrane, °^ and a large submucous plexus on the edge of each of the two lower ' spongy bones, especially on the inferior. The veins have a plexiform disposition Hke tlie arteries, and tliis is largest on the lower spongy veins, bone and the septum nasi. Section XIV. SPHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, FACIAL AND NASAL NERVES, AND FINAL BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY VESSELS. Tlie preparation of Meckel's ganglion and its branches (fig. 34), Brandies of and of the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery, is a difficult task, in consequence of the nerves and A'-essels being con- * Nerves of the septum of the nose. 1. Olfactory bulb and its ramitica- ' cations on the septum. 2. Na.sal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. 3. Naso- palatine nerve from Meckel's ganglion (too large in the cut).DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 140 Dissection of palatine and nasal branches ; body of ganglion; vidian nerve. tained in osseous canals wliicli require to be opened. As is the case with other dissections, the student seeks first the branches, and traces these to the ganglion and main trunk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for tlie display of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student may previously acquire some skill by attempting the dissection on tlie remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches of the palate, detach the soft parts in the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nei-ves and vessels escaping from the posterior palatine foramina are arrived at. Cut off, with a bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level Avith the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the fi-ont of the mouth. Take away without injuiy to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous membrane detached fi-om the septum nasi ; and separate the mucous membrane fi'om the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In re- flecting forwards the membrane many branches of vessels and nen^es will be seen entering it tlu-ough the foramen ; but these may be left for the present, as directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking carefully through it with a chisel. Aftenvards the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be followed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To bring the ganglion fully into -vaew, it will be necessaiy to saw through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, fi-om which the vidian and pharyngeal nei-ves pass backwards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek two large neiwes from the top of the ganglion to join the upper maxillary; and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nei-ve, the student must lay open the canal which contains it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which are superficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo- palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch fi-om the vidian to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to he followed into the skull through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), after cutting aAvay the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and dividing the internal carotid artery ; and it is to be pursued on141 SPIlEXO-rALATlNE GANGLION. the surface of the temporal bone, beneatli the ganglion of the fifth nei-ve, to the hiatus Fallopii: its junction with the facial nerve will 1)6 seen with the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose A\dll be found cntenng f-^^^^^^^^^ the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the tlie nose. spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nel•^'es (naso-palatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. Tlie branches of the internal maxillary Arteries, artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The sPHENO-rALATiNE GANGLION (fig. 34, ', gaugliou of Meckel) G^^^^ion of occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen, and is connected with the branches of the superior max- illary nei-ve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat tri- angular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, for situation the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior 'J^.'.'J, maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround only some of their fifth nerve, fibres; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in ha%nng sensory, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots Composi- connected with it. The Branches of the ganglion are distributed chiefly to the nose Branches, and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharynx and the orbit. Other offsets connect it with surrounding nei-ves. Branches of the nose. The nasal branches, from three to five in jjasal number, are very small and soft, and pass inwards, through the 1^'^^^^^®^ spheno-palatine foramen ; they are distributed in the nose and the roof of the mouth. The superior nasal branches (■]- f) ramify in the mucous mem- Superior brane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach "^^"^i the back part of the septum nasi. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius, fig. 33, ^) crosses Naso-pala- the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and descends on that partition to near the front. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being anterior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are distributed in the mucous mem- brane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with one another. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth must be opened. Branches of the 2Mlnte. The nerves of the palate, though To the connected in part with tlie ganglionic mass, are the continuation l"''"''^' of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillar^^ nerve (p. 101). Below tlie ganglion tliey are divided into three—large, arc tiiree. small, and external. The larrfe palatine nerve (anterior, fig. 34, '•*) reaches the roof of Large uM-ve the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and courses forwards to'',,o'''"'^''°''' nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve.DISSECTION OP THE HEAD. 142 small; ami external palatine. Pharyngeal ■branch. Orbital branches. Whilst in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments {inferior nasal f) to tlie membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in tlie roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate. The small imlatinc nerve, 10 (posterior), lies in the smaller canal, and ends inferiorly in the soft palate, and the levator palati and azygos nvula3 muscles ; it supplies the uvula and tonsil. The external j^alatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. The pliaryncjeal branch is very small, and is directed through the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. Branches to the orhit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillaiy fissure, and end m the fleshy layer of Fig. 34.* the musculiis orbitalis (p. 50). It will be necessaiy to cut tlu-ough the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their teraiination. Unitin" Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, \vith branches, spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nei-ve (fig. 34,'), receiving to fifth, sensory nen^e fibres through them ; and through the medium of the vidian, which is described below, it communicates with a motor nei-ve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, and to facial The vidian nerve (^) passes backw^ards through the vidian canal, and sympa- ^j^^ sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane through the at the back of the roof of the nose (iipper posterior nasal branches). vidian. * Nerves of the nose and palate. 1. Olfactory nerve. 2. Olfactory bulb giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nen'e. 9. Larger palatine nerve. 10. Smaller palatine nerve, ft Nasal nerves. \INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 143 At its exit from tlie canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish offset (carotid branch) ftoiii the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid arteiy. The contimiation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartihaginous substance in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of larrje superficial})etrosal nei-ve (fig, 35, "). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve (p. 145). Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig fi-om the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sympathetic vidian a fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give liis attention to the re- maining nerves in the nasal ca^nty. Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose behind Seek otlier the nasal bone (fig. 34), by gently detacliing the lining membrane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the ners'e to the septum nasi, but probably tliis, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the nasal cavity. The teiTOinal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vessels of spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) (fig. 34, ") has been already Nasal nerve seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fossa by an apertm-e JjI^ggT^o'!^*'! at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nei-ve gives a branch to the gives membrane of the septum, and is continued in a groove behind the OS nasi to the lower margin of this bone where it escapes to the surface of the nose in the face (fig. 9, p. 45). Branches. The branch to the septum (fig. 33) divides into filaments branch to that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or tioo filaments are likewise furnished by the nei^ve to the and to mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa ; these ex- ^'^^^r wall, tend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The Branches of branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not '"ternal been examined, are the superior palatine, naso-palatuie, pterygo- '"^^'I'-'^'T palatine, and vidian. The superior or descending palatine is the largest branch, and palatine accompanies the large palatine nerve through the canal, and along ^""'""'ch; the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth mth its fellow, and with a branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies offsets to the soft palate and tonsil thi-ough the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous mem- brane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from it. The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the nose through the nasal spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches :—Some of these ^'■''""^*°*>DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 144 Olio to sep- tum nasi; ptcrygo- palatiue branch; viilinn branch. Other nasal arteries. Veins; alveolar lilexus. Facial nerve. Dissection of nerve in the bone, and its genu ; are distributed on the spoiigj' bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. naso palatina), runs on the parti- tion between the nasal fossa) to the incisor foramen, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth ; this branch accompanies tlie naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with numerous ramifications. The 2^i<ii'y(lo-palatine is a very small branch which, passing back- wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the lining membrane of the i^haiynx. The vidian or pteryrjoid hranch is contained in the vidian canal with the nen-'e of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- brane of the Eustacliian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small 7iasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the nasal fossa by the posterior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 46). Also the anteror etlimoidal (internal nasal, p. 46), enters the cavity witli the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibule ; a branch passes to the face between the os nasi and the cartilage, -with its nerve. Other offsets fi-om the facial arteiy supply the nose near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanjang the termmal branches of the in- ternal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxillary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this A^enoiis intercommunication offsets are received fi'om the pterj^goid plexus and the infi-aorbital vem; and fi-om it a large trunk (anterior internal maxillary) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 28). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexi- form arrangement, as before said. Facial nerve in the temporal bone (fig. 35). This nei-ve winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tjnnpanum are displayed. Dissection. The examination of the nerve is to be begun at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be carried forwai'ds fifom that pomt. With this ^dew, the side of the skull should be saw through ver- tically between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The ners'-e will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed by cuttmg away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is to be traced omvards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius intcrnus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from that enlargement so as to allow of the petrosal nerves145 FACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. Facial nerve being traced to it; and the meatus auditorius is to he laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow. The course of the chorda tympani nerve (hranch of the fac al) of^^'-;'- across the tympanum will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nei-ve may be also followed to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nei-ve in the bone are very and other minute, and are not to be seen except on a fi-esh piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may there- Fig. 35.* fore omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The facial nerve (fig. 35, is received mto the internal auditory meatus, and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted through the tem- poral bone to the stylo-mas- toid foramen and the face (p. 36). In its serpentine course thi-ough the bone, the nerve is first directed out- wards to the inner wall of the tympanum : at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a gangliform is marked swelling (intumescentia gangliformis), to wliich several small nerves wiifcr^^'"^ are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued through the ^^^'j®,^}''^'' arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The hranches of the nerve in the bone sei-ve chiefly to connect it with other nerves ; but one supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. ° Connecting branches communicate with the auditoiy and glosso- Branches pharyngeal neiwes ; and -with two trunks (superior and inferior i^e'rv"" maxillary) of the fifth nerve. Union loith the auditory nerve. In the bottom of the meatus to aiulitory, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. * Connecting hranches of the gangliform enlargement. Tiie swelling to superior of the facial nerve receives three small twigs. One in front is the "y'Jj^Jp''^,^ large superficial petrosal nevye"^ {y'lilLmvL) ; another is the small super- wuisynipa- ficial petrosal' of the tympanic nerve ; and the thhd is the external *''^'^*''^> * Nerves joining the enlargement of the facial nerve, 1. Facial nerve. 2. Large superficial petrosal. 3. Small siipcrlicial petrosal from Jacobson's nerve. 4. External superficial petrosal. 5. Chorda tympani of the facial. winds through temporal boue,DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 to gustatory by chorda tynipaui. Auditory nerve. Otic ganglion. Dissection, to find it, to define ganglion and its branches. Otic gang- lion is on inner sitle inferior maxillary. superficial petrosal, which is derived from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery. ** The hranch of the stapedius muscle arises at the back of the tympanum, and reaches its muscle by a special canal. Chorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising about a quarter of an inch fi-om the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pjTamid. In the cavity (fig. 35, the nerve is directed forwards across the handle of the malleus and the mem- brana tjonpani to the Glaserian fissure, or to an aperture on the inner side, through which it leaves the tympanum. As it issues from the cavity it emits a small branch to the laxator tympani muscle (?). Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the gustatory nerve, and continues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 98). The ATIDITOBY NEBVE Will be learnt with the ear. Entering the auditory meatus with the facial it divides into two parts, of which one belongs to the cochlea, and the other to the vestibule. Otic ganglion. At this stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, but the student should keep in mind that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillaiy nerve, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be sought on the inner side of that nerve-trunk. Dissection (fig. 36). Putting the part in the same position as for the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and that tube, using much care in removing the last. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away the internal pterygoid muscle (h) comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillaiy nerve above it; and a branch (internal pterygoid,^) descending from that nerve to the muscle. If the nerve to the pterygoid be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganghon. To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the petrous part of the temporal bone, near the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported whilst it is di-\aded. Taking off some mem- brane which covers the ganghon, the student may follow baclcsvai'ds a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; but he should open the small tube that contains the muscle, by entering it below tlu-ough the carotid canal. Above this small branch there is said to be another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues fi-oni the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the firont of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle ; and one, near the same spot, to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal arteiy. The OTIC GANGLION (gang, auriculare, Arnold, fig. 36,) is a small reddish body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior °^ maxillary nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little147 OTIC GANGLION. distance, behind, lies the large meningeal artery. In this ganglion, structure, as in the others connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are fur- nished by it to muscles. . Connedimj branches—roots. The ganglion is joined by a f asciculus.Bmnd^^^^^^^ fi-om the motor part of tlie inferior maxillary nerve, and is closely m\x, I Fig. 36. united with the branch of that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by syinpa- a twig fi'om the plexus on the large meningeal artery.-)- tiietio. Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves fi-om the Other otic ganglion, viz. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. The nerve enter''^'^ to the tensor tympani, ^, is directed backwards, and enters the bony muscles, canal containing that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be supposed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle, ^, arises fi'om the inner Nerve of side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the skull, and penetrates Jfteiygoid the deep surface of the muscle. This branch is joined by a fasciculus from the motor root of the fifth nerve. Directions. The remainder of the pterygo-maxillary region of the Directions, left side may be now examined. * Inner view of the otic gangUon. a. Tensor tympani muscle, h. Internal pterygoid muscle with Its nerve entering it. c. E.xternal carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Branch of Jacobsou's nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining gustatory. 5. Nerve to pterygoidcus internus. 6. Nerve of tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve. t Further, the ganglion is said to be connected witli the tympanic nerve (of the glosso-pharyngeal) by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve 2 joining the posterior part. ' ' L 2148 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Section XV. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. Dissection. Tongue. Situation anil form. Connections of apex, and base. Upper surface. Under • • surface. Borders. Kinds of papill'cE; conical and filifonii, situation on front nf tongue; fungiform Directions. The tongue and larynx arc to remain connected with each other whilst the student learns the general form and structure of the tongue. Dissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have been detached on the right side may be shortened, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather flattened, with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of its surface ; but at the back, and at the posterior two thirds of the under surface, it gives attachment to the muscles and the mucous membrane which fix it to the parts around. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth. The base, which looks towards the pharynx, is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likemse with the epiglottis by thi"ee folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is somewhat convex, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth ; along the anterior two thirds it is divided into two equal halves by a median groove, which ends behind in a hollow named foramen caecum. This surface is covered with papillfe over the anterior two thirds ; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular in consequence of projecting mucous glands and follicles. The under surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous mem- brane, and to the different lingual muscles connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw ; and in fi-ont of those muscles is a fold of the mucous membrane named fi-asnum linguse. The borders of the tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows ; but gradually become thinner near the tip. PapillcB. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papillae ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the circum- vallate. The conical and filiform papillae are the numerous small projec- tions, like the on the mucous membrane of the small intestine, which cover the anterior two thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papilte (conical) are wider at their attached than at three free ends ; and these are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These papilhe are furnished with minuter papilljE, and are provided at the tip with hair-like processes of the epithelium. Towards their limit behind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement. The f ungiform papilloB are less numerous but larger than the pre-149 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. ceding sot, amongst which they arc scattered. Ihey are wider a mostly at the free end than at the pai-t fixed to the tongue, and project sides; beyond the other set; they ai-e situate mostly at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are covered with small simple papilla3. The circumvallate or caliciforin are fewer in number and larger,caUcifonn, than the others, and are placed at the junction of the two anterior with the posterior third of the tongue : their number varies fi-om eight to ten. These papilh^ extend across the tongue in a line form; resembling the letter V with the point turned backwards. Each papilla consists of a central truncated stem of a conical form, which ^ is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane ; its wider end or base projects above the surface, whilst the apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the surrounding fold are fur- nished with smaller secondary papilla). Minute simple papilke exist beliind the caliciform kmd, and on othev^^ the under surface of the fi-ee portion of the tongue ; but they are l"'^" not ohsei-ved till the epithelium is removed. Taste buds. Around each circumvallate papilla is a circle of Taste buds, small peculiar bodies, which are covered by the epithelium : each is hke a small carafe in shape, the base resting on the corium. They are formed of elongated epithelium-like cells, of which the gustative central, resembling olfactorial cells, are supposed to be connected with the ner^'-e of taste. A small collection of similar bodies occupies the back of the tongue, on each side, just in fi-ont of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Structure of the PcqnllcB. The simple papillaj are constructed Uke structure those of the sldn, viz. of a projecting cone of membrane, which is J^jf^^^^jj"*' covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of capillaries, and a nerve. The other compouiid'forms of the papilloj may be said to be pro- of cnm- duced by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary i'"""^^'- eminences spring fi-om the common cone of limiting membrane ; and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus of capillaiy A'-essels in the interior of the cone a looped offset is furnished to each smaller papillaiy projection. The central nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, on some of which end-bulbs may be recognised. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves rarts found separated by a fibrous layer in the middle line. Each half is made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat; and entering it ai'e the lingual vessels and nerv'-es. The tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane ; and a special fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the l,^.i■ma tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum ; si'i'tw"; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, except for an inch in front, and cutting across their inter-150 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. mmbrane^ commimicating fibres, the edge of the septum will ai^pear. By tracing the binder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle towards the OS hyoides, the byo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. linsuaiill'°' Outside that triangular muscle in the middle line is the longitu- dinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be better seen subsequently. Fibrous Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a of tongue; ti'"! lamma ot this tissue, forming a septum: the root of tho tongue is attached by another fibrous structure, the byo-glossal ^ membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a sub- mucous layer of the same tissue. its septum ; Se])tmn. This structure forms a vertical partition between the two halves of the tongue (fig. 37, s), and extends from the base to the apex. It is thicker posteriorly than anteriorly, and is connected beliind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen subse- fibro-carti- quently on a vertical section. In some instances a small fibro- ° ■ cartilage, about a quarter of an inch deep and long, exists at the back of the septum. Hyo-glossal The hyo-qlossal memhrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, which lllGlUDltlllG. o / attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the liinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeu- rosis to attach them to the os hyoides. Sub-mucous The sii h-mucous fibrous or aponeurotic sirait(m of the tongue invests apoueuiosis. organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than else- where ; and in fi'ont of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the muscular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles in MuscLES. Each half of the tongue is made up of exti-insic and each ball, intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished by Two kinds, having only their termination in the tongue ; and the latter or in- ternal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. Extrinsic; The extrinsic muscles (fig. 37) are the following : palato and number. gtylo-glossus, hyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo-glossus. Only the ling-ual endings of these are now to be looked to. Dissection Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fastened on its left °^ side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the right half. Three .styfo-°'' of these muscles, yiz. palato, D, stylo, B, and hyo-glossus, c, come amUiyo- together to the side of the tongue, at the junction of the middle and y ossus. posterior third ; and, to folloAV their radiating fibres forwards, it will be necessary to remove fi-om the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane and fleshy £bres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. Of consti-ic- The piece of the constrictor muscle, G, which is attached to the tor muscle, tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus.MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 151 Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basic ^^^d er t^^^^^^^^^^^ O ch^-dro- p. 95), which arise fi-om the body and great wmg of the hyoid bone, are refeiTed to above. To lay bare the third part or the chondio- glossus, K, which is a small muscular slip attached to the small coinu of the OS hyoides, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid bone tlu-ough the mucous membrane. Then remove the raucous membrane in fi-ont of the cornu, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. ^ , • , The palato and stylo-cjlossus musde8, jy and ^a,^^ P^™^^^ Fig. 37." the glossus J Fibres. bined at their attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, form, together with the following muscle, an expansion over anterior two thirds of the dorsum be- neath the superficial lingiialis. In this stratum the fibres radiate fi'om the pouit of contact of the muscles with the tongue—some passing almost hori- zontally inwards to the middle, and others obliquely fonvards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is du-ected along the side of the tongue ; and some fibres are inchned to -the under sm-face m fi-ont of the hyo- glossus, to jom those of the opposite muscle beneath the tip. Hyo-(jlossus. The two superficial parts of the muscle (basic- and cerato- glossus, G, p. 95) enter the under siu^ace of the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the Idngualis. After entering that surface by sepai-ate bundles, they are bent round the mar- gin, and form, with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum of the tongue. The third part of the muscle, or the chondro-glossus, F, is distinct jf^glj^^^Jf'*' from the rest. About two or three lines wide at its origin fi'om the glossus, root of the small cornu, and fi'om part of the body of the os hyoides, origin, the muscle enters beneath the upper lingualis, and passes obliquely ending in inwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, to blend with the ''^"^ tongue, hyo-glossus. Cortex of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with Muscular the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and tongue, longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where some muscles arc placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down." This stratum is pierced by deeper fibres. The genio-hyo-glossus (fig. 38, '^) enters the tongue vertically on An-ange the side of the septum, and perforates the cortical covering to end j."^'g^ * Muscles on the surface of the tongue. A. Superficial lingnalis. B, Stylo- glossus. 0. Hyo-glossus. d. Palato-glossus. r. Chondro-glosfeus. a. Pha- ryngeo-glossus. n. Septum linguio (Zaglas). Stj'lo-glos- sus joins fellow. Hyo-glos- sus ; superficial parts; nient in tlio :ue:DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 152 its posterior libres. Consti'ictor in the tongue, how ends. Intiinsic muscles. First show inferior, tlien sxipe- rior lin- gualis, tlien traus- versalis. Trace the nerves. Traiisver- salis is liori- zontal. Attacli- ruents. Fibres. Use. Upper lin- gualis. Origin. Fibres. in the submucous tissue. In tlie tongue the fibres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected into bundles as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-gloBsal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is prolonged to them, beneath the hyo-glossus, from the upper con- strictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The 2^Jiaryngeo-glossus (glosso-phaiyngeus), or the fibres of the upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, passes amongst fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles (fig. 38) are three in number in each half of the tongue, viz., transversaUs, with a superior and an inferior lingualis. Dissection. To complete the preparation of the inferior lingualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in fi-ont, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut tlirough. The superior lingualis (fig. 37,-*^) may be shown, on the left side, by taking the tloin mucous mem- brane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis (fig. 38,°) may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper sur- face the stratum of the extrinsic muscles ah-eady seen ; and by removing on the lower surface, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus.* The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a recent specimen would be required to follow them satisfactorily. The transversalis muscle (fig. 38, forms a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue fi-om base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into flattened bundles, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-hyo- glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles the tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, ^, noto-glossus of Zaglas) is a very thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the sub- mucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise fi-om the fi-tenum epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along the middle line ; fi'om this attachment they are directed obliquely out- * Intrinsic muscles of tte tongue. A. Geuio-liyo-glossus. b. Septum hngua;, c. Transversalis. D. Inferior lingualis (Zaglas).NERVES OF THE TONGUE. 153 wards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the Emling. tongue, at which they end in the fascia. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue : and they will use. bend the point back and up. The inferior lingualis (Hg. 38, is much stronger than the pre- ^^.^ ceding, and is placed under the tongue, between the hyo and genio-hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia at Origin, the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : fi-om its attached surf ace fasciculi are continued vertically "'S- upwards through the transverse fibres to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and distributed vnt\\ it. Action. Like the upper lingualis this muscle shortens the tongue, Use. and bends the point down and back. The mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the mouth, . and is pro-^aded with a laminar epithelium. It partly invests the its epithe- * tongue, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds l'"™- (p. 148). At the epiglottis are thi-ee small glosso-epiglottid folds, connecting tliis body to the root of the tongue; the central one of these is called the frsenum of the epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished with numerous glands, and some folUcles. The follicles are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Follicles, surrounded hj closed capsules in the submucous tissue, like the aiTangement in the tonsil: thej'' occupj'' the dorsum of the tongue between the papilte circum-vallataa and the epiglottis, where they form a stratum, close beneath the mucous membrane. The glands (lingual) are racemose or compound in structure, fmd glands similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the ^''^ mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the papillaa vallatiB. A few are found in fi-ont of the circumvallate papilljB, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others into the hollows around the vallate papillas, or into the foramen ctecum and the depressions of the folhcles. Opposite the papillss vallataj, at the margin of the tongue, is a gi-m.-ls at small cluster of submucous glands. Under the tip of the tono-ue, , -1 _p . , 1 -, . „ beneath on each side of the ±i-a;num, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands imbedded in the muscular fibres, fi-om which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each Nerves from half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypoglossal, and the sources, glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 23). The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular sub- gustatory, stance, and to the two smallest sets of papillre, conical and fungi- fonn ; it joins also the hypo-glossal nerve. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the liypo-glos- muscular substance of the tongue. The ghsso-phanjngeal nerve divides under the liyo-glossus into siosso- ° pliaryugeul.154 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. two branches :—One turns to the dorHuni, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen Ciijcum, The otlicr passes beneath the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the muscular sub- stance ; it suppHes the papillaj circumvallataa, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Arteries mid Vesskls. The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual of each side ; these, together with the vems, have been examined (p. 97). Section XVT. Outline of larynx. Dissection. Situation and foi ni. Size. Position. Is \ery movealjle. Six s]iec,ial muscles of larynx. Dissection of the exter- nal set of muscles. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The LAEYNX is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by cutting thi-ough its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. If the student learns the laryngeal cartilages before he begins the dissection of the larynx, he will obtain more luiowledge fi-om the study of this Section. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is placed in front of the pharynx, and between the carotid vessels. It is pyrami- dal in form. The base is turned upwards, and is attached to the hyoid bone ; and the apex is contmuous with the trachea. In length it measures in man one mch and a half; in width at the top one inch and a quarter, and at the lower end one inch. The fi'ont is prominent along the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The larynx is veiy moveable, and during deglutition is elevated and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles. Muscles. Commonly five pair and one single muscle are de- scribed in the larynx. Thi-ee ai-e outside the cartilages, and the rest are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with pins, the dissector may clear away fi'om the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles, viz. constrictor, sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid. In front, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, one of the thi-ee small external muscles,—crico-thyroid (fig. 39), will be recog- nised. The other two external muscles (fig. 40) are situate at the pos-EXTERNAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES, 155 terior aspect of the larynx : to denude them it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane covenng it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the crico-arytaMioideus posticus muscle ; and above it, on the back of the arytenoid cartilages, the aryta^noid muscle will appear. The CRico-THYROiDEi'S MUSCLE (fig. 39,') is triangular in form, CHco4i.y- and is separated by an inten-al from the one on the opposite side. It arises from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage ; Origin. Fig. 39/ Fig. 40. t and its fibres ascend to be inserted into the lower cornu, and the insertion, lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as a quarter of an inch from the middle line ; also, for a short distance (a line), into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. Action. It approaches the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage, making Use. longer the distance between the thyroid and the arytajnoid cartilages ; and tightens indirectly the vocal cords. The CRICO-ARYTit:NOIDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE (fig. 40, ^) lies on the Crico-aiytii- posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. Its origin is fi-om the ",ostf„jfg depression on the side of the vertical ridge at the back of that is on back cartilage. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, and cartilage! are inserted into a projection at the outer side of the base of the aiytajnoid cartilage. * Front view of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroid muscle. 2. Thyroid cartilage. 3. Cricoid cartilage. + Hinder view of the laiynx. A. Superficial piece of the arytajuoidcus muscle. B, Deep piece of the arytoenoideus. o. Crico-arytionoideus posticus.156 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Use. Kei-ato- cricoicltus. Al-l'tCB- noideus; Ucp trans- verse Jilires, su])erficial oblique. Use. Dissection of internal muscles. Eomove luilf of cartUage. Position of muscles. Lateral c.rico-arytas- iioicleus is liencatli tliyroid cartilage. Action. It rotcates the aryt.-cnoid cartilage, turning out the lateral projection at the base, and enlarges the interval between the carti- lages. At the Bame time the upper orifice of the larynx is widened by tlie separation from each other of its lateral boundaries. Musmlus kerato-cricoideus (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen below and close to the preceding muscle ; it arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The ARYT^NOiDEUS is a single muscle in the middle line (fig. 40, "), and is placed on the posterior surface of the aryttunoid cartilages : it possesses two sets of fibres, superficial and deep, with different directions. The deep fibres, b, are transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of each cartilage ; they close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres, a, consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing fi-om the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other : a few of these fibres are continued bej^ond the cartilage to join the thyro-arytasnoid muscle and the depressor of the epi- glottis. Action. The muscle causes the small arytasnoid cartilages to glide towards one another, and diminishes much, or may close the rima glottidis. Acting with the depressors of the epiglottis it will assist in shutting the upper orifice of the larjmx. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal apparatus would be learnt better on a fi-esh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into xiew the muscles, which are concealed by the thyroid cartilage (fig. 41), it will be necessarj'- to remove the right half of the carti- lage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch fi-om the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid. By dividing next the crico-thyroid membrane attached to the lower edge, and the thyro-hyoid ligament connected with the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolai- tissue fi-om it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-ar3'ta2noid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytasnoideus muscle ; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arj-ttenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytasnoideus near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the fl.eshy fibres. The CRICO-ARYTiENOIDEUS LATERALIS (fig. 41 ^) is a Small lengthened band, which arises fi-om the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the lateral aspect; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted into a projection on the outer side of the base of the arytfEnoid cartilage, and into the contiguous part of the outer sur- face. This muscle is concealed by the crico-thj-roideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle.157 INTERXAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. ThjTO-ary- teiioideu.s. Action. Rotating tlie arytanioid cartilage by ^-"^g 7!^^^. , projection on the outer side of the base, it replaces the cartilage after this has been everted by the crico-arytsenoideus posticus, rt may also approach the one vocal cord to the other, and so narrow the glottis. The THYKO-ARYT/ENOIDEUS jroscLE (fig. 41) extends from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilage ; it is tliick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle anses from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the depth, and from the crico-thyroid liga- ment. The fibres arc di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations ; — The external,'', ascend somewhat and are inserted into the upper part of the outer sur- face of the arytasnoid carti- lage, and blend with tlie depressor of the epiglottis. The internal and lower fibres, ^, are transverse, and form a thick bimdle, which is in- serted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, and into the outer surface. By its outer surface the muscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and the pouch. Action. It moves forward the aiytajnoid cartilage towards the Use on oonl. thyroid, and relaxes the vocal cord. By a thin band of fibres along the upper edge the rima glottidis can be narrowed, and the vocal cord put into tlie vocalizing position. The DEPKESSOK OF THE EPIGLOTTIS (fig. 41, ' thyro-arytaeno- Depressor oi cpiglottideus) is a thin muscular layer by the side of the upper epiglottis; opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise posteriorly from the front of origin, the arytaenoid cartilage, some being continuous below with fibres of the arytajnoid and thyro-arytasnoid muscles ; and anteriorly by a narrow slip from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line. From those attachments the fibres turn upwards with very diflEerent * View of the internal muscles of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroideus detached. 2. Crico-arytiEnoideus posticus. 3. Crico-arytsenoideus lateralis. 4. Thyro- arytaenoideus, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis. 6. Thyro- hyoideus, cut. 8. Deep or transverse jjart of thyro-arytsenoideus. Some iiiires ascend to tip, otliei-s to base of arji;ffinoi(l cartilage. Connec- tions.DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. 158 Insertion. Use on aperture of larynx, on sacculu.s, Parts inside larynx. ■Dissection to exiiose them. LarynReal space. Upper orifice, shape. and bounda- ries. Lower opening. Cavity of larynx, shape and size. Glottis, position, directions, and arc inserted into the border of the epiglottis on the same side. The strength of the muscle vaiies much in difEerent bodies. Some of the lower fibres of the muscle, which cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton as a sepa- rate muscle with the name arytceno-epujlottideus inferior. Action. By the contraction of the fibres, the tip of the arytaenoid cartilage will be moved forwards and inwards, and the epiglottis will be lowered over the orifice of the larynx. The fibres of the muscles which are spread over the sacculus will compress it, and assist in the expulsion of the contents. Pakts inside the larynx. The parts more immediately concerned in'the production of the voice are, the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch; these are placed within, and are protected by the laryngeal cartilages. Dissection. For the purpose of displaying the vocal apparatus, let the tube of the larjaix be divided along the-posterior part, as in fig. 42 ; and in cutting through the aryttenoid muscle, let the in- cision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will appear on each side; and bomiding the ventricle above and below are the whitish bands of the vocal coi"ds. If a probe be passed into that hollow, it will enter a small pouch (sacculus laryngis) by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the sacculus on the left side by introducmg a small bit of cotton wool mto it. The laryngeal space resLches fi-om the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It opens above into the pharynx, and below into the trachea ; and in the intermediate portion are lodged the parts producing voice. The U2}2)er orifice of the larynx (fig. 29, ^) will be evident on placmg in contact the cut surfaces. It is triangular in shape, with the base in fi'ont and the apex beliind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards in the antero-posterior dhection. Its boun- daries are,—the epiglottis m front, the aiytasnoid muscle and cai-ti- lages behind, and the arji;£eno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis durmg deglutition. The lower opening, lunited by the inferior edge of the cricoid car- tilage, is circular m form, and is of the same size as that cartilage. The laryngeal cavity is much reduced in size within the thyroid cartilage by the vocal cords, and is dilated above and below them for the purpose of allowing then: free Aabration. The lower dilatation may be seen to be as large as the ring of the cricoid ; and the upper, much smaller, corresponds with the ventricles of the larynx. Above the upper bulge the wall of the larynx slants up to the ^^Thf oZo««s or rima glottidis, is the interval between the lower vocal cords (fig. 44) ; it is placed on a level with the base of the159 GLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL TOUCH. arytJEnoid cartilage, and is the narrowest part of the laryngeal Ctivity• , ,, 7* 4.' ('onstruc- Its sides are constructed partly of ligament and partly ot carti- ^.^^^ la^e :—thus, for about the two anterior thirds is the elastic vocal cord (fig. 42, whilst at the posteiior tliird is the smooth inner surface of the ar3i;ajnoid cartilage, E. Behind it is bounded by the arytenoid muscle ; and in front by the thyi-oid cartilage and the attachments of the vocal cords. The size of the interval differs in the two sexes. In the male it size diffei-s. measures fi-om before back nearly an inch (less a line), and across at the base, when dilated, about a third of the other measurement. In the female the dimensions will be less by two or three lines.^ Alterations in the size and form affect the interval where it is Changes bounded by the cartilages, as well as where it is limited by the ligaments. In the former part, the changes are occasioned by the in two ways, movements of the arytajnoid cartilages ; but in the latter they are due to the lengtheniii|j; and shortening of the bands. In the state of rest it is a narrow fissure which is enlarged a Form in little behind and rounded ; but when dilated it is triangular in form, Uke the upper orifice, though its base is turned backwards to the arytfenoid muscle. In the hving body the fissure is larger in inspiration than in expiration. The muscles too are constantly producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more immediately on the cartilages as dilators and contractors of the base ; and others altering the state of the Hgaments,—elongating and shorten- on sides, ing the sides. The base is enlarged, and the interval rendered triangular by the on base, posterior crico-arytsenoid ; and is diminished by the arytasnoid, and the lateral ciico-aryt;Bnoid. And the ligamentous sides are elon- gated and made tense by the crico-thyroidei; but are shortened by the thyro-arytjenoidei. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 42, ^) is best seen on the left Ventricle, side. It is the oval hollow between the vocal cords, whose upper margin is semilunar, and the lower straight. It is lined by the Situation, mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-aryt£enoid muscle. In the anterior end is the aperture into the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal poibcli (sacculus laryngis) (fig. 42, °), has been laid Pouch of bare partly on the right side by the removal of the half of the ^'''"y"'^- thyroid cartilage (p. 156), but it will be seen again in the subsequent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, half an inch deep and cylindrical Form and in form, which projects upwards between the upper vocal cord and l'^**^*'™- the thyroid slip of the depressor of the epiglottis, and reaches some- times as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its cavity communicates with the front of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the outer surface are numerous small glands, Surround- whose ducts are transmitted through the coats of the sac to the inside. Small nerves are distributed over the top. Its upper part is covered by the muscular slip before referred to.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 Dissection of vocal cords, and ci ico- tliyroid meinbi'aiie. Vocal cords. Upper lieameiit IS a very slight filiroiis iDand. inferior vocal cord, length, has those connections, Fig. 42.* Dissection. The general shape and position of tlie vocal cords are evident on the left half of the laryngeal tube, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the crico-arytaenoideus lateralis from its cartilages. Eemove in like manner the thyro-arytajnoideus, raising it fi-om before back. By tlie removal of the last muscle a fibrous membrane crico-thyroid (fig. 44, ®) comes into view, and its ujjper free edge will be perceived to constitute the inferior or ti-ue vocal cord. Whilst taking away the thyro-aryttenoideus, the ventricle and the sacculus lar}'-ngis, which are formed chiefly by mucous membrane, will disappear. The vocal cords or the thyro-arytainoid ligaments, (fig. 42), are two bands on each side, which are extended from the angle of the thyroid to the arytasnoid cartilage,— one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle. The upper ligament (false vocal cord, fig. 42, ^) is semi- lunar in form, and is much weaker than the other. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epi- Mottis ; and behind to the outer surface of the aryta^noid cartilage. Tins ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, which is con- tinuous with that in the arytjeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The inferior ligammit (chorda vocalis, fig. 42, ^) is attached m fi-ont to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down below the notch ; the ligament is directed backwards, and is in- serted into the anterior prominence at the base of the aryta?noid cartilage. It is about seven fines long in man, and two less in the woman. Internally this band is covered by thin mucous membrane, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx,—the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis. Ex- A. Ventricle of the Sacculus lavyngis. E. Arytcenoid cartilage, f. Cricoid cartilage, o ThjToid cartilage, h. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid ligament, l. Thyro-hyoid hgament. Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the laiynx. True vocal cord. o. False vocal cord i larynx, b.161 NERVES OF LARYXX. ternally it is connected with the thyro-arytfenoicl muscle. And in- feriorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid hgament, ic. Ihe cd"-e that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds. The ligament is composed of fine Kuture. elastic tissue. . The mncous memirane of the larynx is continued from that invest- ^J^^^^^l^^ ing the pharjmx, and is prolonged to the lungs through the oc larynx, trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched between the epiglottis and the tip of the arytasnoid cartilage, forming the arytajno-epiglottid fold on each side of the laryngeal orifice : at this spot it is very loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In An-ange- the larynx the membrane lines closely the cavity, sinks into the ' ventricle, and is prolonged into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyi'O- arytiunoid ligaments it is very thin tmd adherent, allowing those to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the vocal cords, the Epithelium epithelium is of the laminar kind, and fi-ee fiom cilia. But a columnar ciMated epithelium covers the surface below the level of differs in the superior cords, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the cords : on the epiglottis it is ciliated in the loAver half. Numerous branched glands are connected vnth. the mucous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of tlie arj'tajno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytajnoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the vocal cords, but close to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which lubricates the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves ami vessels. The termination of the laryngeal ^/^j^g^j^ygg^ ner^'^es may be dissected on the untouched side of the lai'ynx. For this pui-jDose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care- being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the joint between the two. The trachea and larjmx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the thjToid has been drawn awaj' fi'om the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal inferior, nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Aftei-wards the superior laryngeal is to be found as it pierces the superior thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the ^'^'^"oeal: mucous membrane of the larynx and pharjmx. Two communica- tions are to be looked for between the larj^ngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to be of vessels, dissected at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the laiynx are the superior and inferior Neri'es are laryngeal branches of the pncumo-gastric (p. Ill) ; the former ig ^^o"'^ag"s. distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter mostly to the muscles. The inferior larynrjcal nei-ve (recun-ent), when about to enter the Recurrent jj. ucrvoDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 supiilies special muscles except Olio. Superior laryngeal nerve joins recur- rent. and ends in mucous membrane. Arteries from supe- rior thyroid: from inferior thyroid. Other source. Veins end differently. larynx, furnishes backwards an ofEset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; this joins filaments of the upper laryngeal. The nen'o passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of tlie larynx, except tlie crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are superficial, but that to the arytfenoid muscle lies beneath the crico-arytaenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the hiferlor is joined by a long offset of the tipper laryngeal nerve. The superior lan/ngeal nerve pierces the thyro-liyoid ligament, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it fur- nishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane :—Some of these ascend in the arytseno-epiglottid fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the iimer side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the arytsenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Vessels. The arteries of the larynx are furnished from the supe- rior and inferior thyroid branches (p. 79 and 71). The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters the laiynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane fi-om the root of the tongue to the chorda vocalis. Like the nerves, it unites with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. Some other twigs from the superior thyroid arteiy perforate the crico-th}Toid membrane, and ramify in the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying the branch of the supe- rior thyroid artery, joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein (p. 79) ; and the vein with the artery fi'om the inferior thyroid opens into the plexus of the inferior thyroid veins (p. 71). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the piece of membrane jommg the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligament umtmg one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed.163 CAETILAGES OF LARYNX. In the arytEcno-epiglottidcan fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may bo recognised ; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The hyoid bone (os hyoides) (fig. 43) is situate between the larynx Hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue. Eesembling tlie letter U, placed hori- Form, zontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examma- tion a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The body, c, is thin and flattened and measures most in the Body of the transverse direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles ; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the upper border the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side (large and small). f^lgP'^*^^' The large cornu, H, continues the bone backwards, and is joined to the body by an intervening piece of cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwards and downwards ; and the size de- creases fi-om before backwards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu, or appendix, J, is directed upwards fi-om the point and smaU. of union of the gi-eat cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament ; it is seldom wholly ossified. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 43). There are four large carti- ^jjJ^'^J^g^ lages in the laiynx, on which the vocal cords are fixed and sup- four large ported, viz., the thyroid, the ciicoid, and the two arytsenoid. In addition there are some yellow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., and some _ the epiglottis, a capitulum to each arytsenoid cartilage, and a small i^es. ovalish piece (cimeiform) in each arytseno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The thyroid cartilage, B, is the largest of all: it forms the front Thyroid of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as Avith a shield. The upper part of the cartilage is considerably wider than the is convex in lower, and in consequence of this form the larynx is somewhat funnel-shaped. The anterior surface is prominent in the middle line, forming the subcutaneous swelling named pomum Adami ; but the cartilage is concave behind at the same spot, and gives attach- concave ment to the epiglottis and the thyro-arji;a3noid muscles and liga- ments. The upper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two square halves, which are united in Formed of the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the cartilage has a thick ''^i^es, border, which terminates upwards and downwards in a rounded iiiving process or cornu (e and F). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : comua. of the two, the upper, e, is the longest ; but the lower one, F, is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage The inner surface of each half is smooth ; but the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attachment of muscles, whicli extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, almost to the middle of the lower border. The cricoid cartilage, d, is stronger though smaller than the Cricoid thyroid, and encircles the cavity of the laiynx ; it is partly con- <=*''"^"e<^ M 2DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 Form. Surfaces. Borders; the upper- most uneven. Aryteennicl cartilages. Situation and form. Base. Apex. Three surfaces. Fibro-carti- lages of Santorini. cealed by the shield-like cartilage, below wliich it is placed. It is veiy unequal in depth before and beliind,—the posterior part being three tinies deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. Its contained space is about as large as the fore finger. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a Hat and rather square portion, which is marked by a median ridge between two contiguous muscular depressions. On each side, immediately in fi-ont of the square part, is a shallow arti- cular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mu- cous membrane. The lower border is undulat- ing, and is united to the trachea by fibrous membra:ne. Tlie upper border is nearly straight posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the ring ; and this por- tion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the ary- tfenoid cartilage. In fi'ont of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excava- tion in each border. The two arytcenoid cartilages^ c, are placed one on each side at the back of the laiynx, on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. Each is pyi-amidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed sm-face behind for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated in front into a point which gives attachment to tlie vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is sunnoimted by the carti- lage of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat. The outer is wide and irregular, and on it is a small projection at the base, which receives the insertion of some of the muscles. At the poste- rior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. Attached to the apes of each arytenoid * Hyoid bone and the laryngeal cartilages : a. Body of tlie byoid bone. H. Large cornu. J. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis. B. Thyroid cai-tilage. c. Arytajnoid cartilage, d. Cricoid cartilage, e. Upper cornu, and f. Lower CDrnu of the thjToid cartilage.165 LIGAMENTS OF LARYNX. cartilage is tlic small, conical, fibro-cartilago of Santorini (comi- culum capitulum), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytceno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilcujes. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the arytajno-epiglottid wrisberg. folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and rounded in form, like a gi-ain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytajnoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish pro- jection. The epirjlottis (fig. 43, ^) is single, and is the largest of the pieces Epiglottis, of yellow hbro-cartilage. In form it is cordate ; and it resembles a py^jjo^ leaf, with the stalk below and the lamina or expanded piece above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the lai-ynx. During respiration it is placed vertically; but during de- glutition it takes a horizontal du-ection so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it Surfaces, is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface, hollowed laterally, is convex fi-om above down. To its sides the arytajno-epiglottid folds of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the epiglottis ™ its substance will be seen to be perforated by numerous spaces, which lodge mucous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of yellowish Supposed fat with some glands ; this has been sometimes called the epiglot- ^ ™ ' tidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other °aryux, ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the larynx loitli the hyoid hone and the trachea. A thin betiveen os loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends fi-om the thyroid carti- and tr-cbea lage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid ligament (fig. 42, ^) is attached on the one part TlijTo-hyoid to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other, to the. upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gi-adually becomes thinner towards ^Vmnge- the sides ; and it ends laterally in a rounded elastic cord, which intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal nei-ve and vessels perforate the li gament, Connec- and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral cord of the liga- ment will be found occasionally a small ossific nodule (cartilage triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage Crico- to the first ring of the trachea—crico-trachcal ligament, resembles membmne. the bands jommg the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are Between166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYi\X. «;ncoid and thyroid car- tilugea are an anterior Ugaiuont, Fig. 44. Use; and a lateral joint, use. Between cricoid and arytaenoid is a capsule and SJ^^ovial •sac. Use. joined in the middle line in front by ligament ; and on tlie side, by a joint, with the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The crico-thyroid ligament or membrane (fig. 44, closes the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytcenoid cartilages, and the right half is now visible. It is yellow in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At the centre it is thick and strong, but is thinner on each side as it is continued backwards. By the lower border it is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid as far back on each side as the joint with the arj^ta^noid cartilage. Its upper border, fi-ee and rounded, is covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lower vocal cord. In front it is united to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind to the base of the arytaanoid. The ligament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle, and some small apertm-es exist in it for the passage of fine arteries into the larynx. The strong fore part of the ligament serves the pui-pose of uniting the two large laryngeal cartilages ; and the lateral, closmg the larynx, ends above m the vocal cord. A capsular ligament surrounds the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thy- roid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. This joint admits forward and back- ward movements of the thyroid carti- lage, by which the condition of the vocal cords is altered. If that cartilage is moved forwards the cords are stretched, and if back- wards the cords are relaxed. Articulation of the cricoid and arytcenoid cartilages. The articular surfaces of the cartilages are retained by a loose capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its arti- cular surface ; and is the strongest on the inner and posterior aspects —posterior ligament. A loose synovial membrane is present m the articulation. The arytasnoid cartilage glides fi-eely forwards and backwards, inwards and outwards ; but if its horizontal movements are con- trolled by muscular action, it can be rotated around a vertical axis, the anterior spur being moved inwards and outwards. Obviously the state of the vocal cords will be changed by the movements of * View of the vocal cords and crico-thyroid ligaments. 1. Trne vocal cord. 2. Post, crico arytfcn. muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Arytenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Crico-thyroid membrane.167 STRUCTURE OF TRACHEA. tlie cartilages. When the arytsenoids glide in and out the cords AcWon on will be approximated and separated ; when backwards and forwards, ^ocalcoras. the cords will be tightened and relaxed ; and in rotation the cords will be moved away from, and brought towards each other. A kind of capsule, formed of thin scattered fibres, with a synovial ^^^^^^.^ sac unites the apex of the arytajnoid cartilage with the hollowed and capitu- base of the capitulum of Santorini. Sometimes these cartilages are blended together. Fibrous bands (thyro-arytainoid) join the thyroid with the ai-y- tcmoid cartilages, and have been examined as the vocal cords aiytienoid. (p. 160). Ligaments of the epiglottis. A band, ihjro-epiglottidean, connects Two^^>^«- tlie foot-stalk of the epiglottis to tlie thyroid cartilage, close to the epiglottis, excavation in the upper border of the latter (fig. 42). Some fibrous and elastic tissues—hyo-epiglottid ligament, connect likeAvise the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. Structure of the Trachea. The air tube consists of a series of CousWtu- pieces of cartilage (segments of rings) (fig. 40), which are con- trachea, nected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the carti- lages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and mucous glands. The trachea is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. The pieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen Cartilages, to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which extends about Form. tln.-ee fourths of a circle; and each is convex forwards, forming the fi-ont and sides of the air tube. Both above and below, the carti- ^^g*^^^"" laginous pieces are less constant in size and form ; for towards the laiynx they increase in depth, whilst in the opposite direction they may be slit at their ends or blended together ; and the lowest piece of cartilage is shaped like the letter V. A fibrous tissue is continued from one to another on both as- Fibrous pects, though in greatest quantity externally, so as to incase and tissue, imite them ; and it is extended across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissection. On removing for about two inches the fibrous mem- Dissection, brane and the mucous glands from the interval between the carti- lages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres mil appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous part of the tube may be slit down, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous Muscular layer of transverse bundles of unstriated muscle, wliich is attached ['1!,^"]^^;^^"*® to the truncated ends and the inner surface of the cartilages. By beiiind. the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longi- tudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the tracheal tube Elastic beneath the mucous membrane ; and at the posterior part, where tradiwu"''^ the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinalDISSECTION OF THE NECK. 168 folds. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. fmSaiio, '^^^^ mucous membrane of the trachea linos the tube, and resembles eiiitlniliuiii, tliat of the larynx hi being furnished with a columnar ciliated epi- thelium. and glaiKiti. Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous glands of variable size. Tlie largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the interval between the cartilages, where some are placed beneath the fibrous membrane with the muscular fibres, and others outside that layer. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue ■ connecting the cartila- ginous rings. Section XVIII. Deep muscles of spine. Dissection. Loiigus colli. Origin by two pieces. Insertion. Parts in contact with it. PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid aside after the separation of the pharynx fi-om it the student is to learn the deep muscles on the fi-ont of the vertebrjB. Dissection. The jirevertebral muscles will be prepared by removing the fascia and areolar tissue. The muscles are three in number on each side (fig. 45), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli ; the muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis auticus major ; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE (fig. 45, ^) is situate on the bodies of the cei-vical and upper dorsal vertebra3, and is pointed above, but larger below. It consists of two parts—internal and external, the former being vertical, and the latter obUque in direction, as on the right side of the figure. The internal piece arises by fleshy and tendinous processes fi-om the bodies of the two upper dorsal and two lower cervical verte- br£e ; and the external piece takes origin fi-om the anterior trans- verse processes of four cervical vertebrte (sixth, fifth, fourth and third). Both parts of the muscle are blended above, and the whole is inserted by four slips into the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebrae. Some of the lowest fibres of the muscle arc attached separately by tendon to the anterior transverse process of one or tM'o of the lower cervical vertebra3. In contact with the anterior surface of the nmscle is the pharjaix. The inner border is at some distance inferiorly from the muscle of the opposite side, but superiorly only the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebra3 separates the two. The outer border isEECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS. contiguous to the scalenus, to the vertehral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. 4c7/a7» Both muscles hend fonvards the neck; and tlie upper use. ohlique iihres of one will turn the head and neck to the same side, hv the attachment to the atlas and bodies of the vertchr;e. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR (fig. 45, is cxtemal to the preceding muscle, and is largest at the upper end. Its orujm is by «uijor. pointed tendinous slips, with the longus colli, from the summits of Origin, the anterior transverse processes of four cervical vertebra? (sixth, Fig. 45.* 169 fifth, fourth, and third) ; and the fibres ascend to be inserted into insertion, the basilar process of the occipital bone, in fi-ont of the foramen magnum. The anterior sm-face of the muscle is covered by the pharynx, connec- and by the carotid artery and the numerous nen'^es near the base of the skull. The muscle partly conceals the following one. At *f its insertion the rectus is ileshy, and reaches from the middle Imc to the temporal bone. Action. Both muscles incline forwards the head ; and one will Use. bring tlie face to the same side by rotating the head. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR (fig. 45, '^), is a small flat Rectus muscle, which arises from the anterior transverse process and body ^^np'tis * Deep muscles of the front of the neck, and the scaleni muscles, a. Longus colli, li. llectiis capitis anticus major, o. Scalenus anticus. d. Scalenus medius. f. Scalenus posticus, o. Rectus capitis anticus minor. t170 beneath lirecediiig. Use. Dissection of iiiter- trausver- .sales. Intertrans- verse umscles. Numter and attach- ments. Connec- tions. Peculiari- ties. Use. Cervical uerves in their fora- juina give anterior and pos- terior branches. First two nerves clilter in both anterior and posterior branches. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of the atlas ; and is inserted into tlie basilar process of the occipital bono between tlic foramen magnum and the rectus major, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nen^e lies between the borders of tliis muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. Its power is very slight, but it mil help in moving forwards the head. Dissection. The small intertransversales muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cei-vical nen^es, the inter- transversales will be readily seen on their sides. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the conjoined transverse processes may be cut ofE to lay bare the verte- bral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slender fleshy slips in the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are seven pairs—the first being between the atlas and axis, and the last between the lowest cervical and the first dorsal vertebra. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior tu- bercles on the tips of the conjoined transverse processes. Between the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cen'ical nerve ; and beneath the posterior muscle is the other primary branch of the same ners'^e. In the upper space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Action. 'Qj approximating the transverse processes these muscles bend the spinal column laterally. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The trunks of the cervical nerves issue fi-om the spinal canal through the inter- A'^ertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifurcate into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the inter- transverse muscles, and joins in plexuses with its fellows (p. 72). The posterior primary branch turns to the Back (p. 394) beneath the posterior intertransverse nmscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first tivo. The first two nerves leave the spinal canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital nerve has been examined (p. 113). The anterior branch of the second nen-c, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebras, is du-ected foi-wards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the first pair of interti-ansverse muscles, to join the cendcal plexus. The posterior primary branches of the first two nerves are de- scribed in the dissection of the Back (p. 396).171 LIGAMENTS OF CERVICAL VERTEBEiE. The vertehral artery has been seen at its origin in the neck (p. Vcrtein^ 69) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain, ^.^..^.j^^i Entering usually the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebrae artery ascends vertically through the corresponding foramma in the other vertebra3. Finally the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of the atlas ; and, passing beneath the ligament joining that vertebra with the os occipitis, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. In its course through the foramina the artery lies in Posmon to front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except those of "arves. the hrst and second,—the former of which crosses on the inner, imd the latter on the outer side. The vessel is accompanied by a ^g;;^^^-^*^ vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. ^ with it. In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding Branches, muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertehral vein begms by small radicles in the occiput, and in Vertebral the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the apertm-e of the ^"^"^ atlas, where it receives sometimes a vein from the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying g„js j„ the arteiy, the vein traverses the apertures between the transverse subclavian, processes, and ends in the subclavian vein (p. 71). In its course it is joined by branches fi-om the internal and external Branches. spinal vems ; its other branches are described at p. 70. The vertehral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cer\'ical Vertebral "dIgxus of ganghon of the sympathetic (p. 116). It surrounds the artery, and nerves, communicates with the spinal ner^^es as high as the third or fourth. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRA AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spme, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebras to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cen'ical fi-om the first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebrae. By sawing tlirough the occipital bone, so as to leaA^e only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the ccmcal vertebras common are similar to those uniting the vertebrie in other parts of the spme, ligaments of viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament; bands between '''^^^^'"^ '• the lamina? and spines ; capsular ligaments and synovial membi-anes for the articulating processes ; and an mtervertebral ligament be- tween the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal these de- or lumbar portion of the spine where they are more fully developed ; gige^^fgre their preparation and description will be found at the end of the ^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 172 Special ligaments between tlTst two vex-tebric thorax, with the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 373). Should the student examine them in the neck, to see their difference in tliis region of the spine, he should leave uncut the neural arches of the three highest cervical vcrtehrte, to which special ligamente are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebra3 to eacli other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous membranes, which connect the bodies and arches of the first two vertebra} in' Fig. 46.* Posterior and andoccipital fj-Qnt and beliind ; and join the atlas with the occipital bone at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular sm-faces of all the bones ; but these will be examined more com'eniently after the spinal canal has been opened. Union of the atlas loith the axis. The posterior ligament (atlo-axoid) (fig. 47, ^) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the corresponding arch of the axis. Below the surface are some deeper and stronger fibres. The posterior primary branch of the second ners'-e pierces it. The anterior ligament (fig. 46, ^) unites the bodies of the first two vertebras in the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their arches. It is thickest in the middle, and anterior Union of the atlas loith the occijntal bone. The anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) (fig. 46, ") is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen mag- num to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the fi-ont of the atlas, is much the thickest. * External ligaments in front between the atlas and axis and the occipita] hone (Bourgery). 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Anterior occipito-atloid. 3. Anterior atlo-axoid. 4. Ai-ticulation of the articular processes cut open. anterior atlo-axoidLIGAMEXTS OF ATLAS AND AXIS. ] The postenor ligament (fig. 47, is fixed to the occipital bone amijws- behind the foramen magnura, and to tlie neural arch of the atlas, oceipito- It is thin ; and at its attachment to the atlas the vertebral artery ('), atioi^ Fig. 47.* and the posterior primary branch of the suboccipital ner\'-e pass beneath it. The ligaments inside the spinal canal are much stronger, and Ligaments assist in retaining the skull in place during the rotatory and nodding betweea^ movements of the head. Between the occipital bone and the second same boaes. Fig. 48. t vertebra are three ligaments—a central, and two lateral or check ; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed agamst the body of the atlas by another transverse band. Dissection. Supposing the neural arches of the cei-vical vertebrce Dissection * External ligaments behind between the atlas, axis, and the occipital meuts.''^'''" v'!?T V occipito-atloid ligament. 2. Posterior atlo-axoid 3 Vertebral artery entering beneath the occipito-atloid ligament. t Internal ligament between occipital bone and axis (Bourgery). 1 and 2 Attachments of the occipito-axoideaa ligament.174 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. I Botweon skull nntl axis is a Mride layer, to be removed except in the first three, tlic arches of these vertebrjc are to be sawn through close to the articular processes. Nextly the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly tlie foramen mag- num is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, on raising from below the upper end of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrfB, the ligamentous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito-axoid) will come into view. Union of the occipital hone loiih the axis. The central ligament (occipito-axoidean) (fig. 48, is a strong layer beneath the pos- terior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrje, and is rather triangulai- in form with the base uppermost. Above it is attached to the basilar process (on the cranial aspect) near the margin of the foramen magTium, extending as far on each side as the insertion of the check ligaments. From that spot it descends over the odontoid process, and, becoming narrower, is inserted into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between it • and the transverse ligament of the atlas. Dissection Dissection (fig. 49). After the removal of the occipito-axoidean Sgament'^^ ligament, by cutting transversely through it above, and reflecting it, the student should define a strong band, the transverse ligament, Fig. 49.* Two lateral or check ligaments. which crosses the root of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital bone and the axis. The upper ofEset fi'om the transverse ligament may be cut through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the check hgaments which diverge one on each side, from the odontoid process. The lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 49, ') are two sti'ong bundles of fibres, attached by one end to the side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a depression on the mner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These hgaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band ; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and the lower are longer and oblique. * Internal ligaments between tlie occipital bone and the atlas and axis (Bourgeryr 1- The left check ligament. 2. The transverse ligamen , sending IffSupwards and do^vnwards. 3. Cut end of the occipito-axoidean ligament.MOVEMENTS OF THE HEAD. 175 Between the lateral bands is a central odontoid ligament, which With a cen- connects tlie tip of the odontoid process to the margin ot the basilar process of the occipital bone. Union of the atlas loith the axis. The transverse hgament oi tho To^r.x odon- atlas (fig. 49, is a flat, strong, arched band belnnd the odontoid there is a process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle below the inner part of the articular process. This ligament is widest in the tmn^vme centre ; and at this spot it has a band of longitudinal fibres con- nected with the upper and lower margins (fig. 49), so as to produce j;amed cm- a cruciform appearance : the upper band is inserted into the basilar " ' process, and the lower, into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito-axoid ligament. This ligament fixes the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring (fig. 50). When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut through, '^^^^J^J^ the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous ' Fig. 50.* surfaces; one in fi'ont where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate the movements of the odontoid and two process, one serving for the joint between this piece of bone and the membranes. atlas ; and the other for the joint between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. The articular surfaces of the Capsule and occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, and the hollowed surface of the atlas inwards. A synovial membrane is present on each side. synovial sac The articular surfaces of the first two vertebra) are enclosed on to articular each side by a capsule (fig. 46, ''), which is stronger in fi-ont than surfaces, beliind. On opening the joint the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. Movements of the head. The head can be bent forwards and Movements backwards: turned fi-om side to side—rotation; and inclined towards ,1 1 1 1 K1I1Q,3 01 • the shoulder. * First vertebra with the odontoid process removed from the socket formed by the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament with its offsets cut. 2. Socket for the odontoid luoccss.DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 17G To anil fro. Rotation. Head laterally. Joint at sternal end of clavicle. Dissection. Capsular ligament. Intercla-^-i- cular, and costo- clavicular ligament. Fibro-carti' lage. Attach- ments. Nodding takes place in tlie joints between the atlas and occipital bone, the condyles gliding forwards and backwards. When the bead is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical vertebrte come into play. Rotation is permitted by the several joints between the atlas and axis. In this movement the axis is fixed, and the atlas, bound to it by the transverse ligament, moves to the right and the left, can-ying the weight of the head. Too great a movement of the face to the side is checked by the odontoid ligament. Only part of the whole of the rotatory movement to one side is obtained be- tween the atlas and axis, the rest being made np by the neck. Approximation of the head to the shoulder is eflEected by the neck movement : perhaps a very sUght degree of it may be due to gliding downAvards of the occipital condyle of the same side on the articular surface of the atlas. Sterno-clavicular Articulation (fig. 51). The articular surfaces are somewhat irregular and adapted to each other, with an inter- mediate fi-bro-cartilage ; and they are retained in contact by a capsular ligament ; by a band to the first rib; and by another between the ends of the clavicles. Dissection. For the examination of the ligaments of the sterno- clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was set aside for the purpose (p. 121). If the ligaments have become dry, they may be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear in the situation indicated by their names, after the removal of some fibrous tissue. Capsular ligament. This is a thin membranous expansion (fig. 51, ^), which incases the articular- ends of the bones and the fibro- cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres in fi-ont and at the back are described as separate ligaments. The interclavicular ligament (^g. 51, ^) extends above the sternum, between the ends of the cla-\acles. The fibres do not cross in a sti-aight line, but dip into the hollow between the collar bones, and are connected with the upper piece of the sternum. The costo-clavicular ligament (fig. 51, ^) is a short strong band of obUque fibres between the first rib and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is fixed to the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the imder surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. The subclavius muscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the claAncle touches the rib, and is provided -with an articular surface and a synovial membrane. The interarticular fihro-cartilage (fig. 51, ') will come into view by cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the clavicle. It is ovalish in form and flattened, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper margin and surface the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle which is embedded in it; and by the opposite surface and margin it is inserted into the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it miites with the capsule of the177 STERNO-CLAVICULAR JOINT. joint. Sometimes there is an aperture in the centre of the fibro- ''t!^o synovial sacs are present in the articulation, one on each side Two^yj^^^_ of the fibro-cartilage. The sac in contact with the sternum is looser ^^anes. than that touching the clavicle. Movement. The inner end of the clavicle can be moved up and moHou down, and forwards and backwards, and the direction it takes is the opposite to that of the limb and the shoulder. Thus when the limb is depressed the sternal end of the clavicle is raised ; and if the arm is elevated, the inner end of that bone will be lowered. When the shoulder is forced back the collar bone moves forwai'ds at the sternum ; and the inner end of that bone Avill project back when the shoulder is impelled forwards. The extent of each move- ment is but limited, though those forwards and upwards are the freest ; and dislocation may ensue in any direction, except down- wards. * Ligaments of the inner end of the clavicle, and of the cartilage of the second rib. 1. Capsule. 2. Costo-clavicular ligament. 3. Interclavicular ligament. 4. Ligaments of the second rib with the sternum. 6. Inter- articular fibro-cartilage of second rib. 7. Interarticular fibro-cartilage of the clavicle. NCHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section I. Position of the Ijraiu. Three mem- branes. Dura mater. Arachnoid membrane. Parietal part. Visceral part is not close to brain, MEMBRANES AND ' VESSELS. During the examination of the membranes, vessels, and nerves, the brain is to be placed upside down, resting in the coil of a cloth which supports it evenly. Membranes of the Brain. The coverings of the brain (meninges) are three in number, viz. din-a mater, pia mater, and araclmoid membrane. The dura mater is a fii-m fibrous investment, which separates and suj^ports pieces of the brain, and serves as an endos- teum to the bones. The pia mater is the most internal laj'^er, and is very vascular. And the arachnoid is a tliin serous sac, which is situate between the other two. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the two last will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial por- tion of the dura mater, see p. 9. The arachnoid is a thin serous membrane, which lines the inner surface of the dura mater, and is reflected over the pia mater and the brain. Around the vessels and nerves intei-vening between the skull and the brain, the membrane forms sheaths, wliich extend a short distance into the several apertures, and become contmuous with the parietal or cranial portion. Like other serous membranes, it forms a sac which contains a lubricating moisture ; and it con- sists of a parietal and a ^nisceral part. The parietal part is inseparably united to the iimer surface of the dura mater, giving this a smooth and polished surface, and is contmued over the pieces of the fibrous membrane projecting between portions of the brain. The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially at the under sur face of the brain, and is united to the underiying pia mater by fibrous processes ; beneath it there is a considerable interval (subarachnoid space).. On the upper or convex surface of the great brain the membrane pa'sses from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening sulci ; though it lines the great median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On the lower surface of179 MEMBRANES OF BRAIN. the cerebrum there is a large space between it and the centre of the hollow be- brain. Still more posteriorly, between the hemispheres of the little brain, there is an interval, similar to that at the under surface of ^pote the cerebrum. ti i The subarachnoid space or the interval between the arachnoid ^^.^f^j^JJ^j'f membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot than anotlier ; space, and it contains more or less fluid, which has been named cerehro- sjniial. The space is largest at the under surface of the great brain, about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres of it and the cerebellum. Under the arachnoid, at the front of the fissure yj^Wch^opens between the halves of the cerebellum, is the aperture of the fourth° ventricle, by which that cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, and dips into the fissures, Pia ma as well as into the sulci between the convolutions and laminaj. Besides covering the exterior of the brain, it sends processes into semis pieces tlie interior to supply vessels to the walls of the enclosed space : thus, one penetrates into the cerebnmi below the corpus caJlosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fr-inges, which project into the fourth ventricle, are known as the choroid plexuses of that ca\'ity. This membrane is a network of vessels, and is constructed of it is a net- the minute ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or tiood- issuing from the cerebral substance ; whilst the intervals between vessels, the vessels are closed by fine areolar tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous thin layer. From the under surface of the membrane proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid membrane has but few vessels. Vessels and wliilst the pia mater is composed almost entirely of vessels. The me'mbranes. pia mater is largely supplied by oflEsets of some cranial nerves, and by branches of the sympathetic which acccompany the vessels at the base of the brain (p. 20). Bochdalek has described branches to the arachnoid from some cranial nerves. Subdivisions of the ENCErHALON. Before the description of the arteries is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon may be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system (fig. 59) Outline of consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, Zassf pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the follow- ing situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord (fig. Upper part 59, a), lies in the groove between the halves of the small brain, coS'"'"^ and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. Tlie pons Varolii (fig. 59, d) is situate in front of the medulla Pons Varolii oblongata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separation into halves. Anterier to it are two large and its processes (crura cerebri,/) connecting it to the great brain; on each cnu'i." side It is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelh) ; and behind it is the enlarged upper end of the cord. K 2180 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Cerobruni, divisiima. Dissection of vessels of large brain; Cerebellum. The cerebellum (fig. 59, b), or the small brain, is separated into two by a median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to consist of lobes. The cerebrum (fig. 59, r and 2>), or the large brain, is divided into hemispheres by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line ; and ana its great ^f^ch half is further subdivided into two by a transverse sulcus,— the fissure of Sylvius. In the centre of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres and in front of the pons, are several small bodies which will be afterwards enumerated. Dissection. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from them. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries (anterior cerebral) lying in the median fissure and joining by a short branch ; next, an arteiy that passes outwards in the fissure of Sylvius (middle cere- bral), and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cere- bellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum (posterior cerebral) may be traced back along the inner aspect of the hemi- sphere. Two arteries pass out to the small brain. One on the upper surface (upper cerebellar) may be brought into view on raising the cerebellum, with the slender fourth nen^e by its side. The other artery (lower cerebellar) turns inwards to the median hollow, and may be easily followed. Akteries of the Brain (Fig. 52). The brain is supplied -with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery, is a branch of the subclavian trunk (p. 70), and enters the skull thi-ough the foramen magnum ; directed upwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with its fellow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the vessel winds round the upper end of the cord, it lies between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is after- wards internal to the last. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes offsets to the spinal cord, the dura mater, and the cerebellum. a. The 2)Osterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the back of the medulla: it descends along the side of the cord, behind the nei-ves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. b. The anterior sjnnal branch Q^) is small like the preceding, and springs from the trimk opposite the fi-ont of the spinal cord. ^ It joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect. to dura c. The posterior meningeal arteiij leaves the vertebral tiimk oppo- Biater. of sm, brain. Arteries of the brain. Vertebral ends in basilar, winds round medulla. Branches to spinal cord, anterior and posterior;ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 181 site the foramen magnum, and ramifies in tlie dura mater lining the fossa of the occipital bone. ., , i ^ t> i (1. The inferior cerebellar artei-y (posterior ) is distributed to the ui'iiler the under surface of the cerebellum. Taking origin from the end v^^^^^ of the vertebral, this branch winds backwards round the medul a, between tlie pneumo-gastric and spinal accessoiy nerves, to the Fis. 52*. median fissm-e of the cerebellum. Directed onwards along the fissure the artery reaches the upper surface of the small brain, and there anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. An ofEset of this branch ramifies over the under part of the offsets, cerebellum, and ends externally by anastomosing with the artery of the upper surface. As the vessel lies by the side of the apertm-e of the fourth ventricle it gives a small choroid twig to the plexus of that cavity. The BASILAR ARTERY ("), formed by the union of the two verte- BasUar brals, reaches from the lower to the upper border of the pons, where it ends by di%ading into two branches (posterior cerebral) ^^^^^^ "-"'^ for the cerebrum. The vessel touches the basilar process of the situation, occipital bone, from that circumstance receiving its name, and lies in the median groove of the pons. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nerve. Branches. Besides the two terminal branches mentioned above. Branches: tlie artery supplies transverse oflEsets to the pons and the under part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the cerebellum. * Arteries at the base of the brain. 1. Internal carotid trunk. 2. Anterior cerebral branch. 3. Anterior communicating. 4. Middle cerebral branch. 5. Choroidal branch. 6. Posterior communicating. 7. Posterior cerebi-al branch. 8. Upper cerebellar branch. 9. Internal auditory l}ranch. 10. Inferior cerebellar branch. 11. Basilar artery. 12. Vertebral artery. 13. Anterior spinal branch.182 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. transverse to the pons, and inferior cerebellar. Superior cerebellar ; olfsets. Posterior cerebral artery; branches to base of brain. Choroid branch. Part of brain sup- plied by vertebral arteries. Internal carotid ends in cerebral arteries. Branches. Anterior cerebral and a. The transverse arteries of the pone are four or six small twigs, which are named from their direction, and are distributed to the substance of the pons. One of them (") gives an oh'set (audi,tory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. b. Eesembling this set of branches is tiic following artery, the inferior cerebellar (anterior) : this arises from the basilar trunk, and extends to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellum, on which it is distributed. c. The superior cerebellar artei'y is derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is to the upper surface of the small brain, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but parallel with the fourth nerve. On the upper sm-f ace of the cerebellum the artery spreads its ramifica- tions, wliich anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), wliich projects beliind into the interior of the cerebrum. d. The posterior cerebral artery (') takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third nen^e. The vessel is then applied to the inner sm-face of the cerebrum, and divides into many branches : some of these supply the under part, whilst others tm-n upwards on both the outer and inner surfaces of the back of the hemisphere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Near its origin it is joined by the posterior communicating arteiy of the carotid ; and its branches to the brain are the foUowuig:— Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). A small clioroid arteiy (posterior) supplies the fold of pia mater which projects into the cerebi-um : this small branch is transmitted between the crus and hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum intei-positum and the choroid plexus. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trank, it appears that about half the en- cephalon—viz. the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Q) terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) inside the anterior clinoid process, and di^ndes at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and commmiicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives off the ophthalmic offset, before it ceases in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum. a. The anterior cerebral arterrj (*) supplies the inner part of the cerebral hemisphere. It is directed forwards to the median fissureARTERIES OF THE BRAIX. 183 between the halves of the large brain : and as it is about to enter, it is united to its fellow by a short thick branch,-the antovor c— communicating (■>). Then passing into the fissure, it bends round ^^ery; the anterior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on the upper aspect in the natural position of the brain, and is continued backwards, distributing offsets nearly to the posterior extremity of tli6 liGniispliGrs It gives off numerous branches, and some of them supply the base its offsets of the cerebrum, thus :— Neai- the commencement it furnishes small branches to the brain to base of (anterior perforated spot) contiguous to the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius : and it distributes some offsets to the under part of the frontal lobe. ., b. The micMle cerebral artery C) is the largest branch of the carotid, ;^',ebrai and ramifies over the outer side of the hemisphere. Entering the aitery fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides into many large pieces, which issue at the outer end of that groove and, spreading over the external surface of the hemisphere, inosculate with the other two ^^^gVpartof . cerebral arteries at the fi-ont, the back, and the upper part of the hemisphere: brain. Only a few fine offsets requu-e special notice : A set of small branches arise at the inner end of the fissure of offsets. Sylvius, and enter the cerebral substance through the substantia perforata antica. c. The posterior communicatinfj artery (") is a small tAvig, which ^"yj^^ji. is du-ected backwards parallel to, and on the inner side of the third eating, nerve, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the basilar) near the pons. d. The choroid artei-y (anterior) (^) is small in size, and arises either from the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery : it passes backwards on the outer side of the precedmg, and finds its way between the hemisphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis. The arteries at the under part of the brain are Circle of . . Willis ■ united freely both on then- own side and across the middle line m ' an arterial anastomosis,—the circle of Willis. On each side this vessels that circle is fonned by the trunk of the internal carotid giving for- wards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communi- cating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebral, and the anterior communicating artery. And beliind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebrals. In the area of the circle lie several bodies corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. Tlie complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the f^oscufation circle of Willis allows at all times a free cnculation of blood through between the brain, even though a large vessel on one side of the neck should be obstructed. The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dm-a mater, instead Veins of the of uniting into trunks as companions to the arteries. Two sets of veins belong to the cerebrum, viz. superficial or ex- Two sets of temal, and deep or internal. > ccrebmm,184 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. extonml and internal. External of cereboUuni. Dissection. Care to be taken in removing pia mater. The external veins of tlie upper surface are collected into the superior longitudinal sinus (p. 10); and those of the lateral and under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especially the lateral sinus. The deep veins of the interior of the cerebrum join the veins of Galen, and reach the straight sinus. The veins of the cerebellum end difEerently above and below. On the upper surface they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occipital and lateral sinuses. Dissection. The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nei-ves is to be defined with great care. Over the chief part of the cerebnim, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater can be detached with tolerable facility by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely as to require much care in removing it without tearing the substance of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane bounding the opening of the fourth ventricle (p. 230) will probably be taken away : therefore the position, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum should be now noted. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. Section II. ORIOm OF THE CRANIAL NERVE. Origin The cranial nen'-es take origin fi-om the encephalon, with one ex- ception (spinal accessory), and pass from it through apertures m the skull. is apparent The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at which it and real. appears on the surface, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain substance. Each nerve has therefore a superficial or appa- rent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be anj'- doubt; but there is much diflEerence of opinion concerning the deep Real enters origin, in consequence of the difiiculty of tracing the roots. When gmy matter, ^j^g poots are followed into the encephalon, they enter masses of gi-ay substance, which are looked upon as ganglia of origin, j^iassiflca- The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve pairs, or twelve according to the mode of classifying them.* pairs. * Those anatomists, wlio take the smaller niuuber after the example of Willis, include in one nerve all the trunks contained in the same aperture of the skull; as in the case of the eighth nerve, which consists of three trunks in the foramen jugulai'e. But those "n'ho are disposed with Sommerring to185 VEINS OF THE BEAIX. The several nerves may be designated first, second, tliird, and so Desigiia- forth : this munerical mode of naming applies to all, and is the one generally used. But a second name has been derived for some of tlie nerves fi-om from nun.- the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of tins nomen- clature the terms hypo-glossal, pneumo-gastric, may be taken. And j-ame of a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to wliich they are distributed, as the terms auditory and olfactory express. In this way two names may or function, be employed in referring to a nerve :—one being numerical, the other local or fimctional, as is exemplified below. The FIRST or olfactory nkrve (olfactory process, fig. 53 ^) is ^^^^^^ soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neurilemma; and it may be considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both gray sub- stance and wliite fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a flat-looking band, wider at each end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the under aspect J^es^on ^^^^ of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from the sulcus, it is prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position). Aiiteriorly the nervous substance swells into the olfactory hulb— ^"f^toj^, a pyriform grapsh mass, about half an inch m length, which rests bulb, on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriorly the olf actoiy process is connected to the cerebrum by three roots, external, internal, and middle. The external or long root is a slender wliite band, which is directed lias external backwards along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissm-e of Sylvius, and sinks into the substance of the cerebnim. The internal or short root, not always visible, is white and internal and delicate, and comes from the inner side of the cerebral hemisphere. The middle or gi-at/ root is connected with the gray matter on the middle root, •suitface of the brain, by means of a conical elevation at the back of 'the sulcus which lodges the nerve. Deep Origin. Tlie external root is said to be traceable to one of the con- Origin, volutions of the island of Reil. The inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyi-us foruicatus) to be afterwards examined. And the middle root, continuous with the gray matter of the convolutions, contains white fibres which enter the corpus striatum. The SECOND or optic Q) is the largest of the cranial nerves, excej^t Optic nerve, the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the crus cerebri. Anterior!}^ the nei'ves of opposite sides are united in a commissure. Posterior part called to the commissure the nen'-e is named optic tract; but bej'-ond the commissural union, where it is round and firm, it is called optic rart nerve. nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball. enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notMathstanding that it may be combined with others in the foramen of exit.186 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Origin from cerubruiu. Tiiict of the nerve. The orirjln of the nen^e will be afterwards seen to come from the optic thalamus and the corpora geniculata, and from one of the corpora quadrigemina (nates). The tract is the flattened part of the optic winding round the peduncle of the cerebrum. In front it ends in the commissure, and behmd It splits mto two pieces by which it is fixed to the brain As the tract reaches forwards it crosses the crus cerebri, to which It is attached by its outer or anterior edge ; and in fi-ont of the Kg. 63.* crus it is placed between the substantia perforata antica on the outside, and the tuber cinereum on the uiside, but whether it receives filaments fi-om the latter is uncertain. Its coniinis- The commissure (chiasma) of the neiwes measures half an inch sure: across, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, situation, within the cii-cle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum ; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. arrangemeut In the commissure each tract is resolved into three sets of fibres with the following arrangement:—The outer fibres, few in number, are continued straight to the eyeball of the same side. The middle, the largest, decussate with the corresponding bundle of the other * Origin of the cranial nerves. 1. Olfactory. 2. Optic. 3. Motor oculi. 4. Troclilear. 5. Trigeminal with small and large root. 6. Abductor oculi. 7. Facial and auditory, the former smaller and internal. 8. Eighth nen-e, consisting of three trunks in a line : the upper, glosso-pharyngeal; the middle, piieumo-gastric ; and the lowest spinal accessory. 9. Hoots of attachment of the hyfioglossal nerve.ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. 187 tract,—those of the right nerve being continued to the left side, to the opposite eye, and vice versa. And the most internal are con- tinued tlu-ough the tract of the otlicr side back to the brain without entering the eye. At the front of the commissure, are placed some transverse fibres, which are prolonged to the eyeballs through the portion of each nei-ve iu front of the counnissure, but have not any connection with the tracts and the brain. The part called nerve extends from the commissure to the eye- Tiuuk of ball. Leaving the skull by the optic foramen, it receives a tube of dura mater, and its course in the orbit is described in p. 4G. In the eyeball it ends in the retina. The THIRD NERVE (^), motor nerve of the eyeball, is round and Oj:'"!"^"^^,^ firm, and is attached by a slanting line of tlu-eads to the inner sm-face of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in fi-ont of the pons Varolii. Deejj or!f/iii. The deep origin is uncertain. According to StiUing,* the deepincrus fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing thi-ough the locus niger, and cerebri, enter a nucleus of gray substance near the floor of tlie aqueduct of Sylvius. e The FOURTH or trochlear nerve C) cannot be followed back- Origin of . • T • 1 n i J! ii_ -1 fom-tli nerv( Avards at present to its ongm. It is the smallest or tne cranial iiom cere- nei-ves, and is attached to the valve of Vieussens over the fourth i^el'i"". ventricle (fig. 68,'*). The nerve appears between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri ; and is du-ected forwards to enter an apertui'e in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Deep ori'jin. In entering the valve of Vieussens, filaments of the nerves of and Sylvian opposite sides cross and communicate. Each divides into two roots ; the aqueduct, anterior enters a nucleus of gi'ay matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the posterior joins a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). The FIFTH or trigeminal is the largest of all the cranial nerves, ^^^i "ei"^'' and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or roots, motor, which are intermixed beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the Origin from upper than the lower border Q). The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the large one by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the peculiar manner stated in page 18. Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and ai-e connected i" floor of with nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Deep ori(jin. The large root divides into two near the mass of gray matter beginning called locus cteralus (p. 229). One piece arises from the gray matter near J'^*^ ^'^''8'' the locus cseruleus (upper trigeminal nucleus) ; and the other, fi-om a deeper ^ ' nucleus, lower trujeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fa-sciculus teres (Stilling). The small root begins witli the fourth nerve in the upper trigeminal nucleus (iwtl of small near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). * Unta-mchvMgen iiber den Bau dcs Hirnknotens.188 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Origin of sixtii iiurve, from fourtli ventricle. Seventh iierve luis two iiart.s. Origin of tlie facial. Small acces- sorj' piece. Auditoiy neiTe. Deep origin of facial; of auditor-^-. Eighth nerve lias three parts. Origin of glosso-iiha- lyngeal. Vagus. Spinal acces- sory has two parts; accessoiy; The SIXTII NEUVE C), abducent nei-ve of tlie eyeball, springs from the pyramidal body close to the pons, and by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Deep mnrjin. The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through the medulhi oblongata, to a nucleus in tlie floor of the fourth ventricle, whose position Ls on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and behind the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle (p. 229). The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis') appears at the lower border of the pons near the restiform body. It consists of two distinct trunks, facial and auditory; the former being the motor nei-ve of the face, and the latter the special neive of the organ of hearing. The facial nerve (poitio dura, seventh nerve, Sommerring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditory, internal to which it is placed. It comes fi-om the lateral tract of the medulla, and is connected by a slip with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessorj"^ band of fibres (inter- mediate portion of Wrisberg) from the same part of the medulla, and enters the internal meatus with the auditory trank. The auditory nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, SommeiTuig) has a surface attachment to the restiform body and the floor of the fom-th ventricle. The nen-^e is very soft, and receives one of its names from that fact. Deep origin. The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth nerve, which it joins (Clarke*). The fasciculus of the auditory nerve which reaches the floor of the fourth ventricle, bends backwards over the restiform body to the auditory nucleus ; and some arciform fibres out of the median sulcus are joined with this part, of the root. The other fasciculus pierces the restiform body, and takes origin from a network connected with the posterior pyramid (Clarke). The EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis is placed along the side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct ti'unks, glosso- pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory : the names of the first two indicate their destination ; and the last, besides being accessory to the pneumo-gastric, supplies some muscles. The glosso-pliaryngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Sommeriing) is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its apparent origm is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate the lateral tract of the medulla close to the facial nerve. The pneumo-cjastnc or vagus (tenth nerve, Sommemng) is con- nected with the lateral tract of the medulla, below the glosso- pharyngeal nei-ve, by a series of filaments, which are collected at first into bundles, but are finally gathered into one flat band. The s])inal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, §6mmerring) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine filaments in a line with the root of the vagus, as low as the first cervical neive. * On the sti-ucture of the Medulla Oblongata, by J. Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S., in the Pliilosophical Transactions for 1858, pai-t i.189 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneunio-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 112.) The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the si.xth : nerve, but only a small piece of it can be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord neai- the lateral fissure, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the liga- mentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be connected ; and it finally enters the skull by the foramen magnum. All three neives converge below the cms cerebelli, and rest on a all converge small lobe of the cerebellum (fiocculus). From that spot they are " ^^'^ ^ directed outwards to the foramen jugulare (p. 19). The fibrils of the nerves pierce the medulla ; and each nerve, except the spinal part of the eleventh, takes origin fi-om a special deposit of gray matter at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle (p. 229). Beep orif/in. The fjlosso-pharynijeal penetrates as far as the vagus nucleus, Ceeii origin where it ends in fibrils -n hich enter that deijosit. glosso- The -vwjus nerve arises in a special nucleus (p. 229) ; but some fibrils pass P''■''5'"*''^'' through the hypoglossal nucleus. of tlie The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is transmitted to a special ^'^'i^^^ '■ nucleus below that of the vagus ; and some fibres decussate across the middle of accessory line with their fellows. The roots of the spinal part of the nerve, piercing the lateral column of the and spinal, cord, pass thi-ough a collection of cells to the anterior cornu of the crescent (Clarke). Tlie NINTH or HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE of Willis (twelfth nerve, S(5m- Nintii nerve, men-ing'') is placed on the fi-ont of the medulla oblongata, and arises by a series of filaments fi-om the sulcus between the pyra- midal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce Origin from separately the dura mater, and do not blend together till they are '"^^^^^^a- outside the cranial cavity. Deep origin. The filaments of the nerve can be traced through the corpus n ■ • olivare to a nucleus below the level of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the Sfmirth canal of the cord ; hut some bend inwards to decussate with the nerve of the ventricle, opposite side (Clarke). Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLIL The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper. Directions. On a single brain the student may learn nearly all Directions the anatomy of the medulla and pons ; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla oblongata and pons unitedDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 190 Position. Upiier |)ai't of spinal cord. Situation. nnd another of n vertical median section tlu-ough those bodies them ^-eadilythe following description of Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as for the examniation of the nerves and vessels. IMie MEDULLA OULONGATA is the dilated upper end of the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium (fig. 54). Its limit is the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the upper margin of the atlas in the other. This portion of the cord is pyramidal in Fig. 54,* Fig. 65.+ Base. Apex. Surfaces. Division into halves bj' fissm-es. Components of each half. form, and measm-es about one inch and a quarter in length; half an inch in breadth below, and about an inch at its widest pai-t. Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking its limit; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The anterior surface is irregularly convex, and is in contact with the hollowed basilar process of the occijaital bone. The opposite sur- face is somewhat excavated superiorly, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and it rests in the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum. On the posterior aspect there ai-e not any cross fibres of the pons, as in fi'ont, to mark the extent of the medulla. The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median fissure in fi'ont and behind. The fissures are in a line with those along the cord : the anterior ceases at the pons in a dilation (foramen ctecum), but the posterior is prolonged, behind the pons, into the floor of the fourth ventricle. Each half of the medulla is constituted of pieces continuous with * Anterior view of tlie medulla oblongata and pons. 1. Anterior p3nramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform body. 5. Corpus olivarc. 6. The decussation. + Hinder view of the medulla oblongata.—1. Floor of the fourtli ventricle. — 2. Eminentia teres. 3. Restiform body. 4. Posterior pjTaniid.191 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA. those of the spinal cord (fig. 54) ; and sh'glit grooves indicative of these divisions arc to be seen on tlie surface. Thus at the middle line in front is the anterior pyramid (') corresponding with the anterior column of the cord ; at the middle line behind is the small posterior pyramid (fig. 55'') continuous with the posterior median column. On the side is the larger projecting restiform body (fig. 54^), joining below the posterior column of the cord ; and between this and the anterior pyramid is the lateral tract.(-), with an oval pro- jecting body (corpus olivare on the exteiior, which blends below with the lateral column. The anterior pyramid (fig. 54') is the most internal eminence-^"^^^^f'^' and receives its name from its position and form. Situate on the is most side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, from "i^s™'^! which it is separated by a slight groove. Enlarging as it ascends, this bod}'' enters the pons, but, before disappearing beneath the transverse fibres, it is someAvhat constricted and rounded. Lateral tract and olivary body. The lateral tract (funiculus Lateral lateralis") fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the ^ restiform body. Its surface width is not the same throughout: opposite the lower part of the medulla oblongata it measures as much as the pyramid ; but near the pons it is much concealed by not uniform the olivary bodj', so tliat it is seen only in the narrow interval ^'^"^' between the corpus olivare and the restiform body. The olivaiy body (coi-pus olivare'') is an oval projection, about Olivary half an inch long. A shallow gi-oove separates it from the pyramid, does^not and a deeper and wider one intervenes between it and the restiform i"each pons, body. Tliis eminence is shorter than the pyramid, and does not reach to the pons. Its upper end is most prominent ; and arcliing Some arched round the lower end, and over the surface, are some white fibres fibres, (fibraj arciformes). Restiform body Q). The restiform body (restis, a rope) forms Restifonn the largest prominence on the half of the medulla oblongata, and urgest^ cannot be seen satisfactorily except on a distinct preparation. It P'*"^^- is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects on the side, so as to give the width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. Beliind the restiform bodies diverge above from each other, and betweeri them is the space of the fourth ventricle. The posterior pyramid (funic, gracilis, fig. 55, •*) lies along the Posterior side of the posterior median fissure, and is much narrower than cS"tjf either of the other component pieces. By drawing forwards the i^'''**^erior medulla it will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex of fi'ssm'^'! the foTirth ventricle, and then to become gradually indistinct along the mncr part of the corpus restiforme. Structure. From the interposition of the medulla oblongata stmetiire of between the brain and the spinal cord, it is continuous with both Below, the constituent pieces of each half join directly (as before said) those of the spinal cord; but, above, they are continued cliietly to the cerebrum, only one piece (restiform) enterinff the cerebellum. ° Dissection (fig. 56). The student has now to show the continuity dissection192 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Wi"" ""^l^Z constructing bodies of one half of the medulla oblongata with those of the spinal cord. Let him trace out first the fibres of the pymnnd on the riglit side : in it two sets of fibres have to be shown—one from the same, and one from the opposite side of the cord. The fibres from the opposite half of the cord will appear in the median fissure, when the pyramids are gently drawn from one another, where they aa-e named the decussating fibres; and to lay these bare more completely, the small part of the anterior column ^ Fig. 66 * Fibres of anterior pyramid.; Derivation of the cord on the opposite side, which remains below the cross fibres (for the cord has been cut through near these), may be forcibly turned outwards. The anterior pyramid (fig. 56, a) receives fibres inferiorly from the anterior column of the cord of its own side, and fi'om the opposite half of the cord. The inner set of fibres, h, deep at their origin, become supei^ficial, and are directed upAvards close to the median fissure, joining the fibres continued fi-om the anterior column of the cord ; and as the inner fibres of each 23JTamid are derived from the opposite side, they cross each other m the median line—^forming thus the decussation of the medulla oblongata. Destination. The fibres of the pyi-amid are white and longitudinal, and are collected into a bundle of a prismatic form. Superiorly they enter the pons (fig. 56), to reach the cerebrum. Dissection. For the purpose of seemg the airangement of the fibres Di.ssection of lateral tract. * Fibres of the medulla, pons, and crus cerebri, a. Anterior pyramid. I. Decussation of the medulla oblongata (decussation of the pyramids), c. Fibres of the pyramid in the pons. d. Fibres of tlie pyramid in the cms cerebri. e. Superficial fibres of the pons, cut through and reflected. /. Superficial fibres of the pons, in place.193 FIBRES OF OBLONG MEDULLA. of the lateral tract, the anterior pyramid is to be cut '-^crosB on the right side between its decussation and the olivary body (.lig. ot), and to be raised towards the pons. , • ^ i„ Lateral The lateral tract of the medulla (b) is prolonged uiferiorly into the portion of the spinal cord between the anterior and posterior medulla roots of the nei-ves. The continuation of the tract ascends beneath the olivary body, and leaving the surface of the medulla enters the pass deeply. "^Tllliiocmj body, and its fillet (fig. 67, c). The olivary mass oi'vary consists of three parts, viz. a gray incasing layer, a nucleus, and a composi- band prolonged from it—the fillet. Fig. 57.* When the olivary body has been sliced obliquely, a very thin corpus wavy layer of gray substance surrounding a nucleus of whitish tientatum matter will be apparent: this is the corpus dentatum (fig. 58,/). It forms a thin plaited capsule or bag, having a zigzag outline in a section, with the dilatation towards the surface, and the narrowed is an incom- neck open and directed backwards near the middle line. It consists i'^*'*" 11 ^ -PI oi)en be- ef small nucleated, and ramined nerve cells.f hind. * Fibres of the lateral tract and of the olivary body, a, Anterior pyramid fibres, cut through, and raised as far as the optic thalamus, b. Lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, c. Olivary body, and fillet of the olivary body issuing at the upper end. d. Fibres of the lateral tract in the pons and crus cerebri, e. Superficial, and/. Deep transverse fibres of the pons, cut through, and turned outwards, f/. Locus niger in the crus cerebri, between the fibres of the lateral tract and pyramid. + The arrangement of the fibres in the sac is most complicated, and a fuller account may be obtained by consulting Mr. Clarke's Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1858. 0DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 19* Nucleus and transverse coniiuissiire. Fillet, composi- tion. Restiform body entere cei'c- bclluni. Pyramid l-iasses to cerebrum. Decussation of medulla. Mr. Clarke's view of the tleuussation. Commis- sui'al fibres. Superficial set; Tjeginning and ending. Fibrfe arci- •formes. Deep set; lieginning, and ending. Baplid. Situation, and use. Oray matter of the me- dulla. The nucleus is the yellowish wliite substance filling the capsule ; and fi-om it and the capsule issue transverse fibres, which unite the olivary bodies across the middle line (fig. 68, g) : this uniting band is close below the anterior median fissure. The fillet is a narrow band of fibres, which ascends from the olivary body to the cerebrum (fig. 57). It is formed both by longi- tudinal fibres of the lateral tract which diverge to enclose the corpus olivare, and by fibres derived from the sac. 'i^he restiform body (fig. 54,^) is continuous inferiorly with the posterior column of the cord. Superiorly it bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons. The posterior pyramid runs below into the posterior median column of the cord, and is directed above along the floor of the fourth ventricle, joining the fibres of the lateral tract of the same side. The decussation of the medulla oblongata (pjTamids, fig. 56, b) occupies the anterior groove of the oblong medulla, at the distance of three quarters of an inch fr-om the pons. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and is constructed by the crossing of three or four bundles of fibres from each side. In this intercommunication the fibres are derived, according to Mr. Clarke, from all the constituent parts of the half of the spinal cord of the opposite side, except from the anterior column ; but the chief portion of the decussation is formed by the fibres from the opposite lateral column, blended with ofEsets from the contiguous gray substance of the crescent (p. 413). Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla. In each half of the medulla oblongata are fine transverse fibres, both on the exterior and in its substance. At the middle line the fibres of opposite sides unite, and give rise to a commissure between the halves (raphe). The superficial transverse fibres (fig. 58, s, and fig. 54), more marked in some bodies, issue from the nucleus in the restiform body (Clarke), and advance over the surface of the olivary and pjTamidal bodies to the anterior fissure, where they enter the half of the medulla of the same, and of the opposite side. Below the olivary body they form oftentimes a distinct band, the fibro} arciformes (fig. 54). The deejy transverse fibres (fig. 58, h) are to be seen with the microscope on thm hardened transverse sections ; they begin behind in nuclei of the posterior pja-amid and restiform body (Clarke), and penetrate between the longitudinal fibres, and thi-ough the corpus oHvare, as they reach forwards to enter the raphe in the middle line. The ra2}he (fig. 58, h and g), in which the arched fibres meet, occupies the middle Ime of the medulla above the decussation of the pyramids, and sei-ves as the commissure between the halves of the medulla and the olivary bodies. Gray matter of the medulla oblongata. In the medulla oblongata there are the remains of the gray matter of the spinal cord ; and some special deposits. Cross sections of the part when hardened would be requii'ed to see them.195 GRAY SUBSTANCE OF MEDULLA. Remains of gray matter of the spinal cord. At the lower end of fj^'^^^e^^,^* the medulla the central gray matter resembles that in the spinal of meduUa. cord (fig. 126), but it undergoes the following changes : ^—The posterior comu increases in bulk, and extends towards the side of Posterior the cord, where it appears on the surface, in front of the restiform body, as the gray tubercle of Rolando (tuberculo cinero, fig. 58, t). Higher in the medulla it becomes the chief nucleus of the sensory root of the fifth nei've. The piece of the gray commissure behind the central canal of the gray com- • missupc * cord joins, above, the nucleus of the vagus nerve, and contributes to the auditory nucleus : and the piece in front of the canal is laid Fig. 58.+ bare in the floor of the fourth ventricle by the inclination outwards of the restiform bodies ; above it enters the fasciculi teretes (p. 229). Special deposits of gray matter. Other gi-ay deposits exist in the special medulla, both in fi-ont and behind :—^those behind are near the floor deposits of of the fom'th ventricle, and serve as nuclei of origin for certain ^^^'^''^^ nei-ves ; whilst those in fi'ont are interspersed amongst the fibres of the lateral columns of the cord. Nuclei at the hack of the medidla. A nucleus for the hypoglossal Nucleus of nerve is deposited in fi'ont of the central canal, and extends upwards '^'"'^^ into the floor of the fourth ventricle close to the median sulcus (fig. 58, 0). The nucleus of the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is Nucleus of placed opposite that of the hypoglossal, but behind the central canal mc&s- ' sory * The description of the arrangement of the gi-ay matter in the medulla oblongata is a summary of the facts contained in Mr. Clarke's Paper in the " Transactions of the Royal Society for 1858." t Transverse section of the medulla oblongata above the middle of the olivary body (Clarke), a. Anterior pyi-amid. h and c. Lateral Column, d. Restiform body. e. Posterior pyramid. /. Corpus olivare with roots of' the ninth nerve piercing it. g. Olivary commissure, h. Deep transverse or commissural fibres of the medulla meeting in the raph^ (a few more are added in this cut from a second drawing), k. Accessory olivary nucleus. I. Other gi-ay deposits inside the olivary body. n. Floor of the fourth ventricle covered by epithelium, o. Nuclei of the ninth nerve, p. Nuclei of the va^us and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, r. Nucleus of the auditory nerve, s Superficial transverse fibres, t. Remains of the gelatinous substance (tuberculo cinereo), 0 2DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 196 Nucleus of vagns, ami of glosso-plia- rjnigeal. Nnolous of auditory. Gray matter in olivary body, behind it, and at the inner side. The nucleus of the vagus begins on a level with the fourth ventricle (fig. 58, p), and is continuous below with tliat of the accessory nerve. On the surface it forms a pyriform swelling along the inner side of the posterior pyramid, and limits laterally the calanms scriptorius. Above, this sinks under the auditory nucleus, and joins a nucleus for the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve in a line with it. Above the last two nerves is another collection of cells sei-ving as a nucleus for the auditory nerve. This projects on the lateral part of the medulla (fig. 58, ?•). At the front of the medulla. Outside the pyi-amid is the graij layer of the olivaiy body (fig. 58, /) already described (p. 193). Behind this is another separate, elongated and flattened yellowish streak, the accessory olivanj nucleus (fig. 43, Ic) ; while at the inner part of the olive, near the rapM^ is a second collection (fig. 58, Z), Avhich is broken up into pieces. Both of the last deposits IMr. Clarke considers to be but pieces of the cut folds of the corpus dentatum. Pon.s: position, form, surfaces, and borders It Is foi-med by longi- tudinal and transverse fibres. Dissection to expose tlie fibres. PONS VAROLII. The PONS, or annular protuberance (pons Varolii, nodus ence- phali, fig. 54) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In its natural position in tbe skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather Avidest from side to side, and measures two inches in the last du-ection. The anterior surface is grooved along the middle line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The upper border is longest and most curved, and arches over the cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the medulla oblongata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. Structure. In the pons are alternating strata of ti-ansverse and longitudinal fibres (fig. 56) :—The transverse set are continuous with the fibres of the cms cerebelli, much gray matter being in- terspersed : and the longitudinal are prolonged fi-om the medulla oblongata. Dissection. The transverse superficial fibres of the pons being divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the right side (fig. 66), may be turned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of the pyramid ; and this first set of longitudmal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57,/). The deep transverse fibres may be cut through outside the pyramidal (fig. 57) ; then the deep longitudinal fibres fi-om the lateral column and the posterior pp-amid {d) will appear. Amongst197 FIBRES OF THE PONS. this last set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should trace upwards from that body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched. trans- The transverse fibres of the annular protuberance (fig. 56), are verse fibres collected chiefly into two strata—a superficial and deep, which unite form a with their fellows in the middle line : they are commissural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, which serve also as a commissure. The superficial set (fig. 56,/) are mostly horizontal, but some superficial from the upper margin of the pons descend obliquely over the others. The deep layer (fig. 67, /) is thickest, and contains much gi'ay janji^^^ ^^^^i' matter between its fibres. The longitudinal fibres consist of two sets, viz. one from the Two_seteof^ anterior pjTamidal body; and the other fi'om the lateral tract and Xls. the posterior pyramid, to which a slip is added from the corpus olivai-e. The fibres are not continued simply through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of others (peduncular) wliich, beginning in the upper two thirds of the pons, join tiiem on the outer side. The fibres of the anterior pyramid (fig. 66, c) pass through the ^o^.^^. pons between the two sets of transverse fibres, but not as one mass, pyramid; for they are divided into a number of small bundles in their pro- gi-ess. Much increased in number, the fibres enter the crus cerebri at the upper border of the pons, and construct that fasciculated sm-face of the peduncle (fZ), which is now upperinost. The fibres of the lateral column and posterior pyramid are alto- 1^^^'"''' gether deeper than the transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57, d), and posterior are mixed up with gray matter; they are also more numerous than PJ"i'a"ii<l, the preceding set. They project close to the middle line, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and form the eminence of the fasciculus teres (fig. 66, ^) ; fi-om that spot they are continued upwards to the crus cerebri, of which they form the deeper or cerebral part (fig. 57, d). In the pons a band from the olivary fasciculus is added to these fibres. The olivary fasciculus (fillet, fig. 67) divides into two slips in the fi'om ollvaiy pons. One passes backwards to the upper (in this position deeper) part of the crus cerebri, and ends in and beneath the corpora quad- rigemina (p. 219, fig. 65, The other is continued to the crus cerebri with the fibres of the lateral column. Commissure of the pons. At the back of the pons there is a com- Commissure missure between the halves, opposite the deep longitudinal fibres. It consists, like that of the medulla oblongata, of fine antero-posterior and transverse fibres.198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Section IV. Situation of tlie cere- Form; has two hemispheres joined by median liieces. Under surface of cerebrum, partly split. Parts along the middle line. Cms cerebri is fixed in hemi- sphere. DISSECTION OF THE CEREBRUM. The cerebrum, or the great brain, is tlie largest of the subdivi- sions of the encephalon, and weighs on an average 49 oz. in the male, and 44 oz. in the female. It fills the upper part of the cavity of the skull ; and its under surface would correspond with a line on the head fi-om the eyebrow to the articulation of the jaw ; and fi-om this point to the occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the cranium, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and imeven on the lower. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by side, and are partly separated by a median or longitudinal fissure. Across the middle line the halves are united by certain interior parts (commissures), as well as by several connecting structm-es at the under sm-f ace. Superiorly the surface of the hemisphere is without any large cleft; but inferiorlyit is divided into two by a transverse fissure—that of Sylvius. Under Sueface or Base op the Cerebrum (fig. 59). At its under surface the cerebrum is very irregular, in consequence of its fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not so complete as on the upper, for the median fissure exists only at the firont and back. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain along the middle line. Immediately in front of the pons (d) are two large white masses, the peduncles of the cerebram (crura cerebri, /), one belonging to each hemisphere ; and between them is a space perforated by vessels, which is named locus perforatus posticus (g). Outside the peduncle is the optic tract (t) ; and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In fi-ont of the peduncles are placed two white bodies like peas, the corpora albicantia (e) ; and anterior to these a grayish mass, called tuber cinereum (h). From the tuber cinereum a conical reddish tube, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body m the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are the converguig optic tracts with then- commissure (i). Beneath the commissure lies a thm gi-ayish layer—lamina cinerea, m ; and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum (n) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the transverse fissure (Sylvian) across the hemisphere, is another spot, perforated by vessels, and distinguished by the name substantia perforata, or locus perforatus anticus (I). Peduncle of the cerebrum (crus cerebri,/). This is a large, Avhite, stalk-like piece, which reaches from the upper border of the pons to the under part of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, nearCRUEA OF CEEEBRUM. 199 the inner margin. In the natural position the two pedundes fill the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. Each is about thiee- quarters of an inch long, and widens as it approaches the cerebrum. Crossing its outer surface is tlie optic tract; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interpeduncular space, whicli contams the locus porforatus, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cmereum. Structure. Thepedimcle consists of longitudinal fibres, continuous i^^j^i^^j^ii^j^i with the longitudinal fibres of the pons, which enclose here a mass «bres. of gray matter between them. Fig. 59.* Dissection. For the purpose of showing the structure of the crus. Dissection, on the right side (fig. 57), the optic tract should be divided, and the fibres continuous with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata should be raised as far into the cms as the optic thalamus. In this proceeding the mass of gray matter (locus niger, g) will * Under surface of the brain, i. Cerebelhim. r. Temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum. j>. Frontal lobe of the cerebrum : the great fissure between the two lobes, is the Sylvian, a. Medulla oblongata, d. Pons Varolii. /. Crus cerebri, 'j. Locus perforatus posticus, e. Corijus Albicans, h. Tuber cinereum. i. Commissure of the optic nerves. I. Locus perfor.atus anticus. m. Lamina cinerea. n. Lower end (rostrum) of the cor^jus callosum in the great median fissure : the point in front where it bends is named genu. On each side of the lamina cinerea a narrow wliite band is continued from the end of the corpus callosum : this is the fillet of the coi-pus callosum.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 200 Its super- lloial fibres form crust; deep fibres form teg- mentum. Gray matter of crus. Locus per- foratus. Corpora filbicantia. Tuber cinereimi and infuudi- bulum. Pituitary body. Situation. appecar ; and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longitudinal fibres (d). The superficial fibres, which form the under or free surface of the crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal body (fig. 5G, c). They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. The surface of the peduncle, which is composed of these fibres, is called the fasciculated portion, or the crust. The deei^er fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. They are derived chiefly fi-om the lateral tract and posterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, with a slip fi-om the olivary fasciculus (fig. 57, d). Others come from the cerebellum, and mix with the former : some of these decussate across the middle line'' (p. 226). The fibres obtained from these foiu: sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the locus niger : besides being deeper they are finer than the superficial set, and enclose much gray substance: the part of the crus formed by them is named tegmentum. The gray matter (locus niger) of the crus (fig. 57, g) fomis a thin layer which reaches nearer the inner than the outer margin of the peduncle; it is convex towards the fi'ee surface, but concaA^e in the opposite direction. The posterior pterforated spot (pons Tarini, </) is situate between the peduncles of the cerebrum ; m the area of the space is a layer of gi'ayish matter, and numerous vessels penetrate it. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora alhicantia (corp. mamillaria, e) are two small, white bodies, about the size of peas, which are constructed in greater part by the ci-ura of the fornix. If one, say the right, is cut across, it will be seen to contain gray matter. In front of them is the gray mass of the tuber cinereum. The median eminence of the tuber cinereum (7i) forms part of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In fi-ont of it are the optic tracts and commissm-e, and from its centre projects the foUowng. The infundibulum (funnel) is a conically-shaped tube which reaches from the tuber cinereum to the upper part of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It consists of a layer of gray matter, surrounded by the pia mater ; and it is lined by the ependyma of the third ventricle, as far as it is pervious. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it has been dislodged fi-om its resting place : therefore it should be some- times examined in the base of the skull by removing the sun-ound- ing bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow (sella Turcica) on the sphenoid bone, * M. Foville describes a median commissure for the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles, wLicb is composed of the interweaving of fibres of opposite sides. See the work of M. Foville entitled : Traite complet dc VAnatomic, it'C, dii, Systeme Nerveux cMh-o-spinal, p. 323, 1844.201 PARTS AT THE BASE. and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. Tlie antenor is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid, and firm in texture ; but in the fetus it is hollow, and opens intg the tliird A'entncle through the iiifundibulum. Structure. It is firm a)id reddish externally, but softer and rather bti-u'=t«e. yellow internally. In it are nucleated cells, mixed with a granular semi-fluid material ; and the whole is contained in roundish spaces, which are constructed by a stroma of areolar tissue with blood- vessels. Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior termination Dissection, of the corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated fi-om each other in front. The lamina cinerea (m) is a thin concave layer of gray substance, ^^J,^^ wliich gradually tapers forwards from the tuber ciiiereum to the anterior termination of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricl^, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In consequence of its great thin- ness, this structure is often broken tkrough in removing the brain. The cor2}us callosum bent in front, is continued horizontal^ g°iu]"um backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands, the fillets or peduncles of the corpus callosum: each band is continued onwards by the side of the lamina cinerea to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior fyj^Jy,.jy"j^ bend of the corj)us callosum the term Imee (genu) is applied, and two bands, to the prolonged central part the appellation rostrum has been given. Laterally the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and lorms part or the floor of the lateral ventricle. spiiere. Antenor peiforated spot (substantia perforata antica, I) is a space Substantia near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is situate between autfca?*"^ the fr-ontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the cerebrum, and ex- ternal to the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea ; and crossing it, from witliin outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. Tliis space is gray on the surface ; it corresponds with the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain, and is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of the part. Now the base of the cerebrum has been 1^1*^;'^"^" dissected, the brain should be turned over for the examination of the exkmiue upper part. Something should then be placed beneath the fr-ont, in ^ra^'Part. order tliat it may be raised to the same level as the back ; and a rolled-up cloth should loosely encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Suufack of the Cerebrum. On the upper surface the Cerebnuu cerebrum, taken as a whole, is oval in form, and is convex in its abovrilmi outhne, in accordance with the shape of the skull. A median longitudinal fissure divides the cerebrum incompletely '^'^'i'led into mto two halves. At the front and back the hemispheres arc quite separated by it; but at the middle and under parts they are united by connecting pieces, the largest of which is the white corpus callosum. In it the falx cerebri is lodged.202 DISSECTION- OF THE BRAIN. Each half is markeil hy convolu- tions and sulci. Three Assures. _ Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind. Its outer surface 18 convex ; but tlie inner is flat, and in contact in front with the opposite half. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere 18 divided by fissures into lobes, and on the under aspect it is cleft into two large pieces by the fissure of Sylvius. The superficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, the projections on It being named convolutions or gyri, and the intervenmg depres- sions, sulci or anfractuosities.» Fissures of thi^ IIemisi-here. The larger fissures separate the lobes, and the smaller sulci mark the extent of particular convolu- tions. _ The fissures dividing the hemisphere into lobes are the three following :— Sylviaji, The fissure of Sylvius (S, fig. 60) begins below at the anterior perforated spot, and directed out between the fi-ontal and temporo- Sjphenoidal lobes, di-sades into two pieces, anterior and posterior. fore part. The anterior limb 'S, ascends for a short distance into the frontal lobe. hinder part. The posterior limb, the continuation of the fissure, is directed obliquely upwards and backwards to about the middle of the outer face of the hemisphere. At its extremity it is sometimes divided into smaller sulci. * In the following description of the surface anatomy of the cerebrum I have followed chiefly the arrangement of Professor Turner in his paj^er "Ox THE CoNTOLTJTiONS OF THE HuMAN Cbrebeum ; " and to him I am indebted for permission to copy the woodcuts employed in illustration of his publication. + Lobes of the hemisphere, and convohitions and fissures of the outer surface. —F7: Frontal lobe. Par. Parietal lobe. Oc. Occipital lobe. TS. Temporo- sphenoidal lobe. li. Fissure of Rolando. S. Posterior. 'S. Ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure. PO. Place of the external parieto-occipital fissure which is not visible in a side view. IP, Intra-parietal sulcus. P. Parallel sulcus. —1, inferior ; 2, middle ; and 3, superior frontal gyrus ; 4, ascending frontal; and 5, ascending parietal gyrus ; 5', pai-ietal lobule ; 6, angular gjTus ; 7, superior; 8, middle ; and 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gjTus; 10, superior ; 11, middle; and 12, inferior occipital convolution. A. Supra-mai-ginal convo- lution—a, first; b, second ; c, thii'd ; and d, fourth, annectant gyrus.LOBES OF CEREBRUM. 205 Fissure of Rolando (R. fig. 60). Beginning above abont half F.ss..re ,.t way along the hemisphere, in or near the longitudnial fissure ot the cerebrum, it is prolonged outwards between the frontal and p^ine al lobes nearly to the posterior part of the Sylvian fissure,—about the middle of that limb. ^rw -u • n + The external jmrieto-occij^italfissure (opposite P 0, fig. bU,; begins parieto- in the median longitudmal fissure half way between the preceding ,,eeii>itai and the hinder end of the hemispliere. It is veiy variable m extent, • behig sometimes an inch long, and at others only a slight indentation ; but it may be always recognised by its continuity with the per- pendicular fissure on the inner face of the hemisphere (fig. 62). LoiiES OF THE Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is divided mtofive J^™"* lobes, which have the following names and limits :— The frontal lobe (Fr, fig. 60) forms the anterior half of the Frontal lobe hemisphere. It is limited below by the fissure of Sylvius S, and behind by the fissm-e of Eolando,* E. Its under part, which rests and lobule, on the orbital plate, has been called the <frbital lobule. The pa7-ietal lobe (Par, fig. 60) is placed behind the preceding, Parietallobe and reaches down to the Syhaan fissure. It is about half as long as the frontal. In front it is bounded by the fissure of Eolando, M, and behind by the parieto-occipital (P 0). The upper and hinder and lobule, part, close to the median fissure, is named the parietal lobule (5')- The occipital lobe (Oc, fig. 60) constitutes the pointed end of the o^'^'P^''^^ hemisphere and measm-es about a fifth of the whole. In fi'ont it is separated fi-om the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure (P 0), but below it blends with the following lobe. It rests on the tentorium. On the inner surface is a triangular piece, the occipital and lobule, lobule (2% fig. 62). The temporo-sphenoidal lobe (T S, fig. 60) projects into the middle Jj]\"PXiiil fossa of the base of the skull. It is situate behind the fissure of lobe. Sj'lvius, and below the parietal and occipital lobes. The outer surface is in contact with the cranium, and the opposite is supported mainly on the tentorium. The central lobe, or the island of Eeil (C, fig. 61), Hes in the Central lobe Sylvian fissure, and is concealed by the overlapping of the fi-ontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. On separating those lobes it mil be seen to be bounded in front and behind by the limbs of the Sylvian fissure, and externally by a deep gi'oove separating it fi'om the frontal and parietal lobes. It is of a triangular form with the apex down. Convolutions of the Cerebrum. In different brains the con- Convoiu- volutions vaiy slightly in foiTn, and even in the two hemispheres of hemispliere the same cerebrum they are not exactly alike ; but there is always similarity enough for the recognition of the chief eminences. Each lobe possesses convolutions, but these run into each other by means of smaller gyri, either on the surface of the brain or at the bottom of the sulci ; and the student may experience some difliculty at first in defining the hmits of each. It is in the smaller gyri that the greatest variation will be found. * By some the anterior limb of the fissure 'S is m!\cle the hinder bound of the lobe ; but this is not so good an arrangement as the one in the text.204 On outer Frontal eon volutions. Foiu- outer; one asccntl- and tlu'ee longitu- •ilinal. Inferior, with mar- ginal. Four parie- tal convolu- tions : first, or as- cending, second, or parietal lobule ; third, or sujn-a- inarginal: DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. A Convolutions of the Outer Surface. About the middle of the liemisphero are two Btraight vertical convolutions, one on eacli side of the fissure of Rolando, M, which will serve as a starting point Infi-ont of those two the convolutions are longitudinal; and behind they take an obhque direction to the back of the brain. • a. The fro7ital convolutions (fig. GO) form two sets, one on the outer, the other on the under surface of the fi-ontal lobe : those on the outer aspect are four, viz., one vertical or posterior, and three longitudinal or anterior, as follows : Tho ascendinc, frontal (') is the vertical, straight convolution, which bounds m fi-ont the Rolando fissure. It reaches down fi-om the median to the Sylvian fissure (posterior limb). Along the anterior border it is joined by the three frontal convolutions ; and below it unites with the most anterior convolution of the parietal lobe round the lower end of the fissure of Rolando, M. The three longitudinal frontal convoliUions are much subdivided and blended, and are separated by two intervening sulci. They are named superior (=>), middle Q), and inferior Q) : they communicate behind by secondary gja-i with the ascending fi-ontal C), the liighest havmg often two processes ; and ave directed forwards one outside another to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. The under or orbital surface of the fi-ontal lobe, concave, is represented in fig. 61. Near the inner margin is a sulcus, the olfactory, lodging the olfactory nerve ; and internal to it is the lower end of the marginal convolution ('^). External to the sulcus Hes a convolution, which is pointed behind, but widened and sub- divided in front, and encloses smaller gjTi and sulci within its coil: this has been subdivided into three parts, an inner (2), a posterior (^), and an external (^). h. The parietal convolutions (fig. GO), like the outer fi-ontal, are four in number; an anterior, or ascending, which is vertical along the fissure of Rolando, and three directed back fi-om it. The ascending parietal (^), narrow and straight, limits behind the fissure of Rolando, and reaches from the middle line to the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, 8. Above, it runs into the parietal lobule, ^'j; and below, it joins the ascending fi-ontal romid the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. Behind it is separated from the other gyi-i of the parietal lobe by a sulcus, I PS' The parietal lobule (^') appears to be an appendage to the upjier end of the ascending convolution, and is continued back along the upper margin of the hemisphere as far as the parieto-occipital fissure. Subdivided on the surface into two chief parts it is joined beliind to the occipital lobe by the small annectant gjTus (o). To its outer side lies the upper end of the intraparietal sulcus ; and here it joins usually the following convolution, A. The sup)ra-marginal convolution, A, lying outside and below the * The intraparietal sulcus {I P, fig. 60, Turner), is placed between the ascending parietal and the supra-marginal convolution, A. Above, it is directed back near the upper part of the hemisphere, separating the parietal lobule (5') and the supra-marginal convolution, A.205 OUTER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. fourtli, or angular. Three occi- pital convo- li.itioiis; preceding, is interposed between the intraparietal sulcus, / P, and the Sylvian fissure (outer end). Variable in shape it joins, below, the ascending parietal convolution C) ; it may communicate above with the parietal lobule, and behind with the foUowng. The angular convolution ("), veiy complicated and not well defined, is placed at the extremity of the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, and is composed of two or three pieces. Above it is the parietal lobule ; and below, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe which it joins. In fi'ont lies the supra-marginal convolu- tion ; and beliind, the occipital lobe, with which it blends by the small annectant gyrus (Z>). c. The occipital convolutions (fig. 60) are small and very much divided, so that their outline is uncertain. They are three in number, lying one above another, and separated by sulci, something like the frontal gyri at the opposite end of the hemisphere. The upper (^"), forming part of the margin of the longitudinal fissure, receives an annectant gyrus from the parietal lobule. The middle ("), crossing outwards the hemisphere, has two annectant gyri to other convolutions; one (&) joining- it above to the angular convolution, and another (c) passing to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution. The inferior Q'^) occupies the tip of the hemisphere between the and lower, upper and under surfaces. At the inner end it is continuous with the upper gjTus ; and at the outer end with the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution (^) by an annectant gyrus (J). d. The temjjoro-sphenoidal convolutions (fig. 60), tlu-ee in number run from above down, and are separated from one another by two sul upjier. middle. CI. The superior (') bounds posteriorly the horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. At the upper end it is connected by a gyrus with the angular convolution. Tlie middle (®) is separated from the first by the parallel sulcu„ (P). Above, it blends commonly with the angular convolution, and * View of the orbital lobule and the central lobe.—(7. Island of Reil or median lobe. 0. Olfactory sulcus 2. Internal; 3, posterior ; and 6, external orbital convolution, 17. Marginal convolution of the hemisphere Tliree tem- poro-sphe- iioidal eon- volutious : upper. S middle.206 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. is connected to the middle occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (c). lower, The inferior ("), less well marked than the other two, forms part also of the inner surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe (p. 208). By the upper end it is united to the third occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (cl). witliparallel The parallel sulcus (P, fig. 60), named fi-om its position to the sulcus. Sylvian fissure, extends from the lower end of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe to the angular convolution. Centi-ailolie e. The convolutions of the central lobe (C, fig. 61), about six in tionr^^*' number, are straight for the most part, and are separated by shallow sulci : they are directed upwards from apex to base of the lobe. The posterior gyri are the longest and broadest; and the anterior joins the convolution of the under surface of the orbital lobule. Convoiu- B. The CONVOLUTIONS OF THE INNER SURFACE of the hemisphere inner sur ^^-^ generally well defined ; but some being so long as to face of he- reach beyond the extent of a lobe, the arrangement of them in lobes inisphere. cannot be followed, as on the exterior. How to see Dissection. Without the use of a separate hardened hemisphere, them. ^jjg parts to be now described will not be seen satisfactorily. If the student possesses only one brain, he maj' bring into view much of the inner surface by cutting ofi; the left hemisphere as low as the wliite corpus callosum in the median fissure. €onvolution Convolution of the corpus callosum, gyi'us fornicatus ('*), is long callosum simple, and arches round the body from wliicli it takes its name. Beginning at the base of the brain in the anterior perforated spot, it bends backwards in contact with the corpus callosum (^Cal), and below the back of that body blends by a narrowed piece with the uncinate convolution Q^) of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Anteriorly a sulcus separates it from the following convolution ; and smaller gyri often connect the two across that sulcus. Marginal The marginal convolution ('^) is named from its position on the convolution, edge of the median fissure. Its extent is rather more than half the length of the hemisphere, for it begins in front at the anterior perforated spot, and termmates near the back of the corpus callosum, just behind the fissure of Eolando. It is much subdivided on the surface; and on the under part of the frontal lobe (fig. 61) it lies internal to the olfactory sulcus. Between it and the precedmg convolution is situate the calloso-margmal sulcus (i) which marks its hinder limit. andcaiioso- The calloso-marginal sulcus (i. Huxley), designated from its ^rgmai gjtuation, begins in front below the corpus callosum, and ends behind, near the back of the same body, by ascending to the edge of the hemisphere. Smaller gyri uniting the two boundmg convo- lutions, fi-equently interrupt it ; and secondary sulci are prolonged fi-om it into the same convolutions. Quaclrilate. The quadrilateral lohule C') I'eaches from the marginal convolu- rai lobule. ^.^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ parietal-occipital fissure behmd. It is much divided by sulci, and projects above to the edge of the hemisphere; it joins below the gyrus fornicatus.207 INNER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. The occipital lohide {-') is triangular in shape, with tlie base upwards at tlie margin of the hemisphere. Measurnig about an inch and a lialf in depth, it hes between the internal paneto-occi- pital fissure, FO, and the calcarine sulcus (0- Sulci runnuig from apex to base divide it into four or five narrow convolutions. Internal 2->erpencUcular or parieto-occipital fissure (PO, fig. 6l) separates the two preceding lobules. Continuous with the external fissure of the same name, it opens below into the followmg. The calcarine sulcus I, (Huxley) is directed across the back of the hemisphere below the level of the corpus callosum, and ends in fi-ont at the gyrus fornicatus ('^), whose hinder limit it marks. Fig. 1)2.* OcRijiital lobule. Inner jiarieto- oociiiital )i.s»ui-e. Calcarine sulcus. Fr TS It receives aboA'^e the internal perpendicular fissure ; and it sinks into the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, forming the eminence of the hippocampus minor. Internal temporo-spJienoiclal convolutions (fig. 62) are two in Two tem- number, vi-/.., the uncinate and dentate, and occupy the tentorial noUlal'^coii- surface of the hemisphere. volutions: Tlie uncinate or hippocampal convolution Q^), is prolonged fi-om uncinate: ths posterior end of the hemisphere nearly to the tip of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, Avhere the gjTUS fornicatus blends with it; and is enlarged at each end, especially at the posterior where it is subdivided by sulci. Below it is a long curved sulcus, the collateral (n) ; and above it are the calcarine (Z), and the dentate sulcus (to). From the anterior extremity a narrow piece (}^, uncus) is prolonged back for half an inch on the inner side, like a hook. Below the uncinate convolution is part of the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution ("), before described, which forms the lower * Convolutions and sulci on the inner face of the hemisphere.—P.O. In- ternal parieto-occipital fissure. Cnl, Corpus callosum, cut. i, calloso-marginal sulcus ; I, calcarine sulcus ; vi, dentate sulcus ; n, collateral sulcus ; 17 mar- ginal gyrus; 18, convolution of corpus callosum ; 18', quadrilateral lo'bulo ; 19, uncinate gyrus ; 19', crochet or hook of the uncinate gyrus ; 25, occipital lobule; 9, inferior temporo-sphcnoidal gyrus partly seen.208 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. "wiOi colla- teial and ileiitnlo sulcus; dentate convolution. A convolu- tion has ■base and summit; is gray outside and white within. Its struc- ture. Outline of cerebrum. Cnt down to ovale minus of the hemi- sphere. Eeflect ^tyms foini- catus. edge of tlie tcmpovo-sphenoidal lobe, appearing more largely on the inner than the outer face. The collateral sulcus n, (Huxley) courses along the lower border of the uncinate convolution ; it projects into the inferior comu of the lateral ventricle, and gives rise to the prominence of the emi- nentia coUateralis. Secondary sulci emanate from it, and it is often inteiTupted by cross g3'ri. The dentate sulcus m, (Huxley) is the deep groove at the upper edge of the uncinate convolution (^^), and corresponds with the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending comu of the lateral ventricle. Upwards it is limited by the corpus callosum (^Cul) and downwards it intervenes between the hook and the body of the uncinate convolution. In the dentate sulcus is the gray substance of the hemisphere, which presents a notched border at the inner edge of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe ; this has been called the dentate convolution, and will be better seen in a subsequent stage of the dissection of the brain (p. 214). Structure of the Convolutions. Each convolution is continuous with the interior of the brain on the one side (base) ; and is free on the surface of the brain on the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts. On a cross section it will be seen to consist externally of gray cerebral substance as a cortical layer, which is continued fi'om one eminence to another over the surface of the hemisphere ; and internally it is composed of white brain substance—the medullary part, wliich is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior. The cortical layer is composed of two, or in some parts of three strata, which are separated by intervening paler layers ; and an outer white stratum, which covers the surface, is most marked over the internal and lower portions of the uncinate convolution. Interior of the Cerebrum. The cerebrum consists on each side of a dilated part or hemisphere, and of a stalk or peduncle. In the interior of the hemispheres is a large central space, wliich is subdi^dded into smaller hollows or ventricles, and contains a piece of the pia mater. And the whole, except the peduncle, is sra-- rounded by a convoluted crust. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and the connections between these by means of fibres. Dissection. Supposing both hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut ofE to the level of the convolution of the corpus callosum. When this has been done, the surface displays a white central mass of an oval shape (centrum ovale minus), whicli sends processes into the several convolutions. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping fi-om the divided vessels. Next the convolution of the corpus callosum is to be divided about tiie middle, and the two pieces are to be thro^vn backwards and forwards. Under it lies a tliin narrow band, the covered band of Eeil which bends down before and behind the corpus callosum.209 COEPUS CALLOSUM. A similar dissection is to be carried out on the opposite side ; and On rigijt^^ tlie hemisphere being removed to the level of the corpus callosum, the transverse fibres of that body arc to be defined as they radiate ceri^bimn. to the convolutions. Now a niucli larger white surface comes into A^iew (larger oval Centrum ^ centre), which has been named centrum ovale, Vieussens ; and the deeper, wliite mass in each hemisphere is seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus callosum. The corjnts callosum reaches fi-om the one half of the cerebrum C^"^s^_ to the other, and forms the roof of a space (lateral ventricle) in each hemisphere. Between the halves of the brain, where it occu- pies the longitudinal fissure, it is of small extent, being about four inches in length, and somewhat arched from before backwards. It is narrower in fi-ont than behind, and extends nearer to the anterior than the posterior part of the cerebrum. ^ In front the corpus callosum is bent to the base of the brain Anterior (fig. 59, n), as before described (p. 201) ; and behind it ends in a doTO.*""^ thick roll, which is connected Avith the subjacent fornix. On tlie upper surface the fibres are directed fi-om the hemispheres upper to the middle line,—the middle being transverse, but the anterior surface, and posterior oblique. Along the centre is a ridge or raphe, and transveree close to it are two or more slight longitudinal white lines (nerves of ainaiTbrS." Lancisi). Still further out may be seen other longitudinal lines (covered band,) beneath the convolution of the corpus callosum, if all of them have not been taken away in the removal of that con- volution. The centi'al longitudinal fibres are prolonged downwards in front, and joining the covered band or fillet are continued to the anterior perforated spot. Dissection. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, DiasecticBa. and to bring into A'^iew the parts in contact with its under surface, a cut is to be made thi-ough it ou the right side about half an incti from the central ridge ; and this is to be extended forwards and backwards, as far as the limits of the underlying ventricle. Whilst cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may obserA'e that a thin membraniform structure lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in is thiclcest consequence of a gi-eater number of fibres being collected from the '^^^ cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected Under with its under surface along the middle is the septum lucidum or partition between the ventricles (fig. 63, b), and still posterior to that is the fornix (c). This is the chief commissural body of the halves of the brain, and Useu reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in the Disseceea. same Avay as the right; and to prepare for the examination of the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the space is to be removed. A part of the ventricle extends down in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe toAvards the base of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to be carried outwards andDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 210 Five ven- ti'iclos are in tlie brain. Lateral ventricle. Shape and position; three cornua. Consists of two parts. One is horizontal. Its roof: floor, and bodies along it. Median boundary. Apertm-e between two. downwards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. (See lig. G3.) VENTRiCLiis OF THE Bram.—The Ventricular spaccs in the interior of the cerebrum are derived chiefly from the subdivision of a large central hollow, and are five in number. One (lateral) is contained in each hemisphere ; and these constitute the first and second. The third occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface ; and the small fifth is included m the partition between the lateral ventricles. The fourth is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior sm-faces of the medulla oblongata and pons. The lateral ventricles (fig. 63) are two in number, one in each hemisphere ; they are separated incompletely in the middle line by a septum, and they communicate by an aperture below that parti- tion. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of areolar tissue covered by nucleated epithelium (the ependyma ventriculorum), with cilia at some spots. Each is a narrow interval, which reaches into the anterior, pos- terior, and middle regions of the con-esponding hemisphei-e. Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the extremities (comua) are curved. Thus there are three cornua in each, which have the following disposition :—The anterior is directed outwards fi'om its fellow in the other hemisphere. The posterior or the digital cavity is much smaller in size, and is bent inwards in the occipital lobe towards the one of the opposite side. And the inferior cornu, beginning opposite the posterior fold of the corpus callosum (a), descends in a curved direction in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, with the concavity of the bend turned inwards. For the purpose of examining its boundaries, the ventricle may be divided into an upper or hoiizontal, and a lower or descending part. The upper or horizontal portion reaches fi'om the fi-ontal to the occipital lobe, and is curved like the Italic letter/. The roof is formed by the corpus callosum. The floor is irregular in outline, and presents from before backwards the following objects :—first, a small piece of the reflected corpus callosum (p. 201) ; next, a large, gray body, the corpus striatum (e) ; behind this, the large white projection, named optic thalamus {g) ; and between the two last bodies is a white band(/), tania seraicir- cularis. On the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold of the pia mater (/i),—the plexus choroides, together mth the thin white half of the fornix (c). Close behind the thalamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus major, Z), in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle ; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated eminence, the hippocampus mmor (i). The inner boundary (septum ventriculorum) consists of a thin layer, which is sometimes named septum lucidum (fig. 63, h). Its extent corresponds with the central part of the corpus callosum. Below it and the fornix, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, is the aperture of communication (foramen of Monro) between the two lateral ventricles.BOUNDS OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. 211 Tlie lower or descending portion of the ventric e winds beneath The. csoend- the optic thdamus, and forms a curve like the half-bent fore fingen The roof is forn.ed by the optic thalamus and the eont^uou part of the hemisphere. In the floor is a large curved, convex e n nence somewhat indented at the end-the hippocampus major (/) ; and along its concave margin is a thin white band-ta.ma (c ), winch is prolonged from the fornix. External to the projection of the and bod.es Fis. 63.* hippocampus is another white eminence, the eminentia collateralis (Jc), which tapers from above down. In this comu of the ventricle is the vascular fiinge of the plexus choroides. The septum lucidum (fig. G3, I), or the thin structure between the Septum lateral ventricles, is translucent, and hangs vertically in the middle '• line along the anterior two thirds of the corpus callosum. It is position, somewhat triangular in form, with the base turned forwards, form, and the pointed extremity backwards. Its surfaces look to the surfaces, * View of the lateral ventricles : on the left side the descending cornu is laid open. (From a cast in the museum of University College, London.) a. Remains of the corpus callosum. b. Septum lucidum, enclosing the small space of the fifth ventricle, c. Fornix, d. Posterior crus or ta;nia of the fornix, e. Corpus striatum. /. Tajnia semicircularis. g. Optic thalamus. h. Choroid jjlexus. i. Hippocampus minor, k. Eminentia collateralis. I. Hippocampus major, o. Digital fossa. P 2DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 212 borders, eoinpnsi- tiou. Dissection. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix: position and fonn. tTpper sur- face and borders. Posterior and anterior part. Under surface marked by lines. Fornix formed of two bands. lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altogether to the under surface of the corpus callosum ; and the lower border is joined in part to the fornix (c), but in front of that body it is inserted into the under or reflected portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum (p. 201). The septum consists of two layers, which en- close a space—the iifth ventricle ; and each layer is formed of white substance, with an external coating of gray matter. Dissection. The space of the fifth ventricle will come into view by cutting through the piece of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and by detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum, and raising it. (See fig. G3.) The ventricle of the septum, or the fifth ventricle, is a triangular space in the fore part of the ventricular partition, where this is deeper. Like the septum containing it, its size is greatest in front. Its surface has an epithelial covering like that in the lateral ventricles. In the adult it is closed; but in the fetus it opens inferiorly into the thii-d ventricle between the pillars of the fornix. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thro-\vn backwards ; and the septum lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. ThB fornix, or arch (fig. 63, c), is a thin white horizontal stratum beneath the coipus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its centre or body is triangular in shape, with the base turned back- wards ; and it is continuous with the rest of the brain by processes or crura before and behind. To the upper sm-face of the body, along the middle line, the septum lucidum is attached. Each border is 'fi'ee in the corre- sponding lateral ventricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus ; and along it lies the choroid plexus. At its base it joins the corpus callosum in the middle line, whilst on each side it sends ofl: a small riband-like band—tsenia hippocampi (fig. 64, c), along the concave margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior end it is arched over the foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which will be afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 218). If the fornix be cut across near its fi-ont, the foramen of Monro will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (fig. 64). "When the posterior part is raised, it will be found to be supported on a process of the pia mater, named velum interpositum. And near its base (on the under aspect) between the two offsets of the taeniae hippocampi, is a triangular surface, which is marked by transverse lines : the part which is so defined has been called the lyra (fig. 64, a). The fornix may be described as consisting of two bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this vieAv each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and after form-213 FLOOR OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. ing the body of the fornix, is continued as a distinct piece to the uncinate convohition. . j j. m • The/omme«. of Monro is tlie interval beneath the anterior end of Th« aj^e,^- the fornix, which opens on each side by a sht between the edge of Uitemi the fornix and the optic thalamus. In it the plexus choroides lies ; ^« and through it the lateral ventricles communicate with one another, and with the third ventricle. Floor of the L.\teral Ventuiclk.—The student may leave un- f^^^^^^^^. touched, for the present, the membrane (velum interpositum) ^ on tricle is ^ which the fornix rests ; and proceed to examine, on the right side, the different bodies which have been enumerated as constituting the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corims striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum) (fig. 63, f^H^e v.ody €,) is the large gray body in the fi-ont of the lateral ventricle. It is placed opposite the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius ; and it has received its name fi-oin the striated appearance of a vertical section. Dissection. To see the composition of the corpus striatum, the Diijscction student should slice off the upper and outer part until certain white ^^l^ fibres crossing it obliquely fi-om within outwards are reached. The knife should then be carried through these intersecting white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the first, is arrived at. The striate body is a pyriform mass of gray matter of consider- its form, able thickness, which is surromided by the wliite substance of the hemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its and position is oblique with respect to the middle line of the brain, foi-1'°^'*''°'^ • the anterior end is near the septum of the ventricles, while the is diyided • 1 1 Ti J! ii • two postenor is external to the optic thalamus. By means or the m- parts by cision in the corpus striatum, white fibres can be seen to be directed fibres, tlu-ough it in such a way as to divide the gray matter into two por- tions, one being situate in the ventricle (intra-ventricular) above the white fibres ; and the other outside the ventricular space (extra- ventricular), below those fibres. The intra-ventricular piece (nucleus caudatus) is shaped like s One part kite, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed "entiicle, forwards, is large and rounded ; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum. The extra-ventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will be better the other seen afterwards, by sections made fi-om the outer side or fi-om cavity.*^ ''^ below. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent dissection will show (p. 217). The trnnia semicircular is (lig. 63, /) is a thin and narrow white xrenla semi- band of longitudinal fibres, which lies between the corpus striatimi ^iruuiaris and the optic thalamus. In fi-ont this band becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind it is continued, alongDISSECTION OP THE BEAIN. 21-1 oiuls in in- ferior cornu. Oi)ti(5 thalamus after. Hippocam- pus in posterior cornu: Hippo- campus major in lower oornu; has a large end ami Ijand on its surface. Dissection. Structiu'e of hippo- campus. Great trans- verse flssui'e is beneath fornix, with the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white buIj- stancc of the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Superiicial to the anterior part of tlie tienia is a yellowish senii- ti-ansparent layer (lamina cornea) ; and beneath this pass some small veins from the corpus striatum, in then- course to the veins of Galen. The optic tJialamus is only partly laid hare in this stage of the chssection, and its examination maybe omitted till the third ventricle has been learnt (p. 217). The Idppocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's spur (fig. 63, t), as it hes in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is pointed at its hinder extremity, and is covered on the free surface by a medullary layer continuous with the corpus callosum. When it is cut across a gi-ay stratum will be found beneath the white; and the eminence itself Avill be seen to be produced by the ex- tension inwards of the calcaiine sulcus at the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 207). The liij)pocampus major (fig. 63,1) is the curved projection in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Convex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is oui-ved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its conca"\aty turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the largest, and presents two or three indenta- tions, which give it the appearance of the foot of a feline animal ; it is named pes hippocampi. Along the inner or concave margin is the small band or tajnia (fig. 64, c), which is prolonged fi'om the fornix ; it ends below by joining the small recurved part of the uncinate convolution (p. 207). Dissection. To examine more fully the hippocampus, the pieces of the corpus callosum and fornix, which remain in the middle line, should be divided longitudinally, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away fi'om the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be manifest. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface by a medullary layer, with which the taania or the band of the fornix blends. On its opposite surface is the hollow of the dentate sulcus on the exterior of the brain, which is filled with gray substance. Along the fi-ee margin of the hippocampus the gTay matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the lamina dmtata : this is external to the cavity of the ventricle, beneath the teenia, and has been named the dentate convolution (p. 208). Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. By drawing the separated right hemisphere away fi'om the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus, and replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position, and the boundaries, on one side, of the gi-eat cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix; and opens into the lateral ventricle along the edge of the fornix on each side, fx-om the fora- men of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The slit215 VELUM INTERPOSITUM. opening into the lateral ventricle is bounded by the edge of ti e ana reaches fornix on the one side, and by the optic thalamus and cms ceiebri ^,.,i„. on the other. A piece of pia mater projects into the transverse ^j^^tev fiSBure, forming a horizontal central piece, velum mterpositu.n, cnte.B .t. beneath the fornix (fig. 64,; and thinner lateral pieces with terminal fringes in the lateral ventricles (/). But the sli through which the membrane enters the ventricle is closed by the Iming structure of that cavity being continued on the intruded part. Parts in the Middle Line of Cerebrum. The student i'^ now parts in the to return to the examination of the parts in the centre of the brain, "j^^e^l^j^*^ viz., the fold of pia mater and its vessels, with the third ventricle. At the same time the optic thalamus is to be seen. The velum interpositum (fig. 64, g') is the central portion of the Velum, or fold of pia mater entering the great transverse fissure. Triangular u°ater*^ ^"'^ in shape, it has the same extent as the body of the fornix, and reaches in front to the foramen of Monro. The upper surface is in * Second view bf the dissection of the brain, the fornix being cut through in front and raised. (From a cast in the Museum of University College, London.) a. Fornix, b. Hippocami)US major, c. Tsenia hipijocampi, or hinder crus of the fornix, d. Coi^pus striatum, e. Optic thalamus. /. Choroid plexus, fj. Velum interpositum.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 216 is over tliivcl ventricle: on its side is the eho- xoid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Vessels of the velum. -Viteries; Teins; -witli veins of Galen. "Dissection. Other •choroid plexuses. Third veutricle as near hase •of brain. Ttoof. Moor. Parte on the sides, in front, contact with the fornix, to which it supplies vessels. And the lower surface, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus : underneath it in the middle line are the two choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Along each sid© is another vascular roll (choroid plexus). The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 64,/) is the red, somewhat rounded and fringed margin of the piece of pia mater contained in the lateral ventricle, which extends fi-om the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower end is larger than the upper. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous ; and the villi, minutely subdivided, are covered by flattened nucleated epithelium, with fat granules and pigment in the cells.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus from the cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 182) : they are three on each side, and supply the sur- rounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches fi-om the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two .large veins with this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches fi-om the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through tliis they join the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositum has been raised and thrown backwards, the tliird ventricle will be visible (fig. 68). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be careful of the pineal body (</) behind, wliich would otherwise be detached, as it is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two short and narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like structures in the lateral ventricle. The third ventricle is the interval between the optic thalami (fig. 68). Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, below the level of the other ventricles with which it communicates ; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communica- tions are the following:— The roof is formed by the velum intei-positum and the fornix. The floor is very oblique ffom behmd forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is about an inch in front and half an inch behmd : it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crm-a cerebri and the median fissure (fig. 59), viz., locus perforatus, corpora albicantia tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic ners^es, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity are situate the optic thalami (&). In front of the space are the descending pillars of the fornix, -with the anterior commissure of the * Particles of train sand, like that in the pineal body, are sometimes present in the choroid ]3lexus.217 TIIIED VENTRICLE. cerebrum (c) in the inten^al between them. Behind are the posterior and behind, commissure (e) and the pineal body (tj). Crossing the centre of the * * ventricle, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray- matter—the soft commissure (d). This space communicates with the other ventricles of the brain Openings in the following way :—In front it ]onis each lateral ventricle ventricles, tlu-ough the foramen of Monro ; and in the fetus it opens into the fifth ventricle. Behind is a passage beneath the posterior commis- sure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad infundibulum). The lining of the ventricle (ependyma) is continued into the Lining of neighbouring cavities through the different apertures of communica- '^^^'^y* tion, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Grai/ matter of the ventricle. A stratum of gray matter covers ^f'^flJ"^*''^'^ most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower part of each veutricle. optic thalamus it envelops the cms of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in the floor of the ca^dty it exists in abun- dance entering into the corpora albicantia. In the middle of the space it reaches fi"om side to side, and foi'ms the soft commissure (d). Soft com- The antenor commissure of the cerebrum (e) is a round bmidle of white fibres about as large as a crow-quill, which passes through ^0"^^^ both corpora striata, and connects the opposite hemispheres. To sme: see it in one half of its extent, the following dissection should be made :— Dissection. On the side on which the corpus striatum has been To see it, cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the interior of that striaTmii"^ body by scraping away the intraventricular gray matter with the handle of the scalpel. The commissure may be seen then to per- forate the front of the corpus striatum below the white fibres; and it should be followed through the extraventricular mass of gray matter of the same body. The anterior commissure is free in the middle line for about the Position: eighth of an inch, where it lies before the pillars of the fornix. Laterally it perforates the corpus striatum, passing in succession and oourse tlirough the intraventricular gray mass, the white fibres, and the extraventricular gray mass. Lastly, the commissure pierces the 'le""- white layer boundmg externally the striate body, and spreads in the hemisphere over the inferior conui of the lateral ventricle, commu- nicating with the teniporo-sphenoidal and central lobes. The posterior commissure of the cerebrum (e) is smaller than the Posterior anterior, and is placed above the passage into the fourth ventricle, '^'""""^^^"■e- Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus ; and pierces this body to end in the hemisphere. The connections of the thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the Timiamus cerebrum, fig. G8, h) will be best seen on the side on which the "Ptiuus. inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle has been opened. It has the form of a cube, and bounds the lateral and tlurd ventricles. The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral ventricle. Upper and IS marked m fi-ont by a prominence—anterior tubercle, nearDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 218 Under part. Inner side. Outer side, anterior, and pos- terior ends. Corpora genieiiliita. Optic nerve. Origin. Dissection. Origin of fornix in thalamus; ]iow fomis corpus albicans : joined by other fibres. Dissection. Pineal gland ; position, shape, attachment to thalamus. the tainia seinicircularis. Tlio under surface forms a portion of the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By the inner side it enters into the tliird ventricle ; and along its upper eclge lies the peduncle of the pineal body. On the outer side are the corpus striatum, the taania semicircularis, and the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior end looks to the foramen of Monro. And the pos- terior part, which is fi-ee in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inf eriorly two small roundish tubercles, which are placed one outside and the other inside the bend (genu) of the optic nerve, and are named from their position to it, internal and external genicu- late bodies. The structure of the optic thalamus will be subsequently referred to, p. 222. The origin of the optic nerve can now be seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract receives fibres from the thalamus wliich it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands:—One of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadrigemina (nates) ; the other is connected with the internal geniculate body. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may be followed out next. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the left hemi- sphere can be separated from the other. On the left hemisphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards through the gray matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence up- wards into the optic thalamus. Anterior x>illar of the fornix. The fornix begins in the thalamus near the tubercle on the upper surface, from this spot it descends in a cui-ved direction to the corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the fig-m-e 8, and fiu-nishes a white em^elope to the gray matter of that- body. The crus then ascends thi-ough the gi-ay sub- stance in front of the optic thalamus, and is appHed to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. It is joined by bands of fibres from the ttenia semicircularis and pedmicle of the pineal body. The pineal lody and the corpora quadrigemina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially on the right side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior pai-t of the hemisphere of the same side may be taken away. The loineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body (fig. 68, ^r), which is situate above the posterior commissure, and between the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape like the cone of a pine, it is about a quarter of an mch in length, and has the base turned forwards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two • white bands,—peduncles of the pineal body (/) : these begui at the219 COEPORA QUADRIGEMINA. base, and extending forwards, one along the inner side of each thalamus, end by joining the crura of the fornix. At the base of the gland is a band of transverse whitefibres which unites it with the posterior commissure. This body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses two or Structui-e. more cells contaming a thick fluid, with amyloid bodies, and a calcareous material (brain sand) consisting of particles of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia and ammonia.'* In its substance are large pale nucleated cells. The corpora quadric/emina (fig. 68) are four small bodies, which Conjora are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a median gemina. groove. Each pair is situate on the upper aspect of the cerebral peduncle of the same side. The anterior eminence (h, nates) is somewhat larger than the posterior, from which it is separated by a slight depression ; it is oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards a white band to join the optic tract and thalamus. The posterior eminence (i, testis) is rounder in form and whiter in colour than the preceding : it has also a lateral white band wliich is directed beneath the corpus geniculatum internum, and blends with the peduncular fibres in the thalamus opticus. These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped by ^j*™^,'^^ white, and are placed on the band of the fillet which forms the roof bands, of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cere- bram (p. 220). Fillet of the olivary body. If the upjier margin of the cerebellum qj^^* °^q(J be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of an inch in width, will be seen to issue fi-om the transverse fibres of the pons, and to bend upwards over the peduncle of the cerebellum to the corpora quadiigemina (fig. 65, *). This is the upper or commissural piece of the fillet (p. 127), which Passes lie- passes beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and joins with the similar pok quacU-i- band of the opposite side over the Sylvian aqueduct. gemina. Structurk of the Cerebrum. In each cerebral hemisphere three Three sets of principal sets of constituent fibres are recognised, viz., diverging, cerebrum, transverse, and longitudinal. The former are in part derived from the spinal cord ; while the two latter, joining distant pieces of the cerebrum, are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their office. Peduncular or diverging fibres (fig. 56). In the crus cerebri two Fibres of bundles of longitudinal fibres are collected; there these are con- to"the°'lemi nected with gray matter, and are derived fi-om the medulla oblongata spiiere. (p. 200). Dissection. A complete systematic view of the diverging fibres Dissection cannot be now obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the them Tliese particles are referred to by Kollilcer, as pathological products ; and the concentrically arranged masses amongst them are said to be incrustations of nbnn coagula.DISSECTION OP THE BEAIK 220 in the corpus sti'iatum and optic thalamus. Pibres of peduucle diverge 111 coipus striatuui and thaUimu.s : their acces- sory bauds. lu the hemi- sphere they extend to convolu- tions. Fibres not reaching throughout. cliicf purpose is to show the passage of the radiating fibres from tlic cms through tlie two cerebral gangha. To ti-acc the diverging fibres onwards beyond the crus cerebri, and tln-ough the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus of this body should be scraped away (fig. G5) ; and the dissection should be made on tlie left side on which tlie stiiate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Eeil comes into view, viz., white fibres with intcrvem'ng gray matter in the corpus striatum, giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nucleus caudatus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing fi-om the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those fibres, the upper part of the optic thalamus may be taken away at the posterior end, to denude the accessoiy bundles to the peduncular fibres, fi*om the corpora quadrigemina and the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, : the last band lies beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Their arrangement (fig. 65,''). Some of the diverging fibres radiate fi'om the pedimcle of the cerebrum to the sm-face of the hemi- sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus (") and corpus striatum (^) ), and they form a conically-shaped bundle, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres forming the fi'ee or fasciculated surface (crust) of the peduncle (fig. 56) pass through the striate body. The fibres on the opposite aspect, which form the tegmentum (fig. 57, rf), are trans- mitted through the mider part of the optic thalamus, and through the corpus striatum, reaching as far forwards as, but much farther back than those of the crust. In the thalamus and the corpus striatum the fibres are greatly increased in number. The upper or sensory set receive also acces- sory bundles in the crus cerebri (p. 200) fi-om the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, ^) ; and in the thalamus from the pair of the corpora quadrigemina, and the corpora geniculata of the same side. On escaping from the striate body and the thalamus the fibres decussate with the converging fibres of the corpus callosum, and radiate thence into the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemi- sphere the fibres are continued to the convolutions : their expansion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in fi-ont and behmd, formmg thus a layer which is concave on the mider side. Their extent. All the fibres of the peduncle do not reach the surface of the brain, for some end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially in the former. And some of the fibres in the commlutions begin in the ganglionic bodies above mentioned, and extend to the surface of the hemisphere.'' Thus, ni addition * According to some authors none of the fibres of the peduncle reach farther tlian the corpus striatum and the optic thivlamus.Corpora^^uadngemina. 8. Optic thalamus. 9. Corpus ;trffm!'''lo"c;rpi; FIBRES OF CEREBRUM. to the fibres continued throiiglioiit, vi'/,., from the crus to the surface, some unite tlie peduncle of the cerebrum with the ganglia, and others connect the ganglia with the convolutions on the exterior. Their source. The libres thus entering inferiorly the cerebrum through its peduncle, and continued thence to the periphery of the hemisphere, are derived fi-om the component pieces of the medulla oblongata except the restiform body (lig. 57), vix., from anterior pyramid, lateral column and olivary body, and posterior pyramid (p. 191) : they serve to connect tlie spinal cord with the cerebrum. The decussation between opposite sides has been before refeired to (p. 194). The transverse or commissural fibres connect the hemispheres of Fig. 65.* Source froi cord. Decussa- tion. Commissu- ral trans- verse fibrcF the cerebi-ura across the middle line. They give rise to the great commissure or the corpus callosum (p. 209) : and to the anterior and postenor commissures (p. 217). Those bodies have been already exammed. ^ Longitudinal fibres. Other connecting fibres pass from before commi. backwards umtmg together parts of the same hemisphere The Bu~«gi- chief bands of this system are the following, the fornix, the C taenia semicirculans, and the peduncles of the pineal body. Other * Connection posteriorly between the cerebrum and tbp mori„ii., ajd cerebellum. 1. Superior peduncle. 2. Si and 3 i£w''^^ of the cerebellum. 4. Process from the ^\\^iol'Z ^xi^^^ZlT't corpora quadrigemina : on the right side it is cut and reflected ? P.!t. • pyram.d. 6 Continuation of th'e lateral tract int the pt ^hal^sDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 222 longitudinal fibres may be enumerated on the upper and under surfaces of tlie corpus callosum along the middle line, together with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : these fibres are connected with the anterior perforated spot of the base of the brain. Structure of the optic thalamus. The thalamus is about an inch deep, and the following is a summary of its structure, as displayed in the previous dissections. The upper and imier half is formed chiefly of gray matter, with which the undermentioned white bands are connected:—Thus through it pass the fornix in front, and the posterior commissure behind ; whilst the peduncles of the pineal bodj' he along the inner side, and the taenia semicircularis along the outer. The lower and outer part consists mainly of white fibres directed upwards, and these are derived fi-om the peduncle of the cerebrum inferiorly, and fi'om the peduncle of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina superiorly : to the hinder part of these, two slips of fibres are added from the corpora geniculata. and of cor- The corpora geniculata contain gray substance inside. Into these LtsT bodies fibres of the optic tract enter ; and from each issues a band to join the fibres of the crus cerebri. They seem to serve as accessory ganglia to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Section of Corpus striatum. By slicing through the corona radiata on the corpus stri- ]gf^ side, SO as to bring into view the extraventricular nucleus of the iTinii froiii outside. corpus striatum, the extent and form of that mass, and the situation of the anterior commissm-e in it, will be apparent. Section of Crus cerebri. By a vertical section through the left peduncle of crusceretin. ^-^^ cerebrum, the disposition and the thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres : and the situation and extent of the locus niger between them, may be observed. Structure of oxitic thalamus, Section Y. Prepare cerebellum. Parts to be separated from one another. rorin and THE CEREBELLUM. Dissection. The cerebellum (fig. 59, h) is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife thi-ough the optic thalamus so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain united together. All the pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median fissure on the under surface ; and the diflEerent bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus at the circumference, wliich is continued from the eras, between the upper and under surfaces. The cerebellum, little bram (fig. 66), is flattened from above dowii, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches across. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossaB223 SURFACES OF CEREBELLUM. of the base of the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres ;—the division being marked by a'wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border which receives the falx cerebelli. , „ . • i •„ Upper Surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre (fig. 68), but sloped towards tlie circumference. Tliere is not any median sulcus on this surface; and the halves are umted by a central constricted part,—the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper from the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards fi-om the pons Varolii to the middle line of the cerebellum. The UNDER SURFACE is convex, being received into the fossae of Fig. 66.* position of ceioliellum. Division into two. No groove on tlic. upper surface ; lialves joined. Horizontal Ilssure. A lioUow below, the base of the skull, and is di-\dded into hemispheres (fig. 66) by a median hollow (vallecula). The central fissure, or the vallecula, is wider at the middle than at which is either the anterior or the posterior end, and receives the medulla ^anty and oblongata. In the bottom of the fissure is a mass named inferior contains vermiform process (fig. 66, c to e), which corresponds with the vermiform central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper i""^*^^^" surface. The two vermiform processes constitute the general com- missure of the halves of the cerebellum. Constituents of the vermiform process. In the inferior vermiform Constituents process are the following eminences, which may be easily separated 'vermi- form pro- * Under part of the cerebellum, seen from behind, the medulla oblongata, h being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, h. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to e. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of ;—c. Uvula, d. Pyramid, e. Commissural lamina). Lobes of each half of the cerebellum on the under surface. /. Subpedun- cular. g. Amygdaloid, h. Biventral. i. Slender, k. Posterior. 3. Tliird nerve attached to the crus cerebri. 5. Two roots of the fifth nerve attached to the side of the pons Varolii.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 Uvula, noclulD, furrowed band, velum, pyramid, and commis- sures. LaminfB and their ar- rangement. Sulci are shallow and deep. A lamina has white inside ; collateral ■white fibres; and gray outside. Seven lobes in each hemisphere. Two lobes on upper surface. fi-om one another witli tlio luandle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula (fig. 66, c), which is named from its resemblance to the same part in the thifeat ; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminaj. Its anterior projection into the fom-th ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle (fig. 67.) On the side of the uvula is a band of gray matter with ridges and sulci, the furrowed hand (fig, 67, d), which unites it with the almond-like lobe of the liemisphere. Con- nected with the nodule is a thin white layer,—the medullary velum (b) ; but this, and the furrowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 225). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid (fig. 66, d), which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse laminte. Farther back are certain transverse pieces (e), extending between the posterior lobes of the hemispheres, of wliich they were considered by Eeil to be the com- missures. Lamince. The surface of the cerebellum is covered by plates or laminae (fig. 68), instead of convolutions, which form segments of circles with their convexity directed backwards. On the upper aspect the anterior laminae pass from the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermi- form process ; but on the under aspect they join the sides of the difEerent commissures in the median fissure. Sulci. Between the laminse are sulci, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to difEerent depths: the shallower separate the laminte; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach downwards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interrupted by cross laminas. Structure of the lamince. On cuttmg across the laminse of the upper surface on the right side they will be seen to possess a white internal, and a gray external layer (fig. 68). The white part is derived fr-om a central medullary mass ; and dividing, like the brandling of a tree, it ends in small lateral offsets wliich enter the subdivisions of the laminaj. The white stalk of the lamina is composed mostly of fibres derived from the central mass, but there are other fibres which pass fr-om one lamina to another beneath the sulci. The stratum of gray matter enveloping the white substance resembles the cortical covering of the convolutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, which can be dis- tinguished by a difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is clear and gray, and about equal to the other in thiclviiess; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generallj- thickest in the hollows between the lamina3. Between the two a layer of ramified cells (Purldnje) may be recognised with the microscope. _ Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is subdi-snded into lobes on both aspects. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a225 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissure at the circumference. On the under surface of the hemisphere (fig. 66), there are five lobes; three of them are separated by sulci amongst the laminas on this aspect, but they are scarcely more distinct than the lobes on the upper surface. Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior lobe (7c), which joins the commissural laminae behind the pyramid in the valley. Next in succession is the slendei' lobe (i), which is connected with the posterior part of the pjTamid, as well as with the other transverse laminaj behind that body. And lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the biventral lobe (h). The two other lobes, though smaller are more separate, and appear between the biventral lobe and the medulla oblongata:— One of these is the amygdaloid lobe (g), which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyramidal slip, which, is directed ouhvards over (the under surface of the cerebellum being uppermost) the crus cerebelh, and is named flocculus, or subpedimcular lobe (/). Dissection. To see the flocculus and the posterior medullaiy velum, the biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted fi-om the valley (fig. 67). The flocculus is laid bare by this proceeding, and pass- Fig. 67.* Five on sur- face, viz.. posterior, slender, and biven- tral. Two in valley : amygdaloid and floccu- lus. Dissection for floc- culus. mg from it to the tip of the uvula is the thin and soft white layer of the posterior velum (6) ; beneatli the last a bit of paper may be mserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can be fully seen now. Flocculus ami medullary velum. The position of the flocculus Position and 10 tne crus cerebelh has been before mentioned. This body (c) floc'c'iaus'' * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebeUum, with some of thn lobes removed to show the posterior medullary velum, a. UvuKa, c t.lTT". "«'l"lL*'-y ^vith a bit of whale-bone unde^ it c Zt Se t'^iedX'Tr'"; .^rT''Amygdalokl lobe, iurntd asiae. y. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior sui-face.226 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. resembles the other lobes in structure, and may be considered a rudimentary lobe ; for it is divided on the surface into laminae, and contains a wliite medullary centre which furnishes oilsets to the laminas. Passing from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior venniform process (nodule) is the half of a thin wliite layer (i), the posterior medullary velum, which serves as a commissure to the flocculi. On each side this band is semilunar in form. Its anterior edge is free ; but its posterior border is attached in front of the transverse furrowed band {d). In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united. Interior of the Cerebellum. In the cerebellum there is not any cavity or ventricle enclosed as in the cerebrum. In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding with that of the cere- brum, which furnishes offsets to the laminae, and to other parts of the encephalon. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminse from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accom- plished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermi- form process, so as to detach the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin shoes may be made anteriorly till it is reached. Medullary Centre. In the centre of each cerebellar hemisphere is a large white mass, containing in its substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are furnished to the different laminas. And from the fore part proceeds a large stalk-hke process, the crus cerebelli, which is subdivided into three pieces or peduncles, an upper for the cerebrum, a middle piece for the pons, and a lower one for the medulla oblongata. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is directed forwards towards the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 68, I). It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle : be- tween the processes of opposite sides the valve of Vieussens (/c) is above fourth situate. Its fibres, contmuous behmd with the inferior vermiform ventricle. process, receive an offset from the corpus dentatum; and passmg beneath the band of the fillet and the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the same side (fig. 65), enter the optic thalamus and are applied to the fibres of the crus cerebri (p. 220). Beneath the copora quadrigemina the internal fibres of the peduncle are directed across the middle line, through the bundle prolonged from the fasciculus teres.* In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Between the superior peduncles is a thin, translucent, white layer, —the valve of Vieussens (velum medullare anterius), which enters * This intercommunication was known to Reil, and was named «'ansa'"by Wm, but the decussation has been since noticed by Stilhng, Ueber den £au des Hirnknotena: 1846, Posterior medullary veluiu. Torm and attach- ments. Cerebellum is solid in- ternally. Dissection of centre, and corpus dentatum. White centre of cerebellum Gives off- sets, viz., supenor peduncle Its fibres partly de- cussate. Valve of Vieussens between the two.227 INTERIOR OF CEREBELLUM. into the roof of the fourth ventricle (fig. 68, h). It is thin and pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of tlic vermiform process. Near the corpora quadri- gemina the fourth nerve (') is attached to the surface of the valve; and close to the cerebellum the velum is marked by some gray transverse ridges. j -u-1 ii The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem), commonly named the cms cerebelli (fig. 65, -), is the largest of the three peduncular processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the hemisphere, and are dhected forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres, and unite -with the peduncle of the opposite side. This neduncle is supposed to serve as a commissural or connecting is the com- ^ , , , - ,1 ,11 missure of band between the halves of the cerebellum. cerebeUum. The inferior peduncle (fig. 65, ^) (processus ad medullam) passes inferior downwards to the medulla oblongata, and gives rise to the restif orm P«g'|j}J}^® body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminte of the upper surface of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. The fibres m the pedimcles connect one cerebellar hemisphere ^^^"1^*"^***°" wth the cerebrum ; with its fellow ; and with the medulla oblongata of the same side, in the manner mentioned above. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the white mass of the hemisphere, and resembles the like part in the corpus olivare of the medulla oblongata. This body measures nearly an inch from before back, and is situate near the inner part of the white centre. It consists of a small plicated capsule, which, when cut across, appears as a thin, waA^, grayish-yellow line ; the bag is structure, open at the front, and encloses a nucleus of whitish substance. Through its aperture issues a band of fibres from the nucleus to join the superior peduncle. Dissection. One other section (fig. 68) must be made to show the l^issection. fourth ventricle, and the structure of the vermiform process. The cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the central uniting part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the vermiform process (fig. 68). The upper and lower Veimiform vermiform processes of the cerebellum are united in one central piece likefother which connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this l^^rts. connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white portion and investing laminee. Here the branch- ing appearance of a tree (arbor vitiB) is best seen, in consequence of the lamina3 being more divided, and the wliite central stalk being longer and more ramified. The FOURTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space between Fourth the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata ventricle, and pons (fig. 68). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high Form and as the upper border of the pons : and the lower, to a level with extent, Q 2228 breadth. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the inferior end of the olivaiy body. Its greatest breadth is oppo- site the lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in tliis situa- tion would divide the hollow into two triangular portions-upper Fig. 68.* calamus scriptorius. and lower. The lower half has been named calamus scriptorius from its resemblance to a writing pen. Lateral The lateral boundaries are more marked above than below. For boundary. * View of the tMrd and fourth ventricles ; the former being obtained by the removal of the velum interpositum ; and the latter by dividing vertically the vermiform process of the cerebellum. (From a cast in the Museum of University College.) The third ventricle is the interval in the middle line between the optic thalami, b. a. Corpus striatum, b. Optic thalamus, c. Anterior commissure, d. Middle or soft commissure, e. Posterior commis- sure, ff. Pineal body. /. Peduncle of the pineal body, h and i. Left pair of the coi-pora quadrigemina. The fourth ventricle, n, is at the back of the medulla oblongata, k. Talvo of Vieussens. I. Upper peduncle of the cerebellum, o. Eminentia teres. }). Anterior fossa, r. Posterior fossa, s. Posterior pyramid. 4. Origin of the fourth nerve from the valve of Vieussens.FOURTH VENTRICLE. 229 about half way down, tlie cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (l), which projectmg over it, forms pai-t of the roof; and along the lower half lies the emmence of the restiform body (fig, 65, ^). ^ , . The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above Roof, by the valve of Vieussens (Ic), and the under part of the vermiform process ; and below, by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the spinal cord. The floor of the ventricle is constituted by the posterior surfaces Floor, of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along f^^^'^^'^iJan its centre is a median groove, wliich ends below, near the pomt of groorc^. and the calamus, in a mmute hole,—the aperture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spmdle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (o). This emmence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inf eriorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more prominent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the lower border of the pons. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight Foveae, groove, which points out the position of two small foss^ (fovea anterior et posterior). The posterior (?•) is near the lower end of posterior, the groove ; and the anterior (p) is opposite the crus cerebelli. anterior. Above the anterior fossa is a deposit of very dark gray substance, ^ocus^^^ which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum covering it f from it a bluish streak is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fomth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the White strise. pons, are some white lines, which vary much in their arrangement (fig. 55) : they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the auditory nerve (p. 188). Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other eminences of nerve in the floor of the ventricle indicating the position of the nuclei of nuclei, origin of certain nei-ves. In the lower half of the space are three slight eminences on each side for the hypo-glossal, vagus, and auditory nerves :—that for the hypo-glossal is close to the middle line below, and corresponds nuclei of tlie with the lower pointed end of the eminentia teres. The other two, i^siiai, outside that eminence, are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove (fovea posterior) ; the lower is vagus, the nucleus of the vagus and glosso-phaiyngeal nerves, and the giosso- upper is the nucleus of the auditory ners^e. Eunning into the lower auditory^nd end of the vagus nucleus, is the nucleus of the accessory portion of accessoiy. the spinal accessoiy nerve. (See p. 189.) In the upper half of the space some other nerves take origin in upper from nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is placed over the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial nerve : it is a * The term locus csenileus has been apijlied to the bluish spot, and the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.DISSECTION OP TEE BRAIN. 230 rounded elevation on the outer part of the eminentia teres, about a line above the white cross strise on the floor, and close behind the fovea anterior. The fourth ventricle communicates at the upper end with the third ventricle through the Sylvian aqueduct; and with the sub- arachnoid space of the cord and brain, through an aperture in the pia mater intervening between the medulla and the cerebellum : laterally, the ventricular space is extended for a short distance be- tween the cerebellum and the side of the medulla oblongata. The lining of the other ventricles is prolonged into this by the aperture of communication with the tliird. Covering the floor is a columnar epithelium, which is continuous with that in the upper part of the central canal of the spinal cord (Clarke). In this ventricle is a vascular fold—choroid plexus, on each side, similar to the body of the same name in the other ventricles. It is attached to the inner surface of the membrane (pia mater) which closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and it extends upwards on the side of the opening into the sub- arachnoid space. Its vessels are supplied by the inferior cerebellar artery. Gray matter Gray matter of fourth ventricle. The gray matter forms a sur- fStratam. face-covering for the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is continuous below with the gray commissure of the cord, and extends upwards Special to the aqueduct of Sylvius (p. 195). The special nuclei have been deposits. referred to already (p. 229). nucleus of tlie sixtli and facial. Openings of the ventricle. Its lining and epitho liuni. Choroid plexus of the cavity.AETERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 231 posterior scapular. TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTEBIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 1. Brachio- cephalic. . Common carotid . . External carotid . 2. internal carotid . 1. Superior thyroid 2. lingual 3. facial Hyoid branch laiyngeal .thyroid. / Hyoid branch J dorsal lingual j sublingual {ranine. /Inferior palatine branch tonsillitic glandular submental inferior labial (inferior X superior coronary. I lateral nasal ^angular. ( Meningeal branch { posterior cervical. (Stylo-mastoid branch } auricular (mastoid. , (Pharyngeal branches 6. ascending pliaryngeal. jmeningeaL (Auricular parotid articular transverse facial middle temporal anterior temporal posterior temporal ^Inferior dental large meningeal muscular posterior dental infraorbital spheno-palatine descending palatine vidian ^pterygo-palatine. 4. occipital . 5. posterior aivricular 7. temporal 8. internal maxillary 1. Arterise receptaculi. ophthalmic 2. Subcla- V vian . . . 2. left common carotid. ,3. left subclavian. 1. Vertebral Internal mammary 3. thyroid axis . . 4. superior intercostal 3. anterior cerebral 4. anterior communicating 5. middle cerebral 6. posterior communicating '-7. choroid. ^Anterior spinal posterior spinal inferior cerebellar posterior meningeal transverse basOar anterior inferior cerebellar supeiior cerebellar posterior cerebral. -Lachrymal ' supraorbital central of the retina ciliary muscular ethmoidal palpebral ft'ontal Vnasal. V Inferior thyroid suprascapular. transverse cervical, I Deep cervical Ascending cervical ( Supraspinal I infraspinal. 1Superficial cervicalVEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 232 TABLE OF THE CHIEF VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK, 1. Lateral sinus 2. ascending pharyngeal 3. lingual ' Internal ju- < gular Braehio-ce phalic is formed by^ the union of 4. facial .Superior longitudinal sinus inferior longitudinal sinus straight sinus occipital sinuses oplithalmic vein superior petrosal Vinferior petrosal. (Meningeal branches pharyngeal. C Superficial dorsal J lingual ^ ranine. 'Angular . inferior palpebral dorsal and lateral nasal veins. anterior internal max- illary .... r Supraorbital J frontal j palpebral V nasal. 5. occipital coronary buccal masseteric labial submental inferior palatine tonsillitic ^ glandular. f Mastoid vein ( cervical. f superior \ inferior 6. superior thyroid, f Thyroid (laryngeal. ^ 7. middle thyroid, /l. Vertebral . C Spinal J. deep cervical I ascending cervical. J subclavian. * 2. external jugular. 1. Internal maxUlary 2. temporal 'Alveolar branches infraorbital descending palatine naso-palatine .vidian. k3. anterior jugular . 8. posterior auricular 4. branch to the internal jugular. 6. suprascapular . J 6. transverse cervical . Large meningeal inferior dental deep temporal pterj-goid masseteric. / Anterior posterior middle temporal parotid anterior aui'icular transverse facial. ( Am'icular I stylo-mastoid. ( Supraspinal (iufrnspinal. ( Superficial cervical (posterior scapular.CKANIAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 233 TABLE OF TUE CRANIAL NERVES. 1. First non'o . 2 Second nerve 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourtli nerve Filaments to the nose. To retina of the eyeball. To muscles of the orbit. To superior oblique muscle. /Meningeal lachrymal . ophthalmic or lenticular ganglion superior maxil- lary /Ophthalmic . ' frontal \ nasal / Connecting branches (ciliary nerves. Orbital branch . to Meckel's ganglion posterior dental anterior dental infraorbital. (Internal branches ascending . Meckel's gang- lion descending. posterior C Lachiynia I palpebral. (Supraorbital (supratrochlear. !To lenticular ganglion ciliary nerves infratrochlear uasaL ( To nasal nerve -< to third nerve (to sympathetic. f Malar (temporal. (Nasal \ naso-palatine. To the orbit. t Anterior palatine I posterior ( external. ( Vidian (pharyngeal. inferior maxil- lary iDeep temporal masseteric buccal pterygoid. Auriculo-temporal large or sensory part / gustatory otic ganglion I submaxillary \ ganglion inferior dental !rTo Jacobson's nerve Connecting branches -< to the fifth and sym (_ pathetic, branches for muscles. /Connecting branches brandies to the glands and tlio mucous mem- brane of tlie mouth. { To the gustatoiy, chorda tympani, and sympathetic. Articular and to meatus parotid auricular temijoral. 'To submaxillary and sublingual ganglia to hji5oglossal to the tongue. !Mylo-hyoid labial incisor.CRANIAL NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 284 TABLE OF THE CRANIAL ItEUVES—continued. 6. Sixth nervo ... To external rectus. 7. Sevcntli nerve, or facial ' Connecting branches Branches for dis- tributiou 8. Eighth nerve, or auditory To join auditory to Meckel's ganglion tympanic and sym- pathetic nerves ,the chorda tyinpani. /-Posterior auricular digastric branch stylo-hyoid branch. temporo-facial ^cervico-facial , To the portio dura I nerve to cochlea. ( Temporal .-< malar (infraorbital. (Buccal . •< supramaxillai-y (inframaxillary. -Connecting branches 9. Ninth nerve, or glosso-. pharyngeal . . ' Branches for dis- tribution f Connecting branches 10. Tenth nerve, or pneumo- gastric .... Branches for dis- tribution 11. Eleventh nerve, or spinal accessory 12. Twelfth nerve, lingual or hypoglossal . ' Connecting branches Branches for dis- tribution Connecting branches Branches for dis- V tiibiation > nerve to vestibule ' To vagiTs [ To sympathetic. ' Jacobson's nerve. ITo carotid artery to the pharynx tonsillitic branches muscular lingual. ; To glosso-pharyngeal 1 sympathetic and au- ' j ricular nerves ' to hypoglossal. /Pharyngeal nerve. / superior laryngeal cardiac nerves. \inferior laryngeal [ To pneumo-gastrie I to the cervical plexus. • To stemo-mastoideus and trapezius. j To pneiuno-gastric nerve to sympathetic to loop of atlas to gustatory nerve. / Descendens noni 1 thyro-hyoid nerve I to the lingual muscles ' and tongue. I To the common sac to the saccule to the semicircular canals. (Joins otic ganglion, • X supplies tympanum. ""External laryngeal ascending (^° the i mucous descendmg (membrane to join geal. inferior laryn- Cardiae oesophageal, tracheal to constrictor and muscles of larynx ^to join superior laryngeal235 SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. TABLE OF THE SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Spinal Nerves. /Anterior branches The cervical spinal nerves ai\'ide into posterior \ branches / The first four form the Ceuvical Plexus, which gives /■Superficial ascending superficial descending deep Internal j Small occipital nerve ■< great auricular " ( superficial cervical. f Supraacromial -< supraclavicular ■ (.suprasternal. To pneumo-gastric to hypoglossal to symijathetic to join spinal accessory .nerves to descendens noni. The last four and part of first dor- sal form the Brachial Plexus, which gives . deep muscular .. Branches above the clavicle . To rectus muscles to diaphragm to sterno-mastoideu^ to trapezius to levator anguli scapulae. The rhomboid nerve to phrenic nerve suprascapular nerve subcla\aan branch posterior thoracic \^to scaleni muscles. { Are distributed to the muscles of the Back, and give off cutaneous nerves. branches below./Are dissected with the upper \ limb. a I Sympathetic Nerve. f / Branch to tympanic plexus Carotid plexus, which) to vidian 1. Superior cervical ganglion has . Ascending branches, which unite in plexuses 2. Middle cervical ganglion 3. Inferior cervical ganglion gives Cavernous plexus, which gives . branches to sixth nerves. and fifth cranial To third cranial nerve to fourth cranial nerve to the fifth and lenticular gang- lion to carotid artery and branches. external branches internal branches branches to vessels ( External branches ^ internal 'Anterior branches external . internal . ■I To join pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves to spinal nerves. I Pharyngeal branches ( superficial cardiac nerve. Nervi moUes. To spinal nerves. (Middle cardiac nerve I to supply thyroid body and V join external laryngeal. To the subclavian artery. ( To the spinal nerves forming ( vertebral plexus. Inferior cardiac netve.CHAPTER III. DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. Directions for the dissection. Position of the "body. Marking of the surface. Arm-pit. Head of bone to be felt. Shoulder arcli of bone. Intermus- cular de- pressions. Arm: its Section I. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. The wall of the chest and the axilla, wliich are described in this Section, are to be learnt within a fixed time, in order that the examination of the thorax may be undertaken. Whilst the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his labours on the upper limb ; but, on the completion of that cavity, he must be ready to begin the part of the Back that belongs to him. Position. Wliilst the body lies on the back, the thorax is to be raised to a convenient height by a block ; and the arm, being shghtly rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle to the trunk. Directions. Before the dissection is entered on, attention should be given to the depressions on the surface, to the prominences of muscles, and to the projections of the bones ; because these serve as guides to the position of vessels and nerves beneath the skin. Surface-marhing. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the arm-pit, in which the large vessels and ner^'es of the Hmb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the fore and hinder boundaries are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this spot the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different directions, whilst the fingers of one hand are placed in the arm-pit, the head of the humerus may be recognised. On the outer side of the limb is the prominence of the shoulder; and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed in- ternally by the clavicle, and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Continued downwards fi-om about the middle of the clavicle, is a slight depression between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove, extending outwards fi'om the sternal end of the clavicle, corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and the sternal origin of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps237 PAETS ON FRONT OF THORAX. muscle ; and on each side of that eminence is a groove which pro"^-- subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow-joint ihe inner of the two grooves, the deepest, indicates the position ot the brachial vessels. _ ^ xi t T>,.nn,! If the elbow joint be semiflexed, the prominences of the outer From- and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, espe- around the cially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it elbow joui. by a slight interval, the head of the radius projects; it may be recognised by rotating that bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the prominence of the olecranon. Dissection. As the first step in the dissection, raise the skin fi-om Dis^se^^w,^^ the side of the chest and the arm-pit, over the great pectoral muscle integument, and the hollow of the axilla, by means of the following incisions :— One is to be made along the middle of the sternum. A second, carried along the clavicle for the inner two-thirds of that bone, is to be continued down the front of the arm rather beyond the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and then to be tm-ned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hmder fold of the axilla. From the xiphoid cartilage a third cut is to be du-ected outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posterior fold of the arm-pit. The flap of skin now marked out should be reflected outwards Beflect skin, beyond the axilla ; but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fatty layer oi the thorax resembles the sameFascife; structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region it does not superficial; contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger special ^■iicl deep; fascia which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the side of the chest, but be- comes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An wiiere incision through it, over the arm-pit, will render e'^ndent its increased strength in tliis situation, and the casing it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of confining an abscess in that hollow. Dissection. The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to Dissection be next sought. At the spots where they are to be found they are nerves^of""^ placed benealJi the fat, so that the student must cut tlu'ough it ; chest, and those on the claviclg lie also beneath the platysma muscle. Small vessels will indicate the position of the nerves. Some of them (from the cervical plexus) cross the cla-\acle at from ccrvi- the middle, and the inner end. Others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each inter- costal space. And the rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about one inch beloAv the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one fi-om each intercostal and inter- space except the first: as the last-mentioned nerves pierce the wall ' of the thorax, they divide into an anterior and a posterior piece.238 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. nervo of TrVrisberg, Cutaneous nerves of cervical plexus. Cutaneous branches of intercostals; two rows. One along middle line. The other on side of the chest: these have anterior and posterior pieces. One reaches the"arm. Third nerve, Office of the breast. The posterior pieces of the highest two nerves are larger than the rest. They are to he followed across the arm-pit, and a junc- tion is to be found there with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Cutaneous nerves of the cervical jylexus. These cross the clavicle and are distributed to the integuments over the pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number and larger in size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major ; they jom one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived from the trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs (fig. 69). Of these there are two sets :—One set, lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, arise fi-om the trunks of those nerves about mid way between the spine and the sternum. The other set, anterior cutaneous ner^'^es of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves piercing the pectoral muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments as slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cervical plexus ; and the others supply the integuments and the mammary gland. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany the nerves. The lateral cutaneous neiT^es (fig, 69) issue with companion vessels between the digitations of the serratus muscle, and divide into an anterior and a posterior piece. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk. The anterior offsets (") bend over the pectoral muscle, and end in the integuments and the mammary gland : they increase in size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second inter- costal trunk wants commonly the anterior offset. The posterior offsets (*) end in the integuments over the latis- simus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula, and decrease in size from above down. The branch of the second intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and perforates the fascia of the axilla.; it supplies the integu- ment of the arm (p. 266), and is named intercosto-humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nei-ve of Wrisberg (*) by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal gives filaments likewise to the arm-pit and the inner side of the arm. The MAMMA is the gland for the secretion of the milk, and is situate on the lateral aspect of the fi-ont of the chest.* « * If the student has a male hody, he may disregard the description of the mamma : and if the hody is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.239 MAMMARY GLAND. Eestino- on the great pectoral muscle, it is hemispherical in form, Form and but it is rather most prominent at the mner and lower aspects. Its dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a breast not enlarged by dimensions lactation, the width is commonly about four inches. Longitudinally it extends horn the third to the sixtli or seventh rib, and trans- versely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from and weight, six to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises PosUion^aftd the conical or cjdindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This nipple, prominence is about half an inch or rather more in length, is sHghtly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring,— the areola: the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is influenced by the complexion of the body, and is altered during the times of men- struation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin of the nipple and g^^.'^ areola is provided with numerous papillae and lubricating glands ; glands, and on the surface are some small tubercles marking the position of the ducts of glands. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in Breast of general form, though it is less prominent ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. In its texture the mamma resembles those compound Structure, glands which are formed by the vesicular endings of branched ducts. It consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing fat, surrounds the gland. Investing and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes ; but in the ultimate structure of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septa fix the gland and fibrous to the skin, and support it ; these are the ligamenta suspensoria of tissue. Sir A. Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or cells at the ends of the most minute Texture and ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury ye^igg*^® are just visible to the naked eye, being about the size of a small pmhole in paper. (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes. A collection of the vesicles around their ducts Vesicles form the lobule or glandule, which varies in size from a pin's head ["Cles and to a small tare. By the union of the lobules the lobes are produced, lobules' of which there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named Lactiferous from their office galactophorus ; they converge to the areola, where ^^^^^' they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sacculi) of one- sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become straight; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to oneDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 240 of ni °u another, and gradually naiTowing in size, to open on the summit 0 nippe. -i^y apertures varying from the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Structure. Like some other excretory ducts, the milk tubes consist of an external or fibrous, and of an internal or mucous coat: they and the vesicles are lined by a columnar epithelium, which becomes flattened towards the outer opening. Small glands Beneath the skin of the nipple and areola are branched lubricating of skin. glands, which open on the tubercles before mentioned. Arteries of the gland and veins. Bloodvessels.—The a/rteries are supplied by the axillary, internal mammary, and intercostal, and enter both surfaces of the gland. The veins end principally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks; but others enter the inter- costal veins. Nerves. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the thorax, viz., from the third, foui-th, ajad fifth intercostal nerves. Lymphatics. The lymphatics of the inner side open into the anterior mediastinal glands : but on the outer side they reach the axillary glands. Dissection of pectoral muscle. Bemove fat of axilla. follow vessels. Clean back of space. Trace nerves of plexus. and on inner wall. Dissection (fig. 69). With the hmb in the same position to the trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat from the surface of the great pectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at the lower border on the right side, but at the upper border on the left side. The fascia and the fat are to be taken from the axilla, without injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning first the large axillary vessels at the outer part, where these are about to enter the arm : and then following their branches which are directed to the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves along the posterior boundary. Some arterial twigs entering the axillary glands should be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles in the posterior boundary of the space, the small internal cutaneous ners'e of the musculo-spiral should be looked for near the great vessels. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are then to be defined. The smallest of these, which possibly may be destroyed, is the nen^e of Wrisberg : it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. When cleaning the serratus muscle on the ribs the student is to seek on its surface the posterior thoracic nerve ; and to trace the posterior ofEsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla. THE AXILLA. Situation The axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig. 69). and form ot jg somewhat pyramidal in form, and its apex is directed upwards the arm-pit. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^j^^ rpj^^ ^^^^^ lg j^rger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries. Boundaries. In front and behind the space is limited by folds,241 BOUNDARIES OF AXILLA. which arc constructed by the muscles passing from tlie trunk to the upper limb. In the anterior fold are the two pectoral muscles Tl>e pecton.1 but these take unequal shares in its construction, m consequence ot f^out, the difference in their size and shape :—thus the pectorahs major A extends over the whole fi-ont of the space, reaching fi-om the clavicle to the lower edge of the anterior fold ; whilst the pectorahs minor B, which is a narrow muscle, corresponds only with the middle third of the depth. In the posterior boundary, from above Fig. 69.* downwards, lie the subscapularis f, the latissimus dorsi muscle D, and the teres major E : this boundary reaches farther out than the and latissi- anterior, especially near the humerus ; and its free margin which gubsca- is formed by the latissimus dorsi, projects forwards beyond the puiaris be- level of the subscapularis. On the inner side of the axilla lie the first four ribs, with their on the intervening intercostal muscles, and the part of the serratus magnus ^'^'^ c taking origin fi-om those bones. On the outer side the space has outer sides. * View of the dissected axilla (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles : a. Pectoralis major, b. Pectoralis minor, c. Serratus magnus. D. Latissimus dorsi. E. Teres major, p. Subscapularis. o. Coracho-brachialis. n. Bicejis. Vessels: a. Axillary artery. b. Axillary vein. c. Subscapular vein. d. Subscapular artery, e. Posterior circumflex artery. Nerves: 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Ulnar. 4. Musculo-spiral. 5. Nerve of Wrisberg. 6. Internal cutaneous of musculo-spiral. 7. Subscapular. 8. Posterior pieces of the lateral cutaneous of the thorax. 9. Anterior pieces of cutaneous of the thorax. *DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 242 but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus and the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles (o and h). ^tuation of The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper ® '^^^^ margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the forefinger may be introduced into the space for the purpose of ascertaijiing the upper and base. boundaries, and the depth. The base or widest part of the pyramid is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis reach- ing from the anterior to the posterior fold. the's^aoe"^ Cbmienfe of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary spat e, ^ggggig jjj^jj ^Yie brachial plexus, with their branches ; some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of Position of the trunks of vessels and nerves. The large axillary large vessels, j^j.^gj.y. .^^gjjj ^ cross, the outer portion of the space in passing tions^"™^''' ^'^^ HQiik to the upper limb. The part of each vessel now seen lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered only by the common superficial coverings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the subscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (g). with vein On looking into the space fi-om below, the axillary vein (5) Hes on the thoracic side of the artery. and nerves. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median trunk (^) to the outside, and the ulnar (^) and the small nerve of Wrisberg (") to the inner side ; the internal cutaneous (^) gene- rally superficial to, and the musculo-spiral (*) and circumflex nerves beneath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives some branches in tliis spot. Situation of Position of the branches of vessels and nerves. The several branches toanclies of the vessels and nerves have the undermentioned position with respect to the boundaries :— in front, Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic arteiy runs to the side of the chest ; and taking the same direction, though nearer the middle of the hollow, are the small external mammary artery and vein, behind, Extending along the posterior fold, within its free margm and in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the sub- scapular vessels and nerves (d and ^) ; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve (e) bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks, inside. On the inner boundary, at the upper part, are a few small branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramifj-- on the serratus muscle ; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforating the inner boundary of the space, the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets areof the nen'e and artery to the muscle may be found. Reflect the lue^V*^ i PECTORALIS MAJOR MUSCLE. 2i3 of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-humeral. , . ^ . r , The hjmphalic glands of the axilla are arranged m two sets : one Lynn,hatu. ^ is placed along the inner side of the bloodvessels; and the other ^^.^^^, occupies the lower and hinder parts of the space, lying near and along the posterior boundary. Commonly they are ten or twelve in number ; but in number and size they varj' much. Small va.s- cular twigs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands by the side of the bloodvessels receive the lymph- atics of the arm ; and those along the hinder boundary are joined by the lympliatics of the fore part of the thorax and posterior sur- face of the Back, as well as by some fi-om the mamma. Most of the efferent ducts imite to form a trunk, which opens into the lym- g^d in the phatic duct of the neck of the same side ; some may enter separately |y™l**«" the subclavian vein. The PECTORALIS MAJOR, A, is triangular in shape, with the base at ^e^^tOj^^'-"* the thorax and the apex at the arm. It arises internally fi-om the """^^ front of the sternum, and the cartilages of the true ribs except the gheliunr^ last ; superiorly fi-om the sternal half of the clavicle ; and inferiorly clavicle, from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions,—those fi-om the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those fi-om the lower ribs upwards beneath the former; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove 1^^^'^^°^^ of the humerus for about two inches. humems. This muscle bounds the axilla anteriorly, and is connected some- times to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures and the mamma, the platysma covers the pec- toralis major close below the clavicle. A lengthened interval, which parts cover- corresponds with a depression on the surface, separates the clavicu- lar from the sternal attachment. One border (outer) is in contact tue borders, with the deltoid muscle, and with the cephalic vein and a small artery ; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. The parts covered by the muscle will be seen sub- sequently. Action. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle will move for- Use ou the wards the limb until the elbow reaches the fi-ont of the trunk, and '^*"8ing, will rotate it in. When the limb is raised, the pectorahs depresses and adducts it; raised, and acting -with other muscles inserted into the opposite side of the humerus, it may dislocate the head of that bone when the lower end is raised and fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both hmbs fixed as in climbing, the trunk will be and fixed raised by both muscles ; and the ribs can be elevated in laborious breathing. Dissection (fig. 70). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut across Dissection, now in the following manner :— Only the clavicular part is to be first divided, so that the branches Cut olavicu-DISSECTION OP THE UrPER LIMB. 244 Trace vessels and nerves. Divide the rest of the muscle to see its insertion. Tendon of insertion of pectoraUs. Parts covered by the muscle. Pectoralis minor arises from chest: inserted into coracoid. Connections with parts around. Use on scaptUa, on ribs. cut piece of the muscle, and press the limb against the edge of the table, for the purpose of raising the clavicle and rendering tight the fascia attached to that hone; on carefully removing tlie fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, the membranous costo-coracoid sheath will be seen close to the clavicle, covering the axillary vessels and nerves. At this stage the cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses in- wards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acromial thoracic vessels, wliich perforate the sheath around the axillary trunks, are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. The remaining part of the pectorahs major may be cut about its centre, and the pieces may be thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat coming into view is to be removed; and the insertion of the tendon of the pectorahs is to be followed to the humerus. Insertion of the pectoralis. The tendon of the pectoraUs consists of two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to the bone ;— the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is fi-om two inches to two inches and a half wide, and sends upwards one ex- pansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder joint, and another to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered hy the jyectoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillaiy vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOR (fig. 70, ^) resembles the preceding muscle in shape, and is extended like it fi-om the thorax to the arm. Its origin is comiected by slips with the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages; and between the ribs, with the aponeu- rosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge to their insertion mto the anterior half of the upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in forming the middle of the anterior boundary : in that position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- ing nerves. The upper border Hes near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest ; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with the short head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis. Action. Acting with the serratus magnus it moves the scapula forwards and somewhat downwards. In laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, as it takes its fixed point at the scapula.245 COSTO-COKACOID SHEATH. Dissection. Supposing the clavicle raised by pressing backwards Dissection the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels will bo demonstrated by making a transverse cut in the costo-cora- fascia, coid membrane near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. By raising the lower border of the sub- clavius this muscle will be seen to be incased by fascia, which is attached to the bone both before and behind it. The costo-coracoicl membrane, or ligament (fig. 70), is a firm ^o^Oj^cora- membranous band, which receives this name from its attachment on the one side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the scapula. Between those points it is inserted into the clavicle, en- conceals closing the subcla^^us muscle ; and is joined by the piece of fascia "'1^°'^^^' that incases the small pectoral muscle. From its strength and position it gives protection to the vessels suiTounded by their loose sheath. When traced downwards it is found to descend on the axillary and joins vessels and nerves, joining externally the fascia on the coraco- vessels"'^ brachialis muscle, and blending with the sheath of the axillary vessels beneath the small pectoral muscle. Its extent is not so great on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillaiy vein. The sheath of the axillaiy vessels and ner^'-es, e, is derived from sheath of > . V6SS6I3 * the deep fascia of the neck, being pi-olonged from that on the scaleni muscles ; and resembles, in its form and office, the funnel- shaped tube of membrane surroimding the femoral vessels in the upper pai-t of the thigh. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, strongest iu where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior part of the tube is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromial thoracic vessels (a), and the anterior thoracic nerve (^). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, clean the the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the subclavius muscle, '^'^ssels. and the axillary vessels and nerves with their branches, are to be carefully cleaned. The SUBCLAVIUS muscle (fig. 70, °) is roundish in form, and is Subclavius placed between the clavicle and the rib. It arises by a tendon from ^^^"=1^. the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres ascend is attached obliquely, and are inserted into a groove on the under smface of and^ftStrih the clavicle, which reaches between the two tubercles (internal and external) for the attachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, Connec- and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. ' Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula ; but Use. if the shoulder is fixed it elevates the first rib. The AXILLARY ABTERY (fig. 70) continues the subclavian trunk Axillary to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to wliich this name is > applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the lower v-tent- border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h). ■*DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 246 course, arched in the axilla. In the axillaa-y space its position will be marked by a line from the middle of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis Its direction will vary with the position of the limb to the trunk • for when the arm hes by the side of the body the vessel is curved' Its convexity bemg upwards; and in proportion as the limb is re- Fig. 70.* The depth V arles. Connec- tions :— above small pectoral; with muscle.s. moved to a right angle with the chest, the artery becomes straight- In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply placed, but it becomes superficial as it approaches the arm. Its connections with the surroundmg objects are numerous ; and the description of these will be methodised by dividmg the arteiy into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. Above the small pectoral muscle the artery is contained in the axillary sheath of membrane, E. This part is concealed by the clavi- cular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the * Second view of the dissection of the thorax (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, cut. B. Pectoralis minor, c. Serratus magnus, D. Subclavius. e. Axillary sheath. V. Subscapnlaris. g. Latissimus doi-si. H. Teres major, j. Coraco-bracliialis. k. Biceps. Vessels: a. Acromial- thoracic branch, h. Long thoracic branch, c. Subscapular branch, d. Ax- illary artery, e. Cephalic vein. /. Brachial veins joining the axillai-j- vein, g. Nerves: 1 and 2. Anterior thoracic branches. 3. Subscapular branch. 4. Nerve to the seiratus. 5. Intercosto-humcral branch.247 AXILLARY ARTERY. intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein {(j). The cephalic vessels, vem (e), and offsets of the acromial thoracic artery and vem, cross over it. , . , , , On the acromial side lie the two cords of the brachial plexus, andnervea. separated from the vessel by a slight interval. Superficial to it lies an anterior thoracic nerve ; and beneath, is the posterior thoracic. Beneath the pectoralis, the pectoralis minor and major B and A ^^^^^\. are superficial to the axillary vessel. But there is not any muscle ^.^^ immediately in contact behind, for the artery is placed across the muscles, top of the axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position re- quired by the dissection. The coriipanion vein (g) lies to the inner side, but separated from vein, the arterial trunk by a bundle of nerves. In this position the cords of the brachial* plexus, lie around it, one nerves, being outside, a second inside, and a thu-d beneath the artery. Beyond the pectoralis minor the artery is concealed by the ^^'"^^,^5^°°'^ lower border of the great pectoral muscle A, but thence to its toral; termination it is covered only by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are the subscapularis muscle, F, and the tendons of the ^^^'^j^^ latissimus and teres, G and H. To the outer side is the coraco- brachialis muscle, J. The axillary vein remains a^ above on the thoracic side of the with vein, artery. Here the arteiy Kes in the midst of the large trunks of nerves and nerves, into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nerve of Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the rausculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of Branches to the thorax and the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in number ; two (superior and acromial thoracic) arise from the arteiy above the pectoralis minor; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle ; and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two cu-cumflex ; the and the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. The last offsets are the external mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest offset. Upper and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side of the chest, anastomosing witli the intercostal arteries. Tlie acromial thoracic branch (fig. 70, a) is a short trunk on the Acromial front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pecto- ^ai^'^^'^ ralis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed inwards, outwards, and upwards :— a. The inner set supply the thoracic muscles, and give a few offsets and supplies248 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. thorax and shoulder : inferior acroniinl oftset. muscular of^ets. Alar tho- racic. Long tho- racic. External mammai-y. Subscapular has a dorsal branch, and infra- scapular. Two circum flex. Muscular. Axillary vein, extent and connections Branches. Dissection of brachial plexus to the side of the chest to anastomose with the intercostal and other thoracic arteries. 6. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid ; but one small artery accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance ; and another {inferior acromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and anastomoses on the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery of the neck (p. 387). c. One or two small twigs ascend to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. The alar tlioracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, and its place is taken by offsets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries; it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axillary space. The long thoracic branch is directed along the border of the pecto- ralis minor (fig. 70, &) to about the sixth intercostal space; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. An external mammary artery is commonly met with, especially in the female ; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a companion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the preceding. The subscajmlar branch (fig. 70, c) courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus, and the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles : it gives many ofEsets to the glands of the space. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal branch round the edge of the subscapular muscle : this gives an infrascapular offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dis- sected (p. 263). The subscapular artery is fi-equently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillaiy, or with branches of the bracliial artery. ■ The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise near the border of the subscapular muscle. One turns in front of, and the other behind the humerus. They will be followed in the examina- tion of the arm (p. 258). Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. The AXILLARY VEIN {g) continues upwards the basilic vein of the arm and has the same extent and connections as the axillaiy artery. It lies to the thoracic side of its artery, and receives thoracic and ■ shoulder branches. Opposite the subscapular muscle it is joined externally by a large vein, which is formed by the union of the veniB comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. , . i , Dissection. To follow out the branches of the brachial plexus, cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion mto the coracoid process, and turn it towards the chest, but without injurmg the thoracic nei-ves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are next to249 BRACHIAL TLEXUS. be cut across below the second rib,** hid toj be drawn down with hooks; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS results from the union of the anterior Nerves ^ branches of the four lower cervical nei-ves 'with part of the first ^"^JJJ^f dorsal ; and a slip is added to it above, from the lowest nei-ve in rlexus. the cervical plexus. It is placed successively in the neck and the its situatioi^ axilla, and is divided opposite the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 72). The part below the cla\'icle has the same connections with the ^.Q^^g'^''""^'^" surrounding muscles as the axillary artery. The nerve trunks interlace in it generally in the following manner :— At first the plexus consists of two bundles of nerves, which lie J''" 'V^,"'®:^ ^ • 1 1 form three on the outer side of the arteiy, and are thus constituted ;—the one cords nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical''with a piece of the first dorsal nerve ; and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cer\'ical nerves. A little lower down a third or posterior cord is produced by the union of two fasciculi, one fi'orn each of the other bundles ; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus con- ^''^ sists of three large cords, one being on the outer side, another in- ternal to, and the third behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some deviation from the above-mentioned arrangement. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle arise fi-om the '^'"'^=■.^1^ several cords in the following way :— viz., ' The outer card gives origin to one anterior thoraqic branch, the from the musculo-cutaneous trunk, and the outer head of the median nerve. The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord fiu-nishes the subscapular branches, and ends |°rd'''^°^ in the circumflex and musculo-spiral trunks. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are dissected to their The foUow- termination at present ; the remaining nerves will be seen in the "jli^^'® arm. The anterior tlioracic branches (fig. 70, ' and '^), two in number, ^"^^ anterior are named outer and inner, like the cords from which they come. The outer nerve crosses inwards over the axillary artery, to the outer under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch. The inner thoracic branch turns upw ards between the artery and and inner, vein, and after receiving the offset from the other, ends in many branches to the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through the pectoralis minor or above its border. The subscapular nerves are three in number, and take their names Three sub- from the muscles supplied :— scapular: * The student must bo careful not to cut tlie vessels liiglier than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 lower, and long sub- scapular. Posterior tlioracic. Latissimus dorsi. Insertion Dissection of the ser- ratus. Serratus muscle is attached to the ribs and scapula, and its fibres seem to fonn three parts. Connections of the muscle. Use on scapula. Dissection The branch of the ^hscapularis is the highest and smallest, and enters the upper part of that muscle. The nerve of the teres major gives a small offset to the inferior part of the subscapularis, and ends in its muscle. A long nei-ve of the latissimus dorsi Q takes the course of the subscapular arterj^ along the posterior wall of the axilla, and enters the fleshy fibres near the outer end. Another small nerve, nerve to tite serratus {\ posterior thoracic), lies on the surface of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 72),fi-om the fifth and sixth cervical ner\'es ; it descends behind the axillary artery, and enters that surface of the sen-atus magnus vphich is turned towards the axilla. The LATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE, G, may be examined as far as it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising from the spinal column and the back of the trunk, and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove by a tendon, one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a bursa intervenes between them near the insertion. Dissection. To lay bare the serratus muscle between the side of the chest and the base of the scapula, the arm is to be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula fi-om the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus may be cut through opposite the third rib ; and the fat and fascia should be cleaned from the muscular fibres. The SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE (fig. 71, a) extends between the scapula and the thorax. It arises by nine pointed processes firom the outer surface of the eight upper ribs,—the second rib having two pieces ; and between the ribs it takes origin from the aponeurosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge towards the base and angles of the scapula, but from a difference in their direc- tion the muscle appears to consist of three parts. The upper part is attached internally to the first two ribs and an aponeurotic arch between them ; and externally to an impression on the ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle piece, which is very thin, extends from the second, tliird, and fourth ribs, to the base of the shoulder bone. And a loioer portion, which is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates with like processes of origin of the external obhque muscle ; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the special surface on the costal aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The serratus is applied against the ribs and the intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves : in the ordinary position of the arm the scapula and the subscapularis are in contact with it. Action. The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried fonvards. But the lower and stronger fibres can move forwards the lower angle, rotating the bone around an axis through the centre, and raise the acromion. Dissection. The intercostal muscles will be brought into view by251 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. Outer layer is deficient anteriorly detaching the processes of origin of the seruatus fi-ora the nbs for of the inter- a couple of inches, and by taking away the loose tissue on the sur- face. Towards the front of the chest is a thin aponeurosis, which is contuuied forwards from each external intercostal to the sternum ; this is to be retained in the third intercostal space. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. _ _ intercostal The INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES are named from their position between ^u^gies are the ribs. There are two layers in each space, but neither occupies two layers, the whole length of the space. The direction of ^'g- '^^•* the fibres differs in each stratum ; for, whilst the fibres of the external muscle run very ob- liquely downwards and forwards, those of the internal have an oppo- site direction between the osseous parts of the ribs, so that the two sets cross. The external muscle is fixed to the outer mar- gin of the ribs of each intercostal space, and consists of fleshy and tendinous fibres. Pos- teriorly the fibres begin at or near the tubercle of the rib ; and ante- riorly thej' end short of the middle line, but after a different manner in the upper and lower spaces :—In the intervals between difference the true ribs, they cease near the costal cartilages, and a thin ^^oj^^ and aponeurosis is continued onwards from the point of ending to the sternum. In the lower spaces they are continued between the cartilages (Theile) reaching the end of the ribs in the last two. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle Avill be seen by cutting Dissection through and removing the external layer and the fascia in one of "njfsgie^"^ the widest spaces, say the second ; it will be recognized by the difference in the direction of the fibres. Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib above, of nerves the intercostal nerve and vessels will appear. A branch of the nerve ' to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscle ; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forwards in one or more spaces to the sternum, and the sur- face of the thorax. The liinder part of the muscles will be seen in the dissection of the Back and Thorax. Diagram of the attackments of the serratus magnus muscle, A.252 DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. Inner layer deficient behinil; join.s inter- nal oblique below. Use of outer muscles; inner layer, laterally, in front. Both acting. Dissection of internal manunary vessels. Triangularis sterni is in the thorax and attached to the ribs. Connec- tions. Use. The internal intercostal muscle, attached to the inner border of the ribs bounding the intercostal space, begins in front at the ex- tremity of the ribs, and ceases behind near tlicir angles. Posteriorly they do not end at the same distance fi-om the spine, for the upper and lower approach nearer than the middle ; and, anteriorly, in the two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with the internal obHque of the abdomen. One surface is covered by the external muscle and the intercostal vessels and nerve ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Action. By the alternate action of the intercostal muscles the ribs ai'e moved in respiration. The external intercostals elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, so as to enlarge the thorax in the antero-posterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspiration. The intei-nal intercostals act in a different way at the side and fore part of the chest. Between the osseous parts of the ribs they depress and turn in those bones, diminishing the size of the thorax ; and they are brought into use in expiration. Between the rib-cartilages they raise the ribs, and become muscles of inspiration, like the outer layer. If both sets of muscles contract simultaneously the motion of the ribs will be arrested ; or if two or more ribs are broken near the spinal column, the muscles of the space or spaces injm-ed will be unable to move those bones. Dissection. To bring into \\ew the triangularis sterai muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilages of the tnie ribs, except the first and seventh, are to be taken away with the Intervening muscles on the right side of the body but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nei-ves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis stemi will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNi (fig. 72, a) is a thin muscle beneath the costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the xiphoid cartilage, fi-om the side of the sternum as high as the tliird costal cartilage, and usually from the inner ends of the lower three true costal cartilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most obhque, and are inserted by fleshy f ascicuH into the true ribs except the last two and the first, at the jnnction of the bone and cartilage ; and into an aponeurosis in the intercostal spaces. The muscle is covered by the ribs and the internal intercostals, and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura. Its lower fibres touch those of the transver- salis abdominis (fig. 72, ■ Action. The muscle assists in depressing the anterior ends of the * On the left side the vessels and the muscle may have been destroyed by the injection of the body.253 INTERNAL MAMMARY VESSELS. courses tlirough tliorax to abdomen. ribs ; and by diminishing the size of - the thorax, it becomes dn expiratory muscle. i i • internal Tlie internal mammarij artery is a brancli of the subclavian ^^^^^^^^^ (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the hrst rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventh ribs ; there it gives ex- ternally a large muscular branch (musculo-phrenic), and passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath ^'g- ^2. of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In the chest the artery lies on the * pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The follow- ing hranclies take ori- gin in the thorax :— a. A small branch {comes nervi phrenici) arises as soon as the artery enters the chest, and descends to tbe diaphragm along the phrenic nerve. b. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains mediastinal of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, intercostal, one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- ^""^ nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating hranclies, one or two opposite each space, pierce perforating the internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nersi-es : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the musculo- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the Avail of branch" the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm : it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 454.) Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which Veins, opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves, seen now in the anterior half of their extent, Intorcostal are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and supply Branches with phrenic nerve, nerves ; * View from behind of tho attachments of the triangularis sterni muscle, A.254 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. course. teiniina- tion, ami ■brandies. Intercostal arteries branch into two : offsets. At this stage the thorax and tack are dissected. the wall of the thorax. Placed at first between the layers of the intercostal muscles, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax, about midway between the spine and the sternum. Diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is con- tinued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal intercostal muscle as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The aortic intercostal arteries lie with the nerves between the strata of intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib bounding the intercostal space. About the mid point of the space (from before back) the artery bifurcates :—one branch follows the line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib ; both anastomose anteriorly with the intercostal offsets of the internal mammary artery. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax ; and other branches are fmnished to the thoracic wall. Directions. The dissector of the upper limb waits now the ap- pointed time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the body is turned he is to take his share in the dissection of the Back, and to proceed with the paragraphs marked for him in Chapter V. After the Back is finished the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula. Section II. Position. Dissection of mnscles. Muscles inserted into xipper margin of the scapula. into lower mai'gin; SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. After the limb has been separated fi-om the trunk it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection. The different muscles that have been traced to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and the Back, are now to be cleaned, and to be followed to their insertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining the osseous attachment. Between the larger rhomboid muscle and the serratus magnus at the base of the scapula, run the posterior scapular artery and vein, whose ramifications are to be traced. To the borders and the angles of the scapula the following muscles are connected :— From the upper margin of the scapula arises one muscle, the omo- hyoid (fig. 73, e). At its origm that muscle is about half an inch wide ; it is attached to the edge of the bone behind the notch, and sometimes to the ligament which converts the notch into a foramen. The loioer margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head of the255 SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE. triceps (tig. 79, a), and to some fibres of tlie teres major, G ; these attachments will be ascertained in the progress of the dissection. Tiie base of the bone has many muscles inserted into it (fig. 74). Between the superior angle and the spine is the levator anguli scapuhe, ii. Opposite the spine the rhomboideus minor, J, is fixed. And between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major, ic, is attached : the upper fibres of this muscle end often m an aponeurotic arch, mid are connected in- Pig- 73. directly to the bone by means of an expan- sion from it. Internal to those muscles, and inserted into all the base of the scapula, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 73, d). On the hiner surface l of the upper and lower angles of the scapula the fibres of the serra- tus magnus are col- lected. On the outer surface of the inferior angle lies the teres major (fig. 74, d) which ■will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the fore part of the upper surface of the coracoid process may be ascertained at this stage of the dissection (fig. 73, f). Dissection. By the separation of the serratus from the sub- scapularis a thin fascia comes into view, wliich belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins : after it has been obsers-ed, it may be removed. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its in- sertion into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels, and nerves, and the offsets of these to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig. 73, a) occupies the under surface of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. The muscle arises from the concave surface on the ventral aspect of the scapula, except at the angles, and this attachment reaches forwards nearly to the neck ; it is miited also to into the base ; into the angles of tlie bone ; into cora- coid process. Dissection and fascia. of sub-" scapularis. Subscapu- laris mis the hollow of scapula ; * View of the subscapularis and the surrounding muscles. The other muscles fixed into the base of the scapula are shown in fig. 74. A. Sub- scapularis. B. Teres major, o. Latissimus dorsi. n, Serratus magnus. E. Omo-Lyoideu.s. p. Pectoralis minor, o. Biceps, h. Coraco-brachialia. a. Supra-scapular artery. 1. Supra-scapular nerve passing through tha notch.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 256 is insertecl into iuuno- lus. Connec- tions, Use ■with arm loose and fixed. Dissection of the small infra- scapulal• artery. Position of Umb. Dissection of the shoulder. Cutaneous nerves. Dissection of deltoid muscle. the ridges of the bone by tendinous processes. Externally it is in- serted by a tendon into the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy fibres into the neck for nearly an inch below that process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact with the axillaiy vessels and nerves and the serratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and tlie shoulder joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which communicates generally with the synovial membrane of that joint. The lower border projects much beyond the scapula; it is contiguous to the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and'the long head of the triceps: along this border is the subscapular arteiy, which gives backwards its dorsal branch. Action. It rotates in the hanging limb ; and when the humerus is raised it depresses that bone. If the humerus is fixed the subscapularis supports the shoulder joint with the other scapular muscles. Dissection. The subscapular muscle is to be separated from the scapula, but a thin layer of fibres, in which the vessels lie, is to be left on the bone ; as it is raised its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder joint, and the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anasto- mosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres. The infrascapular artery ramifies on the ventral sm-face of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 248) : entering beneath the subscapularis muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra and posterior scapular branches. Position. The examination of the muscles on the opposite sur- face of the scapula may be next undertaken. For this purpose the scapula is to be turned over ; and a block, which is deep enough to make the shoulder prominent, is to be placed between that bone and the arm. Dissection. The skin is to be removed from the prominence of the shoulder, by beginning at the anterior border of the deltoid muscle. After its removal some small cutaneous nerves are to be found in the fat:—the upper of these extend over the acromion ; and another comes to the surface about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, super-acromial, descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cei-vical plexus (p. 57.). A cutaneous hranch of the circinuflex nerve (fig. 74,") turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and fascia are now to be taken from the fleshy deltoid, its fibres being made tense at the same time. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards along tlie fibres, in order that its coai-se muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. As the257 DELTOID MUSCLE. posterior edge is approaclied, the cutaneous nerve and vessels escaping from beneath it, are to be dissected out. , , , . At the same time the fascia may be removed fi-om the back ot the scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE is triangular in form (fig. 74, f), with the Deltoi.l base at the scapula and clavicle, and the apex at the humerus. It arises from nearly all the lower border of the spine of the scapula, from the anterior edge of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into a triangular impression, two to three inches long and Insertion, about one inch wide at the base, above the middle of the humerus on the outer surface. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis major muscle A'lj?'^^"*' and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the trapezius to the bones of the shoulder; the insertion is imited with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus is attached on each side of it. Action. The whole muscle raises the humerus and abducts it Use oii^^ from the trunk. The limb being raised, the anterior fibres will carry it forwards, and the posterior fibres will move it backwards. When the humerus is fixed as in climbing, the muscle assists in fixed limb, supporting the weight of the body, and strengthening the shoulder joint. Dissection (fig. 74). The deltoid is to be di-^dded near its origin. Dissection and is to be thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels and aeitow!' nerve beneath will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the head of the humerus comes into sight. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve ; and the size of the bursa having been looked to, the remains are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should be examined. Parts covered hy deltoid. The deltoid conceals the head and upper parts end of the humerus, and those parts of the dorsal scapular muscles which are fixed to the great tuberosity. A large bursa, sometimes divided into sacs, intervenes between the head of the humerus and the under surface of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nen'^e, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. Dissection. By following back the posterior circumflex vessels Dissection and nerve through a space between the humerus and the long head chl-umHcT of the triceps, o, their connection with the axillary trunks will be vessels, arrived at. In clearing the fat from the space a branch of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous tissue. Arching outwards in front of the neck of the humerus, is the and anterior, small anterior circumflex artery : this is to be cleaned. The circumflex arteries arise near the termination of the axillaiy Two circum- „ flex arteries.DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. 258 trunk (p. 248) ; they are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior fi-om their position to the neck of the humerus, anterior and The anierio7' branch is a small artery, which courses beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and ascends in the bicipital gi-oove to the articulation and the head of the humerus : it anasto- moses with small offsets of the posterior circumflex. posterior; The posterior circumflex artery (fig. 74, a), larger in size, winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head Fig. 74.* of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromial thoracic and upper profunda arteries. its offsets. Branches are given from it to the head of the humerus and the shoulder joint, and to anastomose with the anterior circumflex artery. It supplies branches likewise to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integuments. One circum- The circumflex nerve (fig. 74, ^) leaves the arm-pit with the posterior flex nerve; circumflex artery (p. 249), and bends round the neck of the humerus, * View of the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula, and of the circumflex vessels and nerve. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: a. Supra-spinatus. B. Infra-spinatus. c. Teres minor. D. Teres major. E. Latissimus dorsi. F. Deltoid. G. Ti-iceps (long head). H. Levator anguli scapulae, j. llhom- boideus minor, k. Rhomboideus major. Arteries: a. Posterior circumflex artery. 6. Branch to teres minor, c. Dorsal scapular branch of subscapular. Nerves: 1. Posterior circumflex. 2. Its cutaneous offset to the ai-m. 3. Branch to the teres minor muscle. >259 DORSAL SCAPULAR MUSCLES. beneath the deltoid muscle in which it ends. Many and large branches e„dH in enter the deltoid, and terminate in it; one or two filaments pierce the fibres and become cutaneous. , , , Branches. In the a.Killa it gives an articular filament to the under part of the shoulder-joint. Behind the humerus it furnishes an offset ^ ^^^^ to the teres minor F), which has a reddish gangliform swelling on it. And at the edge of the deltoid it gives origin to the cutaneous cutaneou.s. nerve (^) before noticed. . , t <• The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 74, ^) occupics the infi-aspmal tus arises part of the scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus. The from muscle anses from the infraspinal fossa, except at three spots, viz. fossa of that the neck, and the lower angle and inferior border where the teres '"^^ ' muscles are attached ; it arises also fi-om the lower side of the spmous process, and from the special fascia covering the surface. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle Insertion, impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins the tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor. A part of the muscle is subcutaneous, and the fibres arising from partly ^ „ , T 1 ,1 , T XI ^■ ■ covered by the spine of the scapula overlay the tendon : the upper portion is jeitoid. concealed l)y the deltoid, and the lower end, by the latissimus dorsi. The lower border is parallel to the teres mmor, with which Other con- it is sometimes imited. The muscle lies on the scapula and the ' humero-scapular articulation, but between it and the joint is a small bursa. Action. With the humerus hanging it acts as a rotator outwards ; Use. and when the bone is raised it will move the same backwards in concert with the hinder part of the deltoid. The TERES MINOR (fig. 74, ^) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often Teres minor • 1 • 1, ^ • , 1 ' T 11 1 1 IS on back of united inseparably -with the precedmg muscle, along whose lower the scapula. border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula from a special surface along the upper two tliirds of the inferior costa of the bone, and from the investing fascia ; and it is inserted by a tendon into insertion. the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy fibres into the humerus below that spot—about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid ; it rests on the long Parts head of the triceps and the shoulder joint. Underneath it the dorsal '''"'"'^^ branch of the subscapular artery turns. Action. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves it Use on arm, back ; the arm being raised the teres depresses the humerus. In climbing it supports the joint like the preceding scapular on joint, muscles. Tlie TERES MAJOR musclc (fig. 74, ^) is extended fi-om the inferior Teres majo angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from the rough Origin. dorsal surface of the bone at the inferior angle ; from the inferior costa as far forwards as an inch from the long head of the triceps; and from the fascia covering the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon which is inserted partly into, and partly beliind the inner insertion. edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla : Aiijacent ^ 2 muscles,260 DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. tendon anil biirsaj. Use on swinging and fixed limb. Spaces be- tween the teres: anterior and posterior. Dissection of ligaments of the cla- vicle. capsular and of scapula. Union of tlie clavicle and scapula. Coraco-cla- vicular has a conical and a sqiTare piece. and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus (fig. 70). At its origin it is in contact with the latissimus dorsi. The upper border is contiguous to the subscapularis muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is one inch and a half to two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latissimus : the two are separated above by a bursa ; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa lies between the tendon and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs it is carried back behind the trunk, and is rotated inwards by the muscle. The humerus being raised, the muscle depresses and abducts it. With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower angle of the scapula to move forwards. Below the scapula (inferior costa), where the teres muscles sepa- rate from one another, is a triangular interval, which is bounded in front by the shaft of the humenis, and above and below by the teres muscles. This space is divided into two by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, wliich is of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve pass : and opposite the posterior triangular space, the dorsal branch (c) of the subscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection (fig. 75). In order that the acromion process may be sawn through to expose the supraspinatus muscle, the ligaments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injtured by such a pro- ceeding, should be next dissected. A ligament (coraco-clavicular) ascends from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle : on removing the areolar tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and posterior, differing in size, and in the dhection of the fibres. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be recogniseci by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid musqles. Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passing transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process ; and a small fasci- culus (posterior proper ligament), placed over the notch in the superior costa, are then to be defined. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula (fig. 75). The outer end of the clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct joint with the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two portions, each having a different direction and designation. The posterior piece (^), called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process ; and by its base to the tubercle and the contiguous imder surface of the clavick, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part (-), trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid26i LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE. piece : it is connected inferiorly to the inner border of the caracoid process along the hinder half ; and superiorly to the line on the under surface of the clavicle which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the hgament support the scapula in a state Useo/"g''- of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of Fig. 75.' that bone ; thus when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and Avhen upwards, by the conoid piece. AcromiO'Clavicular articulation. The articular sm-faces of the clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are connected together by a cajpsule formed of strong fibres. Some of the fibres are thicker above and below, and are considered to constitute a superior find an inferior ligament. An interarticular fihro-cartilage generally exists at the upper part of the joint ; but sometimes it forms a complete interarticular septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial membranes present in the joint ; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. Movements. In this articulation there are limited fore and back, and up and down movements of the scapula. Besides, there is a gliding movement of the acromion on the clavicle in rotation of the scapula. For instance, when the acro- mion is depressed, its articular surface moves from above down at the fore part of the joint, and fi-om below up at the back. When Joint with acromion. Capsule. Fibro-carti- lage, and synovial sac. Movements in rotation of scapula. * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the shoulder joint (altered from Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Anterior ligament of the scapula. 4. Posterior scapular ligament. 6. Capsule of the shoulder joint. 6. Tendon of the long head of the biceps entering the joint. 7. Tendon of the subscapularis muscle. 8. Coraco- humeral ligament.DISSECTION OF THE UrrER LIMB. 262 Ligaments of scapula. Posterior and anterior ; this is formed of two pieces. Use. Dissection. Supraspina- tus; origin is inserted into hiune- rus. Connec- tions. Use. Dissection of supra- scapular vessels. Supra- the acromion is elevated the surface moves in exactly the opposite way. Scapular Liqaments. The special ligaments of the scapula are two in number, anterior and posterior, and extend from one point of the bone to another. The j^osterior hgament (*) is a nan-ow fasciculus of fibres stretching across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. By one end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through wliich the suprascapular nerve passes. The anterior or coraco-acromial ligament (^) is triangular in form, and extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder joint. The ligament consists usually of two thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thin intervening part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder joint, which stops the ascent of the head of the humerus. Dissection. To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion process is to be sawn through, and to be turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle ; but in a repetition of the dissection of the upper limb, the bone may be left uncut for the purpose of seeing the use of the coraco-acromial arch. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be taken away after it has been observed. The supeaspinatus muscle (fig. 74, ■*^) has the same form as the hollow of the bone it fills. It arises from the surface of the supra- spinal fossa of the scapula, except from the cendcal part; from the upper side of the spine of the bone ; and from the fascia covering the surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder joint, and is inserted into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion process ; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Action. It comes into use with the deltoid in raising the limb, and supporting the joint. Dissection (fig. 79). The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the scapula can be traced by detacliing from behind forwards the supra and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramif}dng blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infi-aspinal fossa ; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres mmor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anas- tomosis between those vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The suprascapular artery (a) is derived from the subclavianDOESAL SCAPULAR VESSELS. 263 trunk, and is one of the branches of the thyroid axis (p 70). sca^,«iar After a short course in the neck it passes over the hgament at the superior costa, and crossing beneath tlie supraspinatus muscle, ends ends ^_ in the infi-aspinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the mfi-aspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular, and the posterior scapular of the subclavian (p. 70). Beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes a supraspinal_ branch for e^ve^^^p.^^^ the supply of the muscle, the bone, and the shoulder joint. branch. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external vein, jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve Q) is a branch of the brachial plexus ^2;P;'^;:^,^P'^- (p. 73). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it enters the supra- spinal fossa beneath the posterior special ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus ; and it is continued be- branches, beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The ner\'e gives some articular filaments to the shoulder joint. Articular and other offsets to the scapula. The posterior scapular artery runs along the base of the scapula Posterior beneath the rhomboid muscles, fm-nisloing offsets to them and the arteiy.^' surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the Back (p. 387). The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery (b, p. 248) turns Dorsal below the inferior costa of the scapula, opposite the posterior of subscapular the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infra- artery, spinal fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspinatus, and communicates with the suprascapular artery. This vessel sends a branch along the dorsum of the scapula between the teres muscles, towards the inferior angle of the bone. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves Position on the front of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the front uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder sur- and inci- f aces of the arm and elbow joint. To reflect it, make one incision gj^",^ along the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the elbow ; and at the termination, a second cut half round the forearm. Strip now the skin from the limb as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nei-ves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 76) may be sought first in the fat: seek super- they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue "'^''^^ from beneath the integument. One n the centre of the forearm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. External264 DISSECTION OF THE AEM. Trace cuta- neous nerves of outer side and inner side of the limb. Superficial fat. The cuta- neous veins median vein divides into two branches. Position and connections of median cephalic, and of the to this is a small vein (radial) ; and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, occupying the front and back of the forearm. At the elbow these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cepliaHc) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves may be next traced out. Where they per- forate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat ; and this layer must be scraped through to find them. On the outer side of the arm, about its middle, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral are to be sought. In the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm; and rather external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower tliird of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg ; and in the upper tliird, follow the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it encloses the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and the connections of the super- ficial veins in front of the elbow are to be attentively noted by the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised in one of them. The median vein of the forearm (fig. 76,-) divides into two branches, internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of di^dsion it is joined by an offset fi-om a deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins (^) to form the basihc vein of the inner side of tlie arm. The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction Avith the radial vein (') gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The connections of the two veins into which the median bifm- cates are described below:— The median cephalic vein (fig. 76) is directed obliquely, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the forearm. Beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; and over it some small offsets fi'om that nerve are directed. This veia is altogether removed fi-om the bracliial artery, aiid is generally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet it does not generally yield much blood, in consequence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The median basilic vein (fig. 76,^ is more horizontal m direction265 CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. Fig. 76. than the preceding, and crosses the brachial artery. It is larger than the corresponding vein oO the outer side of the arni, and is firmly supported by the underlying fascia,—the aponeurosis of tlic arm, strengthened by fibres from the biceps tendon, intervening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of the internaJ cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median basilic is the vein on wliich the operation of blood-letting is com- monly performed. It is selected in con- sequence of its usually larger size, and more superficial position, and of the ease with wliich it may be compressed ; but from its close proximity to the brachial vessels, the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The hasilic vein (fig. 76,^), commencing as before said, ascends near the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, where it passes beneath the deep fascia, and is continuous with the axillary vein. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial artery. The cephalic vein (fig. 76, -), is derived chiefly from the external branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small : it is continued to the shoulder along the outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lijmpliatics of the arm lie for the most part along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the axilla. A few lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and end as the others in the axillary glands. One or more superficial lymphatic glands are commonly found near the inner condyle of the humerus. Cutaneous Nerves. The superficial nerves of tlie arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-liunieral) all are derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other ner\'es. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo-spiral and musculo-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves, large and small, (fi-om the plexus,) a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spu'al, and the intercosto-humeral nerve. median ba- silic vein. Venesection is practised in this brancli. Basilic vein on inner side of the ann. Ceiihalic vein at outer side. Superficial lymphatics. Glands. Tlie super- ficial nerves. * Cutaneous veins and nerves at the bend of tlie elbow. (Quaiii's "Arteries.") —1. Median basilic vein. 2. Median vein of tlie forearm bifurcating. 3. Anterior ulnar veins. 4. Cephalic vein formed by radial from behind and the median cephalic in front. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is by the side of it. 5. Basilic vein, with the largo internal cutaneous nerve by its side. 6. Brachial artery, with its companion veins (one cut). 7. lladial vein.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 266 Two exter- nal cutane- ous of nuis- culo-sinral, upper, and lower. One of imis- culo-cuta- neoiis. Two inter- nal cutane- ous of bracli' ial plexus: large and small. Cutaneous of niusoulo- splral. Intercnsto- humeral. Deep fascia of the arm. Disposition above and below; forms inter- muscular septa. Directions to be ob- ser\'ed. External cutaneous Nerves. The external cutaneous Iranches of the miisculo-spiral verve are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the limb about tlie middle. The upper small one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and reaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments, is continued to the forearm. The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. Internal cutaneous Nerves. The larger internal cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia in two pieces, or as one trunk that divides almost directly into two :—Its external branch passes beneath the median basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the internal winds over the inner condyle of the humerus to the back of the forearm. A cutaneous offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. The small internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces, and joins above the elbow the inner branch of the larger internal cutaneous nen'e. The internal cutaneous hranch of the musculo-spiral nerve, becoming subcutaneous in the upper third, winds to the back of the arm, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The intercosto-humeral branch of the second intercostal nerve (p. 238), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and ramifies in the inner side and posterior surface of the arm in the upper half. But the size and distribution of the nerve will depend upon the develop- ment of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the musculo-spiral. The aponeurosis of the arm is a white shining membrane which surrounds the limb, and sends inwards processes between the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons :—thus in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it ; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectorahs major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula, clavicle, and chest. Inferiorly it is continued to the forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of the humerus, so as to give rise to the intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions. As the back of the arm will not be dissected now, the skin may be replaced on it until the fi-ont has been exammed.JIUSCLES OF THE ARM. 207 And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb these should be tied together with string m their natural position to one another, and fastened to the coracoid ^ p'oSo«. The limb is still to lie on the baek, but the scapula is i;osiUonof to be raised by means of a small block ; and the bladebone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles, ilie inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissectoi-. Dmection. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of 7„~ the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the integuments ; and it is to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the Imife must be and vessels, carried m the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle ; and to prevent the displacement of the brachial artery and its nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elbow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels : ^^'^11^°'''' the artery should be followed into it, to show its ending in the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Fkont of the Arm. There are only three Position of muscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the ^^^^^l^^ limb is the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The BICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 78, ^) forms the prominence observable Biceps Las on the fi-ont of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either 2^^'^°^^^^"'^ end ; and the upper end consists of tAvo tendinous pieces of dif- ferent lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head Origin from arises fi-om the apex of the coracoid process in common with the "capula. coraco-brachialis muscle (fig. 73) ; and the long head is attached to the upper part of the glenoid caA'ity of the scapula, Avithin the capsule of the shoulder joint (fig. 89). Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and blend about the middle of the arm in a fleshy belly, Avliich is somewhat flattened fi-om before back. In- insertion feriorly the biceps ends in a tendon, and is inserted into the tubercle "^t" radius, of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At the upper Parts coA-er- part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; and at the lower end the tendon dips into the holloAv in front of the elboAv, haAnng previously given an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are the brachialis anticus muscle, the and beneath musculo-cutaneous nei-ve, and the upper part of the humerus. Its inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of ?"guki'e°to'^'^ the humerus, but above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle inter- artery, venes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius, Avill be afterwards learnt.268 DISSECTION OP THE ARM. Use on radius, iiiul tliu trunk. on luinipru.s. Coracu- bracliiiilis. Origin. Insertion. Connections of siu'rouud- ing parts. Use on liml' and fixed. Brachial artery ex- tends to elbow. Position to bone, and in the limb. Connec- tions with fasciaj and muscles, with veins, Action. It bends the elbow-joint, and acts powerfully in supi- nating the radius. When the body is hanging by the hands it will apply the scapula firmly to the humerus, and will assist in raising the trunk. With the arm hanging and the radius fixed, the long head will assist the abductors in removing the limb from the thorax; and after the limb is abducted, the short head will aid iii restoring it to the pendent position; The CORACO-BRACHIALIS (fig. 73, ") is roundish in form, and is named from its attachments. Its oriqin is fleshy from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous short head of the biceps. Its fibres become tendinous, and are inserted, below the level of the deltoid muscle, into the ridge on the inner side of the humerus: from the insertion an aponeurotic slip is continued upwards to the head of the humerus, and is joined by fleshy fibres. Part of the muscle is beneath the pectoralis major (fig. 78), and forms a prominence in the axilla ; but the rest is superficial, except at the insertion where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The coraco-brachialis conceals the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex vessels, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. Along the inner border are the large artery and ner\'^es of the limb. Perforating it is the inusculo-cutaneous nerve. Action. The hanging limb is abducted to the thorax by this muscle ; and the action is gi-eater in proportion as the humerus is removed from the trunk. The humerus being fixed, the muscle will bring down the scapula, and assist in keeping the articular surfaces of the shoulder joint in apposition. The BRACHIAL ARTERY (fig. 77, ^) is a continuation of the axillarj' trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminates rather below the bend of the elbow, or "opposite the neck of the i-adius" (Quain), in two branches—radial and ulnar, for the forearm. In the upper part of its course, the vessel is internal to the humerus, but afterwards in front of that bone ; and its situation is indicated by the surface depression along the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In all its extent the brachial artery is superficial, being covered by the integuments and the deep fascia ; but at the bend of the elbow it becomes deeper, and is crossed by the prolongation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following muscular connections (fig. 78) :—Whilst it is inside the humerus it is placed over the long liead of the triceps, f, for two inches, but separated partly by the musculo-spiral nerve and profunda vessels; and over the inner head, G, of the same muscle for about an inch and a half. But when the vessel turns to the front of the bone, it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, c, and on the brachialis anticus, ii. To the outer side are laid the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, c, and B, the latter overlapping it. Veins. Venaj comites lie on the sides of the artery (fig. 78, d),269 BRACHIAL ARTERY. artery are the following :-The and wm. ¥\s. 77. 7 * encircling it with branches, and the median basilic vein crosses over it at the elbow. The basilic vein is near, and inside the artery above, but is superficial to the fascia in the lower half of the arm The nerves in relation with the internal cutaneous (") is in contact with the vessel until it perfo- rates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar ners^e {^) lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the mus- culo-spiral (fig. 69, is behind for a dis- tance of two inches. The median nerve (') is close to the vessel throughout, but alters its position in this way :—as low as the insertion of the coraco- brachialis it is placed on the outer side, but it then crosses ob- liquely either over or under the artery, and becomes internal about two inches above the elbow joint. Peculiarities in posi- tum. The brachial trunk may leave the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and course along the intermuscular geptum, with or without the median nerve, to the inner condyle of the hu- merus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary position in front of the elbow, either through or beneath the fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide Deviation in position * Axillary and brachial arteries and their branches. (Quain's "Arteries.") —1. Axillary .artery and branches : the small branch above the figure is the highest thoracic, and the larger branch close below, the acromial thoracic. 2. Long thoracic branch. 3. Subscapular branch. 4. Brachial artei'y and branches. 5. Sui)erior profunda branch. 6. Inferior profunda branch. 7. Anastomotic branch. 8. Biceps muscle. 9. Triceps muscle. The median and ulnar nerves are shown in the arm ; the median is close to the brachial artery.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 270 in musculnr covering. .3 Its brandies lire muscular; superior profunda, inferior profunda, nutrient of the bone. and anas- tomotic. AbeiTant branches. Veins end in the axillary. Nerves on front of arm. Median nerve with the arteryj origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projecting bony point of the hunieru.s. Muncular coverinfj. In some bodies the humeral artery is covered by an additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. Branches spring both externcally and internally from the brachial artery (fig. 77). Those on the outer side, muscular, supply the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachiaUs anticus ; those on the inner side are named superior, and inferior profunda, nutritious, and anastomotic. The superior profunda branch (^) is larger than the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of the teres major ; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm (p. 273). The inferior profunda branch (^) arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interv^ between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It arises often in common wth the superior profunda artery. A nutritious artery of the bone shaft begins near the preceding branch, and enters the large aperture about the middle of the humerus; it is distributed to the osseous and medullary substance. The anastomotic branch Q) arises one or two mches above the elbow, and courses inwards through the intermuscular septum to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the arteiy inosculates with the inferior profunda and .posterior ulnar recurrent branches, and gives twigs to the triceps muscle : one of the offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus with a branch of the superior profunda. In front of the elbow joint the anastomotic branch sends an offset to the pronator teres muscle ; this joins the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Vasa aberrantia. Occasionally long slender vessels connect the brachial or the axillary trunk with the radial artery : this accessory- vessel very rarel/ ends in the ulnar artery. The BRACHIAL VEINS (fig. 78, d) accompany the arteiy, one on each side, and have branches of communication across that vessel; they receive contributing veins corresponding with the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they unite into one, which joins the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Nekves of the Aem (fig. 78). The nerves on the fi-ont of the arm are derived from the termmal cords of the brachial plexus. Few of them furnish offsets above the elbow, as they are continued, for the most part without branching, to the foreann and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been already re- ferred to (p. 265). The median nerve (0 arises from the brachial plexus by two roots, one from the outer, and the Other fi'om the inner cord (p. 249). Its271 NERVES OF THE AEM. destination is to the pahn of the hand; and :t accompame he brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer s de of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under it about th<^ m^^^^'^ "J arm and is pLaced on the inner side a httle above the elbow, it ,^^^„^^^y does not give any branch in the arm ; but there may be a fasciculus teucU. connecting it with the musculo-cutaneous ner^^e. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. Ulnamei-ve The ulnar nerve C), derived fi-om the inner cord of the brachial Ulna. ne.-ve plexus, ends at the inner side of the hand. In the arm the nerve lies at first close to the inner side of the axillary, and then of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; lea^'ing now the blood-vessel, it is directed inwards through the inner intermuscular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it reaches the elbow joint. The internal cutaneous ("^) is a tegumentary nerve of the forearm, to wliich it is prolonged like the others. Arising from the inner cord* of the plexus, it is at first superficial to the humeral artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 266). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integu- ments of the arm. The small internal cutaneous nerve Q nerve of Wrisberg) arises with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillaiy vein, it is directed inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and is without Ijranch as far as the elbow. Internal cutaneous nerve be- neath the fascia. Nerve of Wrisbei-g partly * Muscles, and deep vessels and nerves of the a,x-m. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, b. Biceps, o. Coraco-brachialis. D. and E. Latissimus and tei es. f. Long head of the triceps, a. Inner head of triceps. H. Brachialis anticus. Nerves : 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Nerve of Wrisberg. 4. Ulnar. 5. Muscular to the triceps ; and 6, iuterual cutaneous from the musculo-spiral.DISSECTION OP THE ARM. 272 beneath tlio fnsi'ia. Musculo- cutaneous nerve in the arm. Its muscular branches. Dissection. Define brachialis. Braehialis antiens. Origin. Insertior. Connection of surlaces, of borders. Use, fore- arm free, and flxed. joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 26G). The musculo-cutaneous nerve (nei-v. perforans, Casserii), named from supplying muscles and integuments, ends on the surface of the fore- arm. It leaves, the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor (fig. 70) and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis : it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles in front of the humerus, viz., the coraco-brachialis as it passes through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be well defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the bracliialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated the musculo-spiral nerve with a small artery comes into sight. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 78, ^) covers the elbow-joint, and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, viz., from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer (about one inch and a half). The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna (p. 289). This muscle is concealed by the biceps. On it lies the brachial artery, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two pieces the attachment of the deltoid; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the intermuscular septum in all its length ; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the fore- arm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus. Action. The brachialis brings forwards the ulna towards the humerus, and bends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the jomt by raising the humerus.273 TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF ELBOW. BACK OF THE ARM. Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 79). On the back of tlie arm there is one muscle, the triceps, with the musculo-spiral nei-ve and superior profunda vessels. The skin having been Position (f the part. How to lay bare the triceps, Fig. 79. reflected already, the muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, cany an inci- sion along the middle of the limb to a little below the elbow ; and in reflecting it, the sub- aponeurotic loose tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle fi-om the inner and outer heads of the muscle ; and trace the musculo- spu-al nerve and vessels beneath it. Define the outer head which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve appears on the outer side. The TRICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 79^) is divided superiorly into thi-e'e heads of origin, inner, outer, and middle : two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle piece, or head, a, IS the longest, and has a tench- nous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of the shoulder joint I^e outer luad, is narrow and arises fi-om the back of the -IwtC:^.*'^^^^^^^^^^^ fcl ner,e, and of the tricep. -ith a bit of whalebone beneath it to °^ *^ ^'^^er head, the humerus, o. Inner head of tLT • °* attachment do^vA longus. ^. Extenso^'i^,!! j^^^^^^^^ e. Supinat^ I. Infra-spinatus, cut across r%"3 Teres major. ' n. Teres minor. Snpra-scapdar. h. Dorsal ^onn^d.^ . ^^T'.' .^^^-^ugJi- ^rt^ 'ies : a. Supra-scapular. 2. Posterior circumflex circumflex. Nerves:!. and separate pieces. Triceps muscle has three heads. Origin of middle head, of outer head,DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 274 and of inner head. Direction of the llbres. Insertion. Connections of the muscle. Use when iilna free. Two inter- muscular septa. An inner and outer. Dissection of vessels and nerve. Trace branches. Superior profunda artery lies behind the hiune- rus. humerus above the spiral groove, extending from the root of the large tuberosity to that groove. The inner head, c, fleshy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering upwards as far as the insertion of the teres major (Theile). From the dilferent heads the fibres are directed with varying degrees of inchnation to a wide common tendon at the elbow. Inferiorly the muscle is inserted into the end of the olecranon pro- cess of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part where it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa ; and the lower fibres are con- tinuous externally with the anconeus—a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps combining in their action will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the elbow-joint. As the long head passes the shoulder it can depress the raised humerus, and adduct the bone to the thorax. The intermuscular septa are fibrous processes continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus: they intervene between the muscles on the front and back of the limb, and give attach- ment to fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and reaches as high as the coraco- brachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; and the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is tliinner, and ceases at the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachiahs anticus, and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus : it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanjdng vessels. Dissection. To follow the superior profunda vessels and the mus- culo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps should be cut across over them, and the fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to be afterwards followed below the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. To trace out the branches of the nerve and arteiy, wliich de- scend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head ; and the veins are to be cut away. The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery (p. 270) turns to the back of the humerus between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, and is continued onwards in the groove in the bone275 MT7SCUL0.SPIRAL NERVE. to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal off- sets :—One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- spiral nerve to the fi'ont of the elbow, anastomosing with the re- current radial branch : whilst others continue along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and join the radial and posterior interosseous recurrent branches. Branches. Most of the terminal offsets of the vessel descend to ^;|PiJi^««^„,j the olecranon, supplying the triceps, and communicate with the forms a cir- inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery p^^^°'^^ (p. 270) ; and with the recun-ent branches of the arteries of the forearm except the anterior ulnar. One slender twig accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, Cutaneous and accompany the superficial nerves. oftsets. The musculo-spiral nerve (fig. 70) is the largest trunk of the Musculo- posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 249) and is continued along tJinds the back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the brach- to outer side ialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external condyle of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The nerve gives muscular branches, Branches, and the following cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm (fig. 78, ^) is of small internal size, and arises in the axillary space in common with the branch to braneh. the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundaiy of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 266). h. The external cutaneous branches springing at the outer side of Two exter- the hmb are two in number : they are distributed in the integuments "gous**' of the arm and forearm (p. 266). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply Branches to all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head, arises in t"<=eps, comnion with the inner cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar nerve till it enters the muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus, appearing as and an- if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. d. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve suppHes brachiaiis the brachiaiis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz. forlam'^^ supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Subanconeus muscle. A thin fleshj'- stratum of the under part of Subanco- the triceps near the elbow has been so named. It is described as "^"^ consisting of two fasciculi, inner and outer, which are attached above the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the synovial sac of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the extensor of the Icnee joint. T 2 ments.276 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. Use. Action. It is said to raise the synovial membrane in extension of the joint. Directions. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Surface of the forearm Bony pro jections. Line of the wrist joint. Surface of palm of tlie hand. Position of Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand ■ uppermost ; and the marking of the surface, and the projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface-marJcing. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two lateral depressions, corresponding with the position of the main vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only beyond the middle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. Tlie bones (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to be traced in their whole length : each ends below in a point,—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lowest. A transverse line separates the forearm fi-om the hand, and the articulation of the wrist is about an inch above it. On each side of the palm of the hand is a large projection ; the external of these (thenar) is formed by muscles of the thumb, and the internal (hypo-thenar) by muscles of the little finger. Between the projections is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it: the anterior one will direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, but is about a quarter of an inch behind the three inner joints when the fingers are extended. The superficial palmar arch of arteries reaches forwards a little palmar arch. -^^^ ^-^e hoUow of the hand, and its position may be marked by a line across the palm fi-om the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the joints of the thumb and fingers. The lines on the palmar surface of the fingers may be used to detect the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the joint betAveen the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found the about a line in front of the chief transverse groove ; whilst the arti- culation between the last two phalanges is situate about a Ime in fi-ont of the single mark. Dissection. With the limb lying flat on the table, an incision is to be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wnst; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. The skin is to be reflected carefully Position of Surface of the lingei-s Lines on i front. Dissection to remove the skin.CUTANEOUS VEINS OF FOREARM. 277 from the front and back of the forearm, Avithout injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends ot the transverse cut along each margin to a little beyond the knuckles. The whole of the fore finger-should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nei-ves may be followed to the end. The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat; Seek the^^ they have the following position, and most of them have been partly Vessels and dissected :—Along the inner side, in front of the forearm with the nei^es in ulnar veins, is the continuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side with the radial vein is the superficial part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radiaUs which can be rendered prominent by extending the wiist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close inside the pisiform bone, a small palmar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. At the back of the forearm the largest external cutaneous branch Iceland, of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced onwards ; and ofEsets are to be followed to this surface fi-om the nerves in front. On the posterior part of the hand is an arch of superficial veins. Winding back below the uhia is the dorsal branch of the ulnar hand, nerve ; and Ijdng along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be ti-aced to the fingers. Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median, radial, ^'^^'^^^^f;,,,. and ulnar, from their position in the limb. of the fore- Superjicial arch on the hack of the hand. This arch is more or less perfect, and receives the posterior superficial digital veins. At the ^°^^?" sides the arch terminates in the radial and ulnar veins. The radial vein begins m the outer end of the arch above men- radial; tioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. It is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein (fig. 76, '^). The ulnar veins are anterior and posterior, and occupy the front ulnar: and back of the limb :— The anterior arises near the wrist by the junction of small roots anterior from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow ; here it unites with the inner branch of the median, and forms the basilic vein (fig. 76,'''). The posterior ulnar vein is situate on the back of the limb. It and pos- commences by the union of a branch, " vena salvatella," from the back of the httle finger, with an offset of the venous arch ; it is continued along the back of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and bends forwards to open into the anterior ulnar vein. The median vein takes origin near the wrist by small branches median, which are derived fi-om the palmar surface of the hand ; and it is directed along the centre of the forearm nearly to the elbow. HereDISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOUEAEM. 278 Superficial nerves of forearm and Ijack of hand are, internal cutaneous; external cutaneous; external cutaneous of musculo- spiral. Ending of the radial nerve lay external and internal branch, which supply some digits. Termina- tion. Branch of ulnar norve to back of the vein divides into external and internal pieces (median basilic and median cephalic), which unite, as before seen (fig. 76, with radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a connnunicating branch from a vein (vena comes) beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nervks. Some of the superficial nen'es of the fore- arm are continued from the arm :—those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, fi-om the two external cutaneous nerves of the musculo-spiral, and the musculo-cutaneous. On the forepart of the limb there is oc- casionally a small offset of the ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the termination of the radial nerve, together with a branch of the ulnar neiv^e. The internal cutaneous nerve (p. 271) is divided into two. The antei-ior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch continues along the back of the forearm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle. The cutaneous imrt of the musculo-cutaneous nerve (p. 272) is prolonged on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel, and supply the carpus. A little above the middle of the forearm the nei-ve sends baclcvvards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and com- municates with the radial, and the following cutaneous nerve. The external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve (p. 275) after passing the elbow, turns to the hinder part of the forearm, and reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding cutaneous nerve. The radial nerve ramifies in the integument of the back of the hand and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so that the radial nei-ve distributes the same number of digital branches to the dorsum as the median ner\'-e furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves; and the offset to the con- tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. On the side of the fingers each of these dorsal branches is united with an offset fi-om the digital nerve on the palmar surface. The dorsal branch of the ubiar nerve gives ofl'sets to the rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid279 APONEUROSIS OF FOREARM. process of the ulna, it joins the radial nerve m an arch across the hand and back of the hand, and is distributed to both sides of the Jittle Augers, finger, and to the ulnar side of the ring finger : it communicates vnth the pai-t of the radial nerve supplying the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve furnishes branches to the same digits on the palmar surface. ^ The aponeurosis of the forearm is continuous with a similar m- Deep^~ vestment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed arm. of fibres which cross obliquely : it furnishes sheaths to the muscles, and is thicker behind than before. Near tiie elbow it is stronger than towards the hand ; at that In front, spot it receives fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachiaUs anticus, and gives origm to the muscles attached to the inner con- dyle of the humerus. On the back of the limb the aponeurosis is On the back connected to the margins of the ulna, so as to leave the upper part of the limb, of the bone subcutaneous ; and it is joined by fibres fi-om the ten- don of the triceps. Horizontal processes are sent downwards fi'om the aponeurosis to separate the superficial and deep layers of muscles, both on the fi-ont '^^ Pieces, and back of the forearm ; and longitudinal white bands indicate the position of the intermuscular processes, which isolate one muscle from another, and give origin to the muscular fibres. At the wrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament; and Atthewrist; near that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and receives a sheath from it. Close to the pisiform bone there is an aperture through which the ulnar vessels and nerve enter the fat of the hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, giving rise to the posterior annular ligament; but on the back of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes veiy thin. ligament. Dissection. The skin is to be replaced on the back of the forearm Take away and hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. ^'^^"53 Beginning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the veins student divide the aponeurosis as far as the wrist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous ofl'sets of the median and ulnar nerves near the wrist. In cleaning the muscles it will be impossible to remove the aponeu- rosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without detaching muscular fibres. In front of the elbow is the hollow, already partly dissected, Clean out between the two masses of muscles arising fi'om the inner and outer eiiJow^ °^ sides of the humerus. The space should be carefully cleaned, so as to display the brachial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the rnusculo-spiral nerve, and the recurrent radial and ulnar arteries. In the lower half of the forearm a large artery, radial, is to be laid bare along the radial border ; and at the ulnar side, close to the annular-ligament, the trunk of the ulnar artery will be recognised, as it becomes superficial. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned ; but the collateral muscles should be fixed with stitches to prevent their displacement.280 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. Define anluru>r aniuilav ligauKnit. Hollow in front of the elbow. • Bounclaries. Contents of the space and their position to one another. L3Tnphatic glands. Superficial layer has five muscles. Pronator teres. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which arches over the tendons passing to the hand, is next to be defined. This strong band is at some depth from the surface ; and whilst the student removes the fibrous tissue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and uhiar nerves to the ^alm of the hand. The ulnar vessels and nerve pass over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to its depth. JIolloio in front of the elbow (fig. 80). This hollow corresponds with the popliteal space at the knee, and is situate between the inner and the outer muscles of the forearm. The inten'al is somewhat triangular in shape, and the wider part is towards the humerus. It is bounded on the outer side by the supinator longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space ; and the bones, covered by the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis, form the deep boundary. Contents. In the hollow are lodged the termination of the brachial artery with its veins, and the median nerve ; the musculo-spiral nerve ; the tendon of the biceps muscle ; and small recurrent vessels, with much fat and a few glands. These several parts have the following relative position :—The tendon of the biceps is directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius ; on the outer side, concealed by the supinator longus muscle, is the musculo-spiral nerve. Nearly in the centre of the space are the brachial artery and veins and the median nerve, the nen'^e being internal ; but as the arterj'- is inclined to the outer side of the limb, they soon become distant fi-om one another about half an inch. The brachial ai'tery divides here into two trunks—radial and ulnar ; and the recuiTent radial and ulnar branches appear in the space—the first on the outer, and the other on the inner side. Two or three lymphatic glands lie on the sides of the artery, and one below its point of splitting. Muscles on the front of the forearm (fig. 80). The muscles on the front of the forearm are divided into a superficial and a deep layer. In the superficial layer there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus, mostly by a common tendon, and lie in the undermentioned order from the middle to the inner side of the limb :—pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris ; and deeper and larger than any of these is the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep layer will be met with in a subsequent dissection (p. 287). . The pronator radii teres (fig. 80,') arises fi-om the mner con- dyle of the humerus by the common tendon ; from the ridge abov-e the condyle by fleshy fibres ; from the inner edge of the coronoid process by a second tendinous slip ; and from the fascia, and the septum between it and the next muscle. It is inserted by a flat tendon into an impression, an inch in length, on the middle of the outer surface of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is281 KADIAL FLEXOES OF WEIST. Fig. 80. t covered % the radial artery, and some of the outer set of muscles, viz. supinator longus, and radial extensors of the wrist, ilie pronator forms the inner boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the* flexor carpi radialis. By gently separating the muscle from the rest, it Avill be found to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor subHrais digitorum, and the ulnar artery and the median nerve : the second small head of origin is di- rected inwards between that artery and nerve. Action. The pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius over the ulna, so as to pronate the hand. When the radius is fixed the muscle raises that bone towards the humerus, bending the elbow-joint. The FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS (tig. 80, takes its origm fi-om the common tendon, fi-om the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becom- ing free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the foreai'm, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, outside the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted mainly into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger. The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum ; but near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus pollicis,—a muscle of the deep layer. As low as the middle of the forearm the muscle corre- sponds externally with the pronator teres, and below that with the radial artery to which its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris longus muscle, and for about two inches above the wrist, with the me- dian nerv'e.** Action. The hand being free the muscle flexes first the wrist joint, inclining the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and will assist in bringing * In the body of a woman which was well developed, the muscle was absent on both sides. t Superficial view of the forearm (Quain's Arteries). 1. Eadial artery with its nerve outside. 2. Ulnar artery and nerve where they are superficial 3. Pronator teres. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor sublimis. 7. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps. Use on radius and elbow. Kadial flexor of the wrist. Tlie muscle is the guide to radial artery. Use on wrist and radius.282 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOEEARM. Long palmar muscle lies over annular ligament and joins the fascia of palm. Use. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Origin. Insertion into pisi- form bone. Adjacent parts. Use. Course and extent of the radial artery. Situation in the forearm. forwards the lower end of the radius in pronation. Still con- tinuing to contract, it bends the elbow. The PALMAius LONGus (fig. 80, ^) is often absent: or it may present great irregularity in the proportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. Its origin is connected, like that of the preceding muscle, to the common tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its long thin tendon is continued along the centre of the foreann ; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, and to join by a tendinous slip the short muscles of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Eendering tense the palmar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the other muscles of the superficial layer. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (fig. 80, ^) has an aponeurotic origin from the inner condyle of the humerus ; from the inner side of the olecranon ; and fi"om the ridge of the ulna between the internal and posterior surfaces for three fourths of the length. Most of the fibres are continued vertically downwards, but others obliquely forwards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist ; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone,—an offset being sent to the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia ; and its tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor digitorum sublimis muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels ; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 80, ^) is One of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the bracliial trunk ; and its destination is the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius ; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone : and it enters finally the palm of the hand tlirough the first interosseous space. In consequence of this circuitous course the artery will be found in three different dissections, viz. the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this region of the limb the position of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. At first it lies on the inner side of the radius, but afterwards over that bone. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the bracliial trunk; it is partly deep and partly superficial andEADIAL ARTEEY AND BRANCHES. 283 where it is more superficial in the lower half, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its upper half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus Connections (*) ; and rests successively on the following muscles, the fleshy j,a,f_ supinator brevis, the pronator teres part of the thin origin of witii_^^^^ the flexor sublimis ("), and sometimes on tlie biceps tendon ( ). Veins. Venas comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over veins, the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is parallel to, and outside it, but separated and nen-e. by a slight interval. In its lower Juilf the artery with its venae comites is superficial, l^^'ower being covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. Here it ^.^^ is placed in a hollow between the tendons of the supinator longus (") muscles, and flexor carpi radialis ("). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two other muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadi-atus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Nerves. The radial nerve is still on the outer side until it passes nerve, backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and becomes cutaneous. Superficial to the lower end are the ramifications of the musculo-cutaneous neiwe, some of which reach the vessels (p. 278). Branches. The radial artery furnishes many uimamed muscular Branches, and nutrient ofEsets to the surroimding parts ; and three named branches, viz. recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the muscles radial re- on the outer side of the limb. Its com'se is almost transverse to '^^'^^t, the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. The superficial volar branch (fig. 83, c) arises usually near the superficial lower end of the radius. It is du-ected towai'ds the palm of the ^' hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. Tlie anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and will anterior be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles. Arising rather above the end of the radius, it passes transversely at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from tlie ulnar artery : fi-om the arch thus formed, oflisets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial aHerij. When the radial arises high in the arm, Variations its course is close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle • oftha and in passing the bend of the elbow it may be occasionally subcutaneous' viz., above the deep fascia, and be liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm it may be likewise subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, tlie Dissection flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut thi-ough nearDISSECTION OF FEONT OF FOREARM. 284 Superficial llexor ol' lingers. Origin. Insertion. Connections ■with pai-ts around. Use on fingers, on elbow ■and wrist. Ulnar artery ends in palm of hand. the inner condyle of the l)umerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nen^e may be seen entering the under snrfaces of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS vel PEHFORATUS (fig. 80, ") is the largest of the nmscles of the superficial layer, and is named fi-om its position to another flexor in the deep layer. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus and the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermuscular septa in common with other muscles : it takes origin in addition from the bones of the forearm, viz. from the inner edge of the coronoid process of the ulna; from the oblique line below the radial tubercle ; and from the anterior margin of the radius as far as, or one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Rather below the middle of the foreann the muscle ends in four tendons, wlaich are continued beneath the annular liga- ment and across the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is concealed by the other muscles of the superficial laj^er; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist;— the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the condy- loid and coronoid attachments, the muscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor digitoiiim profundus and flexor poUicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Action. This flexor bends primarily the middle joint of each finger ; and is then able to bring the nearest phalanx towards the palm in consequence of being bound thereto by a sheath. But when the nearest phalanx is fixed by the extensor of the fingers, it remains straight whilst the superficial flexor moves the second phalanx. After the fingers are bent the muscle will help in flexing the wrist and elbow joints. The ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 81, ^) is the larger of the two branches coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk ; and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins offsets of the radial artery. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction ; and its depth fi-om the surface varies in the first and last parts of its course. Course in upiier half. Connections with muscles. In the upper lialf the artery is inclined obliquely inwards fi-om the centre of the elbow to the inner side of the limb, midway between the elbow and wrist. It courses between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, being covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. Beneath it lie the brdchialis anticus, for a short distance, and the flexor profundus, c.285 ULNAR ARTERY AND BRANCHES. Veins. Two companion veins are situate on the sides of the artery, and join freely over it. Nerves. The median nerve (') lies to the inner side of the vessel for about an inch, but Position of veins and nerves. then crosses over it to gain the outer side. About the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve (■*) ap- proaches the artery and continues thence on the inner side. In the lower half it has a straight course to the pisifomi bone, and is covered by the teguments and fascia, and the flexor carpi ulnaris as far as the Avrist. To the outer side are the tendons of the flexor subhmis. Beneath it is the flexor profun- dus, C. Veins. Two companion veins accompany the ar- tery, as in the upper part, and are united across it at intervals. Nerves. The ulnar nerve (■•) lies close to, and on the inner side of the vessels ; and a small branch (^), sending twigs around the artery, courses to the palm of the hand. On the annular ligament of the wrist the arteiy has passed through the fascia and lies close to the pisiform bone. The ulnar nerve, with its palmar branch, still ac- companies the vessel on the inner side. Branches. The greater Fig. 81. Lower hal in relation with muscles. veins. Position on the annular ligament. number of the collateral offsets of tlie artery are distributed to the muscles. But the named branches arc the followino- * Dissection of the deep layer of muscles of the forearm inrl nf and nerves between the two layers of muscles of the fomra of Dissections. ilfMsc^es .• a. Pronator teres n VInv i <^""^t''ations 0. Flexor digitorum perforans. Pronatt^quaLiur^^lTelof^S Its branches areDISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 286 posterior recurrent, Jinterior and «• The anterior ulnar recurrent branch (cl) arises generally in common with the next, and, ascending on the brachiaHs anticus muscle, inosculates with the small anastomotic arteiy beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives offsets to the contiguous muscles. h. The posterior iilnar recurrent branch (rZ), of larger size than the anterior, is inclined beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inn^r condyle and the olecranon. There it passes with the ulnar nei-ve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve. c. The interosseous branch is a short thick tnink, about an inch long, which is directed backwards towards the interosseous mem- brane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous : these branches will be afterwards followed (p. 288). metacarpal, d. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of wliich it is the inner dorsal branch. e. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and from arches across the wrist. interos- seous. and carpal. The origin and course may vary. Ulnar nerve in the fore- arm. Its branches are to elhow joint, to two mus- cles of fore- arm, cutaneous Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The origin of the artery may be trans- ferred to any point of the main vessel in the ai-m or axilla. Once the origin was found between two and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) When it begins higher than usual it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow, only one exception, Quain, but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm ; though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. The ULNAR NERVE (fig. 81, '') enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nen^e reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the fore- arm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the artery. It furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as below:— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments to the joint arise. h. Muscular branches. It furnishes offsets near the elbow to two muscles of the forearm ; one enters the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the other supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand. About the middle of ulnaris Arteries : a. Radial trunk, b. Cutaneous branch of it to the palm of the hand. G. Ulnar trunk, d. Its recurrent branch. /. Branch with the median nerve, e. Anterior interosseous, g. Brachial trunk. Nei-ves: 1. Median. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Ciitaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.287 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. the forearm arises a small palmar branch f), which courses on the hvan^hot ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous oi¥- set perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutOiiicoiis ncrvG. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches above the end of the ulna, and passes obHquely backwards beneath jjack of tlie flexor carpi ulnaris : perforating the aponeurosis it is lost on the ■ back of the hand and fingers (p. 278). The MEDIAN NERVE (fig. 81,') leaves the hollow of the elbow Median between the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the ,,etween middle line of the limb to the hand. It is placed beneath the the two flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, ^ul'ifies. where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve passes beneath the annular liga- ment to the palm of the hand. The nerve supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneous offset to the hand. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, Supplies the and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except cies, except the flexor carpi ulnaris; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep ^'^^^'^'^ ^ layer through the interosseous branch (p. 289), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous palmar branch Q) arises in the lower fourth of the forearm ; it jDierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and jjalm of crosses over that ligament to reach the palm of the hand. hand. The BADIAL NEEVE is the smaller of the two branches into which Radial ner\'e the musculo-spiral di^ddes at the elbow. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the Hmb, under cover of the supinator longus forearm, (fig. 80), and on the outer side of the radial artery till within thi-ee inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. On the surface of the limb it ends on divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of ^^^^ °^ the hand, and digits (p. 278). No muscular offset is furnished by ' the nerve. Dissection (fig. 81). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will Dissection be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm the pronator teres ; to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, 'uuscles: and to remove its fleshy part. The areolar tissue is to be taken fi-om the deep muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane, and are con- cealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Above the ends of the forearm-bones the arch of the anterior show carpal carpal arteries may be defined. arch. Deep Layer of Muscles. There are only three deep muscles Three mus- on the front of the forearm. One Hes on the ulna, and is the deep ^^'^ flexor of the fingers ; a second covers the radius, viz. the long ^"^^ flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadi-atus, which lies beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS Vel PERFORANS ((ig. 81, «) ariscs Deep flexor of fingers.DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 288 Origin. Insertion. Parts around it. Use on Angers and wrist. How fingers are bent. Long flexor of tlimnb. Origin. Insertion. Parts above and beneatli it. Use. Pronator quadratus is deep in position. Use. Anterior in- terosseous artery. from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of the length of the hone ; from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance ; and from an aponeurosis common to the muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in tendons which, united together, pass beneath the annular ligament, and are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the ulnar nerve and vessels, the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor pollicis longus and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve ; and the inner is connected by aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. Action. The muscle bends the last joints of the fingers, and the wrist ; but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. The fingers are approximated and the joints bent in the following order :—firstly, the articulation between the metacarpal and the middle phalanx is flexed, secondly, the last phalangeal joint, and thirdly the metacarpo-phalangeal. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 81, ^) arises from the hollowed anterior surface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus ; from the outer part of the interosseous membrane ; and by a round distinct slip fi-om the coronoid process of the ulna, internal to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. On the cutaneous surface of the muscle is the flexor sublimis, with the radial vessels for a short distance inferiorly. The muscle lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Action. It bends both joints of the thumb, but firstly the distal or ungual. After the phalanges are drawn downwards the muscle flexes the wrist. The PEONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 81, ^) is a flat muscle, and lies on the lower fourth of the bones of the forearm. It ai-ises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna, where it is somewhat widened, and is inserted into the fore part of the radius for about two inches. The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along its lower border is the arch formed by the anterior carpal arteries. Action. The end of the radius is moved forwards over the ulna by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. The anterior interosseous artery (fig. 81, e) is continued on the front of the interosseous membrane, between the two flexors or in the fibres of the flexor digitorum, till it reaches an aperture beneath289 ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS VESSELS. the pronator quadratus. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the hmb, and descends to the back of the carpus, where it ends by anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous muscles. Muscular One long branch (/), median, accompanies the median nerve, supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or extends beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. About the middle of the forearm two nutrient vessels of the nutrient to radius and ulna arise from the artery. "ViTiere it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane and the it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median (fig. Anterior • 81,"), and accompanies the artery of the same name to the pronator jrervTendr* quadratus muscle, the under surface of which it enters. Some " P^u'itor. lateral branches are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. Dissection. The attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus to Dissection, the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and examined. The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broad insertion of thick tendon, about an inch in length, which is fixed into the coro- antic^uf^ noid process of the ulna, except at the inner edge; and into the contiguous rough part of the bone. Insertion of the biceps. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into insertion of the mner^ part of the tubercle of the radius, and slightly into the bone behind it. A bursa intervenes between it and the front of the tubercle. At its attachment the anterior surface becomes ex- ternal ; and the opposite. The supinator brevis muscle partly sur- rounds the insertion. Sbctioit V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. vith tacks, the skm is to be reflected from the palm of the hand ^LZr *° the centre Seek the from the wnst to the fingers ; and the other is to be made from side n"*'''"^°'^ 0 side, at the termination of the first. In raismg the inner flp ' the small palmaris brevis muscle will be seen at the inne: n a^ and muscle of the hand ; and its insertion into the skin may be left till u l niuscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifications of Vhe 1 u branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be ti'ced frem th?Snf ^a "T^- '''' ^'^^--^ Vand Bo«„e the irom tbe strong palmar fascia m the centre of the hand • and i'^''""'^ ligament) which hes across the roots of the fingers. When clean^ig290 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. ves.sels iiiul nerves, and expose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palinai' nerves. the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise, near the digits, the digital vessels and nei-ves ; and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be defined. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Some unnamed twigs are furnished to the integument fi-om both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two named cutaneous nerves ramify in the palm. One is an ofliset of the median nerve (p. 287), and crosses the annular ligament : it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united with the palmar branch of the ulnar : a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived fi'om the ulnar nen^e (p. 286) ; it has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and its distribu- tion in the palm may be now observed. The PALMARis BREVis (fig. 83, h) is a small subcutaneous muscle, about two inches wide, whose fibres are collected into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nerve. After it has been examined it may be tlii-o-svn inwards with the sldn. Action. Drawing the sldn of the inner border of the hand towards the centre, it deepens the hollow or cup of the palm. The palmar fascia or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts ; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require separate notice. The central part is a strong, white layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but is expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Posteriorly the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are contmued for- wards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle, and the digital vessels and ners^e appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are prolonged to the integuments near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To follow one of the digital processes of the fascia to its termination, the superficial fibres bemg first removed, it may be divided longitudinally by inserting the Imife beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Deep ending Ending of the processes. Each process of the fascia sends down- t^'cjjeces ^^^.^^ ^^-^ ofEset on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep hgament connecting together the ends of the metacarpal bones, and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance. One of median. other of ul nar nerve. Palmaris brevis is subcutane- ous, and ends in the skin. Use. Palmar fascia. Its central imrt ends in a piece for each finger. and in the skin. Dissection.291 ULNAR VESSELS AND NERVE. The superficud transverse ligament of the fingeis is a thin fibrous Jjjf band, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin, forming the rudiment of a web be- tween them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are contmued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of the flexor tendons (fig. 82). Along each finger the flexor Shfat^ of^^ tendons are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous Fig. 82." tliickuess. Has a syno- vial sac. Dissection. Superficial palmar arch. sheath. Opposite the middle of each of the two nearest phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band (e and/) (ligamcntum vagi- nale), which is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) be- tween the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar arteiy, and the median and ulnar ner^^es, become apparent. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Artery (fig. 83). In the palm of the hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates Avith two ofEsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the fore- finger (/). The cm-ved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the super- ficial palmar arch (d).—Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand fi-om the cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial; it is covered in greater part by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Venje comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital Branches arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The profunda or communicating branch (fig. 84, h), passes *° i"'" ^ ileep.arcli, * The extensor tendon of the finger with its accessory muscles, and the sheath of the flexor tendons, a. Extensor tendon, with b, interosseous and c, lumbricales muscles joining it. d. Flexor tendon ; e and /, thicker mrts of its sheath. ^ TJ 2 rv Position in the hand and connections.292 DISSECTIOiSr OP THE HAND. four cligitfil branches: in the hand. They join offsets of the deep arcli. Termination on tlie lingers; offsets, and arches. Dinar nerve in the hand. has a deep and superfleial ■branch. Digital nerves are two. Median nerve sup- plies mus- cles and fingers. Branch to the muscles. down-wards with a branch of the ulnar nerve between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery (p. 298). b. The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is un- di-vided ; but the others, corresponding with the three inner interos- seous spaces, bifurcate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above-said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the root of the fingers they receive communicating branches from offsets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger has its communicating branch about the middle of the palm. From the point of bifurcation the branches extend along the sides of the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of oppo- site sides unite in an arch, from whose convexity offsets proceed to supply the ball of the finger. Collateral offsets are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and small twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones—an arch being close behind each joint. On the dor- sum of the last phalanx is another arch near the nail, from which the nail-pulp is supplied. Palmak Part of the Ulnar Nerve (fig. 83, ^). The ulnar nerve divides on or near the annular ligament, into a superficial and a deep branch. The deep branch accompanies the profunda artery to the muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel (fig. 84). The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris bre-vns muscle, and some filaments to the integument' of the inner part of the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger, and half the next. Digital nerves (^). The more internal nerve is undivided, like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides : in the palm of the hand this last branch is connected with an offset (^) of the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar Part of the Median Nerve (fig. 83, ^). As soon as the median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes enlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal parts for the supply of digital ners'es to the thumb and the remain- ing two fingers and a half : the more external of the two por- tions furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered by the palmar fascia ; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The branch to muscles of the thumb {') supplies the outer half♦ MEDIAN NERVE AND BRANCHES. 293 of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and opponens pollicis " The ^ioital nerves C) are five in number. Three of them which are distributed to the sides of the thumb and the radial ide of the fore finger, are undivided, and come fi-om the external the two pieces into which the trunk of the median sphts. ihe other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are bifur- cated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. The^j'si hco ners^es belong to the thumb, one being on each side First two, and the most external is said to communicate with branches of the radial nerve. * Dissection of tie superficial vessels and nerves of the palm of the hand, ■with some of the superficial muscles. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles : A. Abductor pollicis. o. Flexor brevis. d. Adductor pollicis. h. Palmaris brevis. Arteries: a. Trunk of ulnar, and h, of radial, c. Superficial volar branch, d. Superficial palmar arcli. c. Branch uniting tlie arch with / the radial digital branch of the forefinger, ff. Four digital brunches of the super- ficial arch. Nerves : 1. Ulnar, and 2, its two digital branches. 3. Median, • and 5, its digital branches to three fingers and a half. 4. Branch of the median to some muscles of the thumb. 5. Communicating branch from the median to the ulnar.294 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. third, fourth, fifth. On the sides of the fingers : lateral ofl'sets. Dissection of the deep tendons. Divide ligament, open slieaths. Synovial sac suiTounds tendons. Superficial flexor in the hand. Insertion. SUt for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor The third is directed to the radial side of tlie index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of tlie fore and middle fingers. The fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. On the fingers. On the sides of the fingers the nen^es are super- ficial to the arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments for the ball, and the pulp beneath the nail. In their course forwards the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches : one of these is directed backwards by the side of the metacarpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 278), is continued to the dorsmn of the last phalanx. Dissection. The tendons of the flexor muscles may be followed next to their termination. To expose them the ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the profunda branch; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been di\aded, the palmar arch is to be thrown towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned forwards. A longitudinal incision is to be made thi-ough the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tkndons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an ofliset into the digital sheath of the thumb and that of the little finger.* Flexor suhlimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being amanged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the sheath of the fingers (fig. 82, e) ; and each is inserted by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but near the front of the first phalanx it is split for the passage of the tendon of the latter muscle. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- brical muscles, the flexor sul^imis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards the areolar tissue should be taken away. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four * Theile refers the notice of this fact to M. Maslieurat-Lag^mard, in No. 18 of the " Gazette Meclicale," for 1839.MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. 295 pieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the fore finger is distinct from tlie rest. From the ligament the four tendons are cross the directed through the hand to the fingers, and give ongm to the small lumbricales nmscles. At the root of the fingers each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and havmg passed through that tendon, is inserted into the base of the last to thdr^ ^^Bet"veen both flexor tendons and the bones are thin membranes, si>ort folds one for each. By means of this each tendon is connected with the flex..r ten- capsule of the joint, and the fore part of the phalanx immediately ^ons. behind the bone into which it is inserted. The lumhricales muscles (fig. 84, i) are four small fleshy slips, Limbrical which arise from the tendons of tlie deep flexor near the annular ligament ; and are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 82, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons Connec- and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise from single tendons, but each of the others is Different ' origin. connected with two tendons. Action. By their insertion into the long extensor tendon they Use as will aid it in straightening the two last phalangeal joints ; and e'^teusors when the metacarpo-phalangeal joints are much bent they may and flexors, assist in maintaining the flexion of those articulations. Tendon of the flexor poUicis longus. Beneath the annular ligament Tendon of this tendon is external to the flexor profundus, and turns outwards of"liumb"^ between the heads of the flexor brevis polhcis (fig. 84), to be in- serted mto the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial itsinsei-tion. membrane surromrds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 84). The deep palmar arch of the radial artery. Dissection with the dfeep branch of the ulnar ners'^e, and the interossei muscles, °f thmub^ ■will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preser\'^e two fine nerves and vessels entering the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and the and little little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making a satisfactory separation of the different small thumb muscles ; but those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 84). These are four in number, '""s- and are named fi-om their action on the thumb. The most super- biUi of tile ficial is the abductor pollicis ; beneath it is the opponens pollicis, b, tiuuub, viz., which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the bifid short flexor. And the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. The ABDUCTOR roLLicis, A, is about an inch wide, and is thin, and Abductor, superficial to the rest. It arises fi-om the upper part of the annularDISSECTION OP THE HAND. 296 Attach- ments. Is the most superficial. Use. Dissection. Opponen.s fixed to metacarpal bone, beneath former. Use. Flexor brevis. Origin ; is inserted by two parts. It is deep in the hand. Use. Adductor joins short flexor. Connec- tions. ligament at the radial side, and from the ridge of the os trapezium ; and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is connected oftentimes at its origin with a slip fi-om the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. It removes the metacarpal bone of the thumb from the other digits ; and when it has so acted it may assist slightly the short flexor in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the fore part of the meta- carpal bone, where there is usually a slight interval. The OPPONENS POLLICIS, B, arises from the annular ligament beneath the precedmg, and from the os trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserted into the front and the outer border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it pro- jects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the flexor bre^^s pollicis. An insertion into the external sesamoid bone is described by Theile. Action. From its attachment to the metacarpal bone it is able to draw that bone inwards over the palm of the hand, turning it at the same time, so as to allow the ball of the thumb to be apphed to the ball of each of the fingers, as in picking up a pin. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS, c, is the largest of the short muscles^ of the thumb ; it consists of two pieces (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are united at the origin. Posteriorly it arises from the os trapezoides and os magnum ; from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones ; and fi-om the annular ligament, at the lower part. In fi-ont it is inserted by two heads into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb,—the inner piece being united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each head at/ its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on this muscle, occupying the interval between the processes at the insertion; and the deep palmar arch of the radial artery issues beneath the inner head. Action. The muscle bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS D, is pointed at the thumb, and wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the anterior or lower two- thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit, on the palmar aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the short flexor, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb. The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the deep surface lies over (in this position) the first dorsal interosseous muscle, J, and the second and thkd metacarpal bones with the mterveumg muscle.MUSCLES OP LITTLE FINGER. 297 Action. By its contraction the thumb is applied to the radial Use. border of the hand, and approximated to the fingers. Short Muscles of the Little Fixgeh (fig. 84). Ihere are muscles to commonly two muscles in the ball of the little finger,—an abductor uttle ttuger. Fis. 84.* and an adductor. Sometimes there is a small flexor, F, between the other two. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DiGiTi, E, is the most internal of the short Abductor muscles. It arises from the pisiform bone and the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base is the most of the first phalanx of the little finger ; an offset fit'om it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the phalanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Action. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; Use. but continuing to act it bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. * Deep dissection of the palm of the band. (Ilhistrations of Dissections.) Muscles: a. Abductor pollicis. b. Opponens pollicis. c. Flexor brevis pollicis. D. Adductor pollicis. E. Abductor minimi digiti. f. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. g. Opponens minimi digiti, i. Lumbricales. J. First dorsal interosseous. Vessels : a. Ulnar artery, cut. 6. Profunda branch, c. Deep palmar arch. d. Radial digital artery of the index finger, e. Arteria magna pollicis. /. Interosseous arteries. Nerves: 1. Ulnar nerve, cut. 2. Deep branch of the palm of the hand, and 4, its continuation to end in some of the thumb muscles. 3. Offsets to the inner two lumbricales.DISSECTION OP THE HAND. 298 Flexor ■brevis is often absent. Use. Opponens pollicis. Use. Dissection of deep arcli and interossei jmiscles and fascia. fiadial artery in hand forms deep arcli which lies near carpal bones, and beneath muscles. Branches: Eecurrent. Perforating. Inter- osseous. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI, F, appears often to be a part of the abductor. Placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle, it takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular ligament; it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies on the abductor ; and near its origin it is separated fi-om the abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. The first phalanx is moved towards the palm by this muscle, and the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is bent. The ADDUCTOR (fel OPPONENy MINIMI DIGITI, G, resembles the opponens pollicis in being attached to the metacai-pal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament : its insertion is fixed into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The adductor is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nen^e pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the palm of the hand. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be requisite to detach the origin of the flexor brevis pollicis. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar wgxyq accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Kadial Artery in the Hand (fig. 84). The radial artery enters the palm at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle : and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, with its venas comites, forming the deep arch. The deep palmar arch (c) extends from the interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joms the profunda communicatmg branch (6). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed forwards ; and its situation is near-er the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position m the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the flexor brevis pollicis. The branches of the arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose with the other carpal arteries. b. Threelyerforating arteries pierce the three inner dorsal interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joinmg299 RADIAL ARTERY AXD OFFSETS. the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the cleft of the fingers. These branches supply the interosseous muscles, ancl the two or three inner lumbricales ; they vary much m then- size and arrangement. ^ , 7 /• \ nimtai d. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) {^^^^^^^^^^^ (art princeps pollicis) runs between the first metacarpal bone and ^^.^^^ the flexor brevis pollicis, to the interval between the heads of the thetlmmb. muscle, where it divides into the two collateral branches of the thumb : these are distributed like the arteries of the superficial arch (p. 292). ^. _ .^.pwof e. The digital branch of the index finger (d) (art. radiahs indicis) f^^^^^. is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle, J, and beneath linger, the short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of the forefinger. At the anterior border of the adductor pollicis, D, this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the digit it unites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery. The dee}) branch of the ulnar nerve accompanies the arch of the ^/fP^!;j:^"'=^ radial artery as far as the muscles of the thumb, and terminates nerve, in offsets to the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the short flexor. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the Muscular muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the °fi'«<^ts. palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (•''), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The transverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of Ligament of the four inner metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is hollowed iJfetearpal where the flexor tendons cross it ; and beneath it the interossei ijones. muscles pass to their insertion. To the posterior border the fascia covering the interossei muscles is united. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interossei muscles. The INTEROSSEI MUSCLES, SO named fi-om their position between the Seven inter- , 1 • 1 m 1 1 ossei mus- metacarpal bones, are seven m number. Iwo muscles occupy each ejes, space, except in the first Avhere there is onlj' one ; they arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanx of the fingers. They are divided into palmar and dorsal interossei ; but di^-ided into all the small muscles are evident in the palm of the hand, though anJ}"dorsal some project more than the others. The palmar muscles (fig. 85), three in number, are smaller than Number and the dorsal set, and are most prominent in the palm of the hand. paimai°^ They arise from the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz., those of the fore, ring, and little fingers ; and they are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the otlier two digits. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 82, &) :— Common in- the fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first ^otii""cts^ or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. The Jorsr/Z interossei (fig. 8G) extend farther back than the palmar Dorsal set. set, and arise by two heads from the lateral surfaces of the meta- Origin.300 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Arrange- ment. Action ns flexors and extensors. carpal bones between which they lie. The dorsal muscles are thus allotted to the digits :—two belong to the second finger, a tliird is connected with the radial side of the fore, and the fourth with the ulnar side of the ring finger. Action. They help to bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by their attachment to the first phalanx; and will assist in the extension 86. t as alDcluctors and adduc- tors. Dissection. Annular ligament of front of ■wrist of the two last phalangeal joints through their union with the extensor tendon. Further, the interossei can separate and approximate the straight- ened fingers :—thus the palmar set adduct to the second finger ; and the dorsal abduct fi-om the middle line of the second finger— the two fixed to this digit moving it to the right and left of that line. Dissection. The attachments of the annular ligament to the carpal bones on each side are to be next dissected out by takmg away the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. Before reading its description, the ends of the cut hgament may be placed in appo- sition, and fixed with a stitch. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band, which arches over and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached externally to the fi-ont of the os scaphoides, and to the fore and inner parts, and ridge of the os trapezium ; and mternally to the unciform and pisiform bones. By its upper border it is con- nected Avith the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and by its anterior surface it is joined by the palmar fascia. On it lie the palmaris longus and the ulnar artery and nerve. * Three palmar interosseous muscles, a. Muscle of the little finger; 6, of the ring finger ; and c, of the forefingei*. + Four dorsal interosseous muscles, d. Muscle of the forefinger, called sometimes abductor indicis. c and /. Muscles of the middle finger, g. Muscle of the ring finger.301 SUPINATOR LOXGUS MUSCLE. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis Dissection, throuffh the OS trapezium to its insertion into the metacarpal bones. The temlon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore- arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os trapezmm between the radialis. attachments of the annular ligament to the bone, but outside the arch of that ligament; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. During the dissection of the back of the forearm the Position, limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Dissection (fig. 87). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and Take away vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and iiifarnerves fi-om the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the ^^^^^^^ fascia in the forearm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior interosseous vessels, which are in contact with it on the ulnar side in the lower third. A tliickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that strip the tendons may be traced to the end of the digits. Augers. The several muscles should be separated from one another up to Separate their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. muscles. The posterior annular ligament, k, consists of the special aponeu- Annular rosis of the limb, thickened by the addition of some transverse hfiXthe ^ fibres, and is situate opposite the lower end of the bones of the ^""'st- forearm. This band is connected at the outer side to the radius, and at thfe inner to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the extensor tendons. The hgament will be subsequently examined more in detail. Superficial layer of muscles (fig. 87). The muscles are arranged Superficial in a superficial and a deep layer, as on the anterior part of the fore- seven'mus- arm. The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise ^les, viz. mostly by a common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus, and have the undermentioned position one to another from without inwards ;—the long supinator, a, the two radial extensors of the wrist, B and 0 (long and sliort),the common extensor of the fingers, D, the extensor of the little fiiiger, E, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist, F. There is one other small muscle near the elbow, the anconeus, G. Tlie SUPINATOR RADII LONGUS, A, reaches upwards into the arm, Supinator and limits on the outer side the hollow in fr-ont of the elbow. The '°"o"s>802 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. origin, insertion. Connec- tions. Fig. 87.* Is the guide to the radial artery. Use, radius free and fixed. Extensor carpi longus. nrmsclc arises from the upper two-thirds of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and the front of the external intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a tendon, whicli is inserted into the lower end of the radius, close above the stjdoid process. In the arm the margins of the supinator are directed towards the surface and the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened over the others, with its edges forwards and backwards. Its an- terior border touches the biceps and the pronator teres; and the posterior is in contact with both radial extensors of the wrist. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the brachialis anticus and mus- culo-spiral ners^e, the extensors of the wiist, the radial vessels and nerve, and the radius. Action. The chief use of this supinator is to bend the elbow joint. But if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supinated the muscle can put the hand into a state intermediate between pro- nation and supination,—the thumb being brought above the fore- finger. If the radius is fixed as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the humerus, bending the elbow. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR, B, ai'ises from the lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the Immerus, and the front of the contiguous intermuscular sep- tum ; and from the septum be- tween it and the next muscle. The muscle lies on the short radial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and * Superficial layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, with some_vessels. Uustrations of Dissi carpi radialis longus. Buperhciai layer or musciea uu ui.c p^cvv^vv,.---t7,.+„„c«- (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles: A. Supinator longus. B. Extensor 0. Extensor carpi radialis brevis. d. Extensor com-303 EXTENSORS OF DIGITS. the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the meta- insertion, carpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. j t. i Action. The long extensor straightens first the wrist, and bends ^^^^ next the elbow joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus hke and fixed. the long supinator. . * The EXTENSOR CAnn radialis brevior, c, is attached to the outer f^^^P^^l^^^ condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles, viz. common extensor of the fingers, extensor Origin, of the little finger and ulnar extensor of the wrist: it takes origin also fi-om the capsular ligament of the elbow joint. The tendon Insertion, of the muscle is closely connected with the preceding, and after passing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, this Parts extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to around it. it, that is to say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres. Along the ulnar side is the comlnon extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb come between it and the digital ex- tensor. Both radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at the insertion. Action. This muscle resembles its fellow in extending the wrist, Use on but difEers from it in extending the bent elbow. "'"^ Acting with the long extensor of the wrist it will move the hand and radius, in the act of supination. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM, D, is Single at its origin, but Common GxtGnsor is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from the common muscle, tendon, from aponem-otic septa between it and the muscles around, origin, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle ; below the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the last two phalanges of the fingers. On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following insertion arrangement. On the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an 'i"ja°am^es expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei ° muscles (fig. 82). At the front of that phalanx it divides into three parts (fig. 87, n) :—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two articula- munia digitorum, E. Extensor minimi digiti. f. Extensor carpi ulnaris. o. Anconeus, h. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. r. Extensor primi inter*- nodii. J. Extensor secundi intemodii pollicis. k. Posterior annular ligament. L. Bands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. N. Insertion of the common extensor into the last two phalanges. Arteries ': a. Posterior interosseous. 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. 6. Meta- carpal branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and forefinger.DISSECTION OP BACK OF FOREARM. 804 Connections of the muscle. Use, on the fin- gers, on elbow and wi'ist. Extensor of little finger. ■Origin. Termina- tion. Use. Extensor carpi ulna- ris. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use. Anconeus, origin, insertion; touches the triceps. tions of eacli finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join tlio capsule of tlie joint. On the fore and little fingers the expan- sion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist and little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross pieces, L, which are strongest between the ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons ; they prevent the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. Action.^ The muscle straightens the phalanges of the fingers from root to tip, and separates the digits from each other. With the interossei and lumbricales it can extend the nearest joint of each finger Avhilst the two farthest are bent by the flexors ; and it can straighten the last two joints when the nearest is bent. The digits being straightened, it will assist the other muscles in extending the wrist and the elbow. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DiGiTi, E, is the most slender muscle on the back of the forearm, and appears to be but a part of the common extensor. Its origiii is in common with that of the extensor com- munis, but it passes through a distinct sheath of the annular liga- ment. ^ Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, and only one unites by a cross piece with the tendon of the common exten- sor : both finally join the common expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. Action. It extends the little finger and moves back the wrist and elbow. As the inner piece of the split tendon is not united with the common extensor, it can straighten the digit during flexion of the other fingers. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARis MUSCLE, P, arises from the common tendon, and the aponeurosis of the forearm ; it is also fixed by fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle tliird). Its tendon becomes free from fleshy fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a sepa- rate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little finger, with the posterior interosseous vessels. Action. As the name expresses, the muscle puts back the wrist, and inclines the hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow joint. The ANCONEUS, G, is a small triangular muscle near the elbow. It arises fi'om the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and on the ulnar side of the common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third of the posterior sm-face of the ulna. The upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supi- nator brevis muscle, and the recurrent interosseous vessels.305 DEEP EXTENSOR MUSCLES. Fig. 88.' Action. Commonly it acts on the ulna, and assists the triceps in extending the elbow. Dissection (fig. 88). For the display of the deep muscles at the back of the forearm, and the poste- rior interosseous vessels and nerve, three of the superficial muscles, viz. extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be detached from their origin and turned aside ; in this proceeding tlie small branches of the nerve and artery entering the muscles may be divided. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles should be made carefully, because the highest two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep layer of muscles (fig 88). In this layer there are five small muscles, viz. one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor muscles of the thmnb and fore- finger. The highest muscle, sur- rounding partly the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis, D. Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following order:—the extensor of the meta- carpal bone, E, the extensor of the first, F, and that of the second phalanx, g. On the ulna the indi- cator muscle, H, is placed. The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLicis, E, is the largest and high- est of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis. It Use. Dissection of deep layer of musoleH, and interos- seoiis vesseLs and nerve. Five mus- cles in tlie deep layer viz. Extensor metiicarj)! pollicis. * Dissection of the deep layer of muscles, and the vessels and nerve on the back of the forearm. (Illustrations of dissections.) Muscles: A. Supinator longus. B. and o. Radial extensors of the carpus, cut. d. Supinator brevis. K. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. p. Extensor primi internodii. o. Ex- X806 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. Origin. Insertion. The miiscle is at first deep, but afterwards superficial. Use. Extensor of first plialanx. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use. Extensor of second plialanx. Origin. Insertion. Is lower than the preceding two. Use. Indicator muscle. arises from the posterior surface of the radius for three inches below the supinator brevis ; from the ulna for the same distance by a narrow special impression on the upper and outer part of the posterior surface ; and from the intervening interosseous mem- brane. The tendon is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and by a slip into the os trapezium. The muscle is concealed at first by the common extensor of the fingers ; but it becomes cutaneous between the last muscle and the extensors of the wrist, about two inches above the end of the radius (fig. 87). Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds backwards beneath its tendon. Between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis the posterior interosseous artery (a) ap- pears. Action. By this muscle the thumb is moved backwards from palm of the hand, and the wrist is extended on the radial side. The EXTENSOR prim: internodii pollicis, f, is the smallest muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon accompanies that of the preceding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below the attachment of the preceding muscle. The tendon passes tlu-ough the same space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the metacarpal end of the first phalanx of the thumb. With respect to sm-rounding parts this muscle has the same con- nections as the preceding. Action. It extends first the nearest phalanx, and then the wrist, like its companion. The EXTENSOR secdndi internodii POLLICIS, Q, arises fi-om the ulna for four inches below the anconeus, along the ulnar side of the ex- tensor of the metacarpal bone; and from the interosseous membrane, below, for one inch. Its tendon passing through a sheath in the annular ligament, distinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is covered by the same muscles as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes superficial nearer the lower end of the radius. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the radial artery, and the extensors of the wrist. Action. Its use is similar to that of the extensor of the first phalanx. When the phalanges are straight, the two extensors will assist in carrying back the metacarpal bone. The extensor indicis, h, (indicator) arises from the ubia for three or four inches, usually beyond the middle, and internal to the tensor secundi internodii. h. Extensor indicis. i. Posterior annular liga- ment Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous, b. Recurrent interosseous, c. Dorsal part of 'the anterior interosseous, d. Dorsal part of the radial, c. Dorsal branches to the thumb and fore finger. /. Dorsal carpal arch. .7. Two posterior interosseous (ulnar) of the hand. Na-ves: 2 Radial. 3. Posterior interosseous at its origin, and 4, near its ending in a sweUing on the back of the carpus.POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS VESSELS. 307 preceding muscles ; and from the interosseous ligament below. Ongm Near the annular ligament the tendon becomes free from muscular fibres, and passing through that band with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external tendon of andinser- that muscle in the expansion on the phalanx of the forefinger. Until this muscle has passed the liganent it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is afterwards subaponeurotic. Action. The muscle can point the fore finger even when the three Use. inner fingers are bent, inclining it towards the others at the same time. And it will help the common extensor of the digitis in pull- ing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, brevis.""* ^ and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachiaHs anticus, is to be removed. The SUPINATOR BREVIS, D, surrounds the upper end of the radius, ^Joftsupi- except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone below it. It arises nator; from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, from the external margin of the bone for two inches below that pit, and from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. The fibres pass outwards, and ^P^^'^^®'^" are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, except at the inner part, reaching downwards to the insertion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the hollowed anterior surface. The supinator is concealed altogether at the posterior and external Overlying aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the pos- and con- terior interosseous vessels (a) intervening. Through the substance t'S^ous of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve (^) winds to the back of the limb. Action. When the radius has been moved over the ulna as in Use. pronation, the short supinator comes into play to bring that bone again to the outer side of the ulna. The posterior interosseous artery (fig. 88, a) is an offset from the Posterior common interosseous trunk (p. 286), and reaches the back of the Lrtel^^^^"^^ forearm above the ligament between the bones. Appearing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends at first between the superficial and ticfrvveen the deep layers of muscles ; and afterwards, with a superficial position mSli^ in the lower third of the forearm, along the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris as far as the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing and super: with the carpal and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes muscular offsets to the contiguous muscles, except the two or three outer ; and tlie following recurrent branch :— The recurrent branch {b) springs from the artery near the com- its recur- 3f 2 *'<*'i* branch.DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOEEARM. 308 Iiitorosscous nerve. Position to iniiseles. Teniiination on back of the carpus. Its muscular offsets. Eadial artery on back of wrist. Connections with parts around and nerves. Branches iU'e small. To back of carpus, dorsal inter- osseous, metacarpal branch, dorsal arteries of thumb mencement, and ascends on or through the fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply both those muscles and the elbow joint; and to anastomose with the superior profunda artery in the last-named muscle, as well as with the recurrent radial. The posterior interosseous nerve takes origin from the musculo- spiral trunk (p. 275), and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nei-ve is placed between the superficial and deep layers of muscles as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous membrane to the back of the carpus. Finally the nerve enlarges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, and tenninates in filaments to the ligaments and the articulations of the carpus. Branches. It furnishes ofEsets to all the muscles of the deep layer; and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three, following, anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. Eadial Artery at the Wrist (fig. 88). The radial artery {d), with its venai comites, winds below the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and beneath the tendons of the extensors of the meta- carpal bone, E, and first phalanx of the thumb, F ; but afterwards it is more superficial, and is crossed by the teiidon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, G. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery, and the radial nerve is superficial to it. Its branches are numerous but inconsiderable in size :— a. The dorsal carpal branch (/) passes transversely beneath the extensor tendons, and forms an arch with a coiTesponding offset of the ulnar artery ; with this arch the posterior interosseous artery joins. From the carpal arch branches {g) descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interos- seous arteries : at the cleft of the fingers each di^^des into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. In front they communicate with the digital arteries ; and behind they are joined by the perforating branches of the palmar arch. 1) The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch (fig. 87, 6), reaches the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anastomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Fma ly it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal branches to the index and second fingers. , , v . c Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb (c) arise opposite the metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect.309 POSTEEIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT. d. The dorsal branch of the index finger distributed on the radial amijore- edge of that digit. o. The different divisions of the annular ligament may be seen more Sheaths of completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the several ugament tendons passing beneath. There are six separate compartments, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most external from^^th-^ one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist; and a very small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the tliumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the iingers, and that of the fore finger ; and then comes a slender compartment for tlie extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi Bones ^ ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in the tendons; hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the ex- ception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the and not. bones. Dissection. If the supmator brevis be divided by a vertical inci- To|^^^jj sion, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone will supinator be better understood. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- jfe*TC°^^^°^ form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wist. The dorsal surface of the posterior interossei muscles of the hand o"'^;^^'. may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion into cles. the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior per- forating arteries appear. Section YII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the Directions, limb, which are still moist, may be examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, whilst the student learns the others. Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the Dissection shoulder-joint the tendons of the sun-ounding muscles, viz. sub- liganients^of scapularis, supra and infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be shoulder, detached from tlie capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint. Shoulder Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 89) is formed Shoulder between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of theoutuneof scapula. Inclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band310 DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. Looseness. Capsular ligament. Attach- ments Aperture. j^uscles around, Accessory band. Dissection of internal ligaments. Tendon of the biceps. Glenoid ligament. Synovial membrane. (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn fi-om the scapula for the distance of an inch. The capsular ligament (fig. 75, ^) surrounds loosely the articular ends of the bones ; it is thickened above and below, and receives fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper edge it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. At the lower edge the ligament is fixed (fig. 89) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little distance therefrom below ; and its continuity is interrupted between the tuberosities (&) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, over which it is continued along the bicipital groove (fig. 75). On the inner side there is generally an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is con- tinuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and be- hind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; below, the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapularis ; but in- ternally it is well supported by the last-named muscle. On the front of the capsule is a rather thick band of fibres,—the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 75, ®), which springs from the base of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the front of the joint, is attached to the margms of the bicipital groove, and to the tuberosities. Dissection. To see the interior of the articulation cut cu-cularly through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid hgament, and the tendon of the biceps will be manifest. The tendon of the hicejos muscle arches over the head of the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in restraining the upward and outward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula (fig. 89, d), and is united on each side with the glenoid ligament. At fii-st flat, it afterwards becomes round, and entering the gi-oove between the tuberosities of the ' humerus, it is surrounded by the synovial membrane. The glenoid ligament (fig. 89, c) is a firm fibro-cartilagmous band, which surrounds the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is about two lines in width, and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. The synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the capsule, and is continued through the aperture on the inner side to join the bursa beneath the subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and Imes the bicipital groove of the humerus.311 LIGAMENTS OF SHOULDER. Articular surfaces (fig. 89). The convex articular " t^e urfaceof humerus is two or three times larger than the hollow m the scapula and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is supported on a neck, which is joined to the shaft at an angle as in the femur, and a rotatory movement is possessed by the humerus in consequence. ^^ ^ „ , i The glenoid surface of the scapula is oval in form with the large f scapula, end do^vn, and is very shallow ; it is not nearly large enough to cover the head of the humerus. _ . Movements. In this joint there is the common motion m four M^of^^ directions, with the cncular or circumductory ; and m addition a movement of rotation. , » In the minging or to and fro movement, the carrying forwards o± Fi«cion the humerus constitutes flexion, and the moving it backwards, ex- Fig. 89.* tension. Flexion is freer than extension ; and when the joint is most bent the scapula, rotating on its axis, follows the head of the hrmierus, so as to keep the centre of the glenoid fossa applied to the middle of the articular surface of the arm-bone. In extension the articular surface of the scapula does not move after the humerus. During these movements the head of the bone rests in the bottom of the glenoid fossa, turning forwards and backwards around a line representing the axis of the head and neck ; and it cannot be dis- lodged by either the rapidity or the degree of the motion. The muscles have more influence than the loose capsule in con- trolling the swinging motion. Abduction and adduction. When the limb is raised, it is abducted, and when depressed, adducted ; and in both cases the humerus rolls on the scapula which is fixed. * View of the interior of the shoulder-joint, a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital groove, c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa. - - - of the fossa. extension. Scapula moves in flexion not in ex- tension. Movements of humerus. Muscles, their use. d. Tendon of the biceps fixed to the top312 DISSECTION OP UPPER LIMB. ATiduction. Stiito of 1)0110 iind capsule. Adduction. Bone and capsule. Circum- duction. Rotation in, state of bone: and out, state of l)one, and capsule. Dissection of the elbow joint. During abduction the head of the humerus descends to the lower and larger part of the glenoid fossa, and projects beyond it against the capsule ; whilst the great tuberosity rubs against the ai-ch of the acromion. In this condition a little more movement down of the head either by muscles depressing it, or by force elevating the farther end of the bone, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction the head of the bone rises into the socket, the limb meets the trunk, and the tense capsule is set at rest. After the reduction of a dislocation the limb is fixed to the side of the body as security against further displacement. In circumduction the humerus passes in succession through the four different states before mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, whose apex is at the shoulder and base at the digits. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory movement, viz. in and out ; and in each the motion of the head and shaft of the bone has to be considered. In rotation in, the great tuberosity is turned fonvards, and the head rolls from before back across the glenoid fossa so as to project behind. The shaft is moved forwards round a Hne lying on its inner side, which reaches from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. In rotation out, the osseous movements are reversed : thus the tuberosity turns back, the head rolls forward so as to project in fi-ont, and the shaft is carried back around the line before said. The upper thickened part of the capsule will be tightened in rotation, but the muscles are the chief agents in checking the movements. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of Bones form- ing the elbow joint. The liga- ments are External lateral. Internal lateral. the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away fi-om the fi-ont, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles con- nected with the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments—anterior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow Joint (fig. 90). In this articulation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge-like arrangement ; and the upper end of the radius assists to form part of the joint. Where the bones touch the sur- faces are covered with cartilage, and their articular ends are kept in place by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is attached by one end to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radms. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the external margm of the ulna. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape. It is pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of theLIGAMENTS OF ELBOW. 313 humerus. The fibres diverge, and are inserted in this way:—The anterior, which are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of tlie coro- noid process ; the posterior are attached to the side of the olecranon ; whilst a few middle fibres join a transverse ligamentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with the hgament; ^ and vessels enter the joint by an aperture be- F'S- ^0. neath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is inserted into the fi-ont of the humerus, and, by its lower into the front of the coronoid pro- cess and the orbicular ligament. The brachiahs anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner and looser than the anterior arid is covered com- pletely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon : and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some feAV fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before men- tioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the inner surface of the connectmg ligaments. It projects between the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The humerus presents inferiorly two distinct articular faces for the bones of the forearm. The one for the radius, on the outer side, consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the anterior aspect. The surface in contact with the ulna is limited internally and externally by a prominence and hollowed out in the centre (trochlea). On the front of the humerus above the articular surface are two depressions which receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexure of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the large sigmoid cavity is narrowed in the centre, but expanded in fi-ont and behind (fig. 91). A slightly * The ligaments of the elbow joint, and the shaft of the radius and ulna (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Capsule of the elbow joint. 2. Oblique ligament. ,3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps. A notch on inner side of the joint. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament. Dissection Synovial memhrane. Lower end of the humerus. Two articu- lar surfaces, and three fOSSSB. End of the ulna.314 DISSECTION OP UPPER LIMB. raised line extends from front to back, and is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus. Across the bottom of the cavity tlie cartilage is wanting completely, or for a greater or smaller distance. radius"^'" '^^'^ °^ presents a circular depression with a raised margin. In the bent state of the joint the hollow of the radius fits on the outer eminence of the humerus, and the bone is supported during rotation of the limb. Kind of Movement. This joint is Hke a hinge in its movements, and permits motion : Qjjjy flexion and extension. bending. In flexion the bones of the foreai-m move forwards, each on its own articular surface, so as to leave the back of the humerus uncovered. The extent is checked by the meeting of the bones of the arm and forearm. Owing to the slanting surface of the humerus the hand falls inside the limb when the jomt is fully bent. state of liga- The ligaments are relaxed, with the exception of the following, ments; ^-^^ posterior, and the hinder part of the internal lateral, extending. In extension the ulna and radius are carried back over the articular surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- bone. This movement is checked by the olecranon touching the humerus. state of liga- The anterior ligament, and the fore part of the internal lateral ments, ligament are made tight, but the hinder fibres of the internal lateral are relaxed. Radius is UNION OF THE Eadius AND Ulna. The radius is connected with joinett to , , , , ulna. the uma at both ends by means of distinct ligaments and synovial membrane ; and the shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. At the upper Upper radio-ulnar articulation. In this joint the head of the radius end by received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band :— orbicular The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 91, o) is about one third aTOim™the of an inch wide, and is stronger behind than before; it is placed bone around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to ' the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ■ ulna. Its upper border, the widest, is connected with the hgaments of the elbow joint; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of the ulna, the radius moA^es fi-eely. and synovial The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining the elbow membrane, j^^^.. projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the annular ligament. Union of the Ligaments of the shafts of the bodies. The aponeurotic stratum shafts. connecting together the bones in nearly their- whole length consists of the two following parts :— Eadius is The interosseous membrane (fig. 90, ^) is a thin fibrous layer, middk which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, interosseous ^nd forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the front membrane: ^^^^^ ^^^^ forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obHquely315 EADIO-ULNAR JOINTS. inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. Superiorly the membrane is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the postenor inter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels; and the largest of these C) is about two inches from the lower end, thi-ough which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wist. The membrane gives at- tachment to the deep muscles. The round ligament (fig. 90, ") is a slender band above the inter- this is defi- cient above. osseous membrane, whose fibres By round ligament. The lower end after. Kind of motion of radius, pronation have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coro- noid process, and by the other to the radius below the tubercle. The hgament divides into two the space above the interosseous mem- brane. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articula- tion cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist joint (p. 317). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- wards around the vdna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the hand towards the ground, is called pronation ; and the backward movement, by which the palm of the hand is placed up, is named supination. In pronation the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In supination the lower end of the radius tui'ns backwards over the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external ; and the upper end rotates from within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the centre of a circle of which the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna is a segment (Ward). The upper end of the bone is kept in place by the orbicular liga- ment ; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supi- nation, and is relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case in fraeture * View of the orbicular ligament (a) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna. supination; motion around an axis; use of liga- ments ;316 DISSECTION OP UrrER LIMB. motion ceases. Dissection. Bones fonn- ing wrist united by- external lateral. internal lateral, anterior and posterior ligament. Dissection. Surface of radius. because the radius cannot be moved except it is entire ; and in the other because the broken ulna cannot support tlie revolving radius. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wrist-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back : and the fibrous structures and the small vessels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. . The Whist Joint (fig. 92). The lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bones, except the os pisiforme, enter into the wrist-joint. Four liga- Fig. 92.* ments maintain in contact the osseous surfaces, viz. anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out fi-om this articu- lation by means of a piece of fibro-cartilage. The external lateral li- gament is a short and strong band, which inter- venes between the styloid process of the radius and the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. The internal lateral li- gament is smaller than the external, but is longer than it. It is attached by one end to the styloid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough, upper part of the cuneiform bone. Some of the anterior fibres are contuiued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 95, ^) takes origin from the radius and the fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform, at the anterior surface. The posterior ligament (fig. 95, ^) is membranous, hke the anterior, and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards. Superiorly it is attached to the radius and the fibro-cartilage ; and inferiorly it is fixed, like the anterior, to the three outer carpal bones of the first row on the posterior aspect. Dissection. To see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be .opened by a transverse incision through the posterior liga- ment, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces (fig. 93). The end of the radius, and the fibro- cartilage (c) uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the reception * Front view of the articulations of the -wrist joint, and carpal and meta- carpal bones (Bourgery and Jacob).—1. Anterior ligament of the wrist joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the os trapezium. 3. Pisiform bone, with its separate joint and ligamentous bands. 4. Transverse bands to the head of the metacarpal bones.317 LIGAMENTS OF WRIST JOINT, of the carpal bones ; and tlie surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constitute a of first row convex eminence (fig. 94), which is received into the hollow before °^«^^P^ mentioned in this way ;—the scaphoid bone (a) is opposite the surfaces external mark of the radius ; the semilunar bone (b) touches the touching, square impression, and part or all of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; whilst the cuneiform bone (c) is in contact with the capsule (Henle), and sometimes with part of the fibro-cartilage. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple Synovial joints. This joint communicates occasionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Movement. The wrist is a condyloid articulation, and possesses Kind of angular motion in four different directions, with circumduction. ™° ' Flexion and extension. In flexion the hand is moved forwards and flexion; inwards, whilst the carpus rolls on the radius from before back, and projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension extension; the hand is carried backwards and outwards, and the row of carpal bones moves in the opposite direction, viz. from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The binder movement is fi-eer than the foi"ward. Abduction and adduction. The row of carpal bones moves trans- Abduction, versely inwards in the former, and outwards in the latter state ; and the movement is freer towards the ulnar than the radial side. The lateral ligaments are put on the stretch, the inner in abduction State of^^ and the outer in adduction ; and the motion is limited on the outer ° side by the meeting of the styloid process of the radius with the scaphoid bone. Circumduction. The hand describes a cone in this movement, whose Circumduc- apex is at the wrist and base at the digits ; and it moves more freely in extension and adduction than in the opposite directions. Lower Radio-ulnar Articulation. In this articulation the con- vexity at the end of the ulna is re- ceived into a concavity on the radius ; —an arrangement just the opposite to that between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro-cartilage ; but a kind of capsule consisting of scattered fibres; surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage (fig. 93, c) is placed transversely beneath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal fi-om the ulnar articulatino- * The wrist joint opened to show the arch formed by the radius with the uniting fibro-cartilage, c. a. lladius. b. Ulna. tion. Lower ends of radius and ulna joined by capsule. Triangular flbro-carti- lage.DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 318 Attach- ments and connec- tions. Synovial membrane. Use. Bones are joined into two rows. Dissection of cai-pai and meta- carpal joints. How first row is united. Separate ligaments of pisiform bone. Second row is like first. A gliding movement. Transverse carpal joint, anterior, posterior, surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the uhia, and tlie depression at the root of that point of bone. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior liga- ments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into different joints, viz., the wrist, and the lower radio-ulnar. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and ascends between the radius and the ulna : it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The motion in this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 315). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands ; and the two rows are connected to each other by wide separate ligaments. Dissection. The articulation of the carpal bones with each other will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefully the whole of the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the imciform and fifth metacarpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands rmiting the metacarpal with the carpal bones and with one another should be dissected. Bones of the first row (fig. 94). The os semilunare is united to the lateral bones, viz. scaphoid and cuneiform by a dorsal (fig. 94, tZ), and a palmar transverse band ; as well as, it is said, by an interos- seous ligament at the upper part of the contiguous surfaces."' The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the cuneiform by a distinct capsule and a synovial membrane (fig. 92, ^). It has further two special firm ligaments ;—one of these is attached to the process of the os unciEorme, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The hones of the second row (fig. 94) are connected together in the same way as those of the first, viz. by a dorsal (i) and a pal- mar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between the con- tiguous rough surfaces of the several ossicles ai"e interosseous liga- ments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the interosseous hgaments uniting one to another ; and this is less in the second than in the first row. One row with another (transverse carpal joint, fig. 94). The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament (p) consists of strong irregular fibres, and intervenes between the two rows (except the pisiform) on the pal- mar aspect. The posterior hgament, which is longer and looser, * Interosseous ligaments in this row, distinct from the other bands, can scarcely be said to exist.ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. 319 and the greater number of whose fibres are transverse, has a corre- sponding attachment on the dorsal aspect of the same bones Of the lateral ligaments the external (/.) is the best marked, and and utei^al extends between the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone ; tne internal ligament (0 reaches between the cuneiform and unciform bones. . t j. . ^■ Dissection: After the di^nsion of the lateral and posterior ligaments, Dissection. the one row of bones may be separated far enough from the other, to allow a sight of the articular surfaces. Articular surfaces. The first row of carpal bones (except pisiform) Svuface^f forms internally an arch with the scaphoid (a), semilunar {V) and ^ contact, cuneiform bone (c), whose hollow is turned towards the second ; and externally a prominence with the scaphoid (a), which is received into a concavity in the other row. In the second row Pig- ^4. the OS magnum (</) and os uncif orme (A)present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned ; but the two outer bones (trapezium and trapezoid, e and /) are much below the level of the others, and form a slight hollow for the reception of the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. One synovial membrane serves for the articulation of all the carpal bones, ex- cept the pisiform with the cuneiform. Lining the joint between the two rows of the carpus, the membrane sends upwards and downwards prolongations be- tween the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes join the synovial membrane of the wrist joint; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued and some to all, or only to some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpals metacarpal with their carpal bones. Movements. The transverse carpal joint is partly condyloid, but Kind of only forward and backward motion is permitted. All lateral and m^*''"^- circumductory movement is an-ested, if the rows are closely applied together, by the scaphoid striking against the os magnum on the one side, and tlie cuneiform against the unciform on the other. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards the loAver row of carpal Flexion. One synovial membrane for the carpal bones, * Articulations of one carpal bone with another, and of the two rows with each other. The joint between the two rows is opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. 6. Semilunar, c. Cuneiform, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium bone. /. Trapezoid, g. Os Magnum, h. Unci- form, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal lateral, p. Anterior ligament. iDISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 320 Extension. Metacariml bones joined by bases by side union and by their heads. Carpal and metacarpal joint: that of the thumb. Motion. Bending. Extending. Lateral motion and bones moves backwards, and renders prominent the posterior liga- ment. This motion is also brought into play in full bending of the wrist. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. As the lower carpal row moves towards the palm, its progress is checked by the anterior ligament of the joint, and by the strong flexor tendons. Union of the Metacahpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the fom- fingers arc connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A superficial dorsal (fig. 95) and palmar fasciculus of fibres passes transversely fi-om one bone to the next ; and the bands in the palm are the strongest P'S- 95.* (fig. 92). Besides, there is a short interosseous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Lateral union. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage ; and the articular surfaces are furnished with prolongations of the syno^aal membrane serving for their articulation with the carpus. At their anterior ends the same four metacarpal bones are connected by the deep transverse %ameHi, which was seen in the dissection of the hand (p. 299). Union of the Metacar- pal AND Carpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan ; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpal hone of the thumb articulates with the os trape- zium ; and the ends of the bones are incased in a separate capsular ligament (fig. 92, ^). The joint is furnished with a synovial mem- brane which is simple in its arrangement. The thumb-joint possesses angular movement in opposite direc- tions, with opposition and circumduction, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed the metacarjDal bone is brought into the palm of the hand, without the ball of the thumb being turned to the tips of the fingers. Extension of the joint is very free, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the metacarpal bone is placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. * Posterior ligaments of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo-metacariJal joint of the thumb.—3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones.CARPO-METACAEPAL JOINTS. 321 Opposition. In this movement the ball of tlie thumb is turned opposition, towards the tip of each finger by a half circuniductory motion of the metacarpal bone; and in picking up a pin the joints of the thumb, and the two last joints of the fingers will be bent. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands J°^^J«„°'gg^g from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus :— The dorsal ligaments (fig. 95) are two to each, except to the bone ' of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the os trapezium and os trapezoides; those of the tliird metacarpal are attached to the os magnum and os trapezoides ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and OS unciforme ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament from the imciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 92) are weaker and less constant than ^"^^jP*'™*'" the dorsal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the Httle finger. These ligaments may be oblique in direction ; and a band may be divided between two, as in the case of the ligament attached to the os trapezium and the second and thii'd metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is Lateral a longitudinal lateral band, which is attached behind to the os ^^"'^' magnum and unciforme, and before to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening behind the articulation be- '^"^ ^^en. tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the' third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement Gliding exists in the articulations of the bases of the metacarpal bones of ° the fore and middle fingers ; but in the ring and little fingers the motion is greater, with slight abduction and adduction. Dissection. The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo- Dissection, metacarpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger presents Articulai- a hollowed articular surface, which receives the prominence of the OS trapezoides, and articulates laterally with the os trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os and contact magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the unciform bone and the os magnum. And the little finger bone is opposed to the os unciforme. Synovial membranes. Usually two sj^novial membranes are inter- Synovial posed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz. a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and offsets of the common carpal or throe, synovial sac (p. 319) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the os unciforme with the two inner metacarpals.DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 822 Interosseous ligainouts, metacarpal, and carpal. Dissection of linger joints. Metacarpal Isones and phalanges: latera igament, anterior ligament. posterior. Synovial sac. Joint of thumb. Kind of motion. Extending. Bending. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from anotlier. There are also strong fibrous pieces be- tween all the carpal bones in the second row; and slight ones are described as present on each side of the os semilunare in the first row. Fig. 96.* Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will be requisite to clear away tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular siu-faces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Union of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 96). In this joint the isonvex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligament (d) is the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in foim; it is attached by its upper end to the tubercule on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament (h) is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor tendon : to its sides the lateral ligaments are united. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon ; this takes the place of a dorsal ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side, which serves as a capsule to the articulation. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are connected with the anterior hgament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in fom- opposite directions, and circumduction, exist in these condyloid joints. Extension and flexion. The phalanx moves backwards in extension, so as to give an angle with the metacarpal bone. The anterior liga- ment and the flexor tendons are stretched, and control the move- ment. In flexion the phalanx glides forwards under the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the stretch as the joint is bent.323 LIGAMENTS OF PHALANGES. Abduction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger Lateral fi-om or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the side of the joint which is rendered convex will be tightened, and the other will be relaxed. The circumductory motion is less impeded in the thumb, and in ^(JJ^"™'^'^^' the fore and little fingers than in the others ; and in the thumb it allows the turnmg of the last phalanx towards the other digits in the movement of opposition. Union of the Phalanges. The ligaments of these joints are ^5*/^}*^°"^^ similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, viz. two have lateral and an anterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected lateral and by its apex to the side of the phalanx near the front; and by its base to the contiguous phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament has the same mode of attachment between anterior the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, I'sament. but it is not so strong ; and the extensor tendon takes the place of a posterior band as in that articulation. There is a simple synovial membrane present in the joint. Synovial The joint of the second with the last phalanx is like the preced- LaJ^jjoi^t ing in the number and disposition of its ligaments ; but all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular Surfaces. The anterior end of each phalanx is marked Surface of by a pulley-like surface. The posterior end presents a transversely hollowed fossa, and is provided with a crest which fits into the central depression of the opposed articular surface. Movements. The two mterphalangeal jomts can be bent and Kind of straightened like a hinge. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the farther phalanx moves Bending, under the nearer in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between the middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most extensive. In extension the farther phalanx comes into a straight Extending, line with the nearer one, and the motion is stopped by the anterior ligament and the flexor tendons. T 2324 CHIEF ARTERIES OP UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE CHIEF ARTEEIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 'Superior thoracic acromial thoracic . long thoracic alar thoracic subscapular . external mammary anterior circumflex ■^posterior circumflex. The subclavian is continued in the nxm by . ,'1. Axillary artery ( Muscular -I, inferior acromial (. humeral thoracic. (Dorsal artery i muscular (Infrasca- ( pular. 2. brachial artery 3. radial artery 4. ulnar artery ( To coraco-brachialis superior profunda . nutritious inferior profunda . anastomotic ^muscular. / Eecurrent muscular superficial volar posterior carpal anterior carpal metacai-pal dorsal of the thumb. of the index finger princeps pollicis radiaUs indicis V deep arch /Anterior recurrent posterior recurrent Interosseous . muscular dorsal of the hand, or metacarpal. anterior carpal ^ superficial arch f Muscular to triceps A and anconeus ( anastomotic. I Muscular to triceps • I anastomotic. rBecnrrent 1 perforating nnterosseous ( communicating. Anterior posterior ( Dorsal carpal , \ metaoai-pal or inter- ( osseous. / Commimicating J four digital branches ■ j cutaneous I nmscular. j Nutritious ( muscular. ( Recurrent ( muscular.326 SPINAL NERVES OF UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. /Anterior thoracic . | ^ggj, Brachiai. Plexus gives - off below the clavicle . subscapular circuindex nerve of 'Wrisberg. internal cutaneous median ulnar \ musculo-spiral. {Superior inferior long. / Articular J cutaneous ' j to teres minor I to deltoid. (Small cutaneous anterior of forearm posterior of forearm. musculo-cutaneous - To coraco-brachialis biceps and braohialis anticus cutaneous external of forearm ^articular to cai^pus. /To pronator teres to muscles of foreann, except flexor ulnai-is and part of profundus anterior interosseous cutaneous palmar to muscles of thmnb in part five digital branches. / Articular to elbow to flexor caiiii ulnaris to flexor profundus in part cutaneous branch of foreann and palm dorsal cutaneous of the hand superficial palmar division. \ deep palmar nerve. / Internal cutaneous to triceps and anconeus external cutaneous to supinator and extensor radialis lonsnis { Commmiicating < two digital ( branches. posterior interosseous \ radial Muscular articulai'. t Cutaneous of back of ) thumb, and ot first i two fingers and ' half the next.CHAPTEK IV. DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Section I. Definition. Contents of cavity. Dissection to open tliorax. Sternum to tie kept. Form in general. On a cross section. Boundaries. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. The cavity of the thorax is the space included by the spinal column, the sternum, and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals of the bony fi-amework. In it the organs of respiration, and the heart with its great vessels are lodged : and through it the gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. Supposing the soft parts covering in front the bony parietes of the thorax to have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing a portion of the anterior boun- dary. To make a sufficient opening in the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first two ribs, and again between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (plem-a) from the inner surface of the chest, the student is to cut through the true ribs, except the first and seventh,* as far back as he can conveniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be removed by dividing the internal mammary vessels, the triangularis sterni, and the intercostal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The bag of the pleura, and the cavity with its contents, will be now ready for examination. The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be required here- after for the dissection of the ligaments. Form. The included cavity is irregularly conical, with the apex above and the base down ; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant space is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a horizontal section its shape would appear somewhat cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spmal column, and is projected backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs with their intercostal muscles; whilst in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. * The student must be mindful to leave those ribs uncut; the division of them will not be advantageous to him, and will injure the dissection of the neck and abdomen.327 BOUNDARIES AND SIZE. Tlie base is constructed at the circumference by the last dorsal The base, vertebra behind, by the end of the sternum before, and by the ribs on the side ; whilst the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm. •, • The base is wider transversely than from front to back, and is surface, convex towards the chest ; though at certain spots it projects more than at others. Thus in the centre it is lower than at the sides, and is on a level with the base of the xiphoid cartilage. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth nb and height: near the sternum ; and on the left, to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib.* From the lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave a narrow interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of tliis attached edge will >ts 8['ie be marked by an oblique line, over the side of the chest, from the base of the xiphoid cartilage to the tenth rib ; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left (fig. 97). The apex of the space is continued-higher than the osseous bouii- ^P®^esinto daiy, and reaches into the root of the neck. Its highest point is neck, not in the middle line, for there the windpipe, bloodvessels, &c. lie ; but is prolonged on each side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid, is tiifld. Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and under the subclavian bloodvessels ; and in the inteival between them lie the several things passing between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions. The extent of the thoracic cavity does not corre- ^^^that of^^ spond with the apparent size externally ; for the space included by cavity. the ribs below is occupied by the abdominal viscera, and the caA-ity reaches above into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm, the Depth varies depth of the space varies greatly at different points. At the centre, before; where the depth is least, it measures about seven inches, but at the behind; back as much again ; and the other vertical measurements can be on sides, estimated by means of the data given of the level of the base on the wall of the thorax. Alterations incapacity. The size of the thoracic cavity is ^^i^'fjjg ^''jj • stantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and dia- life; phragm in breathing. The horizontal measurements are increased in inspiration, when transversely the ribs are raised and separated from one another; and are dimi- '^^'^^" nished in expiration as the ribs approach and the sternum sinks. An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the diaphragm in depth by» in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the ^"'■P^'^g'"' lungs, increasing thus the cavity; and ascends when the air is ex- pelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efforts. But the movement of the iJ"* un- diaphragm is not equal throughout, and some parts of the cavity '^'i"'^'^^'- * This is the height in the dead body. The level to wliich it may reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm (p. 529).328 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. will be increased more than others. For instance, the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to -ftie heart-case, moves but sHghtly; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separa- tion from the thoracic parietes. Thorax les- The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm being sene.i, llow? p,^g];ie(i upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEUE^. Sac of tlie pleura. Form. Outer sur- face. Inner sur- face. Disposition in thorax. Difference in sac of right and left side. The con- tinuity is here traced over the lung and above it. Along mid- dle the sacs form a par- tition. The pleur£B are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, which are reflected around the limgs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; they ap- proach each other along the middle line of the body, forming a thoracic partition or mediastinum. Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the first rib (fig. 97), and its base is in contact vnth the dia- pln-agm. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung and the wall of the thorax by areolar tissue, but the inner surface is smooth, and secerning. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part—pleura costalis, and of a visceral part—pleura pul- monalis. There are some differences in the shape and extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left ; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung and the wall may be traced circularly from a given point to the same, in the following manner :—Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it may be traced on the wall of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is reflected over the viscus, covering its surface, and connecting together its different lobules. From the front of the root the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold, the Ugamentum latum pulmonis, which intervenes between the inner surface of the lung and the side of the peri- cardium. If the serous sac be traced above the root of the lung, it describes a circle without deflection over a -viscus. The mediastinum. The median thorti^ic partition, or the medi- astinum, is formed by the approximation of the pleural bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two layers,—one being derived fi-om each sac. About midway between the sternuni and the spine the contiguous strata of the mediastinum are widely separated by the heai-t; but in front of, and behind the heart theyREFLEXIONS OF FLEURA. 329 approacli near each other. To the portions before and behind that viscus the terms " anterior and posterior mediastina " are sometunes apphed. , „ „ , , The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) extends from of se__^^ the back of the stemmn to the pericardium. Behmd the second of tho heart, piece of the sternum tlie pleural bags touch each other, but above and below that spot they are separated by an interval ; so that the space between them (interpleural) is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the Contents, space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the hyoid and thyroid muscles ; and in the lower part is some areolar tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. The pa7-t lehind the hea/rt (posterior mediastinum) intervenes Part between the back of the pericardium with the roots of the lungs, gpace, and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are the opposite pleural sacs, which are separated here by a larger interpleural in- terval than in fi-ont of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the limg on the right side, the extent of the space and its contents will appear :—m it are contained the different bodies on the front its contents, of the spine, viz., the aorta, the vena azygos, the thoracic duct, the oesophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned from Clean peri- . . cardium ana the side of the pericardium. The root of the limg is to be dissected out by talcing away the tjj^ [^g"^ pleura and the areolar tissue from the'fi'ont and back, without in- juring its several component vessels. In this dissection the phrenic Trace the artery and nerve will be found in front of the root, together with ^^^^^^ a few nerves (anterior pulmonary) ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behmd the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, di^ading into branches ; and arching above the right one is the large azygos vein. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it and vein, may be left untouched. The thymus body is a fetal organ, like the thyroid body, whose use is unknown. It occupies chieiiy the upper part of the thorax ; fetus, and it may be best examined in a full-grown fetus. , At birth it is about two inches in length, and is of a grayish Size colour : it possesses two lobes of a conical foim, which touch each ' other. Its upper end is pointed and extends on the trachea as high and extent as the thyroid body; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and large at birth, vessels, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium. In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather Rema'ins iu firm material in the interpleural space beneath the upper end of the sternum. In its perfect state it tesembles much the thyroid body ; and a Structure, whitish fluid, containing lymph-like corpuscles, escapes from it when it is cut.DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 330 I Numlier and use. Fonn. Ease touches diapliragm shape and level. Apex is in the neck. Anterior edge is thin; position on right and left side. Posterior edge is thiclc. External sui'face. Internal surface t gives attach- ment to the root. Division into lobes. Left has two, and the right three lobes. CONNECTIONS OF TUE LUNCa The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. The lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes it shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter ; and it is covered by the bag of the pleura. Its base and apex, borders and surfaces can be dis- tinguished by differences in form : it is divided also into lobes by fissures ; and it has a root formed out of its vessels and nerves. ^ The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at tlie circumference, and fits on the convexity of the diaphragm. Follow- ing the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower posteriorly than anteriorly. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be ascertained externally by taking the level of the diaphi-agm as a guide (p. 327) ; and it will be a rib's bre^^li lower in front on the left, than on the right side (fig. 97). Th?^x is rounded, and projects an inch to an inch and a half above first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus )||iscle, and the sub- clavian artery. ^ vl: The anterior edge or border is tMn, and overlays in part the peri- cardium. On the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage (fig. 97). On the left side it reaches the mid-line of the chest as low as the fourth costal carti- lage ; but below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch (fig. 97), whose apex is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Two fissures are seen in the border of the right lung, but only one in that of the left. The posterior border is as long again as the anterior, and projects iuferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column. The outer surface of the lung is convex, and is in contact with the wall of the thorax : a large cleft divides it into two pieces (lobes of the lung), and on the right side there is a second smaller fissm-e. The inner surface is flat when compared with the outer : altogether in fi-ont is the hollow corresponding with the heart and its large vessels, which is greatest on the left lung ; and behmd this, but nearer the posterior than the anterior border, is a fissure about tlu-ee inches long, hilum imlmonis, which receives the vessels of the root of the lung. * Each lung is divided incompletely into two pieces or lobes by an oblique fissure, which begins near the apex, and ends in the anterior border near the base : from the form of the lung and the direction of the fissure, the lower lobe is necessarily the largest. In the right lung a second horizontal fissure is directed forwards from the middle of the oblique one to the anterior border, and cuts off a small tri- angular piece fi-om the upper lobe: this is the third lobe of theBOOT OF LUNG. S31 lung. Occasionally there may be a trace of the tliird lobe in the BesTlS the difference in the number of the lobes, the right lung f^^^^l^^H^ is larger and heavier, and is wider and more hollowed out at the size of the base than the left; it is also shorter by an inch. The mcreased i^^g • length and the narrowness of the left lung are due to the absence Fig. 97.* of a large projecting body like the liver under it, and to the du-ec- tion of the heart to the left side. The root of the lung consists of the vessels entering the fissm-e on Root of the the inner surface ; and as these are botmd together by the pleura ^"^"S- and some areolar tissue they form a foot-stalk, which fixes the lung to the heart and the windpipe. The root is situate at the imier situation, surface, about midway between the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth from the posterior border of the lung. In front of the root on both sides, are the phrenic and the anterior Connec- pulmonary nerves, the former being at some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus ; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above on the right side is the vena azygos ; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called ligamentum latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are collected a branch of the pulmonary consti- artery, two pulmonary veins, and a division of the air tube (bronchus); jJIg'^og^*! * Diagram to show the difference in the anterior border of the right and left lung, the edge being indicated by the dark line ; and to mark the different level of the base on the two sides.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 332 small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. The large vessels and the air tube have the following position to one another :— their rela- On both sides the bronchus is most posterior, the pulmonary tion.^'°^'' "^"^^"^ anterior, and the pulmonary artery between the other two. In the direction from above down the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonarj' veins ; but on the left side the bronchus and artery have changed places, con- sequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the left branch of the air tube being at a lower level than the right. THE PERICAEDIUM. Pevicar- diiuu. Clean ves- sels of heart. First aorta, then inno- minate veins and liranches, and upper cava. Seek small nerves cross- ing arch of aorta. Dissect superficial plexus in arch o£ aorta. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the pleuraj of opposite sides. Dissection. Supposing the surface of the pericardium to be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the large vessels con- nected with the heart; and trace the nerves. The large artery curving to the left above the heart is the aorta, "which furnishes three trunks to the head and the upper limbs, viz., innominate to the right, next left common carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side lies the large pulmonary artery. Above the arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left innominate, crosses over the three beforesaid arteries, and ends by uniting on the right side with the right innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, wliich may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter this trunk. Define the branches of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side, which is the left superior intercostal vein (fig. 350, i.). The large vein by the side of the aorta which enters the top of the heart is the upper cava : look for the azygos vein opening into it behind. Seek the following nerves of the left side which cross the arch of the aorta :—The nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the vagus ; the next largest in size on the right of the vagus is the phrenic. Between the preceding nerves, and close to the coats of the artery, are the two following,—the left superficial cardial nerve of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smaller, and on the right of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be pursued onwards to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the con- cavity of the aorta. An offset of the plexus is to be traced down- wards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the anterior coronary artery of the heart ; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus : this dissection is difficult, and will require care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will be333 STRTJCTURE OF TERICAIIDIUM. followed on the heart. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in injecting the body. The pericardium is larger than the viscus it contains. Somewhat P^J^'car- conical in form, the wider part of the bag is turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards to the large vessels of form, the heart. Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the sternum, Position, and projects below on each side of that bone, but much more to- wards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels he in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond with Connec- the objects in the interpleural space ; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, especially the left. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- Composi- tion. temally by a serous membrane. The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is pierced by Fibrous part the different vessels of that organ : it gives prolongations around fheatlis to the vessels, and the strongest of these sheaths is on the aorta. Infe- vessels riorly it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the diaphragm. This membrane is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of its struc- fibres crossing in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior of the fibrous pericardium, and Serous is reflected over the surface of the heart. Like other serous mem- jfbnms'*^^ branes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral part. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives and covers the shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface ^J^^ °^ of the heart by the different vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the pulmonary artery it contains those vessels in one tube, not peculiarities passing between their contiguous surfaces ; and at the posterior ^'^ its reflec- part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the pulmonary veins of opposite sides. In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forms a Vestigial vertical band, the vestigial fold of the pericardium (Marshall), which . includes the remains of the left imiominate vein of the fetus. On separating the pulmonary artery from the bronchus, the band will be better seen. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the Vessels, internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives nerves Nerves, from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular viscus, and is tlie agent in the The heart propulsion of the blood through the body. Into it, as"^ the centre of the vascular system, veins enter ; and from it the arteries issue.334 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Form. Surfaces aucl borders. Size and weight. Situation in the chest; its axis, oblique, placed al- most hori- zontally. Only some parts touch the waU. Limits of base and apex of upper margin, lower border. Latere,! limits. The heai-t is double. Grooves, circular and longitu dinal; how placed, Form. When the heart is distended; its form is conical, but it is rather flattened from before backwards. Its surfaces, and borders have the following differences :—the anterior surface is slightly convex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat; the left border is thick and round, but the right is tMn, sharp, and less firm. Size. The size varies greatly, and in general the heart of the woman is smaller than that of the man. ■ Its average weight is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and fi-om eight to ten in the female. The measurements may be said to be about four inches and tln-ee quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness. Position and Direction. The heart lies beneath the lower two-thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side, but more on the left than the right. Its axis is not parallel to, but is inclined obHquely across that of the body ; and its position is almost horizontal with the base directed backwards and to the right, and the apex foi-wards and to the left side. The left margin of the viscus is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. In consequence of the direction of the heart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in contact with the parietes :—thus the right half and the apex will correspond with the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intervening, whilst the base is directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages : and the left half will be undermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 98). The limits of the whole heart are the following: the base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds with four dorsal vertebrae (5th to 8th). The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life just below the fifth rib, near the junction with the cartilage. The upper limit would be shown by a line across the sternum on a level with the upper edge of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit would be marked by a line over the junction of the sternum Avith the xiphoid cartilage, drawn from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it projects from one to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is constantly varying with the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the apex projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the breast bone. Component parts. The heart is a double organ, and is made up of two similar halves. In each half are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle : these on the same side communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. On the surface are grooves indicatory of this composition. Thus, passing circularly round the heart nearer the base than the apex, is a groove which cuts ofE the thin auricular from the fleshy ventricular part. A longitudinal sulcus on each surface marks the situation of a median partition between the ventricles: this sulcus does not occupy335 COMPOSITION OF HEART. the mid space either on the anterior or the posterior '-^BP^ct, buUs nearer the left border of the heart in fi-ont aiid the "ght bolder beliind • so that most of the anterior surface is formed by the riglit, and the neater part of the posterior surface by the left ventricle. The auricles are two (right and left) and receive their appellation nnd situi from the resemblance of the appendices to the dog's ears: tliev are tionoft Fig. 98.* - , nnd situa- they are tion of the auricles. placed so deeply at the base of the heart, that only the tip of the right one comes fonvards to the sternum, The amides are much thinner than the ventricles. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two aspects of the The ven- heart:—thus the right one forms the thin right border and the tricles, greater part of the anterior surface ; but the left enters alone into "Slit> the apex, and constructs the left border, and most of the posterior surface of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart the coronaiy arteries are to Dissect be dissected on the surface, with the small nerves and veins that vesselsand accompany them. The two arteries appear on the sides of the nerves, pulmonary artery, and occupy the gi'ooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat: one branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With the anterior artery is a plexus of nerves, which is to be followed upwards to the superficial * Diagram she-vring the position of the heart to the ribs and sternum, the soft parts being removed from the exterior of the thorax. The edge of each lung ia shown by a dotted line.DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. 336 and coro- iiary sinus. Two arteries of tlie heart, viz., right coro- nary, left coro- naiy artery. Veins of the heart. Coronary sinus: extent; veins join- ing it. Valves in the veins. Large car- diac vein is single. cardiac plexus ; and with the remaining artery another plexus is to be sought. In the groove at the back of the heart between the auricles and ventricles, the student will find the large coronary vein, and the dilated coronary sinus, in which it ends on the right: the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The coronary arteries are two small vessels which are so named from their course around the heart : they are the first branches of the aorta. One is distributed mostly on the right, and the other on the left side of the heart. The right coronai-y branch appears on the right side of the pul- monary artery, and is directed onwards in the depression between the right auricle and ventricle, to end in the left half of the heart on the posterior aspect. In its course branches are distributed up- wards and downwards to the right half of the viscus. Two of these are of larger size than the rest :—one runs on the anterior aspect of the right ventricle towards the free margin ; the other descends on the back of the heart towards the apex, along the septum between the ventricles. The left coronary branch is inclined behind the pulmonary artery to the left side of that vessel, and in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle to the back of the same side of the heart. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes offsets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle of its side ; the largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus over the septum ventriculorum towards the apex. The veins of the substance of the heart (cardiac) are not the same in number, nor have they the same arrangement as the arteries. There may be said to be three sets, but for the most part they are collected into one large tnmk, the coronary sinus, which opens into the right auricle. The coronary sinus (fig. 99, ^) will be seen on raising the heart to be placed in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch usually in extent, it is joined at the one end by the great coronary vein (■•) ; and at the other it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its right end it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles (^ and f) ; and nearly at its left extremity another vein (^),—the oblique vein (Marshall), which ascends along the back of the left auricle. On slitting the sinus with a scissors the openings of its different Tcins will be seen to be guarded with valves, with the exception of the oblique vein ; and at its right end is the large Thebesian valve of the right auricle. The great cardiac or coronary vein begins in front near the apex of the heart, in the substance of the ventricles. The vessel turns to the posterior surface in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens into the coronary sinus (fig. 99,''). It receives collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves.337 NERVES OF HEART SUBSTANCE. Anterim- and posterior cardiac veins. Some small veins on the anterior snrf ace of the right ventricle open separately, by one or more trunks, into tlic lower part of the right auricle. Similar small vems exist over the back of.the ventricles; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum ventriculorum : they enter the coronary smus by separate valved openings. Smallest cardiac. A third set of veins (venaj minim?E) lie in the substance of the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle (p. 338). Cardiac nei-ves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta and pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to Fig- 99-* the pulmonary artery, and part beneath ; and an off- set is sent from each with a coronary artery. Only the superficial piece of the plexus can now be seen. The superficial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, and by the side of the ductus arte- riosus. The nerves joining it are the left superficial cardiac of the sympathetic, the lower cardiac of the left vagus (p. 355), and a considerable bundle fi-om the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion is some- times seen in the plexus. Inferiorly it sends off nerves on the right coro- nary artery to the heart. A few filaments run on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. Tlie right coronary nerves pass fi'om the plexus to the right coronary artery, and receive near the heart a communicating offset from the deep cardiac plexus. The left coronary nerves arc derived, as will be subsequently seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompany the left coronary artery to the heart. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, arc lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. * Back of the heart with the coronary sinus and its veins. (Marshall.) A. Right auricle, b. Left auricle, with the auricula, o. 1. Coronary sinus. 2. Oblique vein. 3. Vein from the right side of the heart. 4. Left or gi-eat cardiac vein, ft Veins joining the sinus from thC back of the ventricles. z Small ante- rior and posterior cardiac veins. Smallest cardiac. Cardiac nerves. Superficial plexus ends in anterior coronary. Anterior coronaiy, posterior plexus, ending in tlie heart.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 338 Four cavi- ties of the heart. Dissection to open right auricle. Form of right amicle. Its base: apex. Anterior wall pre- sents auricula. Posterior wall is marked by fossa ovalis. Annulus of Vieussens. Apertures of sinus and smallest veins. Situation of cavse, The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz. right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to be removed from the body. To open the right auricle, an incision may be made in it near the right or free border, and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; from the centre of that incision the luiife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of those cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be exa- mined. The CAVITY OF THE EIGHT AURICLE (fig. 100) is of an uTegular form,** though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex to the left. The widened part or lase of the ca-\aty is turned towards the right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and in- ferior cavas. Between those vessels the cavity projects a little, and presents a slight elevation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The ajpex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near the base is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or am-icula (/i), which Avill admit the tip of the little finger. Around and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named muscuH pectinati, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall cori-esponds mostly with the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart (p. 334). On it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis (d), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the fetus : inferioriy it merges into the lower cava. A thin semi-transparent structui-e forms the bottom of the fossa ;^ and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture into the left auricle at its upper part. Around the upper tlu-ee-fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of muscular fibre, called anmtZMS seu isthmus Vieussenu, wliich is most prominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides inferioriy. „ . , . Altogether at the lower end of the posterior wall is the aperture of the coronary sinus (e). Other small apertm-es are scattered over this surface :—some lead only into depressions ; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (venee cordis mmimaj) (p 337), and are named foramina Thebesii (/). The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cava^ coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava (a) • The term cavity of the auricle has been sometimes applied to the appendix, a™ thTterm sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle.339 EIGHT AimiCLE OF HEART. is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is forwards. The inferior cava (&) enters the back of the cavity near the septum, and is directed inwards to the fossa ovalis (d). Valves of chief aper- tui'es. Inferior cava has Eustachian valve, The of auriculo- auriculo-ventricular opening (c) is the largest of all, and is situate opeiUng, at the lowest point of the cavity. Between this and the septum is of coronary placed the opening of Fig 100 * the coronary smus (e) ^ which is about as large as a turkey-quill. All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior caA^a is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eusta- chian valve, which is only a remnant of a much larger structiu-e in the fetus. This valve in its perfect state is semi- lunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. It is wider than the veia opening: and its surfaces are directed for- wards and backwards : its free margin is often reticular. The aper- one to coro- ture of the coronaiy sinus is closed by a thin fold of the lining smus, membrane—^valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening and to will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with ventricular valves, which prevent blood running back into the auricle. opening. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle ^"J^l®^^ towards the ventricle. But in the fetus there are two streams in auricle in the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross ^^^'^^> one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth fetus"^ approaches. The placental or pm-e blood entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; whilst the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right v entricle, the student To open should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, ventricle, and cut out inferiorly near the apex of the heart without injuiing * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava 6. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. e. Opening of the coronary sinus. /. Foramina Thebesii, the openings of veins. Aperture of the pulmonary artery, h. Auricular appendix. z 2DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 340 Cavity of right ventricle. Apex. Base and its opeuiugs. Anterior and posterior wall. Interior of the cavity is uneven: on it there are tliree sets of fleshy columns. Opening from the auricle; position; form and ;size; is guarded Toj the tri- cuspid valve: the pieces. Structure of valve: the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, di£ the anterior part of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 100) is triangular in form, and has the base turned upwards to the auricle of the same side. On a cross section the cavity would appear semilunar in shape fi-om before back, with the septum between the ventricles convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance fi-om the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c) ; the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pul- monary artery (g). The part of the cavity communicating with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infimdibulum or conus arteriosus. The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds with the sep- tum between the ventricles, and is much thicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is iiTegular, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular fibres, the columnos carnece; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds. Some form merely a prominence in the ven- tricle, as on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle (trabeculse carneas). And a thhd set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi papillares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the ventricle, and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third costal cartilages. It is slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval fi-om side to side, its shape being maintained by a strong fibrous band around it; and it measures one inch and a quarter in diameter. Prolonged from the chcumference of the opening is a thin mem- branous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is imdivided, but it presents three chief points at its lower margin, and is named tricusjnd; to the lower margin are attached small tendinous cords (chorda3 ten- dineas), which unite it to the muscular bundles of the ventricle. Its three shps or tongues are thus placed :—one touches the fi-ont of the ventricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall ; and the remaining slip, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the amicle and pulmonary artery. The tricuspid valve is constructed by the linmg membrane of theEIGHT ^^ENTEICLE OF HEART. 341 heart, which encloses fibrous tissue. The central part of each tongue is strong, whilst the edges are thin and notched ; and between the stronger pieces there are sometimes thinner points (Kiii-sclmer). The chonke iencUnece, which keep the valve in place, ascend ^y^^^ment from the musculi papillares into the intcn^als between the pieces nous cords, of the valve, and are connected with both.* They end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening ;—some reaching the attached upper margin ; others entering the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the tongue. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close Its use. the opening into the auricle ; and its protrusion into the other cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested b^ the small tendmous cords. The valve participates in the production of the first sound of the heart. The mouih of the pulmonary artery {g) will be seen when the ^^2^*^^^^°^^^ incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. artery; Bound in shape, it is situate on the left of the openmg into the position; auricle, and is opposite the inner end of the second intercostal space of the left side. Its diameter is rather less than an inch. Into it the funnel-shaped portion of the right ventricle is prolonged, ^^^^^^f^ and in its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves. Semilunar valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the vessel by its convex border ; and is fi-ee by the opposite edge, in which there is a shghtly thickened nodule—the corpus Arantii. In the wall of the artery opposite each valve is a slight hollow, the sinus of Valsalva, which is better marked in the aorta. The valves resemble the tricuspid in structure, for they are formed Structure of of fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining membrane. In each v^es.*^ valve the fibres have this arrangement: there is one band along the attached margin ; a second along the free edge, which is connected with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is directed from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a semilunar interval on each side near the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of the valves is obvious, viz. to give free passage to fluid Their use. in one direction, and to prevent its return. Whilst the blood is entering the artery the valves are placed against the wall ; but when the elasticity of the vessel acts on the contained blood the valves are thrown towards the centre of the vessel, and arrest the flow of the fluid into the ventricle. They are concerned also in giving rise to the second sound of the heart. Dissection. To open the cavity of the left auricle the apex of the To open left heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another short incision should be made downwards at right angles to the first. The apex of the heart must necessarily be raised during the examination of the cavity. * The papillary muscles are collectecl into two principal groups, wliose ten- dons enter the interval on each side of the anterior tongue of the valve. In the interval between the left and posterior segments of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and spring from the septum ventriculorum.DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. 342 Shape of cavity of loft amicle. On anterior wall is auricula. On septum remnant of foramen ovale. Openings: four pul- monary and to ventricle. Valves. Current of lalood in adult; in fetus. How to open left ventricle. Fig. 101.* The CAVITY OF THE LKFT AURICLE (fig. 101) is smaller than that of the right side. Irregularly conical in shape, the wider part is turned towards the spinal column, and receives the pulmonary veins ; and the narrower part (I) opens inferiorly into the left ventricle. On the left side towards the base, is the aperture of the pouch of the auricula (m), which is narrower than that in the right auricle. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around the entrance, are fleshy fibres (musculi pectinati) which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. On the boundary con-esponding with the septum auricularum is a superficial fossa (fig. 101, o), the remains of the oval aperture through that partition ; this is bomided below by a projecting ridge, concave up- wards, which is the edge of the structure or valve that closed the opening of the fetus. This impres- sion in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, be- cause the aperture between the two in the fetus is an oblique canal through the septum. The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmonary veins, two on each side, together with the opening of communication with the left ventiicle. The mouths of each pair of pulmonary veins are close to one another ; those from the right lung (i) open into the extreme right of the auricle near the septum, and those fi'om the left lung (7c) enter the opposite side of the cavity, near the auricula. The pulmonary veins are not provided with valves. The apertiure into the ventricle (Z) will be subsequently seen to have a large and complicated valve to guard it, as on the right side. In the adult the blood enters this cavity fi-om the lungs by the pulmonary veins, and flows to the left ventricle by the large inferior opening between the two. In the fetus the lungs are impervious to the an- and the mass of the circulatmg fluid ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended upwards * Diagram of the two cavities of the left side of the heart, k. Left pul- monary veins, i. Eight pulmonary veins, o. Remains of the foramen ovale. I. Left auriculo-ventricular opening, m. Auricular appendix, n. Aperture of the aorta.LEFT VENTEICLE OF HEART. 343 so as to reacli the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be visible. ^, « The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE (fig. 101) IS longer and more ofMfc conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and is oval or almost circular, on a transverse section. The apex of the ca^'ity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Apex, is turned towards the auricle, and is not sloped like that of the Ba«e.w,auts right ventricle ; in it are the openings into the aorta («) and the left auricle (Z). The icalls of this ventricle are thickest, and the anterior boundary Walls, is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- j^^l^l^' sequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or carnese columns ; fleshy but near the great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There columns, are three sets of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle. But the set (muscuH papillares), which project into the cavity, and ^^^^^^^J^^ receive the small tendinous threads of the valve, are the most marked : ° ' these are arranged chiefly in two large bundles, and spring from the anterior and posterior walls of the cavity. The aperture into the left auricle {I auriculo-ventricular) is placed beneath the orifice of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous cular aper- band intervening between the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding aperture of the right side, being somewhat more than ^j^™ ^^'^ an inch in diameter, and is longest in the transverse direction. Placed, as before said, beneath the aortic aperture, it extends also position, to the right, so as to lie beneath the left extremity of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. It is furnished with a membranous It lias a valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. la:ge\alve. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, as well as to the aortic fibrous ring, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its seg- segments, ments lie one before another, with then* edges directed to the sides, and their sm-faces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office, structure, Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The tendinous cords ascend to be attached to the valve attaclimen in the notches between the tongues ; and they end on the segments °^ conXs. in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both portions of the valve. When the blood enters the cavity, the pieces of the valve are xjse. raised as on the right side, and meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in pro- ducing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is next Aortic open- the septum of the ventricles. Its aperture is round, and rather '"sDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 344 position and form. Is guarded by tlireo sigmoid valves. Sinus of Valsalva. Use. Position of apertures, of arteries and auricles; and from ■before l)ack. Structure of the heart. Directions. Fibrous bands form rings around auri- culo-ventri- cular and arterial openings. To the last the sigmoid valves, and middle coat of the artery are fixed. smaller than that of the pulmonary arteiy, and measures about three quarters of an inch in diameter. It is situate opposite the inner end of the third left intercostal space. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves^ which are larger and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. the corpus Arantii, is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pul- monary artery, though in a greater degree, and presents a little hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed behind two of the valves. Like the valves in the pulmonary artery these meet in the middle line to stop the blood passing back into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteiies (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together, but the pulmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of communication with each am'icle is nearer the circumference of the heai-t, and is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The position of the openings to one another fi'om before backwards has been before refen-ed to ;—viz., the right is partly before the left auriculo-ventricular ; and the opening of the pulmonary aiteiy is anterior to that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. Structure. The heart is composed of strata of muscular fibres, and of certain fibrous rings with a fibro-cartilage. The structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue des- troyed by boiling, so as to allow of the fibres being separated. The description of the structure of the heart may be omitted by the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous stmcture forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with those openings. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves. They are dis- tinct from the bands encircling the mouths of the arteries, except at the front of the left auriculo-ventricular openmg, where the auricular and arterial circles blend. Aj^ arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and pulmonary), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment to some muscular fibres. It is a circular band, with three notches in the mai-gin towards the artery ; these are filled by corresponding projections of the artery, and give attachment internally to the sigmoid valves along then- semilunar edges. The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in the following manner :—Its middle coat presents thi-ee projections.AUEICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 846 which are received into the notches of the fibrous ring, being ]Oined thereto by fibrous tissue ; and the junction between the two is strengthened externally by the outer arterial coat and the pen- njirdiiiin find internally by the endocardium. tZd^ ^pLiL, between it and the auricralo-ventricular r^o.^. orifices, is tx piece of fihro-cartilage, with which the fibrous rings are "^The' muscular fibres belong to the involuntaiy class, though Mus«>to marked with transverse stiias, and form concentric layers, which of ucart. enclose the cardiac cavities. In the auricles the fibres are separate , fi-om those in the A'entricles. In the loall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. r>;«Pos.tion 102, a), and are best mai-ked near the ventricles, though they form auricles, thefe but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. Fig. 102.* where they are trans- verse. annular, and oblique. Detach the auricles. Besides this set there are an- nular fibres around the append- ages of the auricles, and the endings of the different veins. Lastly a few oblique fibres (c and d) pass upwards over the auricles both in front and behind. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been learnt, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat fi-om the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and from the ante- rior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart let the student note that the anterior surface is to be recognised by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band at the base a third of an inch wide ; and that at the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. Separate partly the ventricles in fi"ont along Partly the septum by dividing the band near the base, and sinking the yentricfes knife for about an inch into the gi'oove between them. Disjoin then the aorta and pulmonary artery along the middle line, so as to leave one attached to each ventricle as in fig. 103. To show the laminar composition of the left ventricle divide its To show layers of left » nr . ventricle. Muscular fibres of the auricles. /. Inferior cava, and c, superior cava of the right auricle. </. Right, and h, left pulmonaiy veins of the left auricle. a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, transverse fibres of the left auricle, entering the septum auricularum. c. Oblique fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. Annular fibres surround the auriculas and the veins.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 846 Layers of left ven- tricle. Number. Arrange- ment. Extent. Wall thickest, and thinnest. Direction of litres in the three outer, middle, and three inner layers. Fig. 103. fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, and transversely about half an inch below the left auriculo-ventricular opening ; but the cut is to be very shallow, because seven layers, eacli about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel, are to be demonstrated. From the lines of incision reflect the different layers down to the apex upwards to the auriculo-ventricular aperture, and back into the septum. As the layers are raised the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction ; and the outer three to be thinner than the three internal. The LEFT VENTRICLE is a hollow cone, and its wall is formed of layers of fibres, as if a flat muscle had been rolled up into a conical figure (fig. 103). Seven layers enter into the construction of the wall ; and they are arranged into thi-ee external (1, 2, 3), thi-ee internal (5, 6, 7), and a central one (4). All are not prolonged equal distances on the ventricle, for the outer- most and the innermost reach farthest towards apex and base ; and the second exter- nal and its corresponding inner layer (sixth) extend farther than the thii-d and the fifth. The fourth is the shortest of all. Consequently the wall is thickest about the middle third where all the layers are present, and gra- dually becomes thinner up- wards and downwards, until there is only the outermost layer at the apex, and the most external and internal (1st and 7th) at the base. (Dr. Pettigrew, Phil. Trans. 1864.) Direction of the fibres. Each stratum is formed of fleshy fibres with the undermentioned direction, supposing the ventricle standing on the apex, and the anterior surface towards the dissector. In the three external strata (1, 2, 3) the fibres are inclined down- wards from the base and septum to the apex of the venti-icle, and become less vertical in each. The fourth or mid layer (4) possesses transverse fibres ; and it is nearer the outer than the inner sm-face of the wall. In the three inner strata the fibres change their direction, as is shown by 5, and are directed upwards from the apex and septum to the base of the ventricle ; so that they cross the fibres of the outer layers like the legs of the letter X, becoming more oblique in each layer, and the internal are almost vertical. * A diagram of the arrangement of the fibres in layers in the left ventricle. 1. First or external layer. 2. Second external. 3. Third external. 4. Central layer. 6. The outermost of the three inner strata.347 YENTEICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. ContinnUi, of the fibres. With a piece of muscle rolled into a cone, j^brescon- as before said, the hbres of the different layers would be necessarily continuous at the apex ; but in the heai-t they are united at apex and base. Thus the outermost layer is continuous at the apex and atapexand base with tlie innermost, the fibres being curved in at the tip and out at the base. In like manner the fibres of the second layer are united with those of the sixth; and the third stratum with the fifth. From the three outer layers, fibres are continued to the The^com-^ right ventricle at the back of the heart, forming the ' common |,e,,i„a. fibres." Each of the tlu-ee outer layers consists of two sets of fibres, Sp^^^ which occupy the front and back of the ventricle. By the turning «>ree^outer inwards of the two bundles on opposite sides of the apex, the wall is prevented from having a slanting side, like a piece of paper rolled into a cone. And by the turning outwards of two sets of fibres (anterior and posterior) at the base of the ventricle from each inner layer, the sides of the auriculo-ventricular opening are Course iu made level like those of the apex. Many of the fibres of the outer layers are attached to the fibrous ring around the aorta. The fibres of the fourth layer are contmued into the septum ven- J^^y^^^'*^'^ triculorum. Dissection. To display the layers and fibres of the right ventricle. To show ^ , , ji n X, i composition gi-eat care -\vill be needed because of the thinness o± the waJl; but of right veu- the same number of layers exists in this, as on the other side of the ^ricle. heart. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers forwards and backwards fi-om that incision. As the three outer are raised let them be traced on the one hand into the part of the septum detached from the left ventricle ; and on the other into the left ventricle through the continuity of the " common fibres" behind. The RIGHT VENTRICLE possesses seven layers in its wall, like the Number of left, though they are much thinner. They are arranged as in the ^y®'^- other A'entricle into thi-ee external, three internal, and a fourth or intermediate. In like manner the wall decreases fi-om the centre Thiclcness. towards the base and apex ; but at the tip it is thicker than the apex of the left half of the heart (Pettigi-ew). Directions of tlie fibres. In this as in the other ventricle, the fibres Direction of of the three outer layers run down fi-om the base to the fore part fu ttoee of the septum and the apex of the heart : the outer being most outer, vertical. In the fourth stratum the fibres have a transverse direc- central, tion, as in the corresponding layer of the left ventricle. And in and three the tliree inner layers they are directed upwards fi-om the apex to "^"^^^ layers, the base of the ventricle across the fibres of the three outer strata, the deepest being the most vertical. Continuity of the fibres. The fibres are not distinct from those of Derivation the left ventricle, but are derived in the three outer layers from the j'^ip in " common fibres " and the septum, and fi-om the auriculo-ventriculai- opening. They are then continued forwards to the front of theDISSECTION OP THE THORAX. and In central: not sjiiral at apex. Common libi-es iu front, Cavity produced. Septum of ventricles. How formed; fibres. Lining membrane of the heart forms folds in the inte- rior. Thickness and struc- ture. Vessels of the heart. The pulmo- nary artery divides into two for the lungs. Connec- tions. Ligament of arterial duct. septum ventnculorum, where they leave the surface, and bending back construct the right part .of the septum : at the hack of that partition they blend with the " common fibres" of the left ventricle. The fourth layer fibres are continuous for the most part with the " conniion fibres " crossing the posterior groove. At the apex the three outer layers do not enter in a whorl as in the left ventricle ; but at the base they are continuous with the tlu-ee inner as on the other side of the heart. Many of the fibres of the external layer are attached to the ring of the pulmonaiy artery ; and the narrow slip from the right to the left ventricle, near the base in front, receives its fibres fi-om the two outer strata. In this ventricle the fibres are aiTanged as if there had been ori- ginally one common cavity in the heart—the left ventricle, fi-om which the right had been separated during the growth by a pushing inwards of a partition from the fore part. Septum ventriculorum. Tliis partition between the two cavities has been di^-ided anteriorly into right and left portions by the previous dissection ; and the layers of the ventricles may be traced into them. It is rather thicker than the wall of the left ventricle, and is formed by the fibres of both ventricles. About one-third belongs to the right, and two-thirds to the left ventricle. Where the two portions touch the fibres mingle, and altogether behind lie the " common fibres " of the two ventricles. Endocardium. Lining the interior of the cavities of the heart is a thin membrane, which is named endocardium. It is continuous on the one hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. Where the membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or fi'om a ventricle to an arteiy, it forms duplicatures or valves, in which fibrous tissue is enclosed ; and in the A'entricles it covers the tendinous cords of the valves, and the projecting mus- cular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. In its structure it resembles a serous membrane. Great Vessels of the Heart. The arteries which take origin from the heart are the aorta and the pulmonary. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coronary, are the superior and inferior cava, and the pulmonary. The PULMONARY ARTERY is a short thick trunk, which conveys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches, it divides into two branches of nearly equal size for the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary arteiy is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular appendix. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a ligamentous cord about as large as a crow-quill, the remnant of the arterial duct, which passes349 PULMONARY ARTERY. from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of tlie aorta, and is named ligament urn ductus arteriosi. The i-igU branch is longer than the left. In its course to the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava superior, and rests on the bronchus or piece of the ah-tube : and as it passes outwards it lies above the level of the right aiuicle of the heart. At tlie lung the artery divides into three priraaiy branches, one for each lobe. The left hranch is rather smaller than the right ; it is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fis- sure of the root of the lung, where it ends in two branches for the two pul- monic lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmo- naiy arterj' pass outwards, they cross the two air-tubes resulting from the divi- sion of the trachea, and enclose with them a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. This ligamentous structure was the continuation in the fetus of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period tlie vessel receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arteriosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the origin of the last great vessel of the head and neck from the arch. As the lungs do not give passage to the circulating fluid in the fetus, the impure blood in the pulmonary artery passes through the arterial duct into the aoiia below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified. But after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of through the arterial duct ; and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is obliterated before the eighth or tenth day, and fonns finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The AORTA is the great systemic vessel which conveys the blood from the heart to the different parts of the body. It arches back- wards at first to reach the sjoinal column, and is continued on the spine through the chest and abdomen. In the thorax the vessel is Right branch is longest. Left branch Space at the bifurcation. Condition of the artery in the fetus. Use. This great vessel ex- tends * The formation of the septum ventriculorum by the fibres of both ventricles s represented in this cut.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 350 through chest ami abdomen. Its llrat iwrt is arched. The extent and divi- sions of the arch. First part; length and connections. Gives origin to coronary arteries. Second part is trans- verse. Connec- tions. Gives origin to large vessels. divided into two parts—arch of the aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta. ArcJi of the aorta (fig. 105). The aorta has its origin in the left ventricle, and curving backwards over the windpipe and the gullet, forms an arch which ceases on the left side of the spinal column' at the lower border of ^'S- 105.* the fifth dorsal vertebra. The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and its con- cavity to the root of the left lung ; and from it the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take their origin. For the purpose of reducing to order the numerous con- nections of this portion of the aorta, it is divided into thi-ee parts—as- cending, transverse, and descending. The Jirst or ascending part is about two inches in length, or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, and close to the sternum : it reaches as high as the upper border of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the peri- cardium. At first the pulmonary artery is superficial to it ; but, as the vessels take different directions, the arch is soon uncovered, and remains so to its termination. Behind it are the right branches of the pulmonary vessels. On the right side is the descending cava ; and on the left, the pulmonary artery. Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite the semilunar valves (fig. 105). There is some- times another dilatation along the right side, which is named the gi'eat sinus of the aorta. The second or transverse portion recedes from the sternum and reaches from the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra (the lower border). It rests upon the trachea above the bifurcation, and is placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. Lying in front of this piece of the artery are the vagus, phrenic, and superficial cardiac nerves of the left side,—the first nerve sending backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the left innominate * Arch of the aorta and its great vessels, a. Aortic arch. 6. Innominate arteiy. c. Left common carotid, d. Left subclavian, e. Ligamentum ductus artcriosi. /. Vena cava superior. g. Left innominate vein. h. Eight innominate vein. i. Left upper intercostal vein. h. Vena azygos major. I. Left subclavian vein. n. Thoracic duct. o. Coronary arteiy.AOETIC ARCH AND BRANCHES. 361 vein ..^ (g), to which the left upper intercostal vein (i) is directed over the'left side of the arch ; and to the lower border near the termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. From it arise the three great vessels of the head and upper limbs. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, extending Third part fi-om the lower edge of the fourth to that of the fifth dorsal ver- branches. tebra.« It hes against the fifth vertebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the fourth, and is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the root Things con- of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary arteiy with its ^^l^^^ arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than those things, the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands, may be recognised. The branches of the arch of the aoiia are five in number ; two Five come from the ascending, and three from the transverse part. The thearch: first two are the coronary arteries of the heart (o), which have been already noticed (p. 336). The other three are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. Fii'st on the right is the large tiimk of the innominate artery (6) ; close to it is the left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left sub- clavian (d). The INNOMINATE ARTERY (5 brachio-cephalic), the first and largest innominate of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two ^^^ry ends 1 . . m carotid inches in length. Ascendmg to the right beneath the sternum, it and sub- divides opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation into the right Flavian, common carotid and the subclavian artery. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (g), and lies Length and behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the hyoid connections, and thyroid muscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air-tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side (7i). Usually no lateral branch arises from the artery. Left Common Carotid Artery (c). The common carotid artery Left com- of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance carotid, between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obHquely to the left sterno- Connection clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece of the sternum jj^jo^ax and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein (g), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but it crosses afterwards to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. * It is usually said that the second part of the aortic arch ends opposite the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and the third part opposite the lower edge of the third vertebra. After examination, I have accepted the statement of Mr. "Wood respecting the position of the aortic arch to the dorsal vertebra). (Joiurnal of Anatomy and Physiology for 1868.)DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 852 Left sub- clavian artery. Course and connections in the thorax. Veins of the heart are:— Superior cava; formed by innominate veins; ends in heart. Connec- tions. Its branches. Innominate veins are right and left. Eight, an inch and a half long : left, twice as long and oblique in direction. Tlieir branches. In the neck the connections of the vessels of opposite sides are not the same (p. 118). The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTEKY (d) ascends to the neclc through the upper aperture of the thorax. Bej'ond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are alike (p. 117). Tlie trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the mner margin of the first rib. In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral column and the longus colli muscle. It is invested by the left pleural bag in all its extent. On its^nner side is the trachea, and near the upper opening of the thorax the oesophagus with the thoracic duct is inside it. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. Veins of the Heart (fig. 105.) In addition to the cardiac veins (p. 336) there are the superior and inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins :—the former are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle ; and the latter convey pure blood fi-om the lungs into the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending cava (/) results from the union of the right and left iimominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed on the right side of the sternum, opposite the interval between the cartilages of the first two ribs. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the phi-enic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined by the large azygos vein of the thorax (k) ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are united inferiorly in the trunk of the descending cava. They are two in number, right and left; and each is formed near the inner end of the clavicle, by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their connections with the surrounding objects. The right vein (h) is about one inch and a half long, and descends vertically, on the right side of the innominate arteiy, to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein (g) is twice as long as the right, and is directed obliquely downwards above the level of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerves descending over the arch. The iranches of the veins are neai-ly ahke on the two sides. Each353 CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyi-oid, and the superior intercostal of its own side ; and the left vein is jomed m addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, Sometocs but descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct separately opening in the right auricle. Wlien such a condition exists, the '^^^^^ right vein takes the course of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung; but the left vein descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch connects the two above the heart.® This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very this eai-ly period of the growth of the fetus ; and two vessels are also fetus, persistent in some mammalia. Clmnqe of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during the growth of the fetus, to produce the arrangement common in the Ff^ changed adult,° concern the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. ° First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innominate vein. Next the left trunk below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and undergoes transformations at each end :—At the upper end and coro- it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower part it J?Qj,^g^™"^ remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 336), is a remnant of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a vestige of the occluded vessel in the form of a fold of Vestige in the serous membrane of the pericardium in front of the root of the left lung ; gardium this Mr. Marshall names the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 333). + The IHFERIOB or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon inferior as it has pierced the diaphi-agm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen (p. 536). The PULMONARY VEINS are two on each side. They issue from the Four pia- fissm-e of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their ^J^'jns'^^ position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 332. The right veins are longer than the left, and he beneath the aorta l^'ght veins and the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots ° ^' from the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the infeiior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta j and one Left veius. springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OF THE THORAX. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera Nerves of of the thorax. Through the cavity courses the phrenic nerve to the t'lo^ax. diaphragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for its exa- To trace the _ * An example of two large vessels, "double vena cava," opening into the right auricle in the adult, is contained in the Museum of University Collecre. t See a paper by Mr. Marshall on the development of the veins of the neck (Philosoph. Transac. 1850.) nerves,354 DISSECTION OP TEE THORAX. particularly vagus. PhTcnic nerve of the cervical plexus, passes to diaphragm. Eight nerve above root of lung. Left nerve ahove root: is longer than right. Some off- sets. Internal mammary artery gives phrenic ioranch. Vagus nerve. Right vagus ahoveluug root, mination ; but the student should trace the vagus nerves through the thorax. The vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out: a few filaments of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic coming forwards over the spinal column to the plexus, must be looked for. In fi-ont of the root on the left side, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments. Beyond the root the vagus is to be pursued along the oesophagus by raising the lung and remo\ang the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE is a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 73). In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the pericardium, and at a little distance in front of the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the diaphragm it is divided into branches : these perforate the muscle, and are distributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides difEer in length, and in their connections above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first, and is also shorter and straighter than the left. In entering the chest it crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the iimominate vein and superior cava till it reaches the root of the lung. The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, but has the same position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the cavity. In the thorax it is directed in fi-ont of the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nerve is placed external to the left common carotid artery ; and crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nerve on the arch. Branches. Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the nerve to the pleura and pericardium. Internal mammary artery. A small part of this artery, which lies beneath the first rib, and winds round the phrenic nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be learnt. It gives the following offset:— The superior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a very slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the dia- phragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomosing therem with other branches of the aorta (p. 634), and with the musculo- phrenic branch of the internal mammary (p. 253). The PNEUMO-GASTBic NERVE (p. 188) passes through the thorax to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the nerves of opposite sides have a similar position, for they pass behmd the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the cesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the nght and left nerves differ much. Each supplies branches to the viscera, ^nz. to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet. The right vagus is posterior to the left in position. It enters the thorax between the subclavian artery and the innominate vein,355 VAGUS NERVE AND BRiiNCHES. and 18 directed obliquely backwards, by the side of the trachea and between this tube and the oesophagus, to the postenor aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the postenor V^^o^^^ plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continueci , back of back of the gullet, and unite below into one trunk, which reaches ^sopiuigus. the posterior surface of the stomach. ^^^^ ^^^^^^ The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side ol tne leit above root common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and of lung, beneath the root of the Imig, forming there a larger plexus than . on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or two branches a^^aon^ pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join Avith offsets ot the oesophagus, right nerve in a plexus ; but these pieces are collected finally mto one trunk, which is continued on the fi-ont of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax are the following:— a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arismg on the right ^^^^ side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. b. Cardiac branches (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- ^^^^^'g,. nished by the vagus in the neck, other offsets pass in fi'ont of the trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from the trunlc of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are sup- phed by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each p'^^^^^^^Jg" vagus ners'^e (p. Ill) may be now seen. The branch of the right brauch. lies by the side of the innominate arteiy, and joins a cardiac nerve of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 337). c. Pulmonary branches. There are two sets of nei^ves for the Pulmonary lung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of ^^'^"'^^'^^ ■ the root. The anterior branches are two or thi-ee in number, and small in ^^^'^gjlj^,. size, and communicate with filaments of the sjanpathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most nume- '"^1°^.;^,, rous. Forming a plexif orm arrangement (posterior pulmonary form a plexus) behind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting l'^^^^^- of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and arc conveyed into the lung on the divisions of the air tube., d. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet, but m greatest Tf.ai,ciief'^''^^ abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the form a branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with l'^^^"^^- a network (plexus gulce). A A 2DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 356 Sympftthotic SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Ill tlie thorax the sympathetic nerve con- conlS'^of ^^^'^'^ ^ knotted cord along each side of tlie spinal column, which comnumicates with the spinal nerves : and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. a gaiigliatod The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed (p. 366). and a cen- The CARDIAC PLEXUS lies at the base of the heart around the pleLSs!'^'"''' S^'^^^ blood-vessels. A part of this network, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 337). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Dissection of Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous the plexus, examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in wliich the heart and the large vessels are entire. To find the Dissection. The arch of the aorta is to be cut across near the nghtpart. heart and close above the pulmonary artery, and is to be drawn over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lower part is to be thi-own down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lym- phatic glands, the right part of the plexus, in which the nerves of the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonaiy artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. ' To expose To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the the left. g^^g q£ hodiy enter, the arch is to be cut through a second time, to the right of and close to the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it; and the transverse part of the arch is to be tm-ned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away fi-om the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the posterior coronary plexus of the heart will be visible. Deep cardiac Deep cardiac plexus. This large centre is situate between the plexus. trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pul- Its situa- monary artery. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympa- thetic of both sides of the neck, except the highest nerve of the left side : and the cardiac branches of the vagus in the neck and chest, with the exception of the lowest cervical branch of the left side. From it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs, two parts. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled iii a plexiform mass in front of the trachea ; but those of the right side unite together on the right of the air tube, and those of the left have a like jmiction on their side. Right part, The rigU part of the plexus is placed above the right branch of how formed, ^i^^ pulmonary arteiy, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz. the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck ; the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, in both the neck and chest; and the cardiac offsets of the recm-rent branch. Branches to The branches of this half of the plexus ai'e distributed mostly to357 TRACHEA i^D BRONCHI. the right side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behmd antoor the right branch of the pulmonary arteiy: those in fi-ont running pie^us. on tlie trunk of the puhnonary artery to end in the anterior coro- nary plexus (p. 337) ; and the nei-ves behind supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch ot tlie aitery root of lung. to the root of the lung. . T»ff The left half of the plexus lies close to the ligamentum arteriosum, nerves and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac entering it: nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest; and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. , ^ Nerves descend fi'om it to the heart around the left branch and "Insets end _ the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and after suppljang branches to nary plexus, the left auricle, terminate in the posterior coronary plexus (p. 337). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the liga- mentum ductfis arteriosi to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some ^"dmroot nerVes reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by com-smg along the branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve of ^^^l^^l^^ the neck (p. 115). On the right side there are usually only two cardiac nerves enter- Two right ing the thorax, for the highest nerve is blended commonly with one piexL.®^^ of the others. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus : they com- municate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the ^^^If^ aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a superficial; branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nei-ve, ^gep^^p^exus. the lower cardiac, may be seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, as the middle one oftentimes blends with it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see the pieces of the air tube in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery with its its divisions, branches, and the pulmonary veins. And when the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector vnll be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the fibrous tissue fi-om the part of the trachea in the thorax, and fi-om the branches into which it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or the air tube, reaches from the larjmx to the Trachea limgs, and lies on the fi-ont of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the fifth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends in fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi) one for each lung. Its point of splitting may be a vertebra lower. Its connections in the neck are described in p. 120, and its structure In tlic nock, in p. 167. The tube in the thorax remains to be studied.358 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Its connec- tions in the thorax. Bronchi lie in the roots of thelmigs: are like the trachea iu fom. The right diilers from the left hranch. Coiirse and connections, Eemove the lungs. Take away heart and pericar- dium. Surface of lung is smootli; is marked Tay lobules and small cells. Colotir varies with age. Accidental colour. Consistence. Crepitation, In tlie thorax the trachea is situate with the great vessels in tlie space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the air tube is the oesophagus, which is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the vagus, and the innommate artery, for a shoi-t distance, after tliis has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the vagus with its recurrent branch. The hroncM, or the branches of the air tube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are sun-ounded by vessels, glands, and ners^es. Near the lung each is divided into as many primaiy pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronclii resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 332 ; but the cha- racters of each are now to be noticed. The right branch is about an inch in length, and is larger than' the left; it passes outwards, on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra, beneath the arch of the aorta and the upper cava, and above the right pulmonary artery: the vena azygos arches above it. The left branch, about two inches long, is directed obhquely downwards tlu-ough the arch of the aorta, and joins the root of the left lung a vertebra lower than on the opposite side. The tube lies on the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and on the aorta ; it is at first below the level of the corresponding pulmonary artery. Dissection. The lungs are to be removed now from the body by cixtting through the vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the dia- phragm ; in removing the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the things contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical Chaeactees of the Lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be di-^aded by septa, into small ii-regularly sized pieces or lobules. On looldng closely at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be per- ceived in it. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colom- is a pale red ; but in the adult the texture becomes grayish, and presents here and there dark gray spots or Lines of pigment, whose shade deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be bluish-black fi'om the accumulation of blood. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance appears like a sponge; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the an fi-om the con- taining spaces through the pulmonary structure, and produces the359 STRUCTURE OF LUNG. noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic ; this elasticity causing the «!].JeU.sti- organ to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown mto it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of speais^c dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is l^'^^^fg'l influenced greatly by the quantity of foreign material contained m its texture ; ordinarily it ranges fi-om eighteen to twenty one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection. By tracing the large branches of the bronchi, and the Follow blood*vessels and nerves into the lung, the mode of branching of the vessels into air tube will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the Imig, the the lung, cellular sti'ucture may be seen. But the arrangement of the small air cells about their tube, and the disposition of the different vessels, cannot be ascertained without fine injections and a micro- scope. Structure of the Lung. The spongy pulmonary tissue consists ^^^gjg^g^^^ of minute recesses or cells, in which the smallest branches of the of the lung, air tube terminate ; and the mass of the lung is formed by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of the lobules into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from its fellows, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its set of vessels concerned in the fimction and nutrition. The portions of the lung are united by a serous covering, pro- Covering longed continuously over the surface ; and by a subserous layer of hTyers!'^*™^ areolar tissue wliich penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. The casmg derived fi'om the plem-a Serous is thin and transparent, and forms an entire capsule for the lung, ''"'^'^''^S except at the root where the vessels enter. The subserous areolar layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, and not only covers the sur- '^'^^ areolar • 1 ./ tissue face, but extends inwards, establishing the division of the mass into lobules : where it separates the lobules it is named interlobular tissue, and is free firom fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. When a bronchus is followed into Brandies of the pulmonary structure it is found to divide generally in a binaiy lu tlie*lun'g, order, and to diminish in size at each subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule the tube has a diameter till they end "oV -So inch. When this last degree of diminution is reached, the tube gives origin to the air cells. The larger bronchial branches have the same composition as the pifference trachea, but they are round in the lung, instead of being semi- In torn! elliptical as in the trachea. The smallest branches want some of360 DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. Changes in air tube in the lung. Pieces of cartilage. ribrous and elastic tissue. Muscular fibres. Mucous inembi-ane. Lobules, how formed. Lobes. Nature and form of the air cells : position on air tubes. Size. Structure. Vessels of the lung. Pulmonary artery and vein. the elements found in the larger bronclii ; and those from which the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes -with continuous Avails. Changes in the bronchi. The modifications of the component parts of the bronclii are the following :—The pieces of cartilarje are broken up in the smaller bronchial tubes, and are scattered over the wall as u-regular fragments. Becoming thinner and smaller as the sub- division of the air tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent fi-om the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of the bronchial tubes are continued to the air cells, but in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are dif- fused, and, much diminished in strength, blend with the fibrous or areolar tissue to form the wall. The muscular fibres are spread over the inner surface of the smaller bronchi, where they have an annular arrangement; they extend beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, but they cease where the cells begin. The mucous membrane becomes thinner as it extends onwards, and is finally contmued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its epithelium is columnar and ciliated in the bronchial tubes, but is changed to laminar in the air cells. Lobules and lobes. A lobule is a cluster of air cells around a terminal branch of the air tube. Vaiying in size and shape, each lobule is invested by areolar tissue, and possesses its own offset of the air tube, as well as distinct branches of vessels and nerves. The lobes are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. The air cells are the little recesses or dilatations connected with the smallest branches of the air tube. They are polyhedral in form, except on the surface of the lung, and are distinct one fi-om another, save through the channel of the air passage. The cells are clustered in groups around the terminal pieces of the au- tube, with which they communicate by large orifices ; they are about of an inch across, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than deep in the lung. The cell wall is formed by areolar and elastic tissue, and is lined by a transparent mucous membrane possessing laminar epithehum. Beneath the mucous liniiig is a network of capillaries of the pulmonary vessels. Vessels of the Luno. Two sets of vessels are fm-nished to the lung, one being concerned in its function, the other in the nutrition. The vessels conveying blood to the lung to be aerated, and carrying that fluid away after it has been subjected to the resphatory process, are named pulmonary. The vessels connected with the nutrition of the texture are called bronchial. The pulmonary artery divides like the bronchus, which it accom- panies to the lobule. At the lobule the arterial branch is minutely subdivided, and its ramifications enter the interlobular fissure to end in the cell wall in the following way:—Over the bottom of the cell they form a very fine capillary network, but around the opening they give rise to a circular vessel; and the circles of several cells commmiicate with each other. The pulmonary veins begin in the vascular network before men-361 AORTA AND BRANCHES. tionecl. The twigs issuing fi'om the several lobules are destitute of valves, and are united in larger tubes which course to the roo of the lung. Although the small lobular branches of the artenes remain separate from one another, the corresponding vems anasto- mose together. , , i t, i • i The hroncMal arteries enter the lung on the air tube and supply Bron^iual deep branches to it and the contiguous glands, to the large blood- vessels, and to the interlobular areolar tissue of the lung. Un the smallest air tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. , , , ^ . , Superficial tortuous offsets of the artery ramify beneath the pleura, Superficial forming a capillary network. The bronchial vein begins by twigs corresponding with the super- Broncliiai ficial and deep branches of the artery. Leaving the lung at the root, ^ the vein ends differently on opposite sides of the body (p. 362). Nerves and lymphatics. The lung receives nerves from the vagus pulmonary and the sympathetic ; and the offsets follow the branches of the au- "^^rves. tube, but their ending is uncertain. Eemak describes small gangHa Lymphatics, on the sympathetic filaments. The lymphatics of the Iwg are both superficial and deep, and enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. PARTS ON THE SPINE AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. In fi-ont of the spinal column are the objects in the interpleural space of the posterior half of the mediastinum, viz. the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, oesophagus, and splanchnic nerves. Dissection. The thoracic duct should be found first near the dia- Dissection pkragm by removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a ^^^^^ crow quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta : this slender vessel may be injected with tallow. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away fi-omthe of other different things before mentioned ; and the azygos or intercostal objects, veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, should be dissected. Next follow the thoracic duct upwards beneath the arch of the aorta, and along the oesophagus beneath the pleura, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the chest, p"^jj°^jg^' the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nen'^e will be seen lying over the heads of the ribs. Branches are to be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inwards over the bodies of the vertebra3,—the lowest and largest of these forming the three tranks of the splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic Thoracic vessel above the diaphragm. Its extent is from the lower border • of the fifth dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, ^^^■^■i*: to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine, the course; vessel is rather curved, lying at its upper end on the left, but below on the front of the spinal column. Beneath it are the vertebrai andDISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 362 and connec- tions. Branches. Arteries of the lung: ' distribu- tion : two left. one right. Vein of the lung. Pericardial hranches. CEsorhageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal ai-teries: number. coui'se to intercostal spaces, right longest. The anterior branch of upper occupies intercostal space tlie smaller azygos veins. In front of the vessel is the root of the left lung with the pericardium. On its left side it is covered through- out by the pleura ; and on its right side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, though near the diaphragm the gullet is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the sun-ounding parts, and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. ' a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they ramify (p. 361) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and mferior), which arise fi-om the front of the aorta at a short distance from each other. The artery of the right lung arises in common with one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or fz-om the first mtercostal artery of the right side. Bronchial veins. A vein issues fi'om the root of each lung, and ends in the following manner :—the right joins the larger azygos vein ; and the left ends in the superior intercostal vein of its own side. b. The j)S'>^'i'Cardial branches are some irregular twigs, wliich are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac bag. c. CEsojihageal branches arise at inconstant points of the aorta, and are four or five in number. Ramifying in the gullet, the vessels anastomose with one another ; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery near the pharynx ; and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are ten on each side ; nine are furnished to the same number of lower intercostal spaces, whilst the last lies below the twelfth rib : to the upper two spaces branches are sup- plied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian tnink. These small vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebrte, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nei-ve, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this coiu'se the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine the right vessels are the longest: the right run also beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. Many twigs are supplied to the bodies of the vertebriE. In the spaces bounded by the true ribs, the anterior branch, the larger of the two, continues onwards between the muscular strata nearly to the anterior third of the intercostal space, where it ends in two pieces, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammary (p. 253). At first the artery lies in the middle of the intercostal space, beneath the pleura and a fascia from the internal intercostal muscle, and resting on the external intercostalINTERCOSTAL VEINS. 363 layer : but near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the intercostal vein and nen^e,-the wito vem^_ vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but m the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, liighcr than the artery. Below the true ribs the vessels arc contained partly in the thoracic Anterior ^ and partly in the abdominal wall. Behind they have the same jo^ei- course and connections as the higher intercostals ; but in the wall enters wall^ of the abdomen they lie between the two deep muscles ; they will » ^ be noticed hereafter (p. 453). Branches are furnished to the intercostal and abdominal muscles, sets, and to the ribs. About the centre (from fi-ont to back) of the inter- costal space a superficial twig arises, which accompanies the cuta- neous nerve. The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery ; and the lowest (below the last rib) enters the abdominal wall, and anastomoses with the lumbar arteries (p. 544). The posterior branch turns backwards between a vertebra and an ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed m the Back tui'ns to (p. 397). As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a tlieback. small spinal branch to the vertebras and the spinal cord. (See Vessels of the Spinal Cord.) The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in its course and intercostal branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk (p. 71) descends over the neck of the fii'st rib, external to the ganghon of the sympathetic, and suppUes a branch to the first intercostal space : ^^'^^^^ continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it spaces, anastomoses with the upper aortic branch. Its intercostal offsets divide into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries fi'om the aorta. The vein accompanying the artery opens into the innominate vein Ms vein of the same side. The left superior intercostal vein (fig. 105, i), on the right formed by branches from the two or three highest spaces, is joined |?^gs®^* by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. The INTERCOSTAL Or AZYGOS VEENS are two in number on the left Three side and one on the right, and receive branches corresponding with veiiis. the offsets furnished by the thoracic aorta. The right or larger azygos (fig. 106,') begins in the lumbar veins Large on the right side of the spine ; and its origin is described with the rf^ht side°of vessels of the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic spine, opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebra3. Opposite the fourth intercostal space the vein arches forwards above the root of the right limg, and enters the superior cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very in- superior^ complete, so that blood may flow either way ; and the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 364 Branches joining it. Use of vein. Left lower vein ■begins in abdomen, ends in larger azygos. Brandies. Left upper vein. CEsopliagus in the tliorax through diaphragm. Parts covering it, iDeneath it. and on sides. Three coats are in it. A muscular coat of _ Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right side below the upper two spaces ; some of the intercostals of the left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins; and some small cesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial A^ein. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior communicates with the superior cava, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower half of the body, if the inferior cava should be obstructed ; or the opposite, if the upper cava is impervious. The left lower azygos vein (fig. 106, ") begins in the abdomen in the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Entering the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the dia- phragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, Avhere it crosses beneath that vessel and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some cesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left upper azygos vein (fig. 106, is formed by offsets fi-om the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding. Ee- ceiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The CESOPHAGtrs or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion has been described at p. 120, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing in the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diaphragm, Avhere it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the cesophageal opening of that muscle. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the longus colli muscle and the vertebrae ; but beloAV the arch of the aorta it is separated fi-om the spine by the intercostal vessels, and the aorta. Laterally it touches the left pleura above the arch, and both pleurfe below, but more of the right than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gastric nerves sur- round the oesophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact Avith it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with toAv, it will be easy to show a muscular, fibrous, and mucous coat, one witliin another. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and possesses two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper thu-d of the oesophagus the fibres are red, but below that spot the colour becomes paler.365 THORACIC DUCT AND LYMPHATICS. The exte,-nal layer is formed of parallel longitudina fibres, which extemai._ form an entu-e covering, and end below on the stomach, ihe tbres ^^^^ begin opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 132) ; and at intervals vary- ing from half an inch to an incii and a half, they are connected with tendinous points (^V To of an inch long) Uke the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above with the '^^^^^^^^ fibres of the pharynx ; they are more oblique at the middle than at fibres, either end of the CESophagus. The fibrous layer is situate between the muscular and mucous Fibrous coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. _ _ The mucous coat will be seen on cuttmg open the tube : it is Mmous reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- • nected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal folds when the ojsophagus is contracted. Lining the interior is a thick layer of scaly epithelium ; and the surface is studded with ^P^*^^^^™ minute papillte. Some compoimd glands (oesophageal) are scattered along the tube : Some^ at the lower end of the gullet they are most numerous, and form a ^ ^° ^' ling (cardiac) close to the stomach. Lymphatics of the THORiVX. In the thorax are lymphatic vessels Lympiiatics of the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of glands, and "homx. end in one or other of the lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic glands. Along the course of the internal mammary Sternal artery lies a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, which receive ° lymphatics fi'om the fi'ont of the chest, the thymus body, the peri- cardium, and the upper surfaces of the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as Intercostal, between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of intercostal glands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the diAasion and along Bronclual the side of the trachea, through which the lymphatics of the lung pass ; and beneath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, and cardiac, to which the lymphatics of the heart are directed. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of oisopha- CEsophageal. geal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the oesophagus, and communicate with those of the lungs. Tlie thoracic duct (fig. 106, ') is the main channel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of the lower half of the body, and of ^^^^ the left side of the upper half of the body, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an enlargement (chyli begins in receptaculum, p. 540), and ends in the left subclavian vein of the ^^l^^Ci neck. It is about eighteen inches in length, and is contained in ends in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the under- mentioned connections :— Entering the cavity on the right of the aorta and through the Connec- same opening, the duct ascends on the right side of that vessel366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. may be divided; is furnished with vulves, receives most lym- phatics. Eight duct is in the neck: receives lymphatics of one- fourth of l)ody. Structure. Thoracic cord of sympathetic has twelve gauglia. as high as the arch. Opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the aortic arcli, and is applied to the left side of the oesophagus, on wliich it is conducted to the neck under the left subclavian arteiy. At the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 117), to Fig. 106.* open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again ; or its di\Tisions may even form a plexus. Near its termination it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at intervals, like a vein ; and these are in greatest number at the upper part. Branches. In the thorax the duct re- ceives the lymphatics of the left half of the caAdty, viz., from the sternal and inter- costal glands ; also the Ijonphatics of the left lung, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and oesophagus. The right lymphatic duct (fig. 27) re- ceives large branches from the ^ascera of the thorax. It is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 71) : its open- ing is guarded by valves. Branches. Into tliis trunk the lymphatics of the right upper Hmb, and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing thi-ough their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks, which ascend beneath the innomi- nate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Structure of the ducts. The wall of the tube resembles that of the blood-vessels in structure (p. 118). CoBD OF THE SYMPATHETIC Nerve. The thoracic part of the gang- liated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and is placed over the heads of the ribs, and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number varies much. The upper ganglion is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the Ime of the * View of the thoracic duct, and the intercostal veins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of the duct in the left subclavian vein. 3. Large or right azygos vein 4 Left lower azygos or intercostal vein. 5. Left upper azygos or intercostal. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut thi-ough.367 SYMPATHETIC NERVE AND OFFSETS. nerves to supply viscera. Others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding ^'Sfganglion furnishes external branches to communicate with Branches the spinal nerves, and internal for the supply of ^^^^J'^^^'''- ^ sL-nal or connecting branches (fig. 107). Two offsets pass out- ^^^^ wards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (in- ^•S- • tercostal). In the branches of communication both spinal and sympathetic nerve fibrils are combined; but one (/t) consists almost entirely of spinal, and the other (i) nearly altogether of sympathetic nerve fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size and distribution, according as they are derived from the upper or lower six ganglia. The offsets of the upper six are veiy small, and are distributed to the aorta, and the vertebrae with the hgaments. Mr. Swan de- scribes a plexus in front of the spine, from the union of the branches of oppo- site sides. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six are larger and much whiter than lower six^ the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of fMni' the abdomen : these are three in number (large, small, and small- est,) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives |^3l^*^.|^^J^. roots apparently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebrse, *° semilunar it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the ^^^^ semilunar ganglion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. Upper six ganglia off- sets are small; * Scheme to ilhistrate the connection between the spinal and symiDatbetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganglion, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, e. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. </. Ganglia on the cord. h. White offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nerve, i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve.368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. sTianch •> "^^^^ splanchnic nerve begins in the tentli and eleventh tocaUac'" g'^ingliti, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly plexua; through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the cocliac artery, sraallost The smallest splanchnic nerve springs from the last ganglion to rema"'° accompanies the other nerves through the diaphragm : in the plexus. . abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent, and its place may be taken by an offset of the preceding. PARIETES OF THE THOEAX. Soft parts ■bounding, the thorax. Infracostal; position, attach- ments : irregulari- ties. Use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib. Connec- tions. Outer layer extends ■back to head of the rib. Uae. Trace nerves. Intercostal nerves. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs lies a thin fleshy layer behind,—the infracostals. At the base of the thorax is the diaphragm. The INFEACOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the like surface of the lib nest succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. These tliin muscles approach the ribs to one another, diminishing the size of the thoracic ca^vity, and act thus as expiratoiy muscles. Inteecostal Muscles. The anterior part of the muscles has been described (p. 251) ; and the posterior part may be now examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches backwards to the angle of the ribs m the middle spaces, but, higher and lower, the muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the fibres cease, a tliin fascia is continued backwards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact "with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External nfiuscle. When the fascia and the infi-acostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross those of the inner intercostal layer. Whilst this muscle ex- tends back-wards to the tubercle of the rib, it does not generally reach farther forwards than the rib cartilages, as before said (p. 251). _ Action. The use of the intercostal muscles m respnation is given in p. 252. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nei-ve and artery traced out- wards. The INTERCOSTAL NEEVES are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nen^es. Twelve in number, they occupy the intercostal spaces, without communicating in a plexus; and the last is placed below369 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. the twelfth rib. Tlie upper six lie between the ribs, and are confined upper six to the wall of the thorax ; whilst the lower six are prolonged into l^^^^^ the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. Upper six. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and sub- Connec-^^^ jacent fascia and the external intercostal muscle, with an artery and muscles; vein ; but tliey enter soon between the intercostals, and extend forwards to the middle line. Near the head of the rib each is joined by filaments from the sympathetic. In its course each supplies brunches to the intercostals and the ribs ; and cutaneous offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissections of the upper Offsets. limb (p. 238), and wall of the abdomen (p. 438). There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the Exceptions , -f 1 in .first two. arrangement above specified. The Jirst nerve ascends in fi-ont of the neck of the highest rib, ^'[^Jg^®'^^ and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it mostly bra- supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which fiu-nishes ciiial plexus, muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous offset from this branch, except when the second nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 238). In front it ends like the others. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the muscle is ^PPer snr- tendinous, and the sides are fleshy. In contact with the upper diapiiragm. surface are the lungs laterally, and the pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and nerves pierce this surface, external to the Parts pericardium. In the diaphragm are the following apertures :—one for the oesophagus and the pneumogastric nerves, a second for the tFit^^^ vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large vena azygos, and a fourth on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diaphragm towards the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 327). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the '^}^^ dissec- examination of the Back is made. Afterwards he is to learn the Back°is now ligaments o:^ the ribs and spme : a notice of these will be found in the following Section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments of the vertebraj, ribs, and sternum, are included in this Section. Articulation of the Eibs. The osseous part of each rib is united a rib is to the spinal column on the one side, and the rib cartilage on the lilfvcrte-*^' B B370 DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. brres and tlio cartilage. To see liga nionts of tlie vorto- ■brte; of rib and sternum. Ligaments of head of rib are costo-verte- bral or stellate: attach- ments. differs in certain ribs. Fig. 108.* Inter- articular, other. Between it and the spine are two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the liead of the bone and the bodies of the vertebraj ; and a second fi-oni the neck and tubercle to the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra). Dissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between the rib and the vertebras, take a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define, as below, the ligaments passing from 1^e head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebras. The Hgaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the Head of the Eib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrse, the articulation is provided with two retaining ligaments — costo- vertebral and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The costo-vertebral ligament (fig. 108, ^), named stellate fi-om its form, is composed of radiating fi.bres, and is placed in front of the joint. Attached by one end to the rib, it is divided at the other into three sets of fibres :—The upper, the largest, ascends to the body of the vertebra above the rib head ; the lower descends to the vertebra below the head ; and the central part is united with the fibro-carti- lage between the vertebrte. Where the rib is in contact with only one vertebra, as in the first, eleventh, and twelfth, the ligament has but two sets of fibres. The chief fibres in those three joints are fixed into the body of that vertebra which is touched by the costal head; whilst the ascending band is attached to the body of the vertebra immediately above. In tbe first rib-joint the ascending band is continued to the last cervical vertebra. The interarticular ligament willhe seen when the stellate is divided. It is a short thin band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular sm-faces on the head of * Li<^aments of the ribs and vertebrte (Bourgery).—1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebra. 2. Lateral part of the anterior ligament of the spine 3 Ligament (stellate) between the vertebra3 and head of the rib. 4. Ascending costo-transverse Ugament. 5. Interspinous hgament.LIGAMENTS OF THE EIB. 371 the rib, and on the other to the fibre cartilage between the vertebras. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, the hgament is absent. Synovial sacs. There are two sacs in the articulation, one on eacli ^vith^_^^ side of the interarticular ligament. In the three jomts before men- g^'""/"^ tioned (1st, 11th, and 12th) there is but one sac. Movements. In the costo-vertebral articulation there is a gliding Kind of of the rib up and down, and forwards and backwards. The move- movement; ment of the head is more limited in the first seven ribs which are fixed to the sternum than in the others ; and is greatest in the last degree, two, in consequence of the ribs being free anteriorly, and not fixed beliind by a joint to the transverse process. During the increase and decrease of the chest the body of the Motion of rib is rotated out and in, around a line subtending the arc of the "b-body. circle of which its fore part is a segment. The degree of motion is greatest in the longest ribs. Ligaments of the Neck and Tubercle. Three ligaments (costo- Ligaments ti'ansverse) pass fi-om the neck and tubercle of the rib to two trans- ° verse "processes. And there is a synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. The anterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 108, *) is larger and longer than the others. It ascends from the upper edge of the neck verse, to the transverse process of the upper of the two vertebrje -ndth which the head articulates : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this hgament and the vertebra the posterior branches of the inter- costal vessels and dorsal nerve pass ; and externally it is joined by the fibrous membrane between the strata of the intercostal muscles. TheposteiHor costo-transverse (fig. 115, ^) is placed at the posterior posterior aspect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the rough verse, part of the tubercle and the tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebra touched by the rib head. This band is longest in the lowest two ribs. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse is placed horizontally middle between the neck of the rib and the transverse process with which ver: the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish areolar tissue. In the last two ribs the interosseous costo-transverse blends in in the two one band with the posterior costo-transverse ligament. last ribs. Synovial sac. If the posterior ligament is divided, a synovial mem- Synovial hrane will be exposed in the joint between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process. In the lowest pair pf ribs, which do not touch transverse pro- ,^,,6^6 cesses, the synovial sac is absent. absent. Movement. In the motion of the rib, the bone glides upwards and Motion, downwards on the articular facet of the transverse process ; and the degree will be limited by the surrounding costo-transverse ligaments. B B 2 costo-trans- erse.372 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Union of the costal cartilages. Cartilages with tho sternum. Synovial sac. Second car- tilage has a doublejoint. Costo- xiphoid ligament. Costal cartilage with rib. Cartilages with one another. Motion. False carti- TJnion of pieces of sternum. Motion slight. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebrK. How to see the several ligaments. Ligaments of the Sternal Cautilages. The cartilages of the true ribs except the first are united to the Bternum by a fibrous capsule, which covers a synovial membrane ; and externally they ai-e joined to the osseous part of the rib. The first is generally ossified to the sternum ; and some of the lower cartilages touch each other, and are connected together by fibrous bands with synovial membranes. In the chondro-sternal articulation (fig. 51, ■*), the cartilages are received into the depressions on the side of the sternum, and are fixed in their position by a capsule of surrounding fibres. In fi-ont and behind the capsule are thickened bands, which have been de- scribed as anterior and posterior ligaments. Between the cartilage and the bone is a synovial membrane. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an interarticular ligament (fig. 51, as in the head of the rib, which joins the cartilage between the pieces of the sternum. A synovial sac exists on each side of the interarticular ligament. A separate band of fibres joins the cartilage of the seventh rib to the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament. Costal cartilage with the rib. The bony part of the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cai'tilage, and the periosteum of the rib is the investing membrane between the two. Costal Caktilages to one Another. The contiguous surfaces of the costal cartilages fi-om the sixth to the ninth are flattened, and are connected by ligamentous fibres ; each articulation is provided with a synovial membrane. Movement. There is only a limited gliding motion in the chondro- sternal and theinterchondral articulations. The second rib-cartilage joint is the most moveable. AsTEBNAL Cartilages. The cartilages of the three first false ribs, are united only by end-bands of fibrous tissue, and are freer to move than those which are attached to the sternum. The lowest two, which are separate from one another, are the least fixed. Articulation of the Sternum (fig. 51). As the two pieces of the bone are united by cartilage without any synovial membrane, the kind of articulation is sometimes named synchondrosis. The articulation is strengthened by anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. Movement. In articulations through the medium of cartilage, as here and in the pelvis, there is very little motion to be perceived, even when the osseous pieces are forcibly pulled by the hands. ^ Articulation of the Vertebra. The vertebraj of the spinal column are united together by two sets of ligaments—one for the bodies, and the other for the arch and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will suface except for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those of the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the preparation of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebra. The anterior hga-of the bodies will be defined with veiy little trouble, by LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBKiE. 373 iiient removing the areolar tissue. „^„m^np It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examme the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of he vertebra, is laid bare ; but if the canal should not be open thB neural arches of the vertebras are to be removed by sa^vlng thiough the pedicles. , , j The remaining ligaments between the neural arches, spmes ana articular processes of the bones, may be dissected on the piece taken awav in opening the spinal canal. i _ Ligaments of the Bodies. The bodies of the vertebras are united ii^ebodaes by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, with an intei- ^y. vening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament (fig. 109, a) reaches from the atlas Antenor to the sacrum : it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebrai, and is ugament, narrowed upwards. It consists of a central Avide and thick part (a), ^ath, and of a thinner portion (&), on each side of the body of the vertebra. If the central piece be pi„ iqq* cut across at intervals it will be seen to be thickest opposite the hollow of the bodies. The fibres of the middle piece are longitudinal in direction. By detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen to reach three or more vertebrae, whilst the deep extend from bone to bone. A greater number of the fibres are attached to the in- tervertebral fibro-cartilages than to the bones ; and more are fixed to the margins than the centre of the bod}''. The posterior common ligament (fig. 110), much thinner than the anterior, is contained in the spinal canal, lying on the posterior sur- face of the vertebrae, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone. This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- wards, just the opposite of the anterior. In the neck, A, it is loose, and extends across the bodies. In the back and loins it is a narrow band, B, which sends oflE on each side a pointed process to be at- tached to the pedicle of the neural arch ; and it is wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the bodies, so that the margins are dentate. One surface of the ligament is in contact with the dura Connec- mater; and between the band and the vertebraj are the intraspinal vessels. Its fibres are superficial and deep as in the anterior ligament, and Attach- ^ ^ & ) mentof ilbres. * Anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vortebrse. a. Middle strong part, and b, lateral thin iiart of the ligament. attachment of fibres. Posterior common ligament. Form. *DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. 374 are more closely united with the inter^'ertebral substance than with the bone. To see the Dissection. To see the intervertebral substance, the anterior and vertebral posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra substance, should be detached from the fibro-cartilage to obtain a horizontal view of tliis structure ; and two other vertebr£e should be sawn Fig. 110a.* Fig. 110B.t Inter- vertebral substance has the width of the hones, constituent parts; the outer laminae, how arranged; all not vertical; the fibres of the layers cross. vertically to see the difiEerence in the consistence and an-angement of its laminte. The intervertebral substance (fig. Ill) is placed between the con- tiguous sm-faces of the bodies of the vertebras, except between the atlas and the axis. It forms a flattened disc between each pair of the vertebras, and its width is determined by the size of the bones. It is connected in front and behind with the anterior and posterior common hgaments, and on the sides with the stellate ligament of the head of the rib. By means of the previous dissections, the inteiwertebral sub- stance may be observed to consist of two distinct parts ; an external, firm and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic (fig. 112). The outer laminar part (fig. 113, a) forms more than half of the disc, and is composed of pieces of fibro-cartilage with layers of fibrous tissue. All the strata ai'e arranged one within another, like the scales of an onion, and are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebrae ; but all have not a vertical direction, for whilst the outer pieces are straight, the inner are bent with the convexity outwards (fig. 112, Humphry). The laminae do not form com- plete rings, but those composed of fibrous tissue reach farther than those of fibro-cartilage : the free ends of both layers overlap. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres ; and the fibres of one layer are directed across those of another like the legs of the letter * Two views of the posterior common ligament, c, of the bodies of the vertebraj, to sliow the difference in shape. A, refers to its form in tlie neck, and B, to its shape in the loins.INTERVERTEBRAL SUBSTANCE. X (Sg. 111). This disposition of the fibres will be best seen on the discs between the lumbar vertebrae ; and it may be rendered evident by dissecting layer after layer. Fig. 111.*' Fig- 112t. The central or pulpy portion of the disc (fig. 113, h) is very ^"^^'P^ soft and elastic, and projects when two vertebras and the interposed mass are sawn thi'ough. Placed nearer the back than the fi'ont of situation, the disc, it is more marked in the loins and neck than in the dorsal where region. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient in the stratiform l^rg^^*' aiTangement so conspicuous at the circumference. Towards the confine of the two portions of the intervertebral substance, there is an alternating arrangement of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, though the former is gradually diminishing ; but to- wards the centre a loose fibro- cartilaginous material with large cells preponderates. The surfaces of the vertebrae in contact with the disc, have a cartilaginous covering ; this may be seen by cutting the inter- vertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but towards the circumference it consists of separate pieces. The discs are thicker between the lumbar and cers'ical, than Tliickness * Intervertebral substance in the lumbar region with its laminae displayed. «. Superficial, and b, deeper layer, the fibres in each taking a different direc- tion. t Vertical section of the intervertebral substance to show the direction of the layers, a. Circumferential layers bent outwards, h. Central pulpy part. t A horizontal cut through an intervertebral fibro-cartilage.—a. Laminar external part. 6, Pulpy central substance of the fibro-cartilage.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 376 and form of discs. Unites vertebite, admits movement. makes column convex, and adds to the lengtli. Several ligaments of the vertebral processes. Articular have capsule and sac. Motion and degree. How pro- cesses act. Ligaments of arches. Attach- ments. Structure. between the upper and middle dorsal vertebraj; and where the spinal column is arched forwards, as in the loins and neck, they are deepest at the anteiior edge, being wedge-shaped. The tli'innest piece is situate between the second and third .cervical A^ertebraj, and the thickest between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. Use. The intei-vertebral substance unites together the vertebrajso firmly as to prevent displacement of those bones without rupture of it. By means of the central elastic part the revolving motion of one bone on another is produced ; and the degree of the movement is limited by the circumferential laminar portion. Through its wedge-shaped form the disc is chiefly instrumental in giving rise to the convexity of the spinal column in the loins and neck ; and through its elasticity it moderates the effect of jars or shocks transmitted from bone to bone. The depth of its several pieces amounts to about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the spinal column; but as it yields under pressure, the height of the body will be shorter from half an inch to an inch in the course of the day, according to the fatigue undergone. Ligaments of the Neural Arch and Processes. The several processes of the vertebras have special uniting ligaments :—thus the articular processes are joined by a capsule and a synovial membrane ; the neural arches are connected by yellow ligaments ; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between them ; and the transverse processes are jDrovided with intervening bands of fibres. Ligaments of Articular processes. Between the articulating pro- cesses there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with cartilage, and are suiTOunded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres, enclosing a synovial membrane. In the cervical part of the spine the capsular ligaments are looser than in the dorsal or lumbar region. Movement. With flattened articular surfaces is combined a gliding of one bone upon another. This movement is least limited in the neck, the loins, and the lower dorsal vertebrje. By the difference in the shape of the articulating processes, the kind of motion in the spine is determined ; and by their aiTange- ment the degree is limited, and the vertebrae are partlj^ maintained in situ. In dislocation of the spinal colunm they are generally broken before a vertebra can be dislodged from its imbricated position. Ligaments of the arches. The ligamenta suhjlava (fig. 114, ^) so named from their colour, are situate between the neural arches of the vertebras, and close the spinal canal behind. Between each pair of arches are two ligaments, one for each half of the ai-ch, which approach one another along the middle line, and reach on each side from the root of the spinous process to the pedicle of the arch. Each consists of elastic yellow tissue. It is attached above to the inner surface of the one neural arch, but below to the upper border and outer surface of the other.377 LIGAMENTS OF VERTEBRiE. Between the first two vertebrae and the skull there are special fibrous ligaments in the corresponding situation (p. 17-). Ligammts of the spines. Along the tips of the spinous processes Lig^ents of the dorsal and lumbar vertebras is a longitudinal band ot_ fibres (fig. 115, '),—the mpraspinous ligament. It is thickest in the Fig. 114. Fig. 115.t lumbar region of the spine, and is formed by superficial and deep fibres ; the former reach over three or more spines, whilst the latter pass from bone to bone. It is closely united with the tendons of the muscles. The band of the ligamentum nuchas, which is composed of fibrous tissue, takes its place in the neck. Along the spinal column there are also tliin membranous inter- and be- spinous ligaments (fig. 108, ^), which reach from the root to the ^^"^^"^ tip of the spinous processes. The strength of these bands is depen- dent upon the interval they fill; they are more marked in the lum- bar than the other vertebrte, and they are least strong in the cervical region. Ligaments of the transverse processes. In the loins the inter-trans- Ligaments verse ligaments are thin membranous bands in the intervals between processes.'^^ the processes. In the dorsal vertebra^ they are round bundles of fibres (fig. 115, ''). And in the neck the fibres exist only at the apex of the processes, or they may be wanting here and there. _ * An inner view of tlie neural arches of the vertebrte, with their interposed ligaments.—1 and 2. Ligamenta subflava. (Bourgery and Jacob.) t Ligaments of the processes of the vertebrie, and of the ribs. (Boiu-gery.) —1. Supraspinous band of ligament. 2. Ligamentum subflavum. 3. Pes- terior costo-transverse ligament : on the opposite side tlie band has been re- moved and the joint opened. 4. Intertransverse ligament.378 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Ligaments of special vertebra;. Kinds of motion. Flexion; degree. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Extension; where most, and least. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Side bend- ing; extent. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Eotation: where present. Motion of bones. LiG.\MENTS OF SPECIAL VERTEBRiE. The ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertebrae, will be given Avith the dissection of the neck (p. 172) and of the pelvis (Section vii.). Movements of Spinal CoLrMN. The spinal column can be bent forwards, backwards, and to each side ; and can be rotated. In flexion the vertebrae between the axis and sacrum are bowed forwards. The greatest movement takes place between the last two lumbar vertebrfe and the sacrum (Humphry); there is an inter- mediate degree in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front, whilst they are separated behind. The inferior pair of articular processes of the second vertebra glide upwards on the upper articular of the third vertebra ; the inferior of the third bone move in like manner on the upper processes of the fourth ; and so on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is loose, but the posterior, and those uniting the neural arches and processes, are stretched. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is squeezed and thinner, and the back is elongated. In extension, the vertebrte are arched backwards, but not to so great a degree as when the spine is bent forwards. The motion is most in the neck ; and is least in the dorsal vertebrae., which are fixed by the true ribs and the sternum, and are impeded in their movement by the overlapping spinous processes. The posteiior parts of the vertebrae are approximated, whilst the anterior are separated; and the inferior articular processes of each (from the second cervical to the sacrum) glide downwards, on the upper articular processes of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion. Thus, the intervertebral discs are compressed behind and widened before ; the spinous and subflaval are relaxed ; the anterior common of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be cm-ved to the right or the left side. Like the other movements, this bend is least in the more fixed upper dorsal vertebrae, and is greatest in the neck. On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the bodies are brought nearer together ; and are carried away from each other on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints with the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the inter- vertebral substance compressed ; and on the left those sti-uctures will be tightened so as to check the movement. Rotation is the twisting of the bodies of the vertebra around a line through their centres, the fore part bemg turned to the right and to the left. Its degi-ee is greatest in the cervical and the upper dorsal vertebrae, but is absent in the lumbar part of the column. The vertebral bodies are directed horizontally, and the articular processes move difEerently on the two sides. Supposmg the faceMOTION OF SriNAL COLUMN. 379 turned to the right, the processes of the right side glide inwards towards, and those of the left side outwards from the spinal canal. The flat hgamcnts and the intervertebral discs of the bodies, and state of the ligaments of the neural arches, will be less tight on the side to ligaments, which the face is directed than on the other. Dislocation of one vertebra from another without fracture seldom Dislocation occurs, in consequence of the way in which the inferior pair of °*'''P'°®> articidar processes is placed behind the superior of the next fol- fj^cture, lowing bone, like scales. In the cenncal region, where the articular and with- surfaces are more horizontal, simple displacement may occasionally take place.CHAPTER y. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. Position of tody. Strata in back. To raise the skin. Seek cutaneous nerves. Directions. The dissection of the Back maybe undertaken by one student ; or conjointlj'- by the dissectors of the head and upper limbs,—the former preparing the neck, and the latter making ready the dorsal and lumbar regions. If the Back should be allotted to more than one student, the dis- sector of the upper limb may attend chiefly to the paragraphs marked with an asterisk ; and the dissector of the neck may study specially the paragraphs which are not so marked. But as many of the dissections in the earlier stages require the co-operation of the students employed on the same side of the body, a general attention may be given to the whole by each. The dissector of the abdomen is to examine the arrangement of the fascia lumborum, after the first layer of the dorsal muscles has been leamt. Position. The body lies with the face downwards ; and the trunk is to be raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, so that the Hmbs may hang over the end and sides of the dissecting table. To make tense the neck, the head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are five successive strata of muscles, amongst which vessels and nerves are interspersed. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps, by means of the following incisions :—One cut is to be made along the middle of the body from the occipital protuberance to the back of the sacrum. Another is to be carried from the last dorsal ver- tebra to the acromion process of the scapula. The flap of skin above the last cut is to be turned outwards by the dissectors of the head and upper limb. By another transverse incision opposite the iliac crest, the remain- ing piece of integument may be detached, and reflected by the dis- sector of the upper limb in the same direction as the other flap. Under the upper flap of skin is placed tlie trapezius, and under- neath the lower one the latissiraus dorsi muscle. The cutaneous nerves may be now sought in the superficial fatty layer : they are accompanied by small cutaneous arteries which will guide the student to their position. The nerves vary much in size in the difEerent parts of the Back, and their number is also irregular :381 SUPERFICIAL NERVES. as a general rule, there is one opposite each vertebra except in the neck To find them in the cervical region look near the middle line, in the neck, from the 3rd to the Gth vertebra, and trace an offset from tlie tliird nerve upwards to the head : the branch of the second nei-ve (large occipital) has been laid bare at the back of the head (p. 6). Opposite the upper part of the thorax, they will be best found near the spines of the vertebra?, where they lie at first beneath the t^oj^ fat; but at the lower part, and in the loins, they issue in a hne with the angles of the ribs. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves are included in the SacraL dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nerves are derived from Cutaneous^ the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves, which sub- derived, divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompanying the greater number of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nei-ves. In tlae neck the nerves are derived from the inner In the neck, of the two pieces into which the posterior trunks bifurcate : they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the source, head. They are four in number, viz., one from each, except the first and the three last. The branch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and ac- Second companies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 8). The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset and third to the neck, and then ascends to the lower part of the head, where it is distributed near the middle line, imiting with the great occipital nerve (p. 8). ^ Dorsal nerves. These are obtained fi-om both the inner and outer in the dor- pieces—the upper six from the inner, and the lower six fi-om the ^^swi outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles. The upper six perforate the trapezius near the spines of the Upper six, vertebrte ; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The lower six pierce the latis- Lower six. simus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs ; they are oftentimes uncertain in number. * Lumbar nerves. In the loins the nerves are derived from the in the loins, outer pieces of the first three ; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle at the outer border of the erector spinas, and crossing the iliac crest of the innominate bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. First Layer of Muscles (fig. 116). Two muscles, the trape- Two mus- zius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer. hlyei^ Dissection. The superficial fatty layer is to be taken from the Dissection, trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the shoulder to the spinal column ; and tlie upper limb is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch different portions of the muscles.382 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Ti'apezius. Origin. Some of the cutaneous nerves and vessels may be left in order tha^t_they may be traced aftex^ards through th^e musde'sTo their The TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE (fig. 116, A) triangular in shape with the base towards the spine, but the two havf a trapezoid'fl™ Fig. 116.* The muscle has an extensive aponeurotic origin along the middle line from the spines of all the dorsal vertebrte and their supraspinous ligament; fi-om the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra ; from the ligamentum nuchas between the last point and the head ; * Muscles of the back. On tlie left side the first layer is shown, and on the right side the second layer, with pai"t of the third. A. Trapezius. B. Latissimus dorsi. o. Levator anguli scapulas. D. Rhomboideus minor. B. Rhomboideus major, f. Splenius. Q. Serratus posticus inferior.383 TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE. and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are du-ected out- wards converging to the shoulder, and are inserted mto the outer insertion, tliird of the claAncle, at its posterior aspect; into the posterior border of the acromion ; and into the upper edge of the spme of the scapula as fai- as an inch from the root of that process, as well as into a rough impression on the surface of the spme near the hinder part. Tlie muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest tleshy Connec- fibres end in a small triangular tendon, wliich glides over the smooth surface of the root of the spine of the scapula. The an- terior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on Use: the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column ; but the moveable, upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevatkig, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trap 6- in rotation zius imparts a rotatory movement to it, and raises the acromion. of bone. Dissection. The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided near the Trace spinal scapula, over the situation of the spinal accessory nerve, so that accessory, the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cendcal plexus may be obseiwed. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colH) accornpanies the nerve. The spinal accessory cranial nerve (p. 112) having crossed the pos- Spinal terior triangle of the neck, passes beneath the trapezius, and forms nervefin^ a plexiform union with branches of the tliird and fourth nerves of trapezius, the cer^acal plexus. The nerve is distributed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. To see the parts covered by the trapezius, the pieces Dissection of the divided muscle are to be thi-own inwards and outwards. t° reflect tl'tl'DGZlUS * The dissector of the neck should now clean the splenius, and define the things beneath the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the parts in the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and vessels ; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulas and rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nuchas, fi-om which it takes origin, will be brought into Adew. ^ ** The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the clean the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapuUy muscles, which are fixed to scapular the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula '"^'^'^ is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fleshy fibres. Parts covered by the trapezius. The trapezius conceals in the Parts neck the splenius, a small part of the complexus, and the levator covered by anguli scapulas ; in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles, —the rhomboidei, the erector spinte, and the latissimus dorsi. Near the insertion it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The lirjamentum nucha} is a narrow fibrous band, wliich extends Ligamen- tum nuchre.384 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Latissimiis dorsi. Origin. Insertion into humerus. Connec- tions. Use; on the limh when free. and fixed. Dissection to reflect latissimus. Parts covered by the latissimus. from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to tlie occipital protuberance. From its under surface processes are con- tinued to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebraj, so that it serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck. In man it is not formed of elastic tissue. « The LATISSIMUS DORSI (fig. IIG, is the widest muscle in the back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its inner attachment. It arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper two sacral vertebraj, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. On the outer side it arises by an aponeurosis from the outer edge of the posterior half of the iliac crest ; and by three or four fleshy processes from as many of the lower ribs, which digitate with pieces of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And between the outer and inner attach- ments it is inseparably blended below with the subjacent tendon of the multifidus spinje. All the fibres converge to the inferior angle of the scapula, and after crossing that point of bone, are continued forwards to be inserted by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus (p. 250). The muscle is subcutaneous, except a small part of the upper border which is covered by the trapezius. Near the scapula there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid muscles appear. The lower or anterior border overlays the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall in the mterval between the last rib and the iliac crest, with the exception of a small part below. Frequently the latissimus has a distinct fleshy slip firom the inferior angle of the scapula. Action. If the arm is hanging loose the muscle can move it behind the back, rotating it in at the same time. If the limb is raised, the latissimus, combining with the pectoralis and teres, Avill depress the humerus. From its attachment to the scapula this bone can be depressed with the arm. Supposing the arm fixed, the fibres may elevate the ribs as an inspiratory muscle ; or they may assist the pectorahs major in drawing the moveable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. * Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway be- tween the spines of the vertebrte and the angle of the scapula, and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued upwards fi'om the serratus. In the inter^^al between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the apo- neurosis of the transversaHs abdominis muscle, and should not be detached fi-om it. « Pai-ts covered hy tlie latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the erector spinas, the serratus posticus inferior, and the lower ribs with their intercostal muscles. As it rests on the angle of the scapula, it conceals the teres major, and part of the rhomboid muscle. Its position to the teres is worthy of note:—at the angle of the scapula385 FASCIA LUMBORUM it covers the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the huTnorus it turns round the lower border, and is inserted in front of that Forms muscle. Between the angle of the scapula and the humerus the '^^j^'^ latissimus enters into the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissection of fascia lumhomm. After the latissimus dorsi has ])een nissection reflected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lum- borum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. In tlie spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. After the removal of those muscles the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves :—one, the last dorsal with an artery near the last rib : and the other, the iho-hj'pogastric with its vessels (p. 544), close to the ihac crest. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from the fascia to the trans- show two verse processes. To see the more superficial layer wliich passes beneath the erector spinas to the apices of the processes, the latis- simus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy superficial, fibres) by a horizontal incision directed outwards fi-om the spinous processes, on a level with the third lumbar vertebra. On raising the outer border of the erector spinte muscle wliich comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be appai'ent. After dividing transversely this first prolongation, another muscle and deep, (quadratus lumborum) will be seen ; and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumborum (fig. 136, ^) is the posterior aponeurosis or Fascia tendon of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the in- 1™^'°™'^ terval between the last two ribs and the crest of the hip bone. By its cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique muscle, and sometimes to the external oblique. The last dorsal (^) and ilio-hypogastric nerves, accompanied by vessels, pierce it in their course fi-om the abdomen. From the hinder part of the , x aponeurosis two offsets are prolonged to the transverse processes sets ijehind, of the lumbar vertebras, and enclose the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. The more superficial of the two is the strongest ; it lies beneath superficial, the erector spinas in this position of the body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse processes, but it also fills the intei-vals between them : at the outer border of the erector spinas it blends with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and inferior serratus. The deeper or anterior prolongation passes on the abdominal sur- and deep, face of the quadratus lumborum, and is fixed to the tips and borders of the transverse processes. _ In like manner the erector spinas lies in another sheath, which ,vhich form 13 formed by the vertebral aponeurosis and the tendons of the s'leatlis for latissimus and serratus on the one side, and by the superficial of the two prolongations of tlie fascia lumborum on the other ° Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 116). Tliis stratum contains the second c 0DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 386 muscular layer. Dissection. Elovatoi' of angle of seainila. Attacli- luents and eoii- nectious. Use: on scapula. on the neck. Rlioml)oid muscles are two. Small muscle. Large muscle. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use: liy tliemselvcs ■with others, Posterior elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhom- boid muscles ; besides these, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nen'-es bending backwards towards the scapula are included. Dissection. By the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus, and by the dissection made subsequently (p. 383), the several things in this layer will have been sufficiently prepared for learning. The LEVATOR ANGULi SCAPULAE (fig. 116,^) arises by tendinous slips from the posterior transverse processes of the upper three or four cei-vical vertebras. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle, and are inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior angle. At its origin the muscle lies beneath the stemo-mastoideus, and at its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it touches the serratus magnus muscle ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior tri- angular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cersacal muscles, viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and liinder part of the scapula, and depresses the acromion ; but united with the upper fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation doAvn of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. "When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can be bent laterally to the same side by the levator. * Khomboidei Muscles. The thin musctdar layer of the rhomboidei is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, large and small, which are separated by a slight inters^al. * The rhomboideus minor (fig. 116, ^) is a thin narrow band, which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vcrtebree, and the hgamentum nuchfe ; it is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. * The rhomboideus major (fig. 116, ^) is larger than the preceding by the width of three or more spinous processes. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal vertebrae below the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be fixed to the base of the scapula betsveen the spine and the lower angle. Sometimes all the fibres do not reach the scapula directly, some ending on a tendinous arch near the bone. The rhomboidei muscles are covered chiefly by the trapezius and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger rhomboid is subcutaneous near the angle of the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei will ' draw the base of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to depress the acromion. In combination with the trapezius they will carry the scapula directly back ; for as one tends to raise, and the other to depress the acromion, the bone will be moved m a direc- tion between the two forces. By their united action the muscles help to fix the scapula. , • j The OMO-HYOID muscle consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior and387 SCAPULAR VESSELS. posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only the ];^y°/-"«- posterior half is now seen. , , - i « • ■ The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind Ongm the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch mto a fora- men. The fibres form a thin, riband-like muscle, which is directed for%vards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoideus (p. 64). The fleshy belly of Connec the muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius ; and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, Avhere it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It crosses the suprascapular vessels and nei-ve, and the brachial plexus near the scapula. Action. For the supposed use of the posterior belly of the omo- use. liyoideus, see page 64. The stijmiscapidar artenj, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is Siipra-_^^ directed outwards across the lower part of the neck to the dorsum ai-tTry'^' of the scapula. The vessel com-ses behind the clavicle with the ends on suprascapular nen^e, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid ^^^^^ muscles to the supraspinal fossa. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve, an offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73), ^"P^'^'^^j. is inclined backwards to the superior border of the scapula. It nerve, passes thi-ough the notch in the upper costa of the bone, and ter- minates beneath the supraspinatus in the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula (p. 263). The transverse cervical artery, also a branch of the subclavian Transverse (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the artery'^^ upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Cross- ing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into the two following divides into branches—superficial cervical and posterior scapular :— a. The superficial cervical hranch is distributed chiefly to the superficial under surface of the trapezius though it furnishes offsets to the '^^'^'^ levator anguli scapulee and the cervical glands. 6. The posterior scapular branch crosBes beneath the elevator of posterior the angle of the scapula, and turns along the base of the scapula ^'^'^l"^''*' beneath the rhomboid muscles. If the rhomboid muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them ; and to give small anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very frequently fr-om the third part of the subclavian trunk. The supra-scapular and transverse cei-vical veins have the same Accompany- course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open "'^ into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender nerve of the brachial Nerve of plexus (p. 72) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on the under surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. c c 2DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 888 Third layer of musclee. Dissection. Serratl are two in munber. Smaller at top of thorax. Attach- ments. Larger at bottom of thorax. Attach- ments. Connec- tions. **Thied Layer (fig. 11-7). In this stratum are the following muscles :—the serratus posticus superior and infei-ior, with the splenms. * Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upper serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The splenius and the inferior serratus have been previously ex- posed by the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus. The SERRATi muscles are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins fi-om the spine of the vertebraa. * The serratus posticus superior (fig. 117, ^) arises from the liga- mentum nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slips into the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is covered by the rhomboideus major. * The serratus jjosticus inferior (fig. 116, occu- pies the lumbar region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and wth the fascia lumborum, and is con- nected to the spinous pro- cesses of the last two dorsal and first three lum- bar vertebras. The fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted ^ into the last four ribs " in fi-ont of their angles, each successive piece extending fm-ther forwards than the one below. . J . , . This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spmsB ; and mth its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. * Part of tlie third layer of tlie Back-muscles. A. Serratus posticus superior. B. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, r. lUo-costahs. e. Lougissunusdorsi. p. Spinalis dorsi.389 SERRATI AND SPLENIUS MUSCLES Action. The superior serratus raises tlie upper nbs, and officiates t.se ofboth as an inspiratory muscle ; and the inferior, depressing the lower nbs and lower, becomes an expiratory muscle. Theile supposes the inferior to act indirectly as a muscle of inspiration, because, by iixing the lower ribs, it enables the diaphragm to contract more effectively. _ o The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, wluch is spread Vertebn^i over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines the erector spm^ m aponeurosis. the vertebral groove. , . . j . xi. i Inferiorly it is thickened by the tendons of the latissimus and Attach- lower serratus ; but it is continued above beneath the splenius, without joining the upper serratus, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes. Externally it i^sWe is connected to the posterior third of the iliac crest, uniting with the tendon of the latissimus ; to the fascia lumborum between the hip-bone and the ribs ; and m the dorsal region to the ribs and a fascia over the mtercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and Below, vertebral attachments, it blends with the underiymg tendon of the erector spinje and multifidus. ° Dissection. The upper seiratus is to be cut through, and the Dissection, subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away ; and the part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. The SPLENIUS muscle (fig. 117) is thin and elongated ; it is un- ^P^^f^^'^/ts?^ di^^ded internally, but is split externally into two parts. It takes origin along the middle line from the six upper dorsal spines, from the seventh cervical, and fi-om the hgamentum nuchc^ as high as the third cervical vertebra. Some fibres ascend to the head (splenius capitis), and others to the neck (splenius colli). The splenius colli, c, is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- one to the terior transverse processes of the upper thi-ee cervical vertebrae with, ^^'^^' but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the attach- ments: scapula. The splenius capitis, B, much the largest, is inserted by a thin wide tendon into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, ^ttach- and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. ments. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and Connec- the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the occipital bone is be- neath the sterno-mastoideus. The complexus muscle projects above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Action. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head Use of directly back ; and one will turn the face to the same side. cajfitis^^ The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical splenius vertebrEB ; but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. ° Fourth Layer. In this layer are included the spinalis dorsi; Fourth the erector spinas, with its divisions, and accessory muscles to the muscles, neck ; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the Back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig. 118). To lay bare the complexus muscle in the Dissection*DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 390 of com- plexus. Dettno ofT- sets from the erector spina). Show the erector spinse and its divisions, viz. Sacro- lumbalis : offset to the neck. Vessels and nerves. Separate spinalis dorsi; longissi- mws dorsi, and its offset to the neck. Vessels and nerves. Spinalis dorsi, along the dorsal vertcbne : neck, the splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. And whilst the large erector spina3 is being displayed in the dorsal and lumbar regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations from it to the cenucal vertebrae and the head are to be defined,by the dissector of the neck:—One, a thin narrow muscle, the cer^acalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs from the outer piece of the erector (ilio-costalis), and is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger offset of the iimer piece of the erector (longissimus dorsi) ; blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus, it is diAaded afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (trachelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (trans- versalis colli). * The serratus inferior is to be detached with the vertebral aponeu- rosis from the spines in the dorsal region, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned fi-om the surface of the large mass of the erector spinaa which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is the beginning of an intermuscular interval, which divides the erector spinse into an outer piece (sacro-lumbalis), and an inner (longis- simus dorsi. By sinldng the knife mto this interval the sacro- lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the ribs : a muscular slip (cervicalis ascendens) is prolonged from this to the neck. * In preparing the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external pieces of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries vnll appear. * Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be needful to detach, and raise towards the spinous processes the thin muscular fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between that muscle and the spines of the vertebras in the dorsal region. Then the attach- ments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrte by rounded tendons ; and for the pur- pose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus should be drawn away from the spinous processes, and its superficial aponeurosis should be cut through below the ribs, along the line of separation between the muscle and the fleshy multifidus spinse on the inner side. From this muscle, as fi'om the sacro-lumbalis, a fleshy piece (ti-ansversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into the neck. * Between the longissimus and the multifidus spinre are the in- ternal pieces of the posterior branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, and intercostal and lumbar arteries and veins. The SPINALIS DORSI is placed on the side of the spines of the dorsal vertebrte, and is united with the longissimus dorsi. In- ferioriy it arises by tendinous processes fi-om the spines of the last two dorsal and first two lumbar vertebraj, and by fleshy fibres from the contiguous tendon of the longissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend, forming arches, whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by tendinous processes to the spines of the dorsalERECTOE SPINiE AND OrkETS: ^ vertebra3 .l\ost^ C eighth VlnCT o^ly Tor half' that '''ScL. Both muscles contracting will extend the dorsal region of -e^f.^ the spine. Perhaps the muscle of one side may tend to mclme the spine laterally. . ^ +i „ Erector ° The ERECTOR SPiNiE is the muscular mass on the side oi spine in the lumbar region. It is single and pointed below ; and sigatits its cutaneous surface is covered near the sacrum by a wide and strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spmaj. The muscle arises at the pelvis from the posterior fifth of the crest of the hip-bone at tlie inner aspect, except opposite the upper spmous process : in the lumbar region it is attached by fleshy and tendin- ous pieces to the transverse processes, to the tubercle (process, accessorius) at the root, and to the layer of the fascia lumborum external to eacli. Opposite the last rib it divides into iUo-costalis JJ™^*^ and longissimus dorsi. ^- The iLio-cosTALis (sACRO-LUMBALis) is the smallest of the two ^a^™-^ pieces resulting fi-om the di^^sion of the erector spinte. Its fibres end in six or seven flat tendons, which are connected together by their margins, and are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs and the neck by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under- lower ribs, mentioned muscles :— ^ The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem begins by a series ^'i^°"^"f„. of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the lower six ribs, internal to the insertion of the ilio-costalis ; and it ends in tendons, which are inserted into the remaining ribs (upper six), in a line with js attached ^ , n ji XO six TippGl* the iUo-costalis, and into the posterior transverse process or the ribs, seventh cervical vertebra. The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip prolonging the ^^^^^^^^^1 accessorius into the neck : this muscle is attached to fom- ribs (third, fourth, fifth, and sixth), and is inserted into the posterior reaches tlie transverse processes of three cervical vertebra3. Adz., sixth, fifth, and fourth. * The LONGISSIMUS DORSI gradually decreases in size as it ascends ^°°°iojsj along the thorax. Internally the muscle is inserted into the trans- verse processes of all the dorsal vertebras by a series of tendinous insertion: and fleshy bundles ; and externally it is attached to the ribs, except the first two or three, by tlun fleshy processes between the tubercle and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is is continued united with tlie upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two foUow- t^e^^*^^ ing pieces :— The transversalis colli (fig. 118, ^) arises ixom. the ti-ansverse pro- transver- cesses of the upper six jiorsal vertebras, and is inserted into the ''"^ Lf. posterior transverse processes of the cervical vertebras, except the first two and the last. 1 - 4 • The trachelo-mastoid muscle (fig. 118, ^ transversalis capitis ?) and to head arises in common with the preceding, and is attached, besides, by mastokl!'''^" distinct tendons to the articular processes of the last three or four cervical vertebrse. The muscle is thin and is inserted beneath theDISSECTION OF THE BACK. S92 Connec- tions of erector spinas in liunliar, dorsal. and cervical resious. Use of toth erectors: in Ijreatli- of one on spine. Use of accessory muscles: on neck, and ribs; on neck, on head. ComplexTis Origin. Insertion. splcnius into the upper half of the back of the mastoid process : its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide.** *'* Connections of the erector spince. The erector spinas and its pro- longations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cervical parts of the Back. In the loins the muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath (p. 385), and has the multifidus spinae on its inner side : its attach- ment on the inner surface of the innominate bone corresponds in part with the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer side. The superficial tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus, will be described with the last-mentioned muscle (p. 401). Opposite the ribs the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi are con- cealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck its accessory small muscles lie underneath the splenius and the trapezius:—the cervicalis ascendens is attached in a line with, but below the splenius colli ; and the transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between the splenius and cervicalis and the complesus. Action. Taking their fixed point at the pelvis both erectors will keep the spine straight in sitting and standing ; and, in rising from stooping to the ground, they will brmg the trunk into the erect posture. In laborious respiration, the spine being fixed, the muscles are able to depress the ribs, and assist in the expulsion of the air from the thorax. One muscle will incline the spinal column laterally and to its own side. The cervical prolongations of the erector act on the neck and head, as below :— The cervicalis ascendens. Taking their fixed point below, both muscles will extend the cervical part of the spine ; and acting from the transverse processes they will elevate the ribs. One muscle will give a lateral movement to the neck. The transversalis colli bends back the neck if the muscles of both sides contract together; or laterally towards its own side, i£ only one is used. The trachelo-mastoideus will extend the head in concert with its fellow ; or by itself will turn the face to its own side, and then help to approximate the head to the shoulder. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 118, ») is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous pieces from the transverse processes ot the upper six dorsal vertebrae, from the spine of the last cervica , andfi-om the articular processes of the cervical vertebriB as high as the third. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the os occipitis, which reaches * The anatomy of the prolongation from the longissimus ^> J* ^^/^g^.^^ by describing it a\the transvex-sahs --f^J^*^^^^^^^^^ SSSiurthfpa'rJote hti ^^^~salisca,Ui., and the part to the neck transversalis colli, as at present.393 COMPLEXUS MUSCLE. outwards nearly two inches from the occipital crest towards the trachclo-mastoideus, _ /i„oi-,„ i-.pIUp'? with Biventer The inner part of the complexus having two fleshy belhes with an inter.-ening tendon, is described often as a separate muscle with the name hiventer cervicis. ^ -. connec- The complexus is concealed by the splenms and trapezius . ana ^^ous. Fig. lis.* the cutaneous sm-face is marked by a tendinous cross intersection towards the upper end. Two or three of the cervical nerves per- forate it. Along the inner side is the semispinalis muscle, with the ligamentum nuchas. Beneath it are the small recti and obUqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the cervical nerves and vessels. Action. Both muscles will move the head directly back. One Use. will draw the occiput down and back towards its own side. Dissection of vessels and nerves (fig. 119). In the neck the nerves J'f tffg°*'°" and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus nerves of the neck: * Dissection of the muscles underneath the splenius. A. Longus colli. B. Transversalis colU. o. Trachelo-mastoid. c. Complexus. f. Splenius capitis, cut. o. Splenius colli, cut. h. Semispinalis dorsi. a. Occipital artery. 1. Great occipital nerve. 2. External piece of the second nerve. 3. Outer piece of the third nerve.DISSECTION OF TUE BACK. inner and outer branches. Find snb- occipital; and the vessels. Nei-ves and vessels in tlie dorsal region : in the lum- liar region. Posterior ■branches of spinal nerves. In the neck they di\'ide into two, except first, Extcmal Viranches are small. Internal branches; from the occipital bone and the spine of the seventh vertebra, and throwing it outwards caref-uUy from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in which are contained the ramifications of the cervical nerves, and the deep cei-vical and other vessels. Each nerve except the first divides into an inner and an outer piece. Dissect out first the inner pieces of the seven lowei^, which lie partly over and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external pieces are very small; they are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks appear ; they are to be looked for outside the complexus, entering the muscles prolonged fi-om the erector spinte. The first or suboccipital is the most difficult of the set to find : this little nerve is a short trunk, which is contained in the interval between the small recti and obliqui muscles near tlie head ; it will be best found by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinahs muscle ; a part of the vertebral artery will be detected in contact Avith the suboccipital nerve ; and the occipital artery Avill be visible crossing the occipital bone. * Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels Will be readily displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the removal of a little fatty tissue fi'om between the transverse pro- cesses. External and internal pieces are to be traced fi-om each ners'e and vessel into the muscles ; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. * The two pieces of the lumbar nerves and vessels will be found in the same line as the dorsal; but the inner set are the most difiicult to be discovered. The small sacral nerves are placed beneath the multifidus spinas, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 401). * Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cendcal and sacral groups, bifurcate in the inters^ertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches (p. 170). The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. In the necJc. The posterior primary branches of the cer-sdcal nerves are eight in number, and issue between the transverse processes ; but those of the first and second, which begin on the neural arches of the atlas and axis, cross those arches. All, except the first, divide into internal and external pieces. The external pieces (fig. 118) are very inconsiderable in size, and end in the splenius, and in the muscles prolonged from the erector spiniB. The internal pieces (fig. 119) are larger than the external ; tliey are directed towards the spinous processes, the three lowest nerves passing beneath the semispinalis, and the four next over that muscle. By the side of the spines cutaneous branches are furnished to thePOSTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES. 395 neck and the head hy the ncn-cs that are superficial to the semi- some g^^ve spinahs ; these cutaneous offsets ascend to tlie surface through the otfsete. splenius, the coraplexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are dis- tributed as before seen (p. 381). In their course the nerves supply Fig. 119. the suiTOunding muscles, viz., complexus, semispinalis, multifldus spinaj, and interspinales. The cutaneous branches of the second and third nerves reach the head, and require a separate notice. Tliat of the second nerve (fig. 119, "), named great occiintal, ap- Second ends on bead. * Deep dissection of the back of the neck. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Mmcles : A. Rectus posticus major, b. Rectus posticu.'j minor, o. Obliquus inferior, d. Obliquus superior. E. Splenius capitis. F. Comi^Iexus, cut across, o. Semispinalis colli. Arteries: a. Occipital, and b, its cervical branch, c. Vertebral artery, and d, its cervical branch, e. Deep cervical arteiy of the subclavian. Nerves : 1. Suboccipital nerve (posterior branch). 2. Inner piece of the posterior primary branch of the second nerve. 3. Inner piece of the third nerve. 4. Inner piece of the fourth. And the remaining figures point to the inner pieces of the respective nerves.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 896 Third suj)- plies nec-k and head. Suboccipital nervo different branching: ends in muscles. Posterior cervical plexus. Dorsal nerves have inner and outer branches. Outer branches of upper six; of lower six, give cuta- neous. Inner branches: Til)i)er six have cuta- neous off- sets, lower six not. Lumbar nerves are divided into two. pearing beneath the inferior oblique muscle to which it gives offsets, is directed upwards through the complexus and trapezius to end on the occiput (p. 8). The branch of the third nerve (fig. 119, =>) supplies an offset to the integuments of the neck ; and ascendmg to the head through the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the great occipital nerve. Usually this nerve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The 2^08terior primary branch of the suloccipital or first spinal nerve (fig. 119,^) is very short, and appears in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral arterj'. The following branches radiate fi-om its extremity :— One enters the under surface of the complexus near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles bounding the space in which the nerve is contained, viz., the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique : the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cendcal nerve. Occasionally this nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. Posterior cervical plexus. Sometimes there is an intercommunica- tion between the suboccipital nerve and the internal pieces of the next two cervical nerves beneath the complexus ; this forms the posterior cendcal plexus of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region. The posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between the trans- A'erse processes. Each divides into au internal and an external piece ; and these are distributed after the same plan as in the neck. * The external pieces increase in size from the first to the last, and are differently distributed above and below. The upper six or eight pass beneath the longissimus and its cersdcal prolongation, as far as the interval between the longissimus and the ilio-costalis, and end by supplying these muscles and the levatores costarum. The lower six or four have a similar arrangement and distribution with respect to muscles; but, after reaching the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surf ace tlirough the serratus and latissimus muscles, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. * The internal pieces decrease in size from above downwards, and are directed inwards between the semispinahs dorsi and multifidus spinas muscles ; offsets are supphed to the muscles between which they arc placed. The upper six become cutaneous along the side of the spinous processes by perforating the serratus, rhomboideus, and trapezius. The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus spinas muscle. * In the loins. The posterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the erector and multifidus spinas. In theii- mode of dividing and general arrangement they resemble the dorsal nerves. Cutaneous offsets are furnished by the external set of branches.POSTERIOR CERVICAL VESSELS. 397 o The external pieces enter the erector spin.D, and supply it and External the small intertransverse muscles. The first three pierce the erector gj,.^ ^uta- spiniT), and become cutaneous after perforating the aponeurosis of l^^l^^^ the latissimus. The branch of the last nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the bones. *» The internal pieces are furnished to the multifidus spina3 muscle. Near their origin they are difficult to find, in consequence of being contained in grooves on the articular processes. *» Vessels in the back. The vessels now dissected are the occipital Tiie vessels and the deep cervical; part of the vertebral ; and the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries as a rule. In the neck. The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the verte- in the neck, bral, and the deep cei-vical. The occipital arteiij (fig. 119, a) courses along the occipital bone. Part of the Appearing fi-om beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed ^'^^^ backAvards beneath the sterno-mastoideus, the splenius, and some- times the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line it perforates the trapezius, and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6). It sup- ^hich plies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the following branch sivea a to the neck :— The cervical branch (h ram. princeps cervicalis) distributes twigs cemcal to the under part of the trapezius, and passing beneath the com- branch, plexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery (fig. 119, c) lies on the neural arch of the Part of the first vertebra, behind the articulating process, and appears in the artery, interval between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surrounding muscles, and to anastomose with the contiguous arteries. The deep cervical artery (fig. 119, e) is a branch of the superior Deep cervi- intercostal (p. 71), and resembles the posterior branches of the other c^^i^rtpry. intercostal arteries. Passing back between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it ascends between the complexus and semispinalis muscles, as high as the upper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. * In the dorsal region. The posterior branches of the intercostal Dorsal vessels (p. 362) pass back between the vertebras and the anterior costo-transverse ligament and are divided like the nerves into inner ' ^ ° and outer pieces. « The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus iimei- ^-^^ spinaj and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external branches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and outer supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches iJ'"a"ciies, of this set are the largest and extend to the surface.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 398 iiiul give a branch to spinnl oord. Lumbar arteries are also divided into inner and outer branches. Veins are deep cer- vical. occipital. dorsal and lumbar, and deep veins. Muscles of the fifth layer. Dissection of the last layer of muscles. Bectus capi- tis major: •attach- ments. Connec- tions. Use of both, and one muscle. Bectus capi- tis minor; As the dorsal brancli of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intruspinul artery to the spinal canal (p. 415). » In the loins. The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces as soon as they reach the interval between the longissimus dorsi and multifidus spinas. Each gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. '■■ The internal branches are small, and end in the multifidus spina) muscle. The external branches supply the erector spina); and offsets are continued onwards to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins. With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, vena pro- funda cervicis, wliich communicates with the occipital and other deep veins in this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck, and passes forwards ^vith its artery, between the transverse processes, to join the vertebral vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and communicates sometimes with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond in their branching and distribution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the inter- costal veins and the vena cava. In contact with the spinous processes and plates of the vertebrte is a deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anastomose fi-eely together, and open into the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. o yijTTH Layer. In this layer are the following small muscles:— the recti and obliqui, semispinalis, interspinales, multifidus spinas, and intertransversales. Dissection. Most of the remaining muscles of the Back are un- covered by the previous dissection. Between the first two vertebrje and the occipital bone the small straight and oblique muscles extend. * In the cervical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle appears, with the small interspinales internal to it; and occupying a corresponding position in the loins, is the multifidus spina). The small intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be found by removing the erector spinte. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR (fig. 119, a) is the largest of the muscles between the occipital bone and the first two vertebrse, and arises from the side of the spinous process of the axis. It is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. The muscle is directed outwards very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space which contains the suboccipital nerve and the vertebral artery. Its upper attaclmient lies beneath the superior oblique muscle. Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be put backwards. By one rectus the face will be turned to the same side ; and after the head has been so rotated, the muscle will assist in extending the head. The RECTUS capitis POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 119, b) is internal to the399 OBLIQUI AND SEMISPINALIS. preceding, and is shorter than it. Arising from the neural arch of attach- the atlas, the muscle is inserted, close to the middle Ime, into the inferior curved ridge of the occipital bone, and between tlus and the foramen magnum. This small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus cojmec major: it covers the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone. ' The two small recti muscles coiTespond with the inter- ^^^^^^j^ spinales between the other vertebra}. Action. Both muscles, or one, will have the same use, viz., to Use. approach the occiput to the atlas. The OBLiQUUS INFERIOR (fig. 119,*^) slants between the first two Obiiquus vertebraj. It arises from the spinous process of the axis, external ^ to the rectus major muscle, and is inserted into the tip of the united transverse processes of the atlas. Action. One muscle turns the face to the same side by rotating Use of one; the atlas on the axis. If both muscles act at the same time they of both. yn\l assist in keeping the head straight. The OBLIQUUS SUPERIOR (fig. 119,°) takes origin from the upper obliquus part of the transverse process of the atlas, where the preceding ^'^P'^""'" - muscle terminates ; and is directed inwards to be inserted between attach- the ciu-ved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process. This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo-mas- connec- toideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion is beneath the splenius (e), but above the rectus major muscle. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying TJseofboth; backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the occiput will °^ be inclined backwards to the same side. The SEMISPINALIS (fig. 119*^) occupies the vertebral gi-oove in fs'^Jjiwied^'* the dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse into and articular processes to the spines of the vertebra3 : it is undivided at the outer, but bifurcated at the inner attachment. It arises externally from the transverse processes of the ten upper dorsal vertebrie, and from the articular processes of the four lower cervical; and It is inserted by two pieces, as below :— The lower piece, semispinalis dorsi, is inserted into the spinous ffs"dorsi"* processes of the upper four dorsal and the last two cer^-ical and vertebrje. The upper piece, semispinalis colli, is inserted into the spines of ifJcotu'"'^ the cervical vertebraa above the attachment of the semispinaUs dorsi, the atlas not receiving any slip. The semispinalis muscle is covered by the complexus, and the tions^'^ deep cei-vical vessels. Some of the cervical nerves are superficial, and others beneath it. To its inner side is the multifidus spinas muscle. Action. The muscles of both sides acting together will extend the Use of both spine. One muscle will rotate the cervical and dorsal parts of the °[ys"j spine, 80 as to turn the face to the opposite side. ^" ** The INTERSPINAL MUSCLES are placed, as their name expresses : nmsdes"'^^ they are arranged in pairs, one on each side of the interspinous i'u imiS ligament ; and they are best seen in the neck and loins.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. •400 in the neck; in the back; in the loins. Use on tlie spine. Inter- transverse muscles in the neck, in the dorsal region, in the loins. Use on the .spine. Dissection of multi- lidus spina. In tlie neck, over sacrum and over rihs. Multifldus spinas. Origin on sacrum; in loins; in Back. In the cei-vical region the muscles are absent from tlie interval between the first two vertebrre;. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and beloAv to the bifurcated apices of the spines. In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary ; they exist between the first two, and the lowest two pairs of spmous processes, and between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. ** In the lumhar region they are thin flat muscles, which reacli the length of the spines. Action. By the approximation of the spinous processes these small muscles will help in extending the spine. Necessarily the movement of each pair is very slight, but the aggregate of all would amount to perceptible motion. * The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra ; but only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the nech they are double, like the interspinal muscles of the same vertebrae (p. 170). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, and are found only between the lower processes : their number varies from three to six. * In the lumhar region the anterior set are four thin and fleshy planes. The posterior set are rounded bundles, which are attached to the accessory points at the roots of the transverse processes : these have been named interaccessorii. Action. The small intertransversales help to incline laterally the spine by approximating the transverse processes : the motion be- tween a single pair of bones would be scarcely appreciable, as in the case of the interspinales. Dissection. The multifldus spinas muscle, which fllls the hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now dissected. The upper pai-t of the muscle is to be prepared and learnt by the dis- sector of the head and neck. It will be laid bare by cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and everting this. Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis covering the multifldus and the erector spinse must be turned aside. In the dorsal region the muscle will appear now on detaching, and di-awing the semi- spinalis from the spines. * The MULTIFIDUS SPiNiE muscle extends from the sacrum to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis than in the neck. On the back of the sacrum it takes origin between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture ; from the inner surface of the iUac spine (posterior superior) of the hip bone ; and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. It is attached differently along its outer edge (origin) in the several regions of the spine :—In the loins' it arises by large fasciculi from the accessoiy and the articular processes : in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes ; and in the neck, fi-om the articular processes of the five lower vertebra?. From these attachments the401 SACRAL AND COCCYGEi\X NERVES. fibres are directed obliquely inwards, sonic extending more than the length oE one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the insertion. neural arches of the vertebra) from the second cervical to the third ^'^This muscle fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is concealed Connec- by the erector spinsB and the semispinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves in the back lie along its outer border. The small muscles described below may be said to be shps of the multifidus. Action. By the use of the muscle of both sides, the spinal column Use of both' can be extended ; and by the contraction of one, the spine will be rotated in the dorsal region and the neck, the face being turned ami ""^ to the opposite side. « Rotatores dorsi (Theile). These are eleven small muscles be- f°^^^l^l neath the multifidus spinas in the dorsal region, and are separated pllru of from it by fine areolar tissue. Each is attached inferiorly to the multifidus. tip and upper edge of a transverse process, and superiorly to the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs fi-om the transverse process of the second vertebra. Action. These small rotators will assist the larger muscle (multi- Use. fidus) in turning the trunk to the opposite side. * The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector spin£e is ^/'^'J^"™^'^ fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to fidus. the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is united with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrte and sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being connected at the last spot with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is con- tinued some way on the surface of the erector spinje, but further on the longissimus dorsi than the ilio-costalis. Below, the latissimus dorsi and the vertebral aponeurosis blend with its cutaneous surface (p. 389). * Dissection (fig. 120). To find the branches of the sacral nei-ves. Dissection it will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas nerves'^' which covers the sacrum. The first three nerves are split into two each : then- external pieces will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, fi-om which they may be ti-aced inwards ; the inner branches are veiy slender and difficult to be recognised. The lowest two nerves are very small, and are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinffi. They are not bifurcated like the others, but unite together, and with the coccygeal nerve in loops. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower by the side of the coccyx. Sacral Nerves (fig. 120). The posterior primary branches of Five sncrai the sacral ncrv^es are five in jiumber. Four issue from the spinal """^^^ '• canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and tlic fifth between the sacnim and the coccyx. The first three have the aro riinoi- common branching into inner and outer pieces, hke the other spinal ^'"i''''- nerves ; but the last two are undivided.402 First throe have inner and outer branches; tlie last give cnitaneons oifsets. Last two are undivided. Coccygeal nerve. Small sacral arteries. Dissection of costal muscles. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. inner pieces Q) are distributed to the multifidus ; and the last ox this set IS verj-^ fine. The outei-pieces (2) are larger, and have communicating offsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum : there, the branch p.^ * 0^ tlie first neive is connected with the corresponding part of the last lumbar ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament^ where they join a second time, and become cutaneous. (Dissec- tion OF THE Buttock.) * Last tioo nerves (4 S and 5 S), These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regu- lar branching of the others : thej' are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccj^. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior primaiy branch issues tkrough the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx. It is joined by a loop from the last sacral nen'^e, and ends on the jDosterior surface of the coccyx. * Sacral Arteries. Small branches leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves ; they supply the muscular mass of the erector spinae, and anastomose with branches on the back of the sacrum from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. The exammation of the posterior part of the wall of the thorax may be made before the body is again tunaed. B}- removing, opposite the ribs, the ilio-costahs and longissimus dorsi, * Dissection of the sacral nerves (Lond. Med. Gazette, 1843). Muscles: A. Multifidus spinse, and b. Erector spinas : botli cut. c. Gluteus maxinius. detached from its origin, and thrown do-vvn. d. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves : 5 I. Last lumbar. 1 S to 5 S, the five sacral nerves issuing fi-om the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve, escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and firet thi-ee sacral (these are too large in the cut) ; and 2, external offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior primary branch, and 4, posterior of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The nerve de- rived from the anterior primary branches of the lower sacral nerves in the pelvis, which pierces the sacro-sciatic ligament.LEYATORES COSTARUM MUSCLES. 403 the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The posterior part of the external intercostal muscle will be denuded at the same time. o The LEVATORES cosTAKUM are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, which are connected with the hinder part of the ribs. Each, except the first, arises bom the apex and lower border of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra ; and is inserted, the fibres spreading Attach- out, into the upper border of the rib beneath, fi-om the tubercle to the angle. The muscles increase m size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical The first, vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of ^^^^^^^ the four lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that next muscles, succeeding : these longer sHps have been named levatores longiores costarum. Action. The muscles raise the hinder part of the ribs, as the name Use. signifies, and the lowermost draw the bones someAvhat back. The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards along the P"*^'' . , ° mtercostal ribs as far as the tubercle, and is overlaid by the elevator muscle, muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection, of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. * The dorsal nerves split in the intervertebral foramina into anterior Dorsal nerve and posterior primary branches. * The posterior branches are dkected backwards, internal to posterior the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and have been examined (p. 396). The anterior, named intercostal, is continued between the ribs to anterior the fi-ont of the chest: its anatomy is learnt in the dissection of the thorax (p. 369). * The intercostal artery has an almost exact correspondence with intercostal the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution. artery. » D 2CHAPTER VI. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBEANES. Cord is con- tained in spinal canal, invested by- membranes. Dissection to show the cord and the membranes. Three mem- branes of the cord, Dura mater surrounds cord loosely, Size of sheath. Connec- tions. Offsets on spinal nerves The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal nerves, and is lodged in the osseous canal bounded by the bodies and neural arches of the vertebra. It is invested by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, which form sheaths around and support it. Dissection. After all the muscles have been taken from the arches and spmes of the vertebrte, the spinal canal is to be opened by sawing through the neural arches, on each side, close to the ai-ticular processes ; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the sacrum, but not higher in the neck than the fourth cervical vertebra. As it is difficult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be found useful to complete the division of the vertebral arches. The tube of the dura mater is covered by some veins and fat ; and by a loose areolar tissue containing fluid sometimes, especially at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away mth the handle of the scalpel ; and the lateral prolongations of the membrane through the intervertebral foramina are to be defined. Membranes of the Cord (fig. 122). Three membranes, like those on the brain, suiTound the cord, viz., an external tube of dura mater, an internal sheath of pia mater, and an intervening arachnoid or serous covermg. The dura viater (o) is the strongest tube, and is continuous with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It forms a loose sheath along the spinal canal, as far as the second or third piece of the sacrum (fig. 121) ; but beyond that point it is continued by a slender impervious cord to the back of the coccyx (fig. 121, 6). The capacity of the sheath is greater than is needed for the contents ; and its size is larger in the neck and loins than in the back. On the outer aspect the dura mater is smooth, when a comparison is made between it and that in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the osseous surfaces are some vessels and fat; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrse by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dm-a mater sends oflFsets along the spinal nerves in the intervertebral foramina : and these several oifsets become405 SPINAL DURA MATER. gradually longer inferiorly (fig. 121), where they form tubes which enclose the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance withm the spinal canal. In the midst of the tubes, below, is the slender amper- cen^ral^ vious cord (6), which blends with the periosteum covering the back j.^^ee. of the coccyx. , .^t. .^ +hp Dissection Dissection. To remove the spinal cord AVith the sheatli oz^na ^ ^^^^^^ dura mater from the body, the lateral processes in the intervertebral cord, Fig. 121.* apertures are to be cut; and one or two of them in the dorsal region should be followed outwards beyond the intervertebral fora- men by cutting away the surrounding bone. The central pro- longation may be now detached from the coccyx ; and the cord and * Lower end of the dura mater with its central and lateral processes. (Museum of University College, London.) a. Lai'ge sheath of the dura mater. b. Central fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx. The lateral offsets encasing the last two lumbar, and the five sacral nerves, with the coccygeal nerve, are also shown. Each nerve is marked by the numeral, and the first letter of its name. t View of the membranes of the spinal cord. a. Dura mater cut open and reflected, b. Small part of the translucent arachnoid, left. h. Pia mater, closely investing the spinal cord. c. Ligamentum denticulatum on the side of the cord, shown by cutting tlirough the anterior roots of the nerves, d. Processes joining it to the dura mater, r/. Anterior spinal artery and the fibrous band (linea splendens) on the cord. c. Anterior roots of the nerves, cut; and /, posterior, each entering a separate hole in the dura mater.DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 406 and see next covering. Arachnoid membrane has a parietal or attached, loose or visceral layer, and space beneath. To expose sub-arach- noid space. Sub-arach- noid space contains a fluid, and opens into cavities of brain : imperfect septum behind. Dissection of next covering. Pia mater supports the cord, gives offsets. its membranes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebrae and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebra}. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface upper- most with the lateral offsets widely separated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle as far as the small terminal fibrous cord before referred to; but the membrane is to be raised whilst it is being cut through, so that the loose arachnoid on the cord may not be injured. Lastly fasten back the dura mater with pins. The arachnoid membrane (fig. 122, h) is the thin serous covering of the cord wliich is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like the corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the spinal cord and lines the dura mater, and consists thus of a visceral and a parietal part. The outer or parietal part is inseparably joined to the inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to that membrane a shining appearance.** The inner or visceral layer surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable intei-val between the two (sub-arachnoid space). At the lower end of the spinal canal the loose sheath is largest, and envelops the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. As the different spinal nei-ve-roots extend to the intervertebral foramina, they receive loose tubes from the arachnoid, but lose the same when they perforate the dura mater. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath the visceral layer : or by putting a piece of the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and blowing air beneath that membrane. The subarachnoid space separates the loose or visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, fi'om the spinal cord invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than the upper part of the spinal canal it con- tains a special fluid—cerebrospinal ; and it communicates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by an aperture in the fourfii ventricle. Crossing the space, at the back of the cord, are bundles of fibrous tissue, which are most marked in the neck. In the space are contained the serrations of the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nen^es, with some vessels. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the next covering of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be taken away ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reflected, as in the wood cut 122. The pia mater (fig. 122, h) is much less vascular on the spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a thin prolongation into the anterior median fissure; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nen'-es. * According to the opinion of KoUiker, the arachnoid membrane is a simple tube corresponding with the visceral layer in the text.407 SPINAL PIA MATER. The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the front is Fibrous a central, anterior fibrous band (linca splendens, Haller) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scattered through the membrane are branched pig- ment cells, which give a dark appearance in the cen'ical region. Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz., about the lower edge of ^^^^f^^^^ the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the tube of the pia mater is in a nurous suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of around fibrous P'ece, the cord (fig. 124, b). This cord-hke part (filum terminale) is provided with ners'ous substance above ; and blends, below, with the central impervious prolongation of the dura mater. It sen'-es to fix the lower end of the medulla spinalis, and has been named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A veiii and artery 1^^^^^',^^ accompany this fibrous piece, and distinguish it from the suiTOunding nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum (fig. 122, c) is the white, fibrous The dentate toothed band, on each side of the spinal cord. It is named fi-om ' its serrated appearance ; and it has the same structure as the dura mater, except that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nei'ves, is fixed on , 1 1 1 1 n 1 1 11 one side to the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends cord, inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangidar or tooth-like projections (rf), wliich are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the apertures and on^etiier of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty-one mater. denticulations ; of which the first is attached to the dura mater Nmnlier and opposite the mar-gin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite ofpofnts"* the twelfth dorsal, or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a Use. ligament from that cii'cumstance. Vessels and nerves of the membranes. The dura mater of the cord ^^^'^gg^jJP'^ hafe but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for its tUu-a mater, oflBce is difEerent. Nerves are said to be furnished to it fr-om olfsets on the vessels supplying the cord. The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous of arach- raembranes in general; and proof of its containing nerves, in man, ' is yet wanting. The^Jia mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked here than on the brain ; and from them offsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves, derived fi-om the sympathetic. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken fr-om the Dissection fibrils of the roots of the nerves on one side ; and the roots are to ne^vesf °^ be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater for each nQrve. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some and the length, is to be laid open to show the contained ganglion. The student should define one ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 123 b), and should trace a bundle of threads ofDISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 408 Trunks of spinal nerves. Number and groups. Last nerve of a group below the vertebra. Primary divisions. Roots anterior and posterior. Posterior larger than anterior; forms two bundles that enter the ganglion. the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting of two biuidles of tlireads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves. There are thii-ty-on6 pairs of spinal ners'-es ; and each nerve is constructed by the blending of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the inten'ertebral foramen (fig. 123). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional subdi^nsions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in num- ber as the vertebra3, except in the cenacal region of the spine where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. In consequence of the number of nerves in the neck exceeding that of the vertebrae, the last is placed Fig. 123.* below the seventh vertebra ; and the lowest nerve of each group, except the coccygeal, will be below its coiTesponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two primaiy branches, anterior and posterior, the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the hmbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. EooTS OF THE Nerves (fig. 123). Two roots (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the inter- vertebral foramen. The posterior root is marked by a ganghon, but the anterior root is aganghonic. The posterior or ganglionic roots (fig. 123, V) surpass in size the anterior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils. They are attached to the side of the cord between the posterior and lateral columns in a straight fine, which they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bmidles 123 B, h) which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from (fi * A Plan of the origin of a spinal nerve from the spmal cord. a. Anterior root & Posterior root. c. Ganglion on tlie posterior i^ot. d. Anterior m-imarv branch, e. Posterior primary branch of the nerve tmnk ^ B Adrawingto show the arrangement of the nerve-roots, and the form of the ganglion nl lumbar nerve, h. Posterior root gatljered into two bundles 0? thrS c. The ganglion, bifid at the inner end. a. Threads of the anterior root, also gathered into two bundles.409 NERVE EOOTS AND GANGLION. the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganglion. Tlie intervertebral ganglion (fig. 123). Each posterior root is pro- vided with a ganglion (c). The ganglia are reddish in colour, and "^^.^^^ oval in shape whilst they are surrounded by the dura mater ; and (,o„st^.^g. their size is proportioned to that of the root. By means of the tion. previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at the Each is inner end (fig. 123 u), where it is joined by the bundles of fibrils ' ^" of the root (i) ; it might be said to possess two small ganglia, one for each bmidle of fibrils, which are blended at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or suboccipital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots (fig. 123 a) arise from the side Anterior of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly—not ^^thout in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower ganglion, end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- pierces vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have a,\'J'^j"i,'Js^^" a separate sheath of the dura mater. In their further course to the posterior trunk of the nerve they are gathered into two bundles (fig. 123, B, a), ganglion?"'* and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk. Characters of the roots. Besides variations in the relative size of of'roots^'^* the two roots, the following characters are to be noted :— Union of the fibrils. The fibrils of contiguous anterior roots may Some sets be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots j'oi"!^"^^ may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Size of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than Posterior the anterior, except m the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of '^i^sest, the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior is proportionally proportion- larger in the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves nick^'^''*' there is but a very slight diiEerence in favour of the hinder root. Size of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the Roots in- nerves for the limbs arise, than at any other part of the cord ; and ao'^'' ''^"''^ they are greater in the nerves to the lower than in those to the upper limbs. They are smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. Direction and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission Oblique in from the spinal canal are not opposite the place of origin of the nerves, the roots must be directed more or less obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper cei-^ncal nerves the roots are horizontal, but in the lumbar and sacral nerves Most so they have a veriiical direction around the end of the medulla spinalis. '"^"^^''^J'' The appearance of the long fibrils around the end of the cord (fig. 124) resembles the extremity of a horse's tail, and bears appro- and form priately the term cauda equina.- cautla The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliquity Between the origin and the intervertebral foramen for the lowest cer- incrfases vical nerve the increase amounts to the depth of one vertebra ; in the ^.^^ ^bo lowest dorsal nerve it equals the depth of two vertebraj ; and in the ^lown.410 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Union of the roots ill iuter- vortfcbi-al foramen, except in llrst two cervical, the sacral. and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cervical, sacral, and. coccygeal. Arteries of cord are Anterior spinal, a single artery. Termina- tion, Offsets. Posterior arteries are two; lie on sides of cord. Veins. Termina- tion. At top of cord. lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary branches (fig. 123, d and e). But deviations fi-om this arrange- ment are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column in the following nerves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the corresponding vertebraj ; and the anterior and poste- rior primary branches diverge from the trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place within the spinal canal ; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united inthe spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed commonly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the position of those apertures is irregular, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal column, they have the following situation :—In the first two nerves they He on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral ners'^es they are contained in the spinal canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Vessels of the Spinal Cord. The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It begins by the union of two small branches of the vertebral arteiy (p. 180) ; and it is continued to the lower end of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the r>eck, and from the intercostal arteries in the Back. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolonga- tion of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, some entering the median fissure. The 230sterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nerves. These vessels are furnished from the same source as the anterior (p. 180), and their continuity is maintamed by a series of anastomotic ofEsets, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some twigs enter the posterior fissure of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the inteiwertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches, Avhich, communicatingSPINAL CORD. with the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. _ The SPINAL CORD (medulla spmahs) is the elongated rounded part of the cerebro-spmal centre, which is enclosed within the spinal cana . Invested by the membranes before examined, the medulla occupies about two-thirds ot the length of its canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the spinal cord is fi-om the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the fii-st lumbar vertebra, but its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches throughout the spinal canal, but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. Its length is usually from fifteen to eighteen inches. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and inferiorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by one or two swellings, and ends in the fibrous prolongation, named the central ligament of the cord or filum terminale (fig. 124, d). The size of the spmal cord is much mcreasecl where the nerves of the Hmbs are attached. There are therefore two enlargements on it, viz., cer\'ical and dorsal: the one in the neck reaches from the tMrd cer^ncal to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other in the Back is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal vertebra. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelhng the measurement from before back rather ex- ceeds the other. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished fi-om the posterior by a central fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery ; and by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student should possess a piece of the medulla wliich has been hardened in spirit, for 411 inferior cerebellar Vig. 124.* Situation of the cord. Extent varies below, _ ^ and in the embryo. Length. Inferior • - termination " in the adult. -d Its size differs at spots. Anterior surface, how known. Dissection to see con- stituents the cord which is * Membranes of the spinal cord laid open, to show the lower end of the cord with the fihim terminale. a. Dura mater, and b, the fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx, c. Pointed lower end of the cord. d. Filum terminale of the cord.412 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Fisswros of the cord nre anterior median, Fig. 125. posterior median. lateral fissure and poste- rior groove. The cord is divided into antero- lateral column. posterior column. Obtained from the spinal canal at this period, is not fitted for the purpose ot dissection. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface, with the roots of the nerves left on one side, the student will be able to observe the following divisions of the medulla Assures oir tiik Cord (fig. 125). On the anterior'and posterior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft-the anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its division into halves ; and along the fine of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another slit—the lateral fissure. The anterior median fissure (fig. 125) is wider than the posterior, and penetrates about one third of the thickness of the medulla : it is lined by a piece of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullaiy substance lines the fissure ; and in the bottom of it the wliite fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood- vessels. posterior median fissure (fig. 125) is not so wide, or so well marked as the anterior ; but it is best seen at the upper part of the neck, and in the lower or dorsal enlargement. Vessels of the posterior sm-f ace of the cord enter it. The lateral fissure is situate along the line of attachment of the fibrils of the posterior roots (fig. 125, tZ). Between the lateral and posterior median fissures is a slight groove on the surface (fig. 125, e). Sometimes a lateral fissure is described along the line of origin of the anterior roots (Ic), but there is not any cleft in that situation. Segments op the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median fissures is divided into two by the lateral sulcus (fig. 125, d) : the piece in front of that slit and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero-lateral column (a) ; and the piece beliuid, the posterior column (b). The antero-lateral column (fig. 125, a) includes rather more than two thirds of the half of the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attachment to the anterior roots (/c). The posterior column (fig. 125, 1) is situate between the lateral fissure {d), with the posterior roots of the nerves (j), and the central median fissm-e. Near the median fissure is a slight groove (e), * A section of the spinal cord, to show its composition, and its divisions. Fissures in the middle line are the anterior and posterior median—the anterior being the wider, d. The lateral fissure, e. The slight groove between the lateral and the posterior median fissure, which marks the limit of the posterior median column. Columns : a. Antero-lateral. i. Posterior, c. Posterior median. Composition : g. Gray crescent, suiTOunded hy white fibres. A. Gray transverse commissure, and i, canal of the cord in it. j. Posterior, and k, anterior root of a nei-ve entering the gray crescent.COMrOSITION OF CORD. 413 which marks ott' a slender piece, the 2^osterior median column (c) : this portion is best seen in the cemcal region of the cord. A central piece, or the commissure of the cord, connects the ^'^^.'^^^'J.jp- halves and limits the depth of the median fissures. Different division of the cord. Each half of the cord is sometimes ^^^^^^^ divided into three columns—anterior, lateral, and posterior, wliose limits are the following :—The antenor reaches from the anterior roots of the nei-ves to the median fissure in fi-ont. The lateral column is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves. The posterior with its small posterior median segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind. Composition of the Cord (fig. 125). A horizontal section of the Cord con- medulla shows more distinctly its division into halves, with the and^white*^ commissm-al or connecting piece between them. The same cut matter, demonstrates the existence of a mass of gray matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in each half) united by a cross piece, and surrounded by white substance. The commissure (fig. 125, h) consists of two parts, viz., a trans- The com- verse band of gray matter, with a white stratum in front. missure. The gray transverse band (gray commissure) connects the Tiie gray opposite crescents, and consists of nerve cells, and of transverse ^"^'^' nerve fibres derived from the halves of the cord and the roots of the nerves. In its centre is the shrunken canal of the spinal cord (fig. 125, gr), J.anai'^*^'^^ which is best seen in the fetus. It reaches the whole length of the medulla, and a cross section of the cord shows it as a round spot. Above, it opens on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and below it is continued into the filum terminale. It is lined by a columnar lined by ciliated epithelium ; and is obstructed by a granular material near epithelium, the upper opening (Clarke). The ivJiite piece of the commissure is formed partlj"- by fibres of Tlie white the anterior column ; and partly by fibrils of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from the one half to the other. It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. The half of the medulla. In the half of the cord, as in the com- The half of missure, gray and white portions exist; the former is elongated fi-om before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. The gray crescent (g) is semilunar in form, with the horns or The cres- cornua of the crescent directed towards the roots of the nerves and the convexity to the middle line (fig. 125). The crescentic masses m the opposite halves of the cord are united by the gray commissure. The posterior comu is long and slender (fig. 126, and reaches Posterior near the fissure along the attachment of the posterior nerve-roots. At Its extremity, where it is slightly enlarged, it is encased with a rather transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been substantia named the substantia gelatinosa (fig. 12G, ») geiatilloS^ The anterior comu (fig. 12G, is shorter and thicker than the Anterior COITIU.414 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. Special tiacts. Vesicular columu. Intcrme- cliato tract. Size and extent. Wliite sub- stance of the half of the cord. Ai'eolar tissue. Gray and white sub- stance vary. Crescents alter theii' shape. Deep origin of nerves uncertain. Anterior root enters lateral column, anterior column of other side. Fig. 126. t other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reacliing the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. Mr. Clarke describes two special groups of cells, one on the outer and the other on the inner side of tlie gray crescent, which extend through the cord below the cervical swelling, and with which the roots of the nerves are connected.* The inner group, or the x>osterior vesicular column (fig. 126, is close behind the transverse commissure (^); whilst the outer group, or the intermediate tract (") is placed outside the crescent, about midway fi-om front to back. The first is best marked in the dorsal enlarge- ment, and the last in the upper part of the dorsal region. Above the cervical swell- ing of the cord only rudiments of those tracts remain ; and the cells in a line with the intermediate tract are .traversed by the roots of the spinal accessory nerve. The white substance of the cord is composed chiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. A framework of very fine areolar tissue extends through the substance of the spinal cord, supporting the fibres and cells : this is continuous with the pia mater on the surface. Modifications in the gray and loMte substance. The white sub- stance exceeds the gray in quantity in the neck and back ; but it is less abundant in proportion to the gray matter in the lumbar region. The comua of the gray crescents decrease in length fi-om above down, especially the posterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Origin of the Nerves. The deep origin of the spinal nerves is uncertain, like that of the cranial nerves, but the fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord (fig. 125). The anterior root (A,) traverses the longitudinal fibres of the antero- lateral column in distinct bundles ; and entering the anterior cornu of the gray crescent, it is resolved into thi-ee sets of fibres, external, internal, and middle :— The outer set penetrate into the antero-lateral colunm. The inner set pass through the anterior column and across the median fissure to the opposite half of the cord, decussating with like fibres of the opposite side. * Further researches on the gray substance of the spinal cord. By J. Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S., Philosoph. Trans, of the Royal Society for 1859. Part i t A representation of the gi-ay substance in the interior of the spinal cord, near the middle of the dorsal region (Clarke). 1. Posterior cornu (caput cornu Clarke) of the crescent. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Casing of the sub- stantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5 Transverse commissure. 6. Tractus intermedio-lateralis. 7. Cervix cornu of Clarke reaching from the anterior points of the substantia gelatinosa to the level of the ciuial. 8. Posterior vesicular column.415 INTRASriJS^AL VESSELS. The middle set enter the substance of the crescent, and are lost in it and the cells of the intermediate tract. The posterior root (j) pierces chiefly the posterior column of the cord, and enters the posterior cornu of the crescent : hut a few fibres penetrate by the lateral fissure. It terminates in two bundles of fibres. One bundle courses round the outer side of the vesicular column, some fibres enclosing-, and others entering it ; and a few fibrils escape into the posterior column of the cord, becoming longitudinal. The second bundle is prolonged into the crescent and the inter- mediate tract, as well as into the transverse commissure behind the central canal of the cord. Intraspinal Vessels (fig. 127). Arteries supply the cord and its and the crescent. Posterior root joins vesi- cular and posterior column, gray com- missure, and crescent. Vessels of Fig. 128.+ membranes, and the bodies of the vertebrje. The veins form a re- markable plexus within the canal, but tliis will not be seen unless the vems have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (a) are derived from the vessels along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz. from the vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in the Back and from the lumbar and lateral sacral below. They are distributed atter the following plan :— As each artery_ enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- men, It divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebrae, and 30m in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- nt *B^nM,'T^\^'^f'° (^"^•^""i °f University College, London) the spinal canal. Source of tlie inb'a- spinal ailei-ies. Distribution to the verttf- In-sc and the cord416 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. by loops; spinal arteiy above and below. And from the loops offsets (d) are furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebrje. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebras. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), Uke that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the anclacen- bodies of the vertebras, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets tral vessel. ^^^^^ ^j^g j^^pg^ Intraspinal The intraspinal veins (fig. 128) consist of two anterior longitu- la'rge'.'^'^ dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebra ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. Anterior The anterior longitudinal veins (a) are close to the bodies of the are?nbo'dies "vertebrte. One on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and of vertebra;, they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the inter- vertebral foramina they have branches of communication (a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the Veins of the bodies of the vertehrce. Within the channels in the VGrtcbrifi bodies of the vertebrse are large veins, which join on the front of the bone yvith veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped fi-om the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. Posterior The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater frefnlon-^ and the arches of the vertebras. A large vein may be said to He tact witli gach side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Off- sets from these vessels are directed tlu-ough the intervertebral fora- mina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse pro- cesses. 1^CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PEEINiEUM. Section I. PEEINJilUM OF THE MALE. Directions. The perinEeum may be allotted with greatest advan- Before the tage to tlie dissector of the abdomen ; and its examination should pifgs''^^tire- be made first, as the distinctness of many of the parts is destroyed ter. soon after death. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student may practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. "Whilst the body lies on the Back it is to be Place the drawn to the end of the dissectmg table, till the buttocks project po^tira, slightly over the edge ; and a moderately-sized block is to be placed beneath the pelvis, to raise the perinteum to a convenient height. The legs are to be raised and kept out of the way by the following and fasten means :—After the knees have been bent, and the thighs bent tife^iegsf upon the trunk, the limbs are to be fastened with a cord in their raised position. For this pm-pose make one or two tm'ns of cord round one bent knee (say the right) ; carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. When the position has been an-anged, let the student raise the scrotum, and place a small piece of cotton wool or tow mthin the anus, but let him avoid distending the rectum. Superficial limits and marJcing. The perinasal sp&ce in the male is Tlie surface, limited, on the surface of the body, by the scrotum in front, and by limits, the thighs and buttocks on the sides and behind. This region is of a dark colour and is covered with haii'S. In The aniis, the middle line is the aperture of the anus, which is posterior to a line extended from the anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent line or ra2}7ie, the raph6, which divides the space into two halves. Between the anus and hoUow on the tuberosity of the hip bone the surface is somewhat depressed ^''^'^ °? over the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially in emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses numerous converging E E418 DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. and foUls and veins ai-ound that opening. Bounding parts same as those of outlet of pelvis. Form of the space, and measure- ments. Depth of the space. A line he- tween the tuberosities divides it into tfl o. folds, but these arc more or less oblitei-cated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting oftentimes through and aromid the opening are some dilated veins (haimor- rhoids). Deep houndaries. The deep boundaries of the perineal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits may be seen on a dry or prepared pelvis, on Avhich the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the individual boundaries with his finger. In fi-ont is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior pai't is the tip of the coccyx, with the gi-eat gluteal muscles. On each side in fi-ont is the portion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz. from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity ; and still fm-ther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included within the boundaries above said has the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from before backwards, and three inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perinseum from the surface to the floor may be said to be generally about three inches at the anus, but this measurement varies in difEerent bodies ; and it amounts to about an inch near the pubes. Division. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to the con-esponding point on the other, will divide the perinseal space into two triangular parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nei-ves. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. Contents and general position, of anal half. . Dissection This portion of the perinseal space contains .the lower end of the rectum, suiTOunded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting on the anus. The gut does not occupy however the whole of the inters^al between the pelvic bones ; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in which is contained much loose fat, with the vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissection (fig. 129). The skin is to be raised fi'om this part of the perina3um by the employment of the following cuts ;—Oiie is to be made across the perinasum at the front of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse of sphincter, cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-hne, and around the anus. The flaps of skin thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle luae : in detaclnng ^ the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial subcutaneous419 ISCHIO-EECTAL FOSSA. sphincter muscles may be injured without care, for they are close to and sub- the skin, without the intervention of fat. The dissector should ^^^^^^""^ trace the external sphincter to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the skin; and define a fleshy slip at each side in front and behind to the subcutaneous fatty layer. The next step is to bring into view the ischio-rectal^ hollow Difference^^ between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip bone, the isciiio- On the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference rectal fossee. to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissec- tion is to be made of them. To take out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the outer margin of the spliincter ani, and proceed forwards ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ and backwards. In fi-ont the dissection should not extend farther "gg^i fossa." than the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the holIo\y the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be dissected. On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and nerve should be denuded : they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the surface. On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular fibres, ^j^g^lggj. when following the vessels and nerv^es. If the student begins at vessels and the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hasmor- iierves. rhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to the pudic trunks : some of the branches, which join the superficial perinteal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and vessels turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is a superficial peiinEeal artery with nerve (of the pudic); and the last, after communicating with the hjemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perinseal nerve with a deeper position may be found at the front of the hollow. The iscHio-RECTAL FOSSA (fig. 229) is the space intervening situation between the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone, of fossa. It is a subcutaneous and somewhat conical interval, wliich is larger Fomi. behind than before, and diminishes in width as it sinks inside the Dimensions, hip bone. Its width is about one inch at the surface ; and its depth about two inches at the outer side. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very oblique, and is Boundaries, bounded by the levator ani (d), together with the coccygeus muscle posteriorly ; but the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator muscle and the fasgia covering it. In fi'ont it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) : and beliind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the largest gluteal muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlaid in part by the gluteus B and the sphincter externus a. Position of vessels. Along the outer wall lie the pudic vessels and Pudic ves- Tierve (a), which are contained in a tube of fascia ; opposite the outer wilf ischial tuberosity, they are situate an inch and a hall; from tlie "^"^ ^ ' surface, but towards the front of the space they approach to about half an inch from the edge of the pubic arch. Crossing the centre E E 2DISSECTION OP THE PERINiEUM. 420 l^ the" ; e. Y I T h^^niorrhoidal vessels and nerve (J), —branches of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance are two superficial perinfeal nerves (-) (of the pudic) ; and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve P) with cutaneous oifsets of the sciatic vessels (c) and nerve C) bendine- round the gluteus. ° EomV" . ^^i!'' first incisions enters tiiis m the lateral operation of lithotomy ; and as he carries it from Fig. 129.* Muscles of rectum. Corrugator cutis. Attach- ments. before backwards, he will divide the superficial heemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Muscles. Connected ^vith the lower end of the rectum are four muscles, viz. a fine cuticular muscle, and two sphincters (external and internal) with the levator ani. Corrugator cutis anif (fig. 129, •"'). This thin subcutaneous layer of involuntary muscle surrounds the anus with radiating fibres. Externally it blends with the subdermic tissue outside the internal sphincter ; and internally it enters the anus and ends in the sub- mucous tissue within the sphincter. * A view of the dissection of the rectal half of the perinEeum (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. External sphincter, b. Corrugator cutis, only part left. 0. Internal sphincter. D. Levator ani. e. Gluteus maxinius. Arteries: a. Trunk of the pudic artery, b. Inferior hemorrhoidal, c. Branches of the sciatic. Nerves: 1. Inferior hEemorrlioidal. 2. Superficial perinseal. 3. Perinaeal branch of the fourth sacral. 4. Small sciatic. t Illustrations of Dissections, p. 243. Lend. 1865.421 MUSCLES OF ANUS. Action. By the contraction of the fibres the skin is raised into use. ridges radiating from the anus, such as may be seen when that aperture is firmly closed. The EXTERN.VL SPHINCTER (fig. 129,^) (sphincter ani extemus) is Jf^*?™^'^ a flat, thin, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the lower end of the rectum. The fibres form ellipses around a central aperture, as in other orbicular muscles. It ames posteriorly by a fibrous band Origin, from the back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the subcutaneous fatty layer. Its fibres pass for- wards to the anus, where they separate to encu-cle that aperture ; and are inserted in fi-ont into the central point of the perinseum, Insertion, and into the superficial fascia by a fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and conceals partly the levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa, and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Action. The muscle gathers into a roll the skin around the anus, Use: and occludes the anal aperture : by its contraction it makes tense the central point of the perinasum. Conunonly the fibres are in a state of involuntary sHght contraction, usual state, but they may be firmly contracted under the influence of the will, i^usual. The INTERNAL SPHINCTER (fig, 129, ^ Sphincter ani internus) is internal situate around the extremity of the intestine, internal to the pre- paie"band,^ ceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine is part of in textm-e, quite separate from the suiTounding external sphincter, intestine, and encircle the lower part of the rectum in the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, and is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus : ^se. and its contraction is altogether involuntary. The LEVATOR ANI muscle (fig. 129, °) can be seen only in part; insertion of and the external sphincter may be detached from the coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from its origin at the mner aspect of the hip bone, and is inserted a^i te°ndJu along the middle line from the coccyx to the central point of the ju front of perinffium :—the most posterior fibres are attached to the side of ' the coccyx ; and between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle ™to rectum, fibres are blended with the side of the intestine (rectum). And the centre of the anterior are joined with the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, Perinnium. in the central point of the perin83um. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side; and Connec- unites Avith its fellow to form a fleshy layer, convex downwards, through which the rectum is transmitted. Deeper than the muscle is the recto-vesical fascia. Along the hinder border is placed the coccygeus. Action. Its action on the rectum is to elevate and invert the lower Usetn end of the gut after this has been protruded and everted in the passage of the feces.DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 422 on iirothra. Arteries of the space. Pudlo ai'tery. Course. Posterior jmrt in fossa. Depth and connections. Offsets. Inferior hiiemon-lioi' dal. Muscular offsets. Branches of the sciatic. Veins. Nerves. Pudic nerve, Course and con- nections. Inferior hsemorrhoi- dal. Termina- tion. Perinseal ■branch : With the description of the muscle in the pelvis its action on the urethra will be referred to (p. 548). Arteries (fig. 129). The pudic artery, with its inferior haemor- rhoidal branch, and other small ofEsets of it and the sciatic, are now visible. The pudic artery (a) is derived from the internal iliac in the pelvis (p. 664), and ascending to the genital organs, distributes offsets to the perinasum ; one portion will be laid bare in the hinder, and the other in the anterior half of the perinasum. As now seen, the vessel enters the posterior part of the ischio- rectal fossa, and courses forwards along the outer wall at the depth of one inch and a half behind, but of only half an inch in front. It is contained in an aponeurotic sheath which attaches it to the obtu- rator fascia. The usual companion veins he hy its side ; and two nerves accompany it, viz. the trunk of the pudic, and the perinaeal branch of the same nerve which is nearer the surface. Its offsets in the posterior half of its course are the follo-\ving :— The inferior hcemorrhoidal branch (b) arises internal to the iscliial tuberosity ; it sends offsets inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa to the teguments, and the sphincter and levator ani muscles. On the rectum it anastomoses with the upper haamorrhoidal branch, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part ^of the perinseum, and to communicate with the superficial perinasal branch. Small muscular branches cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. The branches of the sciatic artery (c) appear on the inner aspect of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the fat. Veins accompany the different arteries, and have a like com'se and ramification : the pudic end in the internal iliac (p. 565). Nerves (fig. 129). The nerves to be learned in this part of the perina3um are, the trunk of the pudic and its inferior heemorrhoidal and perinasal branches ; an offset of the fourth sacral ; and some branches of the small sciatic. The pudic nerve comes fi-om the sacral plexus, and accompanies the artery to the genitals. In the anal half of the perinfeum it is placed deeper than the artery, and fm-nishes the two subjoined branches. The inferior hcemorrhoidal branch (1) crosses the ischio-rectal fossa, and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous oft'- sets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perinasal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. The perinoial branch arises about half way along the fossa, and becomes superficial to the blood-vessels. It is larger in size than the continuation of the nei-ve to the penis, and divides into cutane- ous, muscular, and genital offsets. Its two cutaneous offsets (super-URETHRAL HALF OF THE REGION. 423 ficial perineal) may be seen on the right side, where they lie offseteto for a short distance in the ischio-rectal fossa. ments. The hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve (•) reaches Branch of the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the levator ani. sacral nerve Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, near the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplymg the external spliincter, and the integuments Bupphes^ behind the anus. and skin. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve ( ) turn offsets of round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the tegu- ^ni^y^^ ments on its siurface. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERIN^EAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinfeal space are lodged the crura of ^re*'""^! the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses fi-oin the interior ^^^^^^^^ of the pehds to the surface of the body. Placed about midway and general between the bones, the urethi-a is supported by the triangular ''^ hgament of the perineum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra to aid in the expulsion of the contents of that tube : some of these are superficial to, and some within the triangular ligament. The vessels and nerve Ke along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards offsets. Dissection (fig. 130). To raise the sldn from the anterior half of ^'1^^^^'^'^ the perineum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the skin. scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the Blow up 1-1 1 p/- ('•ip-xi-i superficial skm the subcutaneous fat (superficial fascia) which covers the fascia, and front of the perineeal space, is to be blown up by means of a pipe inflect it introduced beneath it posteriorly. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate a partition along the middle line, and a septum between the perinajal space and the thigh which prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side fi-om the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa ; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To show more completely the attachment of this uonbeWeen subcutaneous layer to the pubic arch between the perinseal space thigh and and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away from the left limb space^ the fat on the fascia lata, external to the line of the bone. In the fat of the thigh on the right side tlic student should seek On right the inferior pudendal neiwe, which pierces the fascia lata one inch f,',fe,.fo°'^ anterior to the tuber ischii, and about the same distance from the pudend margin of the pubic arch ; and should trace its junction in the fat with the inferior hajmorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia in the middle Hne.424 DISSECTION OF THE PERINiETJM. Superficial The suhcv taneous fatty layer or the superficial fascia of the anterior fascia: jj^if ^^^^ pcnna^um is continuous with that of the adjoining regions ; and its depth, and tlie quantity of fat in it, will vary with the condition of the body. It resembles the corresponding stratum variei'^'"''' t^''^ '1"^^ ^^PPer part of the tliigh, in consisting of two different portions. One, a subcutaneous fatty part, continuous with that of the rest of the body, which loses its fat towai-ds the scrotum, and possesses there involuntary muscular fibres. The other deeper, but more membranous part, is of Umited extent, varies. Superllcial and Fig. 130.* latter forms a deep part: and is connected with the firm subjacent structures. Externally it is fixed to the pubic arch of the hip-bone, outside the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as low as the ischial tuberositj^. Posteriorly the stratum bends down to join the triangular ligament of the urethi-a; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to the scrotum and penis. By means of similar connections of the tafront^^^" membrane on both sides, a space is enclosed over the anterior half this divided perinasum. From its -under surface a septum dips do^vn- liy a septum, wards in the middle line, and divides posteriorly the subjacent space into two ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect, or may disappear. * Superficial dissection of tlie anterior half of the perinoeum (Illustrations of Dissections). Bluscles : A. Ejaculator urinse. n. Erector penis, c. Ti-ans- versalis perinsei. d. Levator ani. E. Gluteus maximus. o. Crus penis, h. Urethra. Arteries: a. Transverse perinseal. h. Superficial perineal, c. Branch of sciatic. Nerves : 1. Inferior hasmorrhoidal. 2 and 3. Superficial perinseal. 4. Inferior pudendal.425 PEEINiEAL ARTERY AND NERVES. Air blo%vn beneath the fascia passes forwards to the scrotum ; course of and this direction is given to it by the deep connections of that membrane with parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the urine, superficial fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum to the penis and the fi'ont of the abdomen. ^ _ ^ i ^. Dissection. The superficial vessels and nerves are to be dissected D.s^secfaon on the right side of the perina^um, by cutting through the super- and vessels ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long ^'8^ slender artery then visible is the superficial perinaeal, which gives a transverse branch near its commencement. Two superficial periuccal nerves accompany the artery ; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these neives anteriorly, and between one of the perinaaal and the inferior hajmorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards. Arteries (fig. 130). The superficial and transverse perinseal ^^ifj^'^^jl'^ arteries beneath the fascia are branches of the pudic, and are two pudic. or thi-ee in number. The superficial perinceal branch (fig. 130, h), arising at the fore Superficial part of the ischio-rectal fossa, runs over or under the transverse pe^seal muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia to the back of the scrotmn, where it ends in flexuous branches. As the vessel lies ^^^^^^^^ internal to the pubic arch, it supplies offsets to the muscles beneath ; and in front it anastomoses with the external or superficial pudic branches of the femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second and supplies , , , muscles, pennseal branch. The transverse artery of the perineeum (fig. 130, a) arises from J^^JJ.^'^^''^'^ the preceding, and is directed transversely to the middle of the perineal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the muscles between the urethi-a and the rectum. It anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. Branches of veins accompany the arteries, and open into the Veins with trunk of the pudic vein : those with the superficial perinteal artery are plexifonn at the scrotum. Nerves (fig. 130). There are three cutaneous nerves of the scrotum Cutaneous on each side, viz. inferior pudendal of the small sciatic, and two scrotum, superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve. The superficial perineal nerves, two in number, are named anterior Two super- and posterior from their relative position : both arise in the ischio- uiealV^*^"' rectal fossa from the perinasal branch of the pudic nerve (p. 422). The posterior branch, (^) is continued forwards, beneath the super- Posterior ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the toTlir ^"^^'"^ scrotum. Whilst in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to scrotiun, the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior hajmorrhoidal nerve. The anterior branch (^) passes under the transverse muscle, and and anterior accompanies the other to the scrotum. Muscular offsets are fur- pnn^^"^® , _ _ , L.UIliac Ua nished by it to the levator ani and the other superficial muscles. posterior; The superficial perinajal branches communicate with one another,DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 426 distributed to scrotum aud penis. MusciUar ■branches; Inferior pudendal nerve ends in scrotum. Dissection of muscles of tlie urethra and penis. Of nerves. Three muscles over tri- angular ligament. Central point. where mus- cles join. Erector lienis. Origin. Insertion. Use. Ejaculator Tirinse. and the posterior is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. Other muscular Iranches of the pudic will be afterwards exa- mined (p. 431). The inferior pudendal nerve (^) is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaium, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- tions take place between this nerve, the inferior hemorrhoidal, and the posterior of the two superficial perineal branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to the labium. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the fatty layer, as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perinasal space. Afterwards a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the muscles. Along the middle line lies the ejaculator urinte ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres from it on the same side,—one in fi.-ont, the other behind. On the outer edge of the space is the erector penis. And behind, passing obhquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of the two superficial perineeal ner^^es to the underlying muscles ; and beneath the transversalis, an oiEset of the perineeal branch which supplies the deep muscles and the urethra. Muscles (fig. 130). Superficial to the triangular ligament in the anterior half of the perinjeal space, are three muscles, viz. the erector penis, the ejaculator urinaa, and the transversalis perinsei. Other muscles of the urethra are contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perincEum. Between the urethra and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, half an inch in front of the anus. In it the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra are united ; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The ERECTOR PENIS (fig. 130, ^) is the most external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis ; and its fibres arise from the ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. Superiorly the muscle is inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from that organ by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the continuance of distention. The EJACULATOR URiNiE muscle (fig. 130, ■*■) lies on the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perinasum (origin). TheSUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF UEETHEA. 427 fibres are directed outwards, cunnng around the convexity of the origin at m-ethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following ^^^'^'^^ insertion:—Tiie most posterior fibres are lost on the front of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, Avhich are the longest and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, insertion by before the erector ; and, according to Kobelt,** they send a ten- P^''*''*- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or interA'ening fibres turn round the urethra, surrounding it for two inches, and join their fellows by a tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the urethra for three inches in front of the triangular ligament.f If the muscle be cut through on the right side, and turned ofE the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube Avill be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the use, urethra, and,eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the end of the process, when the passage has to be cleared. The action voluntary . . 1 , • .1 • • J' .1 andinvolun- is mvoluntary m the emission oi the semen. tary. The TKiVNSVERSALIS PERINiEI (fig. 130, ^) is a small thin muscle, Transversa- which lies across the perinseum opposite the base of the triangular ^'^ penuasi. ligament. Arising from the inner surface of the pubic arch near Origin, the ischial tuberosity, it is inserted into the central point of the ^g^'^raf perinteum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the point, sphincter ani and the ejaculator urinas. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia bends down to join the triangular ligament. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy slip, anterior to the Accessory transversaUs, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws saJirs!^*^* itself into the ejaculator muscle. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw Use. backwards the central point of the perina^um, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. The three muscles above described, when separated fi- om each ti'iangular other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- tween the lator uimse forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer ^li^^ ■ side, and the transversaUs perinsei muscle the base. In the area " of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethi-a, with the superficial perinc^al vessels and nerves. Should the loiif e the knife enter the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions S'^iltho-"'" m the lateral operation of lithotomy, it will divide the transverse ^°^^y- muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinseal vessels and nen'es. Dissection (fig. 131). For the display of the triangular ligament Dissection the muscles and the crus penis, which are superficial to it, are to ifgameT^"" * Die Miinnlichen und Weibliclien Wollust-Organe, von G. L. Kobelt 1844. ' + Some of the deeper fibres which immediately surround the bulb, have been descnbed as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These arc separated from the superficial layer by thin areolar tissue, and join the corresponding part of the other muscle by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- prcssor hemisphanum hulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomistDISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 428 On the left be_ detached in the following way :—On the left side tlie ejaculator unna>. is to be removed completely from the fi-ont of the ligament and the erector muscle from the crus of the penis. Next, the crus penis is to be detached from the bone ; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament nor to injure, near the pul)es, the terminal branches of the pudic artery and nerve to the penis. On ae right Qn the right side the dissector should trace out beneath the trans- versahs the offsets of the perinaeal nerve to the deep muscles and the urethra, with the vessels accompanying them. Fig. 131.* U^ament^of '^^^ TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OF THE URETHRA (fig. 131, ^ periufBal urethra. aponeurosis) occupies the anterior part of the pubic arch, and supports the urethral canal. The ligament is triangular in form, with its base below ; and it is about one inch and a half in depth. Extent and Qn each side it is fixed to the pubic arch beneath the crus penis, lorm. Attach apex is connected with the symphysis pubis. Its base is turned meuts. towards the rectum, and is partly attached and partly fi'ee ;—in the middle line it is united with the central point of the perinajum ; whilst latei'ally it is fi'ee and sloped towards the bone, so that it is less deep at the centre than at the sides : connected with the lower * Deep dissection of the perinoeum (Illustrations of Dissections). ]ifnsclcs : A. Erector penis, b. Ejaculator xuintB, cut. c. Ti-iangular ligament, d. External sphinctor. p. Bulbous part of the urethra, o. Levator ani. h. Deep transverse, i. Constrictor urethrje. K. Crus penis, cut. Arteries: a. Pudic, in the triangular ligament, b. Dorsal of penis, c. Cavernous, d. Deep muscular and urethral branch. Nerves: 1. Pudic trunk. 2.. Deep perinseal or muscular branch. 3. Dorsal of the penis.429 DEEP MUSCLES OP URETHRA. border is a thin fascia which covers the surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. Superficial to it are the muscles Parts over in the anterior half of the perinajal space ; and the superficial fascia >*• is united to it near the lower border. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (anterior Consists of and posterior) which are united below. The posterior layer is derived from the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the fore part of the ligament, about one inch below Apertures the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethi-a, F ; but the margin [H^^^ of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. About midway between f^j. dorsal the preceding opening and the symphysis pubis is the aperture for ''^^^'^^^ ^ the dorsal vein of the penis ; and external to this, near the bone on nerves, each side, the terminal parts of the pudic artery and nerve to the penis (b and 3) perforate the ligament by sejsarate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- Between, ous part of the urethra, with its muscles, vessels, and glands; and i^y^rs. the bloodvessels and nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscles between the layers of the ligament will Dissection, be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dis- section, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the undermentioned position:— Farts hetwem the layers of the ligament. Near the base is a narrow Things in transverse muscle, h, which is directed to the bulb of the urethra, fl^^^^^l^l Higher up, and crossing inwards from behind the pubic arch, is the fasciculus of fibres of the constrictor urethras muscle, i, which sur- rounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone are the pudic vessels (a) and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb, and the latter being deeper in position ; and below the pubes is the sub- pubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student may see the posterior layer of the ligament, continuous with the recto-vesical fascia which separates the perinjEum from the pehdc cavity. Muscles. The two muscles connected with the membranous part Muscles of of the urethra, are, deep transverse, and constrictor of the m-ethral ^^etiira. passage. The DEEP TRANSVERSE MUSCLE (fig. 131, H, elevator uretlu-a3. Deep trans. Santonni) is a thin flat band on a level with the base of the tri- angular ligament. It arises externally fi-om the pubic arch of the Origin mnommate bone, and is directed below the tip of the bulb and the Termina- membranous part of the urethra to the middle line, where it joins the muscle of the opposite side, and is inserted into the central pomt of the perinseum. The muscle conceals Cowper's gland, and is fi-equently placed connec over the artery of the bulb. The transverse muscle is not always separate from the following. ^430 DISSECTION OF THE PEIIIN^.UM. Use. Constrictor of uvetliral passage. Transverse part avisos from pubic arcli, and ends in middle line. Like a sphincter. Use on urethra in mictu- rition. Circular fibres of iirethra, from the prostate to bulb. Use. Cowper's glands. Situation, size, and structure. Action. Like the superficial muscle it will fix the central point of the iJerinajum. The COKSTRICTOB MUSCLE (fig. 131, \ constrictor isthmi uretliralis) encloses the membranous part of the uretlu-a, and consists of trans- verse fibres above and below that tube. The muscle arises by aponeurotic fibres from the pubic arch above the preceding, and from the posterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, but this attachment is not evident unless it has been dissected fi-om behind. The fibres pass inwards, and separate near the urethra into two layers (fig. 132), of which one (c) passes over, the other (d) under that canal; in the middle fine they unite (sometimes by tendon) with the like parts of the muscle of the opposite side. p. It may be considered a single muscle extending across the perinffium from one lateral at- tachment to the other, and en- closing the tube of the urethra, like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. Action. The muscles of both sides act as a single sphincter in diminishing the membranous part of the urethra, and eject- ing the contents of the tube. Like the ejaculator, they are relaxed whilst the urine is passing, but the two contract forcibly in expelling the last of that fluid. Involuntary circular fihres within the constrictor muscle surround the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about gJ^th of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous behind with the circular fibres of the prostate. Tliis layer is a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate is cluef part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra.f Action. This involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the urine and the semen. The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting through the trans- verse muscle. They are situate below the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle line, and close behind the bulb. Each gland is about the size of a pea, and is made up of lobules ; and the lobules are composed of small vesicles, which are lined by flattened epithelium. * The symphysis pubis seen from behind with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and with the tube of the lu-ethra surrounded by the con- sti-ictor muscle (Santorini). a. Bladder cut open : the swelling of the prostate surrounds it in front, b. Constrictor urethi-a3 :—c. Pai-t of the muscle above, and d, iiart underneath the urethra. + See a Paper on the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Urethiiv, in vol. xxxix. 1856, of the Trans, of the Roy. Med. Chir. Society.PUDIC ARTERY AND NERVE. 431 Connected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Len^h and which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra (corpus spongio- the duct, sum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an inch m front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. In the wall of the duct are unstnated muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by a columnar epithelium. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not Icnown. These bodies arc sometimes so small as to escape detection, and THe^g^^ they appeal- to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. Tlie student may complete the examination of the ^^isjection^ perinttum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, and their vessels and remaming branches. From the point of its division beneath the "erve. crus into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the ai-tery is to be followed backwards, along the pubic arch of the left side. The pudic neiwe will be by the side of, but deeper than the artery. Pudic Artery (a). The posterior half of this artery has been ^^^^ aheady dissected (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perinssum it ascends between the layers of the triangular hgament, and along the pubic arch nearly to the pubes ; there it perforates the super- ends on ficial layer of the hgament, and divides into the arteries of the g^^^Jj^gg._ cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. In this course it is placed beneath the constrictor urethrEe, and is accompanied by venjB comites and the pudic nerve. Its ofEsets are subjoined :— a. The artery of the hulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable ^^j^^ ^jjg size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing triangular almost transversely inwards between the layers of that ligament, ^'sament, about half an inch from the base, the artery reaches the back of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it fm-nishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of this branch from the base of the hgament will be its situation influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perineeal space. • If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the ligament,* and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. h. Deep muscular branches (d). As the artery is about to enter muscular between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one or more branches to the levator ani and sphincter, and fine twigs through the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. c. The artery of the cavernous structure of the penis (c art. cor- artery of poris cavemosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At pouig"' first this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis (p. 580). d. The dorsal artery of the penis (h) is in direction and size the artery of continuation of the pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus and penis.'" '^^ the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 440. It is much smaller in the female than the male.DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 432 Accessory ortei-y. soiirce. Pudic veins. Pudic nerve is with the artery and ends lilie it on penis. Muscular offsets. Perineeal branch. Nerve of the bulb. Superficial parts cut in lithotomy, cutting down to urethra in reaching the staff and in run- ning linife along staff. Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large enough to supply the branches above described to the penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will be then contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 5G4). The pudic veins, two in number, have the same connections as the artery ; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The PUDIC NERVE has been exammed in the ischio-rectal fossa (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perinasum it is much diminished in size, in consequence of the emission of the large perinaeal branch, and courses with the artery between the layers of the triangular ligament; near the pubes it pierces the ligament (fig. 131, and is continued to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery ; its termination is described at page 441. The deep muscles and the corpus spongiosum are supplied by the fol- lowing branch. Perinceal branch (p. 422). Arising in the ischio-rectal fossa it supplies superficial nerves, and ends near the base of the ti-iangular ligament in deep muscular offsets : some of these (fig. 131, ^) pass beneath the transversalis, and piercing the triangular ligament, supply the muscles within it. A long slender branch, nei-ve of the hull), is distributed like the artery to the spongy structure investing the urethra : its filaments reach some way on the surface before disappearing in the corpus spongiosum urethi-a3. Parts cut in the lateral operation of litliotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz., cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting the tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incisions the loiife is entered near the middle line of the perinfeum, half an inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as mid- way between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and fat, and the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve Ijang across the ischio-rectal fossa, will be cut in this first stage of the operation ; and the transverse perineal muscle and artery, and, possibly, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, may be divided, if the first incision is begun farther forwards. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the fi-ont of the wound, the lower edge of the tii- angular ligament, the deep transverse urethral muscle, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed withm the groove of the staff, the membranous part of the urethra will be cut, with the muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards in the dkection of a line from433 SUEFACE MARKING IN FEMALE. tlio urethra tlu-ougli the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to he avoided. In the first incisions in the ischio-rectal fossa, Pa^s to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the rJctum/"" intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it; and if the gut is not held out of the Avay with the fore finger of the left hand. The pudic pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be vessels, wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangulai- ligament ; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the tuber ischii. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery of arten- of the bulb lies immediately in fi-ont of the knife, and will be woimded if the uacisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the fi-ont of the ischio-rectal fossa ia its course to the bulb of the uretlu-a. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should lecto-vesical not be mcised to a gi-eater extent than is necessary for the extraction ^^scia, of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perinasum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened, andacces- Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an unusual a^^jy,^^'^^*' accessory pudic artery on the side of that body. Directions. When the dissection of the perinEeum is completed. Directions, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after salt has been used, and the limbs are to be put down for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PEEIN^UM OF THE FEMALE. The perinasum in the female ditfers fi-om that in the male more perintcum in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it °^ female has special parts distinguishing it, viz., the aperture of the vagina, special and the vulva with the labia. iiarts. Surfoxe marJdng. In the middle line, there are the two apertures Along of the anus and vulva, wliich are separated from one another by an "pg^'ulgs intei-val of about an inch. The anus is situate rather farther back anus and than in the male. And the vulva with the labia majora on the sides is placed in tlie situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Within tlie vulva at the upper part, is the clitoris, and two small Parts witliin membranous folds, labia minora, extend downwards from it. Below the clitoris is tlie small aperture of the urethra ; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin Xiiece of membrane, the hymen. Dee2) boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perina^um are alike Boundaries in both sexes; l)ut in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger fUkein than in the male. bothsuxcs. 3? PDISSECTION or THE rERIN^TJM. Dissection. Take flret ischio-rectnl fossa. Then ex- amine ante- rioi' half of lierinaiiun. Superficial fascia. Dissection of the muscles. Sphincter vagina. Origin. Insertion. Use. Erector olitoridis. Transver- sails. To expose triangular ligament. Triangular ligament. To see muscles of urethra. Deep transverse muscle. Dissection. Tlie steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and female perinicum. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nen^es of the posterior half of the perinatal space are to be examined. (See description of the male perinajum, p, 418 to 423.) Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perinaal space, as in the male ; and the transverse incision in fi-ont is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 423 to 426). Superficial fascia. The description of this fascia in the male will sen^e for the like part in the female, with these modifications ;—that in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva; and that it is continued forwards thi-ough the labia majora (the representative of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other muscles are exposed at the same time, viz., the erector clitoridis on the pubic arch, and the transversalis perintei passing across the perinasum to the central point. The SPHINCTEE VAGIN.^ is an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and coiTesponds with the ejaculator urinfe in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perinajum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris, and the front of the triangular ligament. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles the sphincter diminishes that part of the vagina which it encircles ; and it assists in fixuig the central point of the perinseum. The ERECTOR CLITORIDIS resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (p. 426). The TRANSVERSALIS is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The one description will suffice for the muscle in both sexes (p. 427). Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from the bone, and the outer fibres of the sphincter vaginae are to be removed. The triangular ligament transmits the urethra, but is not quite so strongly marked as in the male (p. 428) ; its extent is partly inter- rupted behind by the lai-ge aperture of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 429) ; the deep muscles, with the pudic vessels and nerve and their branches, will be arrived at. The DEEP TRANSVERSE MUSCLE (depressor urethra;, Sontorini) has the same origm externally as in the male (p. 429) ; and it meets its fellow at the middle line, like the muscle answering to it in the435 DEEP URETHRAL MUSCLES. other sex. Santorini described the muscle as jDassing over the urethra ; hence the name given to it by its discoverer. The CONSTRICTOR >ruscLE of the uretlira resembles tliat of the Constrictor male in its origin from the pubes, and its disposition around the urethra (p. 430). Within it is a circular layer of involuntary fibres, as in the other sex. The description of the puclic artery (p. 431) will serve for both sexes, except that the branch in the female, which is the repre- sentative of the artery of the bulb in the male, is furnished to the vagina. The terminal branches arc much smaller in the female. The j^udic nerve has the same peculiarity as the artery -with respect Pudic ner\-e. to the branch to the A-agina, and the smaller size of the terminal part of the nerve on the clitoris.CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. "WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. Directions for the dissection. Position of the body. Appear- ances on the front of the abdomen. Projection of the pubcs. Abdominal rings. outer, inner. Ponpfirt's lisanicnt. ■Raise the . The dissection is to continue as far as the end of Section III. (p. 491) before the body is turned for the examination of the Back. Position. The body will be suiEciently raised by the blocks beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the upper limbs and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvis. If the abdomen is flaccid, let it be inflated by an apertm-e through the umbilicus, but if it is firm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. • Surf ace-mar Jcing. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is for the most part convex, especially in fat bodies ; but on the sides, between the ribs and the crista ihi, the surface is somewhat depressed. Along the middle line is a slight groove over the linea alba, which presents about its centre the hollow of the umbilicus. Inf eriorly the groove ceases a little aboA^e the pelvis in the prominence of the pubes ; and superiorly it subsides below the ensiform cartilage in a hollow named the epigastric fossa. On each side of the middle line is the projection of the rectus muscle, and this is intersected in adult well- formed bodies by two or three transverse lines. Underneath the eminence of the pubes the student will be able to recognize with his finger the symphysis pubis, and to ti-ace out- wards fi'om it the osseous pubic crest which leads to the pubic spinous process. Eather above and to the outside of the pubes, the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt; and the prominence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be detected. The internal abdominal ring is still to the outer side, though it cannot be recognized on tlie surface with the finger; but its position may be ascertained by taldng a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the in- nominate bone, and a finger's breadth above Ponpart's ligament. If the finger is carried upwards and outwards between the abdomen and the thigh, it will detect the firm band of Ponpart's ligament, and sometimes one or two inguinal glands. Dissection. The requisite incisions for raising the skin fi-om the437 SUPERFICIAL TARTS HOW SHOWN. sides and front of the belly are the following :—One cut is to extend ^^"^"i outwards over tlie side of the chest from the ensiform cartilage to ' ' about midway between the sternum and the spine. A second in- cision is to be begun in the middle line midway between the um- bilicus and the pubes, and to be carried outwards to the iliac crest, and along the crest till it ends opposite the iirst cut. Lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, but is not to be taken away ; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the side and middle line of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous nerves, five or six in number, which issue in a line with the coiTe- nerves, spending nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneath the fat, and divide into two : one offset is to be traced forwards, and the other backwards, with small cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near on the side: the fi-ont, is a large branch fi'om the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back on the crest, and deeper, is a smaller branch of the ilio- hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous and in front, nerves Avill be recognised Avith small arteries ; these are uncertain in mimber and size, and are to be followed outwards in the fat. The piece of skin covering the lower part of the abdomen or the Take tlie groin is next to be tlu-own downwards, on both sides, by an incision the groin! along the middle line to the root of the penis. After its reflection the cutaneous vessels and nen^'es are to be dissected on the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. To make the necessaiy dissection on the right side, all the fascia Seelc vessels superficial to the A'^essels is to be raised in the same manner as the piece of sldn. The vessels which will then appear are the super- ficial pudic internally, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iliac ai-tery externally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought :—one, the ilio-inguinal, comes through the abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh and scrotum ; and uen-es the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, '^■oin]^^ and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the examination of the fatty layer on the left side two strata Separate are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels. The Mt groin layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be reflected by means into super- of a tranverse cut fi-om the front of the iHac crest, about two "'^''^^ inches above Poupart's ligament ; and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubes. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a flap of the fascia, Hke that of the skin, is to be thrown towards the thigh. To define the and deep tliinner under stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other ^"y^'"- layer, and detach it with the vessels from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, Hke the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it down- wards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that structure.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 43S BuiKM-llcial fascia is divided into two layers. The subcu- taneous layer con- tains fat. except in tlie penis and scro- tum. Deeper layer is tUiu and mem- branous. Special cha- racters and disposition, and ends on fascia lata. Attach- ments deter- mine course of effused mine. Fascia in tUe female. Cutaneous nerves arc dcriA od from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of the inter- costal, which divide into posterior and The subcutaneous fat, or tLo supei-ficial fascia, is a single layer oyer the greater part of tlie abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and varies therefore in appearance and thickness in difEerent bodies ; for it is sometimes divisible into strata, whilst at others it is very thin, and somewhat membranous near the thigh. It is continuous vdth the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen ; and wlien traced to the limb, it is separated from Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, it is prolonged to the perinasum. The deeper layer (aponeurosis of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external oblique by fibrous bands, especially towards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : here it becomes very thin, and reaches the perinteum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 424). Towards the limb, it ends a little below Poupart's hgament in the fascia lata across the front of the thigh : as it passes over the ligament it is closely joined to that band by fibrous tissue. Urine effused in the perinjeum from ruptm-e of the urethra will be dii-ected thi-ough the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to the abdomen (p. 425). From the arrangement of the deeper layer of the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress over the front of the abdomen is iminterrupted. In the female the fatty layer of the groin is separable into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum m the one sex, enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nerves. The ners^es in the teguments are derived from the trunks of the lower intercostal nerves : thus the cutaneous branches, along the side of the belly, are offsets from five or sis of those nerves ; and the cutaneous branches, along the front, are the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous offsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge bet^veen the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they reach the surface they diA-ide, with the exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch :— The 2iostcrior branches are small in size, and are directed back to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle. The anterior branches are continued nearly to the edge of the439 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES. rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above clown, supply tlie antcmr integuments on the side of the belly ; tliey furnish offsets to the digitations of tlie external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger than Last dorsal the rest, and does not divide Mice the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region (p. 638). The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pierce the sheath of ^^j'^jj^^^^^ the rectus : in the integuments they bend outwards towards the nerves of lateral cutaneous nerves. The number, and the situation of these intercostal, small nerves, ai-e very uncertain. The il'io-hypogastric nerve is distribnted by two pieces : one passes llio-hypo- over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the other ramifies on the lower f^'^ar"^ part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch) :— plexus: (a) The iliac hranch lies close to the crest of the hip bone near iliac branch, the last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region, p. 638. (h) The hypogastric hranch pierces the aponeurosis of the exter- Ijj^'"^^^*'"''' nal obhque muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed to the fat of the lower part of the abdomen. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the external liio-ingiiinai abdommal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and pi^us"*^*'"^ upper and inner parts of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous A'^essels run with both sets of yesseis from 1 IT -1,11,1 , ''^^0 sources; neiwes on the abdomen :—with tJie lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and -with the anterior cutaneous are offsets fi'om the intercostal, internal mammaiy, and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral arterj', viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same distribution as the both lateral nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular in number and in posi- and anterior tion, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the neiwes towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend From fi-om the thigh between the layers of the subcutaneous fat, and !T„?.!'?'L . • oi CGI J till 6G ramify m the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of tn-auches; the abdomen. The greater portion of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. Tlie external j^udic hranch (superficial) crosses the spermatic external cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the P"'^'*^- under part of the penis. The superficial epigastric hranch ascends over Poupart's ligament, superficial near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the ^P'gasti'ic, umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies usually below the level of the pircmnflex iliac crest, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal saphe- Veins, ous vein of the thigh.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 440 Inguinal glaiuls: ducts ontov aljdomen. Dissection of coverings of penis. Tegumcn- tary cover- ing of penis is thin, and witliout fat fonns prepuce and fraenum. Sebaceous glands. Teguments in scrotum. Muscular natm-e of fascia. Dissection of vessels and nerves. Suspensory ligament of iDenis; attacli- monts; contains vessels and nerves. Source of vessels and uerves. The rjlands of the (jroin are three or four in number, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed between the strata of the supei-ficial fascia ; and receive lymphatics fi-om the abdominal wall, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh, and fi-oni the superficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass downwards to the saphenous opening m the thigh to enter the abdomen. Dissection. After the examination of the superficial fat with its vessels and nerves the student may prepare the cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be di^^ded along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the x)enis and scrotum. The penis is at- tached to the fi-ont of the pubes by a suspensory hgament, and is provided with a tegumentaiy covering contmuous with that of the abdomen, but it loses the fat and acquires special characters. Aroimd the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the x>repuce; it is afterwards continued over the gians, and joins the mucous mem- brane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the mider j)art of the gians, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular fold, fra^num j^roiputii. Where the skin covers the gians, it is inseparably imited with that part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided mth papilte, and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glandules odoriferm. In the scrotum the superficial fascia becomes thin, and of a reddish colour. The prolongation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side; and the two pouches, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and fi-ont of the perinteum, contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corrugation of the skin is owing. Tliis contractile structure is named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By remo\ing all the fatty tissue fi-om the root of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards in the teguments. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a band of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apes to the front of the symphysis pubis near the lower part. Widening below, it is fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and is pro- longed on it for some distance. In the ligament are contained the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. Dorsal vessels and nerves. The arteries and nerves on the dorsum of the penis are the terminal parts of the pudic trunks of both441 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. sides (p. 431). The vein accompanying the arteries enters the pelvis tlirough the triangular pcrinfcal ligament. The dorsal artery, one on each side, pierces the suspensory liga- artery of ment, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends m many i.enis. branches for that structure: in its course the vessel supplie.s the integuments and the body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 432). „ . The (Jorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by numerous Dorsal^vcMu branches from the glans penis and tlie prepuce. It runs backwards prostatic by the side of. the artery, through the suspensory ligament, and the plexus. triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches fi-om the erectile structure and the teguments of the penis. Each dorsal nerve talces the same course as the artery, and ends "^^"^^ like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes a large branch to the corpus cavemosum penis, and other ofEsets to the ijiteguments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male ; J^^^^flf/"^ they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ that repre- sents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of J^^I^T'^^^^ the abdominal wall (fig. 133) is now to be fi-eed fi-om fascia on oblique both sides of the body. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in fi-ont, because Precautions, there it has a thin aponeurosis, which is taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the Icnife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in fi-ont of a line extended upwards fi-om the anterior end of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is veiy indistinct. On the right side the external abdominal ring, c, may be defined, [['{JjjQ^^j'Jj^ ^ to show the cord passing through it; and on the left side a thin kug. fascia (mtercolumnar), Avhich is connected witli the margin of that opening, is to be preserv'^ed. Lastly the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the abdominal wall. On the side of the abdomen On the side are three large flat muscles, Avhich are named fi-om their position fl^it muscles to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial nmscle is the external oblique ; the underlying one, the internal oblique ; and the deepest, 'the transversalis. Along the middle line are placed other muscles which have a ver- wlioscapo- tical direction. In front lie the rectus and pyramidalis, and behind juca«fthree is the quadratus lumborimi: these are encased by sheaths derived vertical, from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 133, ^) is fleshy on the side, Kxternal and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy processes from the eiglit lower ribs; the five highest pieces origin from ril)s.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 442 Insertion into pelvis and linea alba. Apononrosis covers front of the beUv: disposition above and below. Connec- tions. Lines on the aponeu- rosis : apertures in it: Abdominal ring. Use of both muscles, cting from elvis, and thorax. alteniatmg- witli Hiniihir parts of the serratus magnns and the lowest tliree witli digitations of the latissimus clorsi muscle From the attacliniciit to the rihs the iibres are directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner :—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the iliac crest, at tlie outer margin : and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obliquely to the tendon or aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aimmLrosis occupies the anterior part of the abdomen in front of a line from the eighth rib to the fore point of the crista ilii; and it is rather narrower about Fig. 133.* the centre, than either above or below. Along the middle line this expansion ends in the linea alba —the common point of union of the aponeurosis of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued on the thorax to the pectoralis major and the ribs. Below, its fibres are sti'onger and more sepa- rate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis :—some of them are fixed to the front of the pubes ; and the rest are collected into a firm band B (Poupart's hgament) between the pubic spine and the iliac crest. Connections. The muscle is sub- cutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but is overlaid commonly by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, except a small Ijiece below. Appearing tlu'ough the aponeurosis, external to the linea alba, is a white line, the linea semilunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 137) ; and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the lineffi transversii?. Numerous small apertures in the tendon transmit cutaneous vessels and nerves ; and near the pubes is the large opening of the external abdominal ring, c, which gives passage to the cord in the male, and the "i-ound ligament in the female. Action. Both muscles taking their fixed point at the pelvis will bend the trunk forwards as in stooping ; but supposing the spine fixed they will draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate the pelvis. * Dissection of the first lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, a. Extenial oblique. B. Pouijart's ligament, c. External abdoniiual ring. d. Gimbernat's igament.443 EXTEKXAL ABDOMINAL RING. Should one muscle conti-act it AviU incline tlie trunk to tlic same 0"^«;^"«^'<^ side, or raise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attachment may he moveahle : and after the trunk is bent it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. Parts of the aponeurosis. Besides tlie general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely tlie linea alba in tlie middle line ; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin; and tlie rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba (fig. 137). This white band on the front of the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of oppo- aponeuroses site sides. It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, ""''e'^ ■ and serves as a ligament between the chest and pelvis. Its breadth is wider above than below ; and it is perforated here and there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which projects in its middle now beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a "'"ijil'i"-^- hollow indicated its position. External abdominal ring (fig. 133, This opening is situate External near the pubes between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It ?i„'fr°"^"''' is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the Fonn and pubes, and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long sit^iation. measurement of the aperture is about an inch, aud the transverse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars, and differ in form and strength, imiei' side The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the fi-ont of P'^^''^- the symphysis pubis, where it crosses the corresponding piece of the opposite side—that of the right muscle being superficial. The outer margin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but '^^^ forms a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine or tuberosity. A thin membrane (intercolumnar) A fascia pro- covers the opening, and is derived from some fibres on the surface mai^iii.^'""^ of the aponeurosis. The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in The cord iu the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a aiwi hernia covering fi-om the intercolumnar fibres. Through this aperture the turougli it. inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fibres form a layer over the aponeurosis, and Intercoium- bind together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a firm membrane. Inferiorly, where they are strongest, a bmidle is connected with the attachnient outer third of Poupart's ligament, and is continued back to the • crista ilii. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and, becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper point of that opening ; and as they are prolonged on the tl'cy pro- cord from the margin of tlie ring, they give rise to the membrane colun'inar'' named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is ' entire, this tliin^covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female.DISSECTION 01-' THE ABDOMEN. To seo insertion of Poiipart's ligament. Throw clown inoue of exteniiil oblique. and seek triangular lisiuncnt. roupart's ligament: outer and inner attacli- ments : forms Gimbemat's ligament. Its direc- tion, and pui'ts in contact with it. Triangular ligament. Dissection to expose internal oblique. Clean the cremaster. Dissection. To see the attachments and connections of Poupart's ligament, it Avill be necessary to reflect, on both sides of the body, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh, as in fig. 13S. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeu- rosis fi-om the front of the iliac crest to about three inches from the linea alba ; and the tendon is to be detached fi-om the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel. When the aponeurosis cannot be separated farther fi-om the tendons beneath, near the linea alba, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the triangular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the tliigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged fi-om the surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of tliis band into the pubes, and to lay bare the fibres (triangular ligament) which ascend therefrom to the linea alba. Poupart's ligament (fig. 134, ^) is the lower border of the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique, which intervenes between the fi-ont of the crista ilii and the pubes. Externally it is round and cord- like, and is attached to the anterior superior iliac spme. Internally it widens as it approaches the pubes (fig. 133, and is mserted into the pubic spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone for about three-quarters of an inch, forming a triangular-looking piece with its base directed outwards, Avhich is named Gimhernat's ligament (fig. 136). Poupart's ligament is not straight between its outer and inner attachments, but is cui-ved downwards to the thigh ; and it retains this position as long as the fascia lata remains uncut. Its outer half is oblique, and is firmly united with the subjacent iliac fascia: along the line of union of the two, the other lateral muscles of the abdominal wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular ligament. From the insertion of Gimbernat's ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the above name has been given. Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be taken awaj^, on both sides of the body, to see the things underneath. The muscle may be detached by carrying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the fi-ee border, and then through the insertion into the crista ilii. It may be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossmg the iliac crest are dissected out ; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle fi-om the ribs above, nor to cut thi-ough the tendon of the internal oblique at the upper part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, wth some nerv^es below on its surface, will be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle on the cord is to be defined (fig. 135) : it is about as wde as the little finger, and consists of fleshy loops which issue through theINTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 445 Origin from pelvis. external abdominal ring. Its inner attachment is tendinous, and is easily taken awaj'. , ,, , „i „ Paris covered hy external oblique (fig. 134). Beneatli the extern , ^ a^^. •ed 1>y is the internal obli(iue muscle, with the nbs and the intercostal ten^^^ muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals obu-iue. the spermatic cord, and the branches of the Imnbar plexus m the abdominal wall. , „ . , ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 134,^) is fleshy bclow and inte-nal aponeurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding ; and its hbres „j„sde. (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Poii-. part's ligament; along the anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone ; and fi-om the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle, c, (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. Tlie fibres diverge on the abdomen to their des- tination :—The upper are fleshy and ascend to be m- serted into the cartilages of the lower three ribs, where, they join the internal inter- costal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass obhquely to the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis covers the fi-ont of the abdomen fi'om the pelvis to the chest, and blends with its fellow along the middle line. For the most part it divides to incases the rectus ; but midway between the umbilicus and the J.ectas: pubes it is undivided, and lies m fi-ont of that muscle. Superiorly attacliments it is attached to the thorax after the following manner :—The chest, stratum superficial to the rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and the stratum beneath the rectus joins the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs, and the ensiform cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more and the distinct and separate from each other, and are inserted into the Pdvis. front of the pubes, and into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of Grimbemat's ligament. Connections. The internal is covered by the external oblique Parts in muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's ^bi'i'quc * Internal oblique muscle of tlie alxlom'nial wall. a. Internal oblique. T,. Latissimus dorsi, cut. c. Part of the hinder tendou of the transversalis muscle. D. Poupart's ligament, e. External : v. Internal iutercostals. Insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurosis of the muscle446 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. Use of 'botli muscles, of one. Cremastor muscle. Attach- ments : external fleshy. internal tendinous; fonns loops over the cord. giving rise to cremas- teric fascia. Use. In left groin l eplace the Xiarts. ligament and the piibes where it arches over the cord, and has the cremaster muscle contiguous to it. Tlic parts covered by the internal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles will depress the ribs ; and will assist in forcing back the -\nscera of the belly, which have been carried down by the descent of the diaphragm. One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and contracting -with the external oblique of the other side (the fibres of the two having the same direction) it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CUEMASTKB MUSCLE (fig. 135, is a fasciculus of fibres, which lies along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and is named fi"om suspend- Fig. 135.* ing the testicle. The muscle has attachments, at the inner and outer sides, similar to those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's liga- ment below, and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres are connected. Internally it is small, and is inserted by tendon into the front of the pubes, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres de- scend on the fi-ont and sides of the cord, forming loops, with the convexity do-wn- wards, which reach to and over the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which in hernia is named the fascia creniaste- rica. Occasionally the fibres may be behiaid as well as on the sides and fi-ont of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the abdomen under the influence of the will; but it may be excited to contract mvoluntanly by cold, fear, &c. •, ^ • . ^ Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not to make any further dissection of tlie abdominal wal ; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin should be replaced, * Yiew of the lower part of the internal oblique with the cremaster muscle and the testicle. A. External oblique, reflected. B Internal oblique c Tctus abdorninis. v. Cremaster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.TRANSYERSALIS MUSCLE, .mtil the examination of that region in connection with hernia is oHlt right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by the remova of fhe internal oblique and the cremaster. The last muscle mi; be reflected from the cord by n.eansof a ^ons^n^^nc^-^ To raise the internal oblique, it will be necessary to cut it througl firstly near the ribs ; secondly near the crest of the hip bone and Poupart's ligament; and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connect the two first incisions. Its depth will be indicated by Fig. 136.* a fatty layer between it and the transversahs. In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transver- sahs, with which they are often conjoined; and dis- sect out,between the two, the intercostal nerves and arte- ries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and iHo-ingui- nal) near the fi-ont of the crest of the hip bone. The offsets of the intercostals entering the muscle must be cut. Parts covered hj the oh- lique (fig.lSG). Themternal oblique conceals the trans- versahs muscle, and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascia transversahs. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALis MUSCLE (fig. 13G, ^) forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique in liaving a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the former muscle it is attached on all sides, except where the spermatic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises along the outer tliird of Poupart's ligament, and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the ■chest it takes origin from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of * Dissection of the third lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, with the vessels and nerves on it. A. Transversalis muscle, with B, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumboriira). d. Poupart's ligament. 1. Last dorsal nerve with its accompanying artery. 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery, ft Intercostal nei-ves and arteries. 447 0)1 right side reflect cremaster and internal oblique. Parts covered l)y internal oblique. Transversa- lis muscle. Origin from chest, loins and iielvis.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 448 Fibres end in aponeu- rosis. The aponeu- rosis jiasses beneatli rectus except infe- riorly. Fibres to traiisversalis fascia. Use by itself, witli otliers. At iielvis unites in conjoined tendon. Polterior aponeurosis. Connections of ti'ansver- salis muscle. Expose rectus and pjTamidalis. Leave tlio left side. Eectus muscle. Attacli- ments to pubes. Insertion into ribs. the cartilages of the four next above. And between the chest and the pelvis it is connected with the lumbar vertebrtc by means of the posterior aponeurosis or the fascia lumborum. All the fibres are directed to the aponeurosis in front. Its anterior axmieurosis is widest below, as in the most external muscle. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, passing beneath the rectus as low as midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, but in front of the muscle below that spot. Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the front of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an mch, but beneath the oblique muscle. Some of the fibres are spent on the transversalis fascia ; and are connected with a thickened band of that fascia beneath Poupart's ligament, which is called the deep crm-al arch. Action. The chief use of the muscle will be applied to diminishing the size of the abdominal cavity, and compressing the viscera ; but it will assist the internal oblique in replacing the viscera pushed down in inspiration. Conjoined tendon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are united more or less near their attachment to the pubes, and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeu- rosis of the oblique muscle extends about half an inch along the pectineal line ; whilst that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the greater part of the conjoined tendon. The posterior axjoneurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- borum, c, is described in the dissection of the Back, p. 385. Connections. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles before examined ; and beneath it is the thin fascia transversalis. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs digitate with hke processes of the diapliragm. The lower border is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Dissection. To remove the aponeurotic layer fi-om the rectus muscle of the right side, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the fascia is reflected, its union with tlu-ee or more tendinous bands across the rectus will have to be cut through ; and near the pubes a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector shoidd leave the nen-es entering the outer border of the rectus. On the left side of the body the rectus should not be laid bare below the umbilicus, for the sake of the hernia to be seen on this side. The EECTTJS MUSCLE (fig. 137, ^) extends along the fi'ont of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest. It is narrowest iuferiorly, and is attached to the pubes by two tendinous processes ;—one, internal and the smaller, arises from the front of the symphysis, where it joins the muscle of the opposite side ; and the external process is attached to the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the rectus is inserted by three large fleshy processes mto the ensifoi-m cartilage, and the cartilages of the last three true nbs.449 SHEATH OF EECTUS MUSCLE. Fig. 137. The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath except above nas^cross and below ; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines—the inscriptiones tenduiea). • „ tt«« on Action. It will draw down the thorax and the nbs or raise the iJs^on pelvis, according as its fixed point maybe above or below. J3esicles ^^^-^^^^^^ imparting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the thorax, and compress the viscera. Sheath of the rectus, D. This sheath is derived from the splitting its sheath, of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the ^^^^^^^^^ muscle. One piece passes before and the other under the rectus; and the two unite at the inner border so as to enclose it in a sheath. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the rectus is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar man- ner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient beliind, both at the up- per and lower end of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the intervention of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, mid- way between the umbi- licus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to split, and passes alto- gether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses, is wanting inferiorily the muscle transversalis, and a white semilunar line (the fold of Douglas) may be sometimes seen, when the outer edge of the rectus is raised, marking the cessation. The Unece transversal (fig. 137), on the sm-face of the abdomen Linem are caused by tendinous intersections of the rectus. They are trausverso?, usually three in number, and have the following position ; one is deficient above and below. At the spot where the sheath contact with the fascia is m are throe or more. opposite the umbilicus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the situation Rectus muscle of the abdomen, dissected on the right side, and in its sheath on the left. Close to the pelvis the pyraraidalia is exposed. A. Rectus. B. Internal oblique. 0. Poupart's ligament, d. Sheath of the rectus. a a450 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Linea semi- limaris is at edge of rectus. Pyramidalis muscle. Attachment. Use. Nerves in AvaU of abdomen. Intercostal nerves are between oblique and transver- saHs: offsets. Last dorsal nerve. Brandies of lumbar plexus. Hio-hypo- gasti'ic lies near iliac ■crest; cutaneous branch. third midway between the two. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea semilunaris (fig. 137). This line coiTesponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the eighth rib to the pubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The PYRAMIDALIS MUSCLE (fig. 137) is triangular in form, and is placed in front of the rectus near the pelvis. The muscle arises by its base from the fi-ont of the pubes, and is inserted into the linea alba about midway between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This small muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tight the linea alba ; and when large it may assist slightly the rectus in compressing the viscera. Nerves of the abdominal wall (fig. 136). Between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal nerves; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar plexus. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 453). The lower six intercostal nerves (fig. 136 f f f), enter the wall of the abdomen from the intercostal spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of the abdomen near the middle line (p. 439). About midway between the spine and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 438) ; and whilst between the abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches, and offsets of communication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerv^es is visible, owing to the shortness of the last intercostal spaces. The last dorsal nerve is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore not in an intercostal space, but it has connections and a distribution like the preceding. As it extends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the iho-hypogastric nerve. Its. lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 439). Two branches of the Umbar plexus^ viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal, are contained for a certain distance between the muscles of the wall of the abdomen, as they com-se forwards to the surface of the body. The ilio-hypogastric nerve (J) perforates the back of the trans- versalis muscle near the ihac crest, and gives off the iliac branch. The nerve is then directed forwards above the hip bone, and is connected with its companion (ilio-ingumal). Perforating the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the fi'ont of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique ueai- the linea alba, the nerve becomes cutaneous (p. 439). Its iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles close to the crista ilii, to reach the gluteal region (p. 638).451 FASCIA TEANSVERSALIS. The ilio-inguinal nerve perforates the transversah-s muscle near nj^J^^^K"'""! the front of the iliac crest. It pierces aftemards the internal through oblique, and reaches the surface of the thigh through the external ""S- abdominal ring (p. 439) : it furnishes offsets to the internal oblique, the cremaster, and the pyramidalis. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the transversalis fascia, it will be necessary to raise, on the right side, the lower part of the saiis fascia, transversalis muscle by two incisions ;—one of these is to be carried through the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament ; the other, across the muscle from the front of the hip bone to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily fi'om the thin fascia beneath. The fascia transversalis (fig. 138, ^) is a thin fibrous layer be- Fasciatrans- tween the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. In the gi'oin ""'^^^ or inguinal region, where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is best is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of "^e'^groin" the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle ; but farther from the pelvis it gi-adually decreases in sti-ength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare, is the internal abdominal internal ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round liga- ^i^g°^'™^^ ment, according to the sex ; it resembles the hole into the fimger of a glove in being visible inside, but indistinguishable outside in consequence of a prolongation from the margin. On the inner side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is there fixed into the pubes and the pectineal line of the hip bone, behmd the conjoined tendon with which it is united. At Poupart's ligament the fascia is joined to the posterior margin is partly of that band along the outer half ; but along the inner half it is poupai^t-s directed do^vn to the thigh, in fi-ont of the blood-vessels, to form ligament, the anterior part of a loose sheath (crural) around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 138). This opening is situate mid- Sitnation of way between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac ^i^t?™'"'^^ spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the fascia is continued around the cord, as before said. Dissection. The tubiform prolongation on the cord may be traced Dissection by cutting the fascia transversalis horizontally above the opening I'^How of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle 00°^^^ °^ of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia trans- Subreri- versahs and the peritoneum. Its tliicloiess varies much in different ^"^"'^fj! ^'^^ bodies, but is greater at the lower part of the abdomen than higher up. This structure will be more specially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen fxom the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be Trace re- reflected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum alono-""''■'i'' the cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. ° pentonemn. The j;m7one«TO, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects Peritoneum G G 2 of U'c groin452 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. is in'olonged DM the cord: piece may be imper- vious, or saccu- lated, or open. In female may bo partly open. Spermatic cord is oblique In the abdomi- nal wall, and vertical beyond. Connec- tions. Coverings. In female round liga- ment is in place of cord. Dissection. Constitu- ents of the cord; vessel in female. Vas defe- rens. forwards slightly opposite the abdominal ring. Connected with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation to the testis in the fetus) which extends a certain distance along the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be followed only a very short way, but it may be sometimes traced as a fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated at intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in fi-ont of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum accom- panying the testis in its passage in the fetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the fetal tube of peritoneum remains sometimes pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament ; that imobliterated passage is named the canal of Nuch. The SPERMATIC COED (fig. 138, ^) extends from the internal abdo- minal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efEerent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through which they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its aperture of entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit fi-om the muscles ; but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in this obhque passage named the inguinal canal, it is placed (at first) beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the fascia transversalis ; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from strata in the wall of the abdomen. Thus, from within out come, the subperitoneal fat, the tube of the fascia transversalis, the cremaster muscle contmu- ous with the internal oblique, the intercolumnar fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, except it wants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will be displayed by cutting thi-ough longitudinally, and turning aside the different sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric ai-tery into the cremasteric covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and vein wliich convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis ; the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle ; and the vas deferens or the efEerent duct. In the female a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round ^'^The^^'Jas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is453 VESSELS IN ABDOMINAL "WALL. placed behind the other vessels of the cord ; it ivill be recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of wliipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen Situation tlu-oughthe opening in the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it and course, lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the ^^'JJ^^^ cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived fi-om coverings of the epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The "lecord; genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the in- ternal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the teguments of the cord from the superficial pudic artery and the iho-inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubes, ^ jggp'°j"ij and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's hgament, the deep cnu:al arch, will appear : it passes in- wards to the pubes, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric and of the and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary the-waU of artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary abdomen, arteries will be observed on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below, ramifynng in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by remo\ang the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin Deep crural band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has received the name deep crural arch from its position and resem- blance to the superficial crural arch, (Poupart's ligament). This Attach- fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the hgament, is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjomed tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.** It is closely connected Avith the front of the crural sheath. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. On the side of the vessels in abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the inter- aMominal costal nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the epigastric and internal mammary vessels. And around the crest of the hip-bone bends the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries (fig. 136) issue between the false ribs intercostal (p. 362), and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis "■^^^^^ • and internal obhque muscles : they extend forwards Avith the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and the teguments. In front * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, which is joined by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times and this is the most common arrangement, it is only a thickenin'r of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 454 lowest. Internal mammary. Epigastric anastomoses with inter- nal mam- mary ; connections in wall of abdomen. Branches: piiWc joins obturator by an offset; cremas- teric; muscular; cutaneous. Epigasti'ic veins. Circumflex iliac is in wall of abdomen, and anasto- moses with ilio-lumbar: muscular offsets they anastomose with the internal mammary and epigastric : behind they communicate with the lumbar arteries. The lowest artery accompanies the last intercostal nerve below the last rib, and is distributed with tlae nei-ve (p. 638). The internal mammary artery. The abdominal brancli of this vessel (p. 253) enters the wall of the abdomen beneath the carti- lage of the seventh rib. Descending in the sheath of the rectus, the vessel soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epigastric artery. The epigastric artery (fig. 138, a) arises from the external iliac about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus and divides above the umbilicus into branches which enter that muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. As the artery courses to the rectus it passes beneath the cord and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and it is directed obliquely'inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it soon perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus over the semilunar border at the posterior aspect. The branches of the artery are numerous, but inconsiderable in size :— a. The pubic branch is a small transverse artery, which runs behind Poupart's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator artery (fig. 139, /) : the size of this anastomosis varies much, but its situation is mternal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given fi'om the outer side of the artery to the abdominal wall, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries (p. 453), and others enter the rectus. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integuments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the arteiy ; they join finally into one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of the external ihac, opposite the epigastric, and courses around the iliac crest, as the name expresses. Having perforated the crural sheath, it passes beneath the transversalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the hip-bone. Here it pierces the transversalis, and is continued backwards between this and the internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal ihac artery. Its offsets are muscular and anastomotic. Branches. Near the fi'ont of the iliac crest a small branch ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastiic and inter- costal arteries.455 INGUINAL HERNIA. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral ofEsets, which «^i.ai««to. supply tlie neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- Circumflex lateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an mch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved ^"g^""^^ on the left side of the body, should be now dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The teguments and the aponeurosis of the external ^j^^^^^^^^^ oblique having been thro-vvn down in the previous examination of left groin, the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region syWI be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 138. To raise the obhque muscle, let one incision be made across the ?^eflect ^ ' , inner fleshy fibres fi'om the iliac crest towards the linea alba : and after oblique. the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut tlu-ough at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By elevating the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac arteiy marks their intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacmg its lower arched Clean sub- border ; and trace with cai-e the conjoined tendon of it and the internal obhque to show the exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the border of the trans- siw the versalis muscle, are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the vSs"'^ inner side of the internal abdominal opening, but beneath the fascia transversalis. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine through the lower Situation of portion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's ligament (answering ilemia?^ to the inguinal region), is named an inguinal hernia. The escape Predis- of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the deficiencies ]j°f'*'°u in the muscular strata, by the passage of the spermatic cordthi-ough ^'^ ^ ^' the abdorrn'nal parietes, and by the existence of fossre on the inner surface of the wall.456 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Course it follows. Two kinds: external or oWiquo; internal or direct. External or oblique. Anatomy of parts concerned. Inguinal canal. Direction. Length. Openings. Boundaries next sui'- face; next the ahdominal cavity. Flooring and roof of the canal. Canal in the female. Internal abdominal ring: The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected througli the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by the names external and internal, from their position to the epigastric ai-tery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the direction they take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding through the internal abdommal ring with the cord is called external fi-om being outside the artery, and oblique from its slantmg course; whilst the liernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named internal fi-om being inside the artery, and direct from its straight course. External or Oblique Inguinal Heenia leaves the ca^^ty of the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal canal, makes its exit fi-om that passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy of the external hernia. To acquire a knowledge of the anatomy of this hernia it will be necessary that the space in wliich it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by wliich it enters and leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal rings), and the coverings it receives in its progress, should be studied. The inguinal canal (fig. 138) is the interval between the flat muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Its direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to, and above Poupart's ligament. And its length is about one inch and a half. Superiorly it ceases at the internal abdominal ring ; and inferiorly it ends at the external abdominal ring. Towards the sm-face of the body the canal is bounded by the teguments, and the two obhque muscles in this way :—The skin with the subjacent fatty layer, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, A, reach the whole length of the passage ; but the internal oblique, B, extends only for the outer third (half an inch). Towards the ca^aty of the abdomen, the wall of the canal is con- structed by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and ti'ans- versalis, and by the deep membranous strata in the wall of the abdomen in this wise :—The conjoined tendon, h, placed in front of the other structures, reaches along the inner two tliirds of the space (about an inch) ; and beneath or behind it come the fascia transversalis, G, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum, in the order mentioned, which are continued all along the passage. Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupart's ligament, and bj"- the fibres of the ligament inserted into the pectmeal Ime ; whilst along the upper part its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles. In the female, the canal has the same length and boundaries, though it is usually somewhat smaller. In that sex it lodges the round ligament. The internal abdominal ring (fig. 138) is an aperture in the fascia transversalis, which is' situate midway between the symphysis pubisEXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE HERNIA. and the iliac crest, and half an inch above Poupart;s is oval in form, the extremities of the oval being dn-ected upwards anHo™!; and measures about half an inch ; the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite Bides ArcLg above'and on the inner side of the aperture, is the ower border of the transversalis muscle, D, winch is fleshy m the outer but tendinous in the inner half. Below, it is bounded by Poupart s ligament. On the inner side lie the epigastric vessels (a). This opening in the fascia transversalis is the inlet to the mgumal canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into 457 situation, form and margin, upper and inner boundary: parts trans- mitted tlirough it. the wall of the abdomen. The external hernia enters the canal at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation from the margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring (fig. 133, ^) is the outlet of the in- External 1 T 1 1 ., ji .1 1 1 f abdomma; gumal canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface ring; of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the situation, external oblique muscle, near the crest of the piibes ; and from the * Dissection for inguinal hernia (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. External oblique tendon, thrown down. b. Internal oblique, tlie lower i)art raised, c. Cremaster muscle in its natural position. D. Transversalis muscle with a free border, p. Spermatic cord. o. Fascia transversalis. h. Con- joined tendon. AHeries: a. Epigastric vessels, h. Offset of the circumflex iliac to muscles.458 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. The intes- tine, follow- ing the course of the cord, has cover- ings of tlie IJeritoneuni and fat, fascia trans- versalis, cremaster, spermatic fascia, superficial fascia and skin. Number : how pro- duced. How to dis- tinguish it. The taxis. Stricture where situate. Cause. To set free external and internal strictui-e. margin a prolongation is sent on the parts passing tlu-ougli it (p. 443). Course and coverings of the hernia. A piece of intestine lea-vang the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every stratum of the wall of the abdomen in the groin, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order :—As the intestine is thrust outwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis, F, (infundibuliform fascia) around the cord. Still increasing in size it is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia, c, applied to it. The intestine is next directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing thi-ough that opening re- ceives the investment of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends towards the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the superficial fascia and the skin. In a hernia which has passed the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without inwards are the following :—the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascia, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal and sub- peritoneal, originate as the gut protrudes ; but the rest are ready formed around the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The different layers become much tliickened in a hernia that has existed for some time. Diagnosis. If the hernia is small and is confined to the wall of the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the iuguinal canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tumour with the large end below, and the narrow neck occuiaying the mguinal passage. Whilst efforts are being made to force back a piece of protruded intestine during life, the direction of the canal, and the situation of the internal abdominal ring, should be borne in mind. Seat of stricture. The protruded intestine may be constricted at the internal abdominal ring ; in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle; and at the external abdominal ring. The stricture is placed usually at the inner ^abdominal rmg, and may be produced in two ways ;—either by a constricting fibrous band outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or, by a thickening and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner sm-face of the neck. Divison of stricture. To set free the intestine, an incision is made down to the internal abdominal ring ; and, all fibrous bands outside the peritoneum being divided, the intestme is to be returned into the abdomen by gentle pressure. Supposing the intestine cannot be replaced in the abdomen after the previous steps have been taken, the surgeon proceeds to lay open the peritoneum, and to divide the internal stricture, fi-omINTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 459 within out, on a director placed beneath it. With the view of avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Other designalions. This kind of hernia has other names applied Te.™« ;^Pj,^ to it sometimes by surgeons, according as it has passed certain juguinal points in the wall of the abdomen. If the intestine remains in the inguinal canal, tlie term bubonocele is applied to the swelling ; but jiosition. if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to the tumour. Varieties of the external hernia. There are two varieties (con- Two^^.^^. genital and infantile), of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Congenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it the tube of peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle fi'om the how con- abdomen in the fetus, remaining unclosed, the intestine descends = into a sac already formed for its reception. As it takes the course of the inguinal canal, it will possess the coverings coverings before enumerated for the external hernia ; and it passes and course, at the first to the bottom of the scrotum, instead of being an-ested at the top of the testis. With care it may be distinguished, whilst it is of moderate size, Diagnosis, by its position in front of the testicle. For the seat, cause, and division of the stricture, refer to what is stricture, before stated for external hernia. Infantile hernia is much rarer than congenital, and cannot be Infantile distinguished from the common external hernia during life. It was first recognised in the young child, and received its name from that circumstance ; but, like the congenital, it may be met with in the adult. Its chief differential character is derived from the state of the peritoneum. The peritoneum has the following condition :—the tube of that How con- membrane passing with the testicle in the fetus, is closed only at the internal abdommal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of the spermatic cord, and may occupy the inguinal canal. With tliis state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia with its coverings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus in a serous membrane. In this way there will be two sacs ; an anterior (the tunica vagi- nalis), containing serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. The infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by How known the knife opening the tunica vaginalis. The operator then proceeds '""'^ ^•''^t'^^- to lay bare the neck of the hinder or hernial sac, and to treat the stricture of it as before described (p. 458). The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner internal side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be better understood after the examination of tho part of the abdominal wall through which it passes.460 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. It passes through a tviaugular space: size, constituents of space: muscles. Hernia in this space of two kinds. Coverings of the more common kind are peritoneum and subja- cent fat, fascia trans- versalis, conjoined tendon, spermatic fascia, superficial fascia, and skin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impossible if it is lartre, Anatomy of the internal hernia. In the abdominal wall near the pubes is a triangular space (fig. 138) which is bounded by tlie epigastric artery on one side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and the inner half of Poupart's ligament below : it measures about two inches from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. The constituents of the abdominal wall in this spot are, the tegu- ments ; the strata of the muscles; and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., fascia transversalis, subperitoneal fat, and peritoneum. The muscles have the undermentioned an-angement:— The aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced by an aperture (external abdominal ring) towards the lower and inner angle of the space through which the inguinal hernia is transmitted. The internal oblique and transversahs, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line, it covers the inner two thirds (about an inch) of the space; and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the fascia transversalis appears. Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for itself, and elongate the different structures, because there is not any opening by which it can descend, as in the external hernia. Further, the covermgs of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal wall, must vary accordmg as the gut projects through the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. The common kind of the in- ternal hernia (inferior) passes through the part of the triangular space which is covered by the conjoined tendon. The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the fascia transversalis ; next it elongates the conjoined tendon, or as in a sudden rupture, separates the fibres, and escapes between them. Then the intestine advances into the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external abdominal ring ; and passes through that opening on the inner side of the cord, receiving at the same time the coveiing of the fascia spermatica. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of the internal hernia are the same as those of the external ; and in kind they are the same, with this ex- ception, that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremasteric fascia. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this land of hernia ; and the straightness of the course of the internal, in comparison with the external hernia, should be remembered. Diagnosis. This rupture will be distinguished fi-om external hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubes. After this hernia has acquired a large sixe, an examination duringUMBILICAL HERNIA. 4G1 life cannot determine whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an external hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling acquires the appearance of a direct rupture. Seat of stricture. The strictm-e in this form of hernia occurs most stricture, frequently external to the neck of tlie tumour, though it may be inside fi-om thickening of the peritoneum : and it may occasionally situation, be found at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid to free from bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- s^cture; jury to the peritoneum ; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot he put backwards into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In the operation on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the in large operator should cut on the fi-ont and mid-part of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, whose lateral position cannot be known. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia (superior) Rarer kind occurs thi-ough that part of the area of the triangular space which ^emia™^^ is external to the conjoined tendon. Its existence is determined by the unusual position of the obliterated hypogastric artery inside the abdominal wall (p. 462). The intestine protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to is oMique in the epigastric artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the ^th the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring; so that the term cord. " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of mtemal hernia. Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal Coverings canal, it has coverings exactly the same in number and Idnd as the freSSLaf external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic i»emia. and cremasteric fascife, tlie fascia transversalis, and the subperitoneal fat with the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered Diagnosis external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it must S'JiFe"""'^^^ be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, whilst in the hernia which it stimulates, they lie on the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external hernia, ■''''"^e sp°t« Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, the mZ^^ rule observed m dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour ; and if it is necess'ary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall Course.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 462 Coverings, becomo united over tlie tumour, changes iu. Stricture, where foiuul. Other abdominal lierniae are femoral, obtiu-ator, ischiatic. Dissection of cords inside abdomen; one m middle line, another on each side. forming two fossae. Sometimes last cord moved inwards, causing three fossEe. Coverings. Tlie coverings of the intestine are few in number •— They are the skin and the superficial fascia; a prolongation fi^m the tendinous margin of the umbilical opening : together with coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous structures, and its fat disappears If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall ; and it may be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be remembered that the narrowed neck is at the upper end and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction may be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife may be carried upwards in cutting the stricture • but there is not any vessel liable to injury in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so as to form a hernial tumom-. For instance there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyroid foramen, with the arteiy of the same name ; and ischiatic hernia through the ischiatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student may refer to some special treatise for mformation respecting the other abdominal herniee. Dissection. The abdomen may be now opened to see the cords and the depressions on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall. A transverse cut may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, fibrous cords will be seen ascending to the umbilicus fi-om the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. In the middle line is the prominence of the remains of the urachus, which reaches fi-om the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery; this is directed fi'om the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus, and lies usually behind or close to the epi- gastric artery, near Poupart's Hgament. Fossce. With this disposition of the cords, two fossas are seen near Poupart's ligament, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery ; they correspond with the situation of the internal and ex- ternal abdominal rings, and with the places where the external and internal (common kind) herniie occur. But occasionally the cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from the epigastric artery, to the line of junction of the outer with the inner two thirds of the triangular space through which the direct hernia comes. In this position of the cord there will be three fossse on the lower part of the abdominal wall ; viz. an inner between it and the urachus, a middle one between it and the epigastric vessels, and an external outside the epigastric artery.AXATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 463 And there may be one, two, or three inguinal hemiaj, on each side of f^^^'l^lCS tlie body, according to the depth of the fossas, and the predisposi- i.iot.u.sions. tion to protrusion of the intestine. Femoral Hernia. In this liernia the intestine leaves the abdomen f^f^^^^^^^ below Poupart's ligament, and descends in a loose membranous hernia, sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen, the rest arc noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (p. G12). Dissection. The dissection for the femoral hernia is to be made ^jl^Jffp'^,!^^ on the left side of the body. ». _ concerned. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from Divide the umbilicus to the pubes. The peritoneum is to be detached from the iimer surface of the wall near Poupart's ligament, by means of a transverse cut just above that band ; and is to be raised fi-om the iliac fossa. The layer of the subperitoneal fat is to be separated in the same way ; but before this can be done, it will be necessary to cut through the spermatic cord, or the romid ligament: astliis layer detach is raised, some lymphatic glands will be laid bare by the side of the ^^^^ iliac vessels. Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to take away show the upper opening of the membranous crural sheath contain- ing the femoral vesssls, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (fig. 139). In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the fascia transversalis and the iliac fascia are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral hernia. The membranes concerned in the Anatomy femoral hernia are, the peritoneum : the subperitoneal fat; the sti^ctures. transversalis and iliac fascite lining the interior of the abdominal cavity, "vvith the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they give origin at Poupart's ligament. The peritoneum lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall. Peritoneal without having any aperture for the escape of the intestine ; and its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the Suijperi- peritoneum, but is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of the ^'^^> abdomen, where the iliac vessels pass under Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels ; and internal to the vein, it covers the space of the crural ring, as well as a lymphatic gland wliich oc- cupies that space. Where this layer stretches over the crural ring it is named by foms sep- M. Cloquet septum crurale ; and it is described by him as being concave towards the abdomen, and convex towards the thigh. An inguinal gland is generally attached to its under surface. The fascia transversalis has been before noticed (p. 451). At Fascia Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia, outside the situation of transver- the large iUac artery (fig. 139) ; but internal to that spot it is con- tinned downwards to the thigli in front of the femoral vessels and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. 'DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 464 Sheath on femoral vessels. rural ring, Iliac fascia. The iliac fascia covers the ihacns muscle, and lies beneath the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is similar to that of the transversalis fascia; for, external to the iliac vessels, it joins the fascia transversalis along the line of the ligament ; but opposite the vessels an offset is prolonged into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the fascioa lining the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and its posterior is derived fi-om the fascia iliaca. The sheath is not entirely filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) exists on the inner side of the vem, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring (fig. 139, ^) is referred to also in the dissection of the thigh, but its boun- Fig. 139.* daries are better seen in the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner side of the femo- ral vein, which is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Bounding it in- ternally are Gimbernat's ligament, E, and the con- joined tendon ; and Umit- mg it externally is the femoral vein (&) without the intervention of the sheath. In fi-ont is Pou- part's ligament, with the deep arch ; and behind is the pubes, covered by the pectineus and the fascia lata. Along the fi-ont of the space, but at some Httle distance from it, lies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Two of the boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and approximated to its fellow, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the ring (fig. 139). On the outer side is the femoral vein (&) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In fi-ont is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ling is bounded in the male by vessels in fi-ont and on the outer side. size and boundaries. Constricting boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels around ring. * View of the parts concerned in femoral liemia (Quain's plates). Muscles : A. Iliacus covered by tlie iliac fascia, b. Eectus. c. TransversaUs covered by tbe transversahs fascia, d. Crural ring. B. Gimbernat s hgament. Vessels: a. Iliac artery, b. Iliac vein. c. Epigastric brancb._ d. Circum- flex iliac, e. Obturator, -with its nerve. /. Small brancli joining obturator and epigastric arteries.STRICTURE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 465 But in some bodies the obturator artery takes ongin from the sta^^^of epigastric, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis it ^,,,,1,. may have two positions with respect to the crural ring =—either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that space fi-ee from vessels ; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament ; _m this last condition the ring will be encircled except at tlie posterior part. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by Femwal the opening of the crural rmg ; and it descends internal to the vein in the large crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening m the tliigh, where it projects to the surface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will push before it the Ftom aMo- peritoneum, and the subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it pentoneam will displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland which fills the ^^^^^^^l^^' crural ring. Ha%ang reached the level of the saphenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath, l^^^^^^^ and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the teguments of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller detail (pp. 613 to 616). Seat of stricture. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed ^^l^^^^^ opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the neck, ov at margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. And the constric- op^^g.""^ tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in inguinal hernia. Divison of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constrict- Incision to ing fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made down il^^^l to the neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, the peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be earned horizontally inwards, or upwards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the edge of Gimber- nat's ligament. Danqer to vessels. Wlien the incision is made upwards and in- ^'sk of . ■\vounanig wards to loosen the constricting band in the neck of the tumour, vessels in there will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made res'ii''r so long as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same and irregu- view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But ti'on of*^^" in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence), them. the obturator artery takes its unusual course in fi'ont of, and on the inner side of the neck of the hernia, and will be before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. H nDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section III. Definition and con- tents. Dissection to open abdomen. Is largest cavity in the body. Is oval. Boundaries above and below, in front and on sides. Behind is spine. Depth is altered by action of diaphragm and levator anL "Width by muscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta expelled. Division of space. Abdomen Ijroper. Telvic portion. Abdomen proper here described. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the spinal column behind, and the visceral arches of the vertebra3 with their intervening muscles in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with vessels and nerves. Dissection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remamder of the abdominal wall above the umbihcus is to be cut, along the left side of the linea alba, as far as the xiphoid cartilage. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This space is the largest in the body. It is ovoidal in form with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much -wider superiorly than inferiorly. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaphragm; below by the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani, and the structures closing the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular :—thus towards the upper and lower hmits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz. the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other ; but in the centre are stretched the muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- tion and ascent of the levatores ani ; and the cavity is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. The width is lessened by the contraction of the abdominal muscles; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the space. A division has been made of the space into the abdomen proper and the cavity of the pelvis. The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys. The pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of tlie cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of467 CONNECTIONS OF STOMACH. the dissection of the abdomen, the pcMc portion will receive a Pelvis after, separate notice (p. 545). _ • •,. • i j • x . , Regions. The upper part of the abdominal cavity is dmded into Abdommai regions by lines extended between certain points of the parietes. If two circular lines are carried round the body, so that one shall be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, and the other on a level with the most prominent point of the crest of the hip bone, the cavity will be divided into three circles or zones, upper, middle, and lower. Each of these circles has been further subdivided into three by a iir^e^lateral line, on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre of Poupart's ligament. The piece marked off, on each side, from the three circles by the vertical line is named respectively, fi-oiu above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac ; whilst the central part of each circle is designated from above down, epigas- and three trie, umbihcal, and hypogastric. In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space Subdiyi- is named pubic region, whilst the contiguous portions of the hypo- gastric and ihac constitute the inguinal region. Contents and their position. The alimentaiy tube, the liver, pan- Things in creas, spleen, and kidney, occupy the abdomen proper. cavity. Superficial view. On first opening the abdomen the following Viscera seen viscera appear:—On the right side is the liver, which is partly ^g^piace- concealed by the ribs. On the left side a piece of the stomach is ment. visible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descending from the stomach is a fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and conceals the small intestine ; in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. If the bladder is distended, a small part of it may come into view just above the pelvis, but commonly it is not seen. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided General into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine : and the two last fh^^enta^ are further sub-divided, as it will aftei-wards appear. The several tube: viscera have the following general position :—The small intestine ^g^g*^"'^ °^ is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of the cavity ; whilst parts: the great intestine arches around it. Both are fixed in position by pieces of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas j '^^'^ of and below it, is the convoluted small gut. Behind the large intes- tine, on each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube. Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, their Connections situation in the different regions of the abdomen, and their connec- tobeseSi. tions with surrounding parts should be examined. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. The stomach (fig. 140, a) intervenes between the gullet and the Position of small intestine, and is partly retained in position by pieces of the serous membrane. It is somewhat of a conical form, with the H H 2468 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. arger end to the left side; and it occupies the left hypochondriac ^ ^ '\?Tt"' ''''' hypochondriac regTn ' ExW..es, Ihe loft end receives the esophagus (L), by which it is fi™ly hxed to the diaphragm. It hes beneath the ribs, and is in contact with the spleen (m), to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum pushes up the diaphragm, and encroaches on the space for the Fig. 140.* and small heart and the left lung. The right extremity ends in the small intestine, and reaches towards the gall bladder : it is in contact with the under part of the liver. Surfaces. The anterior surface touches, from left to right, the diaphi-agm, the abdominal wall, and the liver ; and the posterior surface corre- sponds with the pancreas, the pillars of the diaphi-agm, the aorta and vena cava, and the solar plexus. * Connections of the liver, stomach, spleen, and large intestine, the small intestine having been taken away. a. Stomach, and b, oesophagus, c and d. Eight and left lobes of the liver, with c, the suspensory ligament. /. Casciun. ,ff. Ascending colon, h. Transverse, i. Descending, and k, sigmoid flexure ■of the colon. I. Duodenum, m. Spleen.469 CONNECTIONS OF INTESTINES. The upper border is connected to the Hvcr by a process of pen- Borders, tonciun, the small omentum ; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. The form and the connections of the stomach with the sur- Cm^f^onn rounding parts will vary with the size. For when the viscus is empty it is flattened, its surfaces looking forwards and back-sion. wards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when dis- tended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a rotatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest, and to turn upwards tliat surface which is directed forwards at other times. • The position and connections of the stomach may be altered by ^JteraUons variations in the size of any of the surrounding organs, or by the from dis- accumulation of fluid in the chest, or in the belly. The stomach easj), may be dragged down likewise by the great omentum entering a H^^X^"" hernia ; or it may be forced down towards the pehas by the pressure of tight stays. In these different changes in position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached only by peritoneum to the parts around. The small intestine (intestinum tenue) reaches fi-om the stomach Small intes- to the right iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve fingers' length), jejunum, f^^^^^^ and ileum : of the last two, the former receives its name from its sions. empty condition, and the latter ffom its numerous coils. The duodenum (fig. 140, I) cannot be satisfactorily seen at present, Duodenum, and it will be examined afterwards (p. 483). The jejunum and ileum (fig. 141) begin on the left side of the ^^Jj^^^^. second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of separation from the duodenum. Two fifths belong to the jejunum, and the remain- ing three fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convolutions in the situation, umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends oftentimes, but more frequently in the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutions is the great omentum. Beyond the duodenum the intestine is fixed posteriorly to the spine by a process of peritoneum named the mesentery, which contains the vessels and nerves. Surrounding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon ; but on the left side of the body the colon is concealed by the small intestine. The large intestine or the colon (fig. 140), is sacculated, and is Large intes- more fixed than the jejunum and ileum. It begins in the right iliac d^tin- region in a rounded part or head (caput ca3cum coli), and ascends Siiisii*!d. to the Hver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Crossing then the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypochondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or altogether in the latter. Finally, it descends, on the left side, through the and extent, regions con-csponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa ; thenDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 470 on Divisions. Cfecum, or head of colon: situation and connec- tions. Ascending colon. Parts around. Connections of the trans- verse colon: is most movable. Descending colon: situation, and perito- neum. Sigmoid flexure is in left iliac fossa. becoming straigliter (rectum) it passes through the pelvis to end the surface oJ: the body. It is divided into six parts, viz. caecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. The ccecum (tig. 140,/) (caput ciBcum) or the commencement of the colon, is placed in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed by the peritoneum being stretched over it. In front usually are con- volutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdominal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only fatty and areolar tissues intervening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece— the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the peritoneum sm-rounds the csecum, and attaches it. by a process to the abdominal wall. The ascending colon (fig. 140, g) reaches from the cacum to the under surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It Ues against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it is placed in fi-ont of the kidney. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the colon immovably to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two thirds of the circumference ; but it may enckcle the tube, and form a fold behind, as in the caecum. The transverse colon (fig. 140, h) passes obliquely upwards and to the left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen ; in this course it is deeper at each end than in the middle, and forms the arch of the colon by being thus bent. Above the arch are placed the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach, and the spleen : and below, is the small intestine. In front lies the great omentum ; and behind is a long process of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdomen, and contains its vessels and nerves. The transverse colon is more movable than any other part of the large intestine,—its peritoneal fold allowing it to be raised on the margin of the ribs. Small pieces of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices epiplo'icce, are attached along it. The descending colon (fig. 140 i) commences below the spleen, and reaches to the left iliac fossa. At first it is placed deeply in the left hypochondriac region ; and its whole course is deeper than that of the right colon. In front of it are the convolutions of the small intestine ; and behind it are the diaphragm, the outer part of the kidney, and the quadratus lumborum. This part of the intestine is smaller than either the right or the transverse portion, and is less surrounded, commonly, by the peri- toneum ; but its upper end is attached to the diaphi-agm by a firm process (pleuro-colic) of that membrane. The sigmoid flexure of the colon (fig. 140, h) is lodged in the left iliac fossa, to which it is attached by a process of the peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon, but it often hangs in the cavity of the pelvis. The intestine makes two turns Hke the letter S, and has obtained its name firom that circumstance. Its extent is from the471 LIVER AND SPLEEN CONNECTIONS. crest of the hip bone to the sacro-iliac articulation, where it ends m the rectum. It is concealed by the small intestine, which is directed more to the left than the right side. . t, . The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, which is Rectum, contained in the pelvis, will be examined in the dissection of that cavity. j p f The liver (fig. 140, c. d) is situate in the i-ight hypochondriac, and epigastric regions, and reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac. Pieces of peritoneum (ligaments) retain it in place. The upper surface, convex, is turned to the vault of the diaphragm, Surfaces, and is di^^ded into two by the suspensory ligament (e) ; the right portion, more prominent than the left, reaches to the level of the fifth intercostal space. The under surface is in contact with and ^^ler. the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and with the right kidney and suprarenal body ; attached to this surface is a fold of the peritoneum (small omentum), containing the hepatic vessels and nerves. The anterior border is thin, and lies in the adult male usually ^j^^^^^' within the margin of the ribs, but in women and children it reaches below that hne. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The posterior border is thick, and is connected to the diaphragm by and poste- certain ligaments or pieces of the peritoneum ; it lies on the large vessels (aorta and cava) and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver changes its situation Avith the ascent and descent of Position is the diaphragm in respiration ; for in inspiration it descends, and in diaplu^^^ expiration it regains its former level. In the upright and sitting ^l^-^^"^*^® postures, too, this viscus descends lower than in the horizontal con- "^^""^y' dition of the body ; so that when the trunk is erect, the anterior border may be felt imderneath the edge of the ribs, but when the body is rechned it is withdrawn mthin the margin of the thorax. The connections of the liver with the surrounding parts may be and by dis- changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the p^ts"^ ^ chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgment, as in tight lacing. The spleen (fig. 140, m) lies deeply in the left hypochondrium, f^^g*j°g^°^ between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum ^ ^Pl^^n. to the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other. Its position is almost vertical. The outer surface is convex, and touches the diaphragm opposite Surfaces, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. At the inner surface, which is concave, the vessels enter (fig. 506), and to it is attached a process ^'''^ of peritoneum, the gastro-splenic omentum: the part in fi-ont of the vessels touches the stomach ; and the part behind them is in contact with the tail of the pancreas, the suprarenal capsule, and the left crus of the diapliragm. Below the spleen is a transverse piece of the peritoneum (pleuro- Below it. colic fold), the kidney, and the beginning oE the descending colon. When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. The kidney should be examined on the left side of the body, so Kidney, that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order that it may beDISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 472 occupies lumbar region. Connec- tions. Right highest. Different parts hefore and above. Pancreas after. seen, the descending colon and the peritoneum must be separated from the abdominal wall, and its casing of fat should be torn through with the fingers. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the lumbar region opposite the last dorsal, and the upper two or three lumbar vertebrae. Its position is somewhat oblique, and the upper end is nearer than the lower to the spmal column. In front of the kidney are the peritoneum and the colon ; and behind it are the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, with the diaphragm and the last rib. Above each kidney and resting on it, is the suprarenal capsule. The inner border looks to the spine and receives the vessels. Difference on opposite sides. The right kidney is placed rather lower than the left ; it reaches as high as the lower border of the eleventh rib, whilst its fellow is opposite the upper border of the corresponding rib. In fi-ont of the right, besides the common con- nections before specified, is the duodenum ; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the right is the Hver, and above the left the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the present. This viscus is described at page 484. THE PERITONEUM. Peritoneum This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like other membranes of the kind it is a closed sac in the male, but in the female its cavity is continuous with the canals of the Fallopian consists of a tubes. One part of it lines the wall of the abdomen (parietal vSceral^"*^ layer), and another is reflected over the diferent Ayscera (visceral layer, layer) except where the vessels enter. The inner surface is smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the and forms parts with which it is naturally in contact. The membrane forms ve^eis^ processes or folds as it passes from viscus to viscus along the vessels ; and the folds attaching the viscera to the abdominal wall consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced in a horizontal and a vertical direction. Circle of the Horizontal circle around the ahdomen. The membrane, Avhen f ol- ™p^^aite°^ lowed outwards from the umbilicus, sun-ounds partly the large umbUious. intestine on the left side, and fixes it to the abdommal wall. From the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle line, where it is reflected along the fi'ont of the vessels . supplying the small intestine, thence around the intestine, and back to the spine along the same vessels. Lastly, it may be pursued outwards to the right kidney, to the colon which it encircles like the left, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The piece of membrane fixing the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon ; and that attacliing the small intestine is the mesentery.473 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. Vertical circle from above doiimwarch. From the under surface of circle from the liver the peritoneum may be followed along the hepatic vessels, above aown. one piece before and the other behind them to the upper border of the stomach, the two foiining the small omentum. At the stomach the two pieces disunite, one passing before, and the other behmd it; but beyond that viscus they are applied to each other to form the forms great omentum or epiploon. After descending in contact to the lower part of the abdomen they bend backwards, separating to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach; and they are then continued to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the abdominal wall, the two companion pieces part from each other,—one passing upwards, the other downwards.* The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and the the ascend- pillars of the diaplu-agm, and 'blends with the peritoneum on the layer, imder surface of the liver. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- descending verse meso-colon over the duodenum and the great vessels on io^'pelvis?''* the spine (aorta and cava), till it meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesen- tery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesenteric artery the peritoneum descends in the pelvic to the pelvis, and covers partly the viscera in that cavity. For '^*'^^ty> instance, surrounding the upper part of the rectum, it attaches this to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum : next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder in the male, or between the rectum and the uterus in the female, where it forms a pouch. Tlience it passes fi-om the pelvis over the back and sides of the bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the inguinal region, on the front where it presents the foss^ before alluded to (p. 462) ; and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdomen, and over the dia- phragm and upper surface of the liver, to the under surface of this viscus. Folds of the Peritoneum. After tracing the continuity of the Chief folds serous sac over the viscera, the student is to learn the chief pro- peritoneum, cesses or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum fixing the liver will be examined afterwards ; and the processes of the viscera of the pelvis will be seen wth the dissection of that cavity. Folds on the stomach. The processes connected with the stomach On the are named omenta. They are three in number:—one, small omen- ommi'te': turn, is attached to the upper curve ; another, great omentum, to the lower curve; and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to the great end of the viscus. * Sometimes the two pieces ascend over the ti-ansverse colon, being sh'glitly attached to it and the transverse meso-colon, as high as the pancreas before they separate. In that case the descending layer would form a distinct mesentery for the transverse colon, like that for the small intestine.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 474 Small omentum: situation, attach- ments. Great omentiun ; attach- ments. Consists of two layers. Sac of the omentum: TDOundaries, opens into general cavity by foramen of Winslow. How vessels reach vis- cera. Foramen of Winslow. Splenic omentum. Peritoneiun, The small or gastro-hepatic ommtum is stretched between the under surface of the liver and the upper border of the stomach and contains the vessels and nerves of the liver. It is formed by'two pieces of the peritoneum, as before explained, and presents a free border on the right side. Behind it is the space called foramen of Winslow. Its lower edge is fixed to the small curve of the stomach • whilst Its upper border is attached to the transverse fissure, as well as to the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver blending beliind with the left lateral ligament of this viscus, ' The gastro-colic or great omentum is the largest fold of the peri- toneum, and consists of two pieces. It is attached above to the spleen and the lower border of the stomach, and descends in front of the large intestine, but lower on thff left than the right side of the body. At the lower part of the abdomen the process is bent backwards, and returns to the spine, the pieces of which it is com- posed separating to enclose the transverse colon. The anterior part of the omental fold is separated from the posterior by a space (cavity of the omentum). Between its layers are contained some fat, vessels and nerves; and the power of detaching the one layer from the other diminishes with the increase of the distance from the stomach, until below they are not to be separated, and the membrane they form is thin and net-like. Cavity of the omentum. When an opening is made through the gi-eat omentum near the stomach, and this viscus is raised, a space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and doAvnwards into the omentum : this is the omental cavity. In front the space is bounded by the small omentum, the stomach, and the anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it, are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, and the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. This space communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavity, through a hole (foramen of Winslow), behind the small omentum. If the sac of the omentum were perfect, it could be inflated tlirough the foramen of Winslow. Supposing it to be detached and removed, there would not be any membrane in the way of the vessels reaching the difEerent -sascera ; and it may be readily con- ceived how the peritoneum could be replaced on the viscera, and around the vessels without being perforated by them. The foramen of Winslow is the space behind the small omentum, through which the omental bag opens into the general cavity of the peritoneum. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind, are the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelii) ; and below is the duodenum. The splenic omentum reaches fi-om the great end of the stomach to the concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels passing between the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Folds on the large intestine. The large intestme is connected to475 PEEITONEAL FOLDS ON INTESTINE. the wall of the abdomen by processes of the peritoneum (meso- attaching colic), which arc formed of two pieces, like the other folds, though [^^ffi^,^|" they are at some distance from each other. Each part of the colon has a separate meso-colon attaching it, thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a descending, and a sigmoid meso-colon. The caecum is fixed by a meso-cajcum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. The meso-ccecum attaches the caput caecum coli to the right iliac meso- C86CUID. * fossa. Usually the peritoneum does not surround the gut so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane furnishes a suspensory process to this part of the intestine. By the ascending and the descending meso-colon the ascending and ^^^^"^^'^ the descending parts of the colon ai-e kept in place. In the folds, meso-colon'; as in that of the caecum, the peritoneum does not commonly surround the intestine, though it may meet behind the gut and form pro- cesses of some length. The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold—pleuro-colic, pleuro-colic fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide end to ' the diaplu-agm opposite the eleventh or tenth rib, it passes trans- versely below the spleen, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fold than either of the transverse others connected with the large intestine, and serves as a partition between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It encloses the vessels of the colon between its layers. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, sigmoid and attaches the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. ' The meso-rectum contains the hajmorrhoidal vessels and connects meso- the rectum to the fi-ont of the sacrum. rectum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of Appendices the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped Peritoneal by the peritoneum after the same manner throughout. For whilst smau'^tes- the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one t^e- process (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum Peritoneum is surrounded by peritoneum, hke the stomach. The second part is covered only in front. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane ; for it lies at first between the strata of the transverse meso-colon, and then beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mesentery supports the rest Mesentery; of the small intestine, and is stronger than any other piece of the serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached to the form, spme from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right hip bone with the sacrum. The other end of "the fold is wide, and is connected wth the intestme. Between its two layersDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 476 are the superior mesenteric vessels and nei-ves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. Peritoneal Ligaments of the liver. Along the upper surface is a suspensory liver."'process of the peritoneum; and there is a wide piece along the posterior border. Suspensory The Suspensory or falciform ligament is placed between the upper ligament: convex surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. It is shape, triangular in shape, with its base forwards. The lower border is attach- concave, and is attached to the liver; wliilst the upper border is ments, convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall on the right of the contains linea alba, and to the under surface of the diaphragm. In its base or free part is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the round liga- round ligament. ment: ij^^s fold allows the umbilical vein to reach the liver without ow oimec. pigj-gj^g the peritoneum ; and with a little care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace it on each side into the suspensory ligament. Coronary The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the peri- ° toneum, which connects the hinder edge of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver, but at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly-shaped piece ; to these larger portions of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied. gives rise to The left lateral ligament is attached to the liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in fi-ont of the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm. right lateral The right lateral ligament lies deeply in the hypochondriac region, ligament. ^ front of the vena cava inferior : it consists of two pieces of peritoneum not touching each other. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Examine first vessels to intestine. Mesenteric vessels. Dissection of superior mesenteric, vems, Directions. The vessels and nerves (mesenteric) which are dis- tributed to the greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric ar- teries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and the lower end of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection, {fig. 141). For the dissection of the superior mesen- teric vessels and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omen- tum are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracmg the branches of the artery to the small intestine, correspondmg vems, and ofEsets of the sympathetic ner^'e on the arteries, will be metUPPER MESENTERIC VESSELS. 477 with ; these last are removed in cleaning the vessels. Mesenteric glands and a few lacteal vessels will come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intes- tine are to be nest followed under the peritoneum : and after all the branches have been cleaned, the trunlc of the artery should be and nerves, traced back beneath the pancreas. The plexus of surrounding TierA^es should be also defined. The superior mesentenc artery (fig. 141, a) supplies branches Superior ^ ° ' ' mesenteric artery, Fig. 141.* wholly to the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and to half the large mtestine, viz., as far as the end of the transverse colon do™f.l r'/^' ''.f *^%di^Pl^^^g"^' the vessel is directed courses to do^ynward8 between the layers of the mesentery, forming an arch '"^-^^t'"" ■mth the convexity to the left side, and terminates in offsets to the mVs'e^ntezy. c^cum and the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies connections beneath the pancreas and the splenic vein ; and as it descends to the mesentery it is placed in front of the duodenum and the left * Superior mesenteric artery and its branches (Tiedemannl n c!„^„„- mesentenc 6. Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. c M™ colic •cohc. e.Ileo-colic. /. Intestinal branches to the jejW and Heu^DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 478 and branches. Pancreatico- duodenal. Branches to small intes- tine : numher and aiTange- nient in arches. distrihution on the gut. Arteries of large gut. Ileo-colic branch ends on ciBcum. Bight colic branch sup- plies ascend- ing colon. Middle colic branch passes to transverse colon; branches form arches. Superior mesenteric vein, and branches. renal vein. This vessel is surrounded by tlie mesenteric plexus of nerves, and is accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches. Whilst tlie vessel is covered by the pancreas it gives a small branch to that body and the duodenum. Its other branches are intestinal: those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) are furnished to the jejunum and ileum ; and those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named colic arteries. a. The pancreatico-duodenal hrancli (inferior) is of small size (fig. 141, h) ; after giving twigs to the pancreas, it runs to the right along the concavity of the duodenum, and anastomoses with the other duodenal branch (p. 486). 6. The intestinal branches for the jejunum and ileum (fig. 141,/) are about twelve in number, and pass from the left side of the artery between the layers of the mesentery. About two inches from their origin the branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces unite with similar offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of the arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last set of arches twigs are sent to the intestine on both aspects of the tube, and anastomose round it. The branches to the large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries. c. The ileo-colic artery (o) arises from the right side of the trunk, and divides at the ctecum into branches which encircle the head of the colon. A descending offset is distributed to the lower end of the ileum, and to the caecum and the vermiform appendix ; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and anastomoses with the right colic artery. d. The right colic artery (d) is commonly an offset of the pre- ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Near the ascending colon it divides into ascending and descending pieces, which anastomose with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with the middle colic on the other. e. The middle colic branch (c) springs from the upper part of the artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse meso- colon divides into two diverging branches : the right one anasto- moses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a left colic branch (fig. 142, c) of the inferior mesenteric artery. The intestinal twigs are imited in arches before entering the gut, like those to the small intestine. The superior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, b) commences in that part of the intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed. Its radicles unite into one trunk, which accompanies the artery beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena ports. At the lower border of the pancreas it receives the right gastro- epiploic branch of the stomach, and the pancreatico-duodenal vems (fig. 144, c.)LOWER MESENTERIC VESSELS. 479 The mesenteric lymphatic glands are numerous be^«f ^^<^ ^ JS^" of the mesentery. An upper group lies by the side of tlie artery, and contains the largest glands ; and a lower group, near the m- testine, is lodged in the intervascular spaces. Ihe chyiiiero entering vessels of the small intestine, and the absorbents of the part or them, the large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric artery pass tlu-ough the mesenteric glands in their course to the thoracic duct. Fig. 142.* Along the side of the ascending and the transverse colon are a ^^^^'g"^" few other small lymphatic glands meso-colic, which receive some absorbents of the large intestine. Dissection (fig. 142). By drawing the small intestine over to the Dissection right side, the dissector will observe the inferior mesenteric arter}'- meaenterU; on the front of the aorta a little above the bifurcation. The peri- artery, toneum should be removed from its surface, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intes- tine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dis- * The lower mesenteric artery, and the aorta, seen by turning aside the upper mesenteric artery and the small intestine (Tiedemann). a. Aorta. 6. Inferior mesenteric artery, c. Left colic, d. Sigmoid, and e, Superior hjemorrhoidal branches. /. Upper mesenteric, g. Renal, h. Spermatic of the left side.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 480 and vein: aortic plexus. Inferior mesenteric artery. origm, coiu'se, and branches. Left colic branch to the descend- ing colon. Sigmoid branch to sigmoid flexure. Branch to rectum. Inferior mesenteric vein. Veins no valves. Lymphatic glands. Plexnses of the sympa- thetic to the viscera. Dissection of aortic plexus, and sectecl afterwards. On the artery and its branches the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves raniilles. The mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards, away from the trunk of the artery, to its junction with the splenic, or Avith the superior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the' dissector will meet ^vith a plexus of nerves wliich is to be left uninjured. ' The inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 142, h) suppKes branches to the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to maintain the chain of anas- tomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises fi-om the aorta, from one to two inches above the bifurca- tion. At first the vessel descends on the aorta, and crosses the left common iliac artery, as it courses to the pehas to end in branches for the rectum (superior heemoiThoidal). The following branches are furnished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. a. The left colic artery (c) ascends in front of the left kidney, and di^ades into an ascending and a descending branch for the supply of the descending colon : by the ascending ofEset it anasto- moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. i. The sigmoid artery (d) ik-dfjstributed to the sigmoid flexure, and divides into ofEsets which anastomose above with the preceding colic, and below with the hsemorrhoidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries before they reach the intestine. c. The superior hcemorrhoidal artery (e) enters between the layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower end of the great intestine : it will be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, d) begins in the part of the great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends along the psoas muscle to open into the splenic vein be- neath the pancreas. Occasionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through those glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Neeve. The following plexuses of the sympathetic on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and in- ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach. The remaining portion of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to (p. 489.). Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have made out, already, the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses, by taking the peritoneum fi-om the aorta481 VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. between the mesenteric vessels. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum from the front of the sacrum, and hypogastric following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves fi-om the P^'^'''^''- aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus, opposite the top of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large bundle of nerves, and is Superior ' " 111 cs cii tc v\ c distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric piexus artery. The nerA'^es surround closely the artery with a sheath, but is on artciy near the intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and communicate before entering the gut. Branches. The offsets form ggponj^ry plexuses around the arterial branches, intestinal nerves to the plexuses, small intestine ; and an ileo-colic, a right coHc, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nei-ves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides derfvSl'* than the front of the aorta, in consequence of its recelAang acces- from solar: sory branches fi-om the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the plexus derives an offset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends inferiorly, on each side, in branches offsets, which cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the peMs. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and Spermatic the renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the Pi''^^ • cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nei-ves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are in female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal inferior tube to which its artery is distributed. Tliis plexus is furnished piex^"?"'' from the left side of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching nerves join of the nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked, ^e^sse^s^- Branches. Its offsets (plexuses) are named from the arteries they secondaiy accompany, viz., left colic, sigmoid, and superior hajmorrhoidal : P^^'"*^^^- they ramify on those vessels, and have a like distribution. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hj'pogasti- supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate ^^^^"^^ '• in front of the upper part of the sacrum. It is developed more on situation, the sides than in the centre; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any intermixed ganglionic masses. By its upper part it receives the nerves on the aorta, and is joined receives by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral ganglia. P^"^^"^ Infenorly the plexus ends in two portions, right and left, the last and ends in pemg the largest: each is continued forwards by the side of the mternal iliac artery to the pelvic plexus of the same side, and to the ' """^ viscera. nc i'lscera. I IDISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 482 CONNECTIONS OP AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Aorta aucl cava. Dissection, of aorta, and vena cava. Aorta lies on niiddle of spine. Parts around. Vena cava; extent; connec- tions ; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it; vein and pervcs. Before the viscera are removed from the body, the connections of the ahclominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic arteiy along the great cm-ve ; and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (cceliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be quite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed as far as the posterior border of the hver, where it disappears. The connections of its upper end can be better observed after the dis- section of the vessels of the liver. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the dia- phragm, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but gradually incUnes to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta lies behind all the viscera ; but it is crossed more immediately by the pancreas and duodenum, which touch it without the intervention of peritoneum. Its connections are the following : at first it is covered by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas and the splenic vein ; still lower (beyond the superior mesenteric artery) by the left renal vein and the duodenum; and thence to its termination by the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lumbar vertebra, with the pillars of the dia- phragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. For its relation to other deep parts see p. 533. The vena cava inferior commences on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra by the union of the common ihac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is incHned away fi-om the arteiy, and ascendmg on the right of the crus of the diaphragm, is imbedded in the posterior edge of the liver for an inch or more. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its connections with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the vena portse. Offsets of the solar plexus of nerves descend on it, as on the aorta.483 DUODENTJJI AND PANCREAS. CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the pancreas Remove the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in the ^ following way:—a double ligature is to be placed on the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through between the pieces of string where it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube is to be taken away by cutting through the vessels, and the peritoneum connecting it to the wall of the abdomen. After it has been separated, it is to be set aside for future study whilst the body is turned. The student should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum to see the from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove the loose peritoneum 'I'^o'lenum, and the fat ; whilst cleanmg them, he should lay bare the larger vessels and nerves. On tmning upwards the stomach the pancreas may be traced and pan- fi-om the spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other (fig. 143). By pulling forwards the duodenum, the common bile '^^^ duct may be foimd, posteriorly, between the intestine and the head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas may be removed, to show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (fig. 143, d). The first part of the small intestine, or Ejrtent of the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and crossing > the spinal column, ends on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve around the head of the pancreas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical course and regions of the abdomen. From its winding course around the pancreas it is divided into three portions—superior transverse, Division, vertical, and inferior transverse. The superior transverse part is fi'ee and moveable, like the First part is stomach ; it measm'es about two inches in length, and is directed Ijj^^l^^'' from the pylorus to the neck of the gall bladder, ascendmg slightly moveable, between the one point and the other. In fi-ont it is overlapped by the liver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena portte. The vertical part is iixed almost immoveably by the peritoneum Second part and the pancreas. It is nearly thi-ee inches in length, and descends from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Super- ficial to it is the right bend of the colon ; and beneath it are the and rests on kidney and vessels. On its inner side is the head of the pancreas, Sidney, with the common bile-duct. The ducts of the liver and pancreas open into this portion of the duodenum. The inferior transverse part is the longest of the thi-ee, and is The third continued across the spinal column to end in the jejunal portion of lOT^ge'st^and the small intestine. As it crosses the spine, it ascends fi-om the move- third to the level of the second lumbar vertebra, and lies between ^^^^' the layers of the transverse meso-colon. It has the following con- nections with tilings around :— I I 2DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. ports around it. Form and situation of tlio pan- creas. Its connec- tions by the surfaces, ■borders, and extremities. In front of it arc the superior mesenteric vessels with their plexus of nerves. Beneath it lie the vena cava and the aorta, with the pillars of the diaphragm ; and the left renal vein is sometimes between it and the aorta. Above it is the pancreas. Pancreas (fig. 143, e). The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an elongated form, it extends across tlje spine from the spleen to the duodenum, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right lumbar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. It is in contact posteriorly with the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm ; and it conceals the splenic vein and the beginning of the vena portaj. Projecting above the upper border, near the centre, is the arterial trunk of the cosliac axis : to the left of that vessel, along the same border, is placed the splenic artery ; whilst to the right of it, lie the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the coehac axis ; to the right of that spot the third part of the duodenum is found, and to the left, the inferior mesenteric ascending to join the splenic vein. The left end or the tail of the pancreas touches the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney. The right extremity or the head is received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being partly separated by the common bile duct and the pancreatico-duodenal arteries. This part projects above and below the body of the gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the lower projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenum beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. Arteries of viscera. Veins. How to dis- sect coeliac axis and coron- ary. hepatic, and splenic. CCELIAC AXIS AND VENA POETiE. A short branch of the aorta,—the coeliac axis, fiu-nishes arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; it subdivides into three chief branches, coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins corresponding with the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one trunk—the vena portaj. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the plexuses of nei-ves around each. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Next the hepatic artery, with the vena porta3 and the bile duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder ; and a considerable branch of it should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should beC(ELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 485 defined ; this is a difficult task without the aid of some one to hold aside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, arteries ; but the origin of the vena portaj is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CCELIAC AXIS (fig. 143, c) is the first visceral branch of the c«i'ac ax.s^ abdominal aorta, and arises between the pillars of the diaphragm, tinee fol^ It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which projects = above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic—radiate fi-om the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera. a. The coronary artenj (il) is the smallest of the three, and Coronary,^^ passes between the layers of the little omentum to the left end of the stomach. At that spot it furnishes some oesophageal branches, and turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric, o) from the liepatic arteiy. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed :— (Esophageal hranches ascend on the gullet through the opening in the diaphragm, supplying that tube ; and they anastomose on it phagus with branches of the thoracic aorta. Gastric hranches are given to both sides of the stomach, and those and the on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. h. The splenic artery (e) is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in Splenic the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to ^^''^^ the spleen, along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (fr-om four supplies tlie to ten), which enter that viscus by the surface towards the stomach. ^1*'®®°' It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. Pancreatic hranches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the the pancreas gland ; and one of these, art. i^cmcreatica magna, arises near the small twigs'! left end, and runs to the right in the substance of the viscus with the duct. Branches for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near and the the spleen. Some of these, vasa hrevia, tm-n upwards to the left end of the stomach, beneath the gastro-splenic omentum and ramify Previa,'' in the coats of that organ. Another longer branch, art. gastro-epiploica sinistra (f) turns to and left the right between the layers of the gi-eat omentum along the great fpij^ok curve of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro- epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peri- toneum forming the great omentum. c. The hepatic artery (g) is intermediate in size between the other Hepatic two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course ' to the liver the vessel is bent first to the right towards the small ^u" iiver,° end of the stomach, where it supplies its pruicipal branches (superiorDISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 486 m which it pyloric and gastro-epiploVc). It ascends then between the layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and vena portaj, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the and supplies right and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to the iver, but fi-eelyto the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas, as below :— ' ?hfstomad> for pyloric branch (o) descends to the upper border of ' the stomach, and rumiing from right to left anastomoses with the coronary artery ; it distributes small ai'terial twigs on both sm-f aces of the stomach. to the The right gastro-epiplo'ic branch ■\(Ji) (art. gast. epiploi'ca dextra) duodemuii"'^ descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and turning to \\z.:- ' the left along the great curvatm-e of the stomach, inosculates with the left gastro-epiplo'ic of the splenic arteiy. To the surfaces of the stomach some offsets are given; and others descend between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following named branches to the stomach, and the pancreas and duodenum :— Small inferior pyloric branches end in the small extremity of the stomach. The pana^eatico-diioclenal branch superior) arises opposite the duodenum, and runs between the intestine and the jDancreas ; it anastomoses beloAV with the pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric (fig. 141, b): both the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect * View of the coeliac axis, and of the viscera to which its branches are supplied (Tiedemann). A. Liver. B. Gall-bladder, o. Stomach, d. Duo- denum. E. Pancreas, f. Spleen. Vessels: a. Aorta, b. Upper mesenteric. c. Cceliac axis. d. Coronaiy. c. Splenic. /. Left gastro-epiploic. g. Hepatic, h. Eight gastro-epiploic. i. Superior, and k, inferior pancreatico- duodenal. I. DiapLragmatic arteries, n. Cystic, o. Superior pyloric. t This artery is named commonly gastro-duodenal as ftu- as to the spot where it gives oS the branch to the duodenum and pancreas. inferior pyloric, and pan- creatico- duodenal.487 VENA POET^ AND BRANCHES. of the same viscera is another small artery of the pancreatico- duodenal with a similar position and distribution. The Upaiic branches (right and left) sink mto the hver at the Branches to transverse fissure, and ramify in its substance :— The right branch is divided when about to enter the transverse one^for the fissure, and supplies the following small artery to the gall bladder ; ^^^^^^ Fig. 144.* the cystic arteiy (n) bifurcates on reaching the neck of the gall bladder, and its two twigs ramify on the opposite surfaces. The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the liver at ^^^d one for tuG iGlt lODG the left end of the transverse fissure : a branch to the Spigelian lobe of the liver arises from this piece of the artery. Portal Veins. The veins of the intestinal tube, and of the spleen Portal veins : * Vena portiB and the veins joiniug it (Henle : Anatomie des Meusclien). a. Trunk of the vena portse. b. Upper mesenteric, c Right gastro-cpiploic. d. Inferior mesenteric, e. Left gastro-epiplo'ic. /. Coronary of tlie stomacli. ff. Vasa brevia.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 488 coronary from the stomach; splenic from the spleen, stomach, pancreas, and intes- tine. Vena portiE ; its origin, length, and termi- nation. Accessory and terminal branches. Vena portse wants valves; resembles an artery. Hepatic duct. Common hepatic duct. Common bile duct; length and course. Termina- tion : joined by pancreatic. and pancreas, pour their blood into the vena portaj. The two mesenteric veins and their branches liave been referred to (p. 478) ; and the two following, with the ti-unk of the portal vein, remain to be noticed. The superior cwonai-y vein (fig. 144,/) lies along the upper border of tlie stomach. It begins in the a28ophagn8 and the left end of the stomach and joins the vena portas at the pylorus. The splenic vein (fig. 144) is large in size, and is formed by the union of branches from the spleen. It takes much the same course as the artery, but below that vessel, and runs beneath the pancreas to the fi-ont of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (6) to form the vena portee. Between its origin and termination it receives branches corre- sponding with the following arteries :—vasa brevia ((/), left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric vein {d) opens into it about its middle. The vena portcB (fig. 144, a) is formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin is placed in fi-ont of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas and two inches fi-om the right end. The vessel is about four inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, behind the bile duct and the hepatic artery, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary vein (/), and by the cystic vein near the liver. The right branch enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch is distributed to the left half of the liver, and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe. This vein commences by roots in some viscera of the abdomen, like any other vein, but it is deficient in valves ; and it ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an arteiy. Its radicles communicate with the systemic veins on some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Bile ducts. Two hepatic ducts issue at the transverse fissure of the liver (fig. 156), one from the right and another fi'om the left lobe, and unite to form the following :— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives at its termination the duct of the gall bladder, the union of the two giving origin to the common bile duct. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus) is about tluree inches long. It descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse portion of the duodenum ; then passing between the pancreas and the vertical piece of the duodenum, it opens into this portion of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Whilst in the small omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. Before piercing the coats of the intestine it is joined commonly by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately.489 EPIGRASTIC PLEXUS AND OFFSETS. SYMPATUETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nekve. In the abdomen, as in the thorax the Genemid^^^ sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side o± tlie „erves. vertebral cohunn ; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses exist in the abdomen. One of these, ^=^8" the epigastric, is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to solar all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, the hypo- gastric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the and hypo- pelvic viscera. The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its otfsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- tion is to be made :—After the air has been let out of the stomach piexus, and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gastro-epiploic vessels are to be cut tlu-ough near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi- and tlie ... ? 1 1 semilunar lunar ganglion ; and mixed up with the nerves ot the plexus are ganglia. numerous lymphatic glands, with a dense tissue, which require to be removed -with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion oiEsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be observed in a fissure of the diaphi'agm, which throw themselves into the coeliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumogastric Follow the nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the upper tue'vfgus border in front near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will be nerves? seen at a coiTcsponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the coeliac axis; and fi-om the left, to the hepatic plexus. The EPIGASTRIC or solar plexus is a large netM-'ork of nerves and Solar ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and the pillars of the ^'^"''''^' diaphragm: it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of appeai-auce, opposite sides, and extends downwards to the pancreas, sun-ound- extent; ing the cceliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves; and it is joined also by an ofilsct of the right pneumo-gastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera along the S'ves offsets vessels. o" blood- vessels.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 490 Semilunar ganglia: situation; fom. Several oUsets of the plexus. Plexus to tlic dia- pliragm lias a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal uerves. Eenal Ijlexus joms spermatic. Coeliac plexus divides like the artery, into coro- nary, splenic, and hepatic the last has secondary plexuses, viz.: pyloric. gastro- e]iiploic, and duodenal: cystic. The semilunar ganglia, one on each side, are tlie largest in the body, and each is joined at the upper end by the great splanchnic nerve. Each is situate at the outer part of the plexus, close to the suprarenal body, and on the pillar of the diapliragm : the ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. Irregular in shape, the mass is oval, or divided into smaller ganglia : from its outer side neri'es are directed to the Iddney and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the jjlexiis. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses around the vessels ; thus there are coeUac, mesenteric, renal, spermatic, diaphragmatic, &c. Diaphragmatic xilexus. This plexus comes fi-om the upper end of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phi-enic nerve of the cervical plexus (p. 73) and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion where the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments ai-e supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body : this ganglion is absent on the left side. (Swan.) The suprarenal newes are very large and numerous, in comparison with the size of the viscus supphed, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splancluiic nerves communicates with this plexus. The o-enal plexus is derived fi-om the semilunar ganglion and outer side of the plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic nerve. The nerves suiTound the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 481). The cceliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nei-ve on each side, and by au offset from the right pneumo-gastric neni^e. The plexus divides like the artery into thi-ee offsets—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. a. The coronary 2il€xus accompanies the vessel of the same name to the upper border of the stomach, where it ends : it communicates with the left vagus nerve. h. The splenic plexus f m-nishes ners'-es to the pancreas, and to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery : and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nei-ve. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portse, the hepatic artery, and the bile duct into the Ever, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets fi-om the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished ai-oimd the branches of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels : A pyloric plexus is distiibuted along the upper border of the stomach. Two other -ple^nse?,—gastro-epiploic (right) and pancreatico-duo- clenal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each artery. A cystic plexus ramifies in the coats of the gaU bladder with the artery.491 ENDING OF VAGUS NERVE, The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 481); but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from tlie epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The lanje nerve perforates the Ending crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- splanchnic lunai- ganglion. nerve, The small nerve comes through the same openmg in the diaphi-agm smaU, as the preceding, and joins the coeliac plexus. The smallest nei-ve, which is often absent, throws itself into the ^JJ^^^j^^^ renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end in the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, wliich extend along the Ending of small curvatiu-e, and over the front of the stomach ; these send ^^"^ offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and riglit. stomach near the upper border ; it communicates with its fellow, and with the ccehac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. Most of the ^ascera are now to be removed fi-om the Prepare for abdomen, in order that the body may be turned for the dissection body b^' of the Back and lower hmbs. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, removing are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus ^^^^ viscera, near the diaphragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The hver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and incising the vena cava between the posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time the left testicle, and the right kidney with the suprarenal body, should be removed for examination whilst the body is turned ; the former can be taken out by cutting thi-ough the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing its vessels about the middle. Directions. Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- Directions tion of the Back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual dissertor. time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dissection of the Back, p. 385. Tlie rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the following Section. Section IY. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE ST05LVCH. The stomach is the dilated pari; of the alimentary tube between Dellnition, the esophagus and the small intestine, into wliich the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 Separate ami blow up the stomach. Form, direction, size, divisions. Left end and right. Cardiac and pyloric openings; last has a valve. Surfaces. tipper border; lower border. diflference in outline. Four strata in stomach. The serous coat is thin and adhe- rent. The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, or Dissection. To see tlie form, the stomach must be blown up mode- rately, and the surface cleaned ; but, previously, let the student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodeniun close to the pylorus. Form and Divisions. The stomach is somewhat conical in form (fig. 145). Its size varies much in different bodies, and is some- times much dnnmished by a constriction in the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders curves to be examined. Extremities. The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventriculi) is the largest part of the stomach, and projects about thi-ee inches to the left of the opening of the oesophagus. The right or pyloric end, much smaller than the other, is cylindrical, and forms the apex of the cone to which the stomach is likened. Openings. The left opening (cardiac), which communicates with the oesophagus, is at the highest point of the stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The right or pyloric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus) : at the same spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, where a firm circular ring may be felt. Surfaces. The surfaces (anterior and posterior) are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but rounded when it is dis- tended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 467). Borders. The upper border or small cm-ve is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end ; and the loAver border or large cui-ve is convex, except near the right end, where it is concave—the concavity of the one border corresponding with the convexity of the other. An arterial arch, and a piece of peritoneum (omentum), are fixed to each border. Structdke. In the wall of the stomach are fom- coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval exists corresponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in those spaces are contained the vessels, nei-ves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. It consists of thi-ee sets of fibres,—longitudinal, circular, and oblique ; these lie from without inwards in the order mentioned, and are unstriated or involuntaiy. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 145, «) are derived from the oesopha- gus ; they spread over the surfaces, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres ai-e most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach.493 STRUCTURE OF STOMACH. The circular fibres (fig. 145, I) forn; the 2'^^^;^^^' ^^^^ he best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres neai the pylo.us !^le7re h f^m the lefrto the right end of the Btomach ; bu at the pylorus they are most numerous and strongest, and form a rmg or sphincter (c) around the openmg. pSmular or and oblique The oblique fibres (fig. 145, .) are contmuous with cir^u^^r oi an^^^ deep layer of the cesophagus. On the left and right b^/^ f orifice they are so arranged as to form a kmdof spluncter (d and.) Fig. 145.* (Henle) ; but those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. Fibrous coat. By remo-\'ing the muscular layer over a small space. The fibrous the fibrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum of areolar ^° ^ ^jn. ^ tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a lied in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their dis- tribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the stomach. Mucous but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a ' recent stomach. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death feel, in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the colour, membrane is less vascular than dming digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When folds, the stomach is contracted the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy ridges or rugftc, which become longitudinal along the great curve, towards tlie pylorus. * Diagram representing the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the stomach. Part of each of the two external coats is removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres, h. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus, d. Oblique fibres on the left of the cardiac opening, c. Oblique fibres more numerous, on the right of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 494 Thickness: disposition at pylorus. On the snr- fncc are pits or alveoli; their size, shape, and appear- ance. The texture made up of tubules; The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the musculai- ring, which assists m closing the opening. If this membrane and Its submucous layer are removed fi-om the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (spliincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. ' Microscopic structure of the mucous memhrane. With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig 146) which measure from ^th to ^th of an inch across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach • and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irre- gular. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubes. By means of a thin section under the microscope the membrane may be observed to be composed almost altogether of minute Fig. 147.t vertical tubes, which lie side by side, and project into the submucous tissue. Measuring fi-om gSg-th to -^-^th. of an inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of dee^end- stomach both in the alveoli (fig. 146) and in the interalveolar spaces. They ai-e formed of a homogeneous membrane, and are for the most part straight, but towards the pylorus they increase in length, and are somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity ; some are divided into two or more pieces (fig. 147). ephhelfum • -^^ cardiac extremity of the stomach the tubes are lined at the * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Spi-ott Boyd.) + Enlarged representation of the tubes of the stomach, a. Gastric tube from the pyloric end lined, throughout, by columnar epithelium (Kolliker). 6. Gastric tube from the cardiac end, with a columnar epithelium lining near the mouth, and flattened nucleated granular cells beyond (Thomson).COATS OF SMALL INTESTINE. 495 mouth by columnar epithelium (fig. 147, b) ; but in the closed end by some secrete flattened and granular nucleated cells, which are named j^ejitic glands, g^»^tric and are supposed to give origin to the gastric fluid. Towards the pylorus the tubes are clothed throughout by columnar epithelium some mucus, (fig. 147, o), and secrete mucus. A columnar epithelium covers the surface of the mucous mem- Epithelial ^ brane, and entera the small tubules. On the attached surface of the mucous membrane is a thin layer Sujjmucous of involimtary muscular fibres, separatuig it from the fibrous coat: laygr, it is said to send offsets amongst the tubules. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the stomach, after supplying the Arteries, musculai- coat, ramify in the submucous tissue ; fi-om this anasto- mosis fine twigs are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous membrane, where they form a network. The veins begin ygins, in the mucous membrane, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliA'^er their blood into the portal system. Lymphatics. Two layers of absorbents, superficial and deep, exist lymphatics, in the stomach : the latter begin in a plexus beneath the tubules, and form a network in the fibrous layer. Both sets leave the stomach with the bloodvessels. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sym- and nerves, pathetic (p. 490), and can be followed to the fibrous coat : small ganglia have been observed on them. SMALL INTESTINE. The three portions into which the small intestine is divided, have Characters, the following characters :— The duodenum measures as much as the breadth of twelve fingers, Len<rth viz. about ten mches, and is more fixed than the rest of the intes- ° ' tinal tube. It is wider than either the jejunum or the ileum, and size, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the common bile and ti^c'kness. pancreatic ducts pour their contents. entering it. The jejunum and the ileum together measure about twenty feet Length, in length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the tei-mmation of the one and the Division commencement of the other, but two fifths of the length are as- signed to the jejunum, and three fifths to the ileum. Between the Differences ends, however, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower end of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structure. In the small intestme the wall is formed by the same Structui-e number of layers as m the stomach, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous mucous, and submucous. ' Dissection.^ The different layers are to be examined on pieces, Dissection about three mches long, taken fi-om the duodenum, the upper part for it '° of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut off, they are to be distended with air; and the serous covermg is to be torn off for a short distance, to show the muscularDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 496 Serous cont like that of the stomach, except in the duo- denum. Muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and a circu- lar layer. Dissect fibrous coat. Fibrous coat like that in stomach. Seek glands of Brunner : show mu- cous ooat. Mucous coat, thickness, folds, villous surface, and epithe- lium. Submucous muscular layer. Folds; arrange- ment, length, size and depth ; how formed coat, but in doing this, the external longitudinal fibres will be taken away without great care. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To tlie jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, except at the attached side where the vessels enter : at this spot the peri- toneum is reflected off to form tlie mesentery, and a space exists resembling that at the borders of the stomach. The peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly ; this peculiarity has been described at p. 475. The musmlar coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The fibres are pale in colour, and are not striated. The longitudinal fibres form a thin covering, wliich is most marked at the free border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat: they do not form complete rings around the intestine. Dissection. On the removal of some of the muscular stratum from the jejunum or the ileum, the submucous fibrous layer Avill come into view. The fibrous coat has the same position and use as the correspond- ing layer in the stomach. Dissection. In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seek some small compound glands—those of Brunner, which are imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the fibrous layer, when the muscular coat has been taken away. The pieces of intestine may be opened and washed to show the mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the line of attach- ment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. Mucous coat. The lining membrane is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (valvula3 conniventes) ; and the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) like the pile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are numerous glands ; and covering the whole, is a columnar epithelium. A thin layer of non-striated muscular fibres (muscularis mucosa;) covers the outer surface of this coat (fig. 152, d), and sends inwards prolongations between the tubules into the villi. The valvules conniventes (fig. 148, valves of Kerkring) are perma- nent ridges of the mucous membrane, which are arranged circularly in the intestine and project into the alimentary mass. Crescentic in form, they extend round the intestine for half or two thirds of its circle, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the larger are about two inches long, with one third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is formed of a doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses vessels between the layers.497 VILLI OF SMALL INTESTINE. They begin in the duodenum, about one or two i^f es l^ycn^^^^ extent c,. the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle ^j,,^ of the ieiunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudi- mentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The aperhire of the common bile and pancreatic ducts (fig. Uy, e) is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches from the pylorus, and Fig. 148.*- is situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the inner and posterior part of the duodenum (p. 483). A probe passed into the bile duct will show the obhque course (half an inch) under the mucous coat. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. Jlicroscojnc structure of the mucous memhrane. With the use of the microscope, and Avith pieces of fi-esh intestine, the student will be able to make out the nature of the villi, the glandular bodies, and the epithelium. Villi. When a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, from which the mucus is washed away, is examined in water, the mucous membrane will be seen to be studded over thickly with small pro- jections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist along the whole of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 151, some being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Tiieir length is from •^'yth to -Jyth of an inch ; and they are best marked where the valvulns conniventes are largest. In the duode- num their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in * Tlie tUiodcmim opened showing the valvulre conniventes, and the ojienin"- of the bile duct. The duct of the pancreas is iilso represented in greater part of its course, a. Duodenum, h. Pancreas, c. Common bile duct. d. Pan- creatic duct. c. Opening of the common duct in the intestine (Hcnle). K K wliere situiitf. Parts to 1)0 learnt in the intestine. The villi cover the siu'facc ; their .shape, size. aud numU>r198 comiiositinii of villus. artery ami vein, lactciils, DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. (Krlusc); ''"^ '"^^ *° ^'^"^^ «"'-f«<^« Each villus is an extension of the mucous coat, and is covered by columnar ej^tho mm. One or sometimes two arterial twigs form a capillary network beneath the mucous covering ffio- 149 a>, end generally in a single emerging vein. A single lacteal, or two foimmg a loop with cross branches (fig. 149, occupies the centre, and commumcates with a plexus below the .dllus. Around the Fig. 149.* muscular layer. f^everal kinds of glands. Simple tubes as in the stomach, hut not so •close ; their size, and contents. Solitary follicles ; size and -situation. lacteals a tliin layer of mistriated muscular fibre is arranged longi- tudinallj^ (Briicke). Nerves haA^e not been detected in the \n\lus. Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are included the crypts of Lieberkiilm, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brnnner's glands. The crypts of Lieherh'dlin (fig. 152, a) are minute simple tubes, similar to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, which exist throughout the small intestine. Thej'' open on the surface of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; they are closed at the opposite end, where they project into the submucous layer, and are seldom branched. Their length is from y\fth to -g^th of an inch ; they are filled with a translucent fluid containing granules, and are lined by a columnar epithelium. The so-called solitarij glands (fig. 151, ^) are roundish white eminences, about the size of mustard seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest number in the * A. Vessels of the villi in the mouse, injected by Gerlach (Kolliker). a. Artery, and h, vein. b. Lacteals and plexus of vessels in two villi, injected by Teichinan. a. Lacteal vessel, single in one villus, double in the other. 6. Plexus of vessels, c. Plexus of lacteals below the villi. (Quain's Anatomy.)499 rATCHES OP TEYER. ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between tiie valvula) connivcntcs ; they arc covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and are surrounded at their circumference by apertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. They arc closed lymph Co.ni.o- follicles beneath the mucous coat, which project into the gut ; and Fi". 150.* they are formed of a network of reticular connective tissue with lymph-corpuscles between the meshes. Fine capillary vessels per- meate the mass ; and it is surrounded by a plexus of lymphatic vessels. The glands of Peyer (fig. 151,"^, glanduhe agmmata?) exist Patches of chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which measure •'^''^'^> from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an inch in width. They are situate on the part of the intestine size: opposite to the attachment of the mesenteiy, and their direction is situation; longitudinal in the gut : usually they ai'e fi'om twenty to thirty in number. In the lower end of the ileum they are largest and most number; numerous ; but they decrease in number and size ujDwards from pepuliari- that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become irregu- lar in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The mucous membrane over them is hollowed into pits (fig. 150, I), and is generally destitute of villi on the subjacent follicles (fig. 1.01, but between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. A patch, when examined b.y the microscope, appears to be but a Conqiositiou collection of lymph follicles like the " solitary glands " (fig. 151), ufai'atcU: • A. P?,tcli of Peyor's glands four times enlarged, a. Sui-faco of the mucous membrane covered with villi, h. Pits over tlie follicles where the villi arc absent, n. Magnified representation of an injection in the rabbit, by Frev of the veasels surrounding and penetrating the follicles in a patch of Pev'er (Kiilliker). K K 2dissectiojS" of the abdomen. 500 a ('o)lcptioii of follicles. Avti'iics. Avliich are round or oval in form, and arc covered by tha mucous membrane. Around each follicle is a ring- of apertures of the ci-ypts before described. The follicles have the same composition as the scattered " solitary glands." Fine arterial twigs (fig. 150, ") ramify on the follicles, and send inwards capillary offsets which form a network in the interior, and FIk. 151. ]5 Laeteals. Glamls of Brunner; comiio- sitioii: aiiei'turcs of their ducts. The ejiithe- liuin is columnar. converge to the centre. Lacteal vessels form plexuses around and beneath the follicle, but do not penetrate the wall. The Glands of Brunner (fig. 152, h) are small compound bodies, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the mouth, wliich exist in the duodenum. For a few Fig. 152. + inches near the pyloras they are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp seed. The glands consist of lobules, with appertaining excretorj'- tubes : and each ends on the siu-face of the mucous membrane by a duct (c), whose aperture is slightly larger than the mouths of the contiguous crypts of Lieberkiilm ; they secrete mucus. Epitlieliiim. The epithelial lin- ing of the mucous membrane of the small intestine is of the columnar or cylindrical kind. On the villi it forms a distuict cover- ing of elongated pieces. It sinks into the crypts of Lieberkiilm, and into the ducts of the glands of Brunner, and gives them a linuig. * A. A piece of mucous membrane enlarged, with its villi and tubules. Part of a patch of Peyer's gland is also represented witli tlie follicles (a), each Laving a ring of tubes at the circumference, b. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm). t Magnified view of the mucous membrane of the duodenum with the tubules of Lieberkuhn, and a gland of Brunner. a. Tubules, h. ftlaud of Bi-iinner. c. Duct of the gland, d. Submucous layer of muscular fibres (Kollikcr).501 LARGE INTESTINE. Dissection. To demonstrate the areolar tissue between the coats How t.. of tlie intestine, a piece of tlie bowel turned inside out is to be - inflatcd forcibly; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the iu- tcstmc may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. The branches of arte>-ies ramify in the submucous layer, and end in a network of small twigs in the ^jjfy'" mucous membrane, which supplies the folds, the villi, and the glands. Opposite Peyer's patches the intestine is most vascular ; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, before supplying offsets to them. The veins have their usual resemblance to the veins; companion arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial set (lymphatics) in the absorbents, muscular coat; and of a deep plexiform set (lacteals) in both the mucous and submucous layers. The two sets join, and all end in larger trunks in the mesentery. Nerves of the small intestine come fi-om the upper mesenteric pig^^g^^f'"'"^ plexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, form with gaii- plexuses witli interspersed ganglia. One such plexus is contained 8^"*- in the muscular coat between the longitudinal and circular fibres (Auerbach) ; and another is placed in the submucous laj'^er (Meiss- ner) : they join fi-eely by branches through the intestinal coats, and reach fi-om the pylorus to the extremity of the alimentary tube. Structure of the common bile duct. The bile duct consists of an Two coats external or strong fibrous layer, and of an internal or mucous coat duct; which is lined by columnar epithelium. On the surface of the eiiitheiium inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous '""^ glaiKls. glands, which are imbedded in the fibrous coat; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine is the part of the aliraentaiy canal between Kxtent of the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division, and its ^lie gut; attachment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been de- scribed (p. 470). In length this portion of the ahmentary canal measures about five length: or six feet,—one fifth of tlie length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the cajcum, size, and gradually decreases as far as the rectum, where there is a dilata- tion near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished cq,,, ,„,.p,, by the following characters :—It is of greater capacity, being in w?t'h small «omc places as large again, and is more fixed in its position : it is '502 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. more fixed; Hot coilod ; saoculatml witli bniul.s, not in the rectum. Apijend- ages. Take pieces of the Inrgi! intestine. Dclinition of cieciim; lengtli and widtli: receives ileum and appendix. Venniforni appendix; attacli- nient: dimensions. It is hollow. Fig. 153.* Dry the cajcum, ojien it to .see the valve. also free from convolution, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations ; but at the lower end of the largo intestine (rectum), the surface is smooth, and the longitudinal bands disappear. Attached to the surface, especially along the transverse colon, are separate pieces of peritoneum containing fat,—the appendices epiploic*. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the large intestine the student should cut off and blow up the cfccum, with part of the ileum entering it; he should prepare in a similar way a piece of the ti-ansverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 153, a, caput crecum coli) is the rounded end of the large intestine which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the junc- tion of the ileum with it. It mea- sures about two inches and a half in length, and though gradually nar- rowing infeiiorly, the caacum is the widest jDart of the colon,—hence the name caput coli. At its inner side it is joined by the small intestine (i) ; and still lower there is a small wonn- like j)rojection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Appendix vermiformis (fig. 153, c). This little convoluted tube is attached to the lower and hinder jiart of the cascum, of which it was a con- tinuation in the embryo at one period. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the caecum by a fold of peritoneum. Its hollow has an aper- ture of communication Avith the in- testine (d). In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dissection. To examine the interior of the ca3cum, and the valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made in it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the ileum near its termination ; another fi-om the side of the ciucum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. * Interior of a cajcum dried and laid open. a. Crecum. I. Small intestine. c. Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, e. Ileo-colic piece of the valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ileo-crecal piece of the valve. (/. Retinaculiim of the valve on each side.503 STRUCTURE OF THE COLON. Ileo-ccBCal valve (fig. 1.03). Tliis valve is situate at the entrance situation of of the ileum into the cfi>cum. It is composed of two pieces, each = with a different inclination, which project into the interior of the j.^'lt?"®*'''''' ciccum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of com- nuinication between the two differently-sized portions of tlic alimen- tary canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic (e), projects horizontally On?,'Jeo. into the largo intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the ^°' colon. And the lower piece, ileo-cacal (/), which is the larger of the otlier the two, has a vertical direction between the ileum and the cajcum. iieo-ciecai; At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended ^^^^^^^^^^ together ; and the resulting prominence Qi) extends transversely tlie ends, on each side of the intestine, forming the frccna or retinacula of the and form Irajna. valve. ' The size of the opening is altered by the distension of the Opening in intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the '''"^ margins of the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is fomied by circular muscular fibres of Tiie valve a the intestuial tube, covered by mucous membrane ; as if the ileum J," ^i""fvau"' was thrust obliquely through the wall of the cascum, after being of tiie gut. deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum fi'om the cascum. The opening of the appendix into the ca3cum (d) is placed below Appendix- that of the ileum. The mucous membrane partly closes the aperture, "i"^"** and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut. Ridges in and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds '• result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest iiow enclose vessels. Structure of the Colon. The coats of the large are similar to Four strata those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and "t the giu! mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, Serous c-oat throughout, in the same degi-ee. It covers the front of the cascum, thehfte.'-"" and the fi-ont and sides of the ascending and descending colon ; but tine, in neither does it reach commonly the posterior aspect (p. 475). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has intei-vals along the borders, where the transverse mcso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and circular fibres, Two layers as in the small intestine. of fleshy The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the "oTh^udinni surface, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about inthree'"" a quarter of an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix the fibres form a uniform layer; but they are continued thence into Sa'^i out the bands on the ciccum and colon : on the rectum they are dif- nin'P"iii>: fused over the surface. When the bands arc divided the intestine '"""^'50i DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and circular. Fibrous coat as in small gut. Mucous coat is without folds and villi. Structure like that of siuuU gut. Tubes or ci-ypts more numerous and longer than those of small intestine. Solitary glands most in the ciecum; size and form : epithelium. Vessels, nerves, and elongates,—the sacculi, and the ridges in the interior of the gut, disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are most marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The fibrous coat resembles that of the small intestine. It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. The viucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intes- tine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour ; and it is not thrown into special folds, except hi the rectum. The surface is free from villi ; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large, can be distinguished fi-om that of the small mtestine. Tliis difEer- ence in the two portions of the alimentary tube is avcII marked on the ileo-ca^cal valve ; for the surface looking to the small intestine is studded with yHU, whilst the surface, continuous with the mucous lining of the cajcum, is free fi'om those small eminences. Microscopic appearances. In a piece of fresh intestine the micro- scope will show the mucous membrane to possess small tubes or crypts, and some larger solitary follicles ; with an epitheUal cover- ing on the free surface, and a thin iruiscular layer (imtscularis mucosce) on the other, whose arrangement is similar to that of the small intestme. The tubules (fig. 154, ^) occupy the whole length of the large gut, and resemble those of the small intestine, but are more nume- rous, and closer together. Their orifices on the surface are circular ('), and are more uniformly diffused than the apertures of the tubules in the small gut. A vertical section of the membrane (-) will show the tubes to extend vertically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be longer than the crypts of Lieberkiilm in the jejunum and ileum; they measm-e from ^th to J^th of an inch in length. The so called solitary glands (fig. 154, ^) are scattered here and there through the large intestine: but they are in greatest number in the cajcum and vermiform appendix. They are whitish romided bodies from -j'^-th to ^th. of an inch in diameter, and ai-e situate in the submucous layer amongst the tubules. They are l^nnph foUicles with a structure like those in the small mtestine. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, and enters the tubules. Vessels. The distribution of the vessels in the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the smaller bowel. N'erves. In the coats of the large intestine the nerves have a plexiform arrangement like that in the small gut. * Enlarged view of a " solitary gland," and of tlic tulniles of the mucous coat (Boehm). a. Gland of the large intestine, u. Tubules of the mucous membrane. 1. Surface openings. 2. Side view of the tubes. 3. Pits for the closed ends of the tubes in the submucous tissue. Fig. 154.*505 PANCREAS AND DUCT. The ahsovhent vessels consist of two sets as in the small intestine ; absorbents, after leaving the gut they join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCnKAS. The pancreas (fig. 143, e) is a narrow flattened gland, from six Fonn an,! to eight inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dogs tongue. It is larger at the right than the left end ; and it is divisions, divided into head, tail, and body. The Imul, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the Situati<m. duodenum : and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and touches Tlie bead ' and tail; the spleen. The hochj of the gland is narrowest a little to the right of the anil tbe vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The connections of the pancreas with surround- ing psu-ts are described at p. 484. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface, T'™<J«^o'^''^ and let the excretory duct be traced fi-om the head to the tail by ^ ' cutting away the substance of the gland. The small duct will be recognised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas consists of separate lobules, and is it is a provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule ; giana°wi'tii- but it is surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects ijito the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The fluid secreted capsule, by it assists in the digestion of the aliment. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a grajdsh white colour, and '""^ are united into larger masses hy areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each consists ultimately, as in the parotid, of the fine branchings like the of the excretoiy duct, which end in closed vesicular extremities, and are suiTOunded by a plexus of vessels. In the vesicles the epithelium " is spheroidal. The duct of the pancreas (fig. 148, f/, canal of Wirsung) extends The duct nf the entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower ^^^^ ''''"'"^' than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where extent; it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many branches. It finally ends by opening branches: into the duodenum, either in union with, or separate firom the common bile duct (p. 497). Of the tributary branches, the largest • is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures from .j-^-th to -Jytli of an inch in diameter near size and the duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the latter is lined by a cylindiical epithelium, and is provided with amfgh^^^^^^^^^^ small glands in the duct and its largest branches. Vessels, lympliatics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been Vessels and described (p. 485) ; and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The nerves are furnislied by the solar plexus.506 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. THE SI'LKICN. Consistence and colour. Use. Form nnil position. Size niul weiglit. Suifaces. Borders. Extremi- ties. Sometimes aceessoiy spleens. Two coats and sjieciul material. Serous coat nearly complete. Fibrous coat sends in- wards pro- cesses, structure, Interior of spleen. disiiosition of llbrous tissue to fonn an areolar stiiicture. The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluisli or purple colour, sometimes approaching to gray. Its texture is friable, and easily broken imrler pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed vertically against the gi-eat end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thickness. Its weight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than the male. At the outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. The inner surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge, nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into wliich the vessels plunge to ramify in the interior. Before and behind the ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the vessels enter is named the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi), vaiying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found occasionally, near the fissure of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the gi-eat omentum. Structure. Enveloping the spleen are tAvo coverings, a serous and a fibrous. It is formed by a network of fibrous or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp, with the Mal- pighian corpuscles. Throughout the mass the bloodvessels and the nerves ramify. No duct exists in connection with this organ. The serous or peritoneal coat incases the spleen, covering the surface except at the hilum and the posterior border. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. The fibrous coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the fissure on the inner surface this investment jjasses into the interior with the vessels, to Avhich it furnishes sheaths : and if an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its inner surface. Its colour is whitish ; and its structure is made u^) of areolar and elastic tissues. Dissection. The spongy or trabecular structure will best appear, by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove the inner giiimous-looking material. The trabecular tissue (fig. 155) forms a network thi-ough the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its pro- cesses or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and average from -j-i^th to -^^ih of an inch : they consist of fibrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely to- gether, and contain the proper substance of the spleen, and the vessels.607 STRUCTURE OF SPLEEX. Fis. 155.* Mkroscojyic appearances. The clmracters of the spleen substance cannot be ascertained without the aid of the microscope _ The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass which is lodged in tlie areola3 of the trabecular structure. Under the microscope this material is seen to be composed of a fine network of ramifying connective tissue corpuscles, with blood-cells in its meshes. The Malpighian corpuscles are small rounded whitish bodies, about -g-Vh of an inch in diameter, and are connected with the outer coat of "the smallest branches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp of the spleen, and are surrounded by it. In structure they are like the lymph follicles of the intestine, consisting of reticular tissue, with lymph corpuscles in its meshes, through wliich blood-capillaries pass. Bloodvessels. The larger branches of the splenic ttrtei-y are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabeculjB; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. In the smallest branches, with Avhich the Malpighian corpuscles are united, the outer coat is tliickened by lymphoid tissue, and is directly continuous with those bodies in structure. The splenic vein is supposed to begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. From the union of these radicles arise small branches, which unite into ti-unks larger than the accompanying arteries, and issue by the fissure of the spleen ; in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Nerves and lymphatics. The lymphatics are superficial and deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum. In the spleen they begin in the corpuscles of Malpighi, and in the outer coat of the smallest arteries ; they are conveyed to the hilum of the spleen the vessels. The nerves come fi'om the solar plexus, and sur- Splenic pulp; colour, anil coinijosl- tion. Malpigliiiiu bodies ; .size; structure. Splenic artery. Ending. Peculiarity in smaller branches. Vein begins by open spaces. Brandies. Lymphatics. Nerves. on round the artery and its branches. THE LIVER. Tlie liver secretes the bile, and is the lai'gest gland in the body. 9"'"''^ o'' 'I'b Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 156). Preparatoiy to examining the liver, the Clean vessels at the under surface sliould be dissected out. This proceed- ^^^l^]^ °" ing will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena portaa surface; Avith tow or cotton wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its * A drawing of the traljecular stnicturo of the spleen of the o.x, at some distance from the hilum.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 508 follow left piece of vena portie. Colour ami cunsistuucu; weight; iiionsiive- iiieiits. Form ami divisions. Ujipci' surface smooth; undev surface irregular. Anterior l)oriler tliin andnotclied, posterior tliicker, and also notclied. Extremities. Lobes on nnder surface are live, viz.: left, right; last sul)- Uivided into Knuarc, duct. Tlio several vessels and tlic ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portai to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus (fZ). The liver is of a red-browai colour and firm consistence ; and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back l^etween six and seven inches : and in thiclmess, at the right end, about tln-ee inches, but this last measure- ment varies with the spot examined. In shape the liver is somewhat square. It has many named parts, viz., two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities : and the under surface is further marked by lobes and fossae, and by fissures which contain vessels. The connections and the ligaments of the liver are described at p. 471 and p. 476. Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is convex: extending fi-om fi-ont to back is the suspensory ligament, which divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is rendered irregular by lobes, fissures, and fossas : in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longi- tudinal sulcus divides it into a right and a left lobe. Borders. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : one is opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the inider surface before alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker at the right than at the left end ; and where it is thickened it touches the right kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and the vena cava is partly imbedded in it on the right of the spine. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded; and the left is thin and flattened. Lobes. On the under surface the liver is divided primarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the antero-posterior or longitudinal fissure ; and occupying the right lobe are tbi-ee others, viz. the square, the Spigelian, and the caudate lobe. The left lobe, B, is smaller and thinner than the right, and there is a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. The right lobe, A, forms the gi-eater pai't of the liver, and is separated fi-om the left by the longitudinal fissure on the one aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached below ; and the foUowmg lobes are pro- jections on its under surface :— The square lobe, c, (lobulus quadratus), is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus.509 LOBES AND FISSURES OF LIVER. Tlte Spigelian lobe, d, lies behind the transverse fissure, and spigelian, forms a roundish projection on the surface. Oil its left side is the lonrntudinal tissure ; and on its right, the vena cava inferior The caudate lobe, K, is a slight, elongated eminence which is -.date directed fi-om the Spigelian lobe beliind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundaiy of that sulcus. Where the lissure terminates this projection subsides in the right bbe. Fissures. Extending horizontally half across the right part oi Tinee^^^ ^ the liver between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the square lobe on the other, is the transverse or j^ortal fissure. Fig. 156.* It is situate nearer the posterior than the anterior border, and con- portal or tains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure, F, extends fi'om the front to the back of longitudi- the liver, between the right and left lobes. In it anterior to the "''^' transverse fissure lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called roimd hgament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (ponshepatis). In it behind that fissure is contained a small obliterated cord (f/), the remams of the vessel named ductus venosus in the fetus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the one for tlie Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the '^'^"'^ cava (a) be opened, two large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. Fossa:. On the under surface of the right lobe are tlu-ee deprcs- Fossr> beneath. * Under surface of tlie liver, a. Right, and B, left lobe. c. Quadrate lobe. D. Spigelian, and K, caudate lobe. i'. Longitudinal fi.ssure. o. Gall- bladder, a. Vena cava. /j. Vena porta?, c. Round ligament, d. Obliterated ductus venosus. c. Common hepatic duct. /. Cystic duct. g. Commoa bile duct. h. Hepatic artery.510 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEX. Vessels in tlif tiaiisver.se /isguie. Hematic duct. Hepatic arteiy. Vena portte. Umbilical vein in the fetus ; oniiditinii after birth. Lolnilav stnieture ; ineasutl by two coats. Serous coat, ■where deticient. Fibrous covering is prolonged to the interior. Lobules of the liver; sioiis:—one for tlic gall-bladder to the right oC the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior edge ; and a tliird for the kidney near the posterior border. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse iissnre, viz. vena portic, hepatic artery and duct, have the following position :—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct (fig. 15G, e) is formed by two branches—one fi-om the right, and one from the left lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. Aftei- a distaiice of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct (17). The hepatic artery (li) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and its branches are suiTounded by nerves and lymphatics. The venaportce (b) branches, like the artery, into two tranks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longest. Fetal condition of the uniUlical vein. Before birth the pervious umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens pos- teriorly into the vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure recei^-es the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied fi-om it to both lobes of the liver ; and a lai-ge one, directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left piece of the A'ena portas. Purified or placental blood circulates through the A'essel at that period. Adult state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in fi-ont of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament (fig. 156, c). The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord (f/) remaining in its jilace. Whilst the lateral branches, which are in the same line as, and continuous with the left branch of the vena portaj, remain open, and subsequently form the left division of the vena porta3. Occasionally the ductus A^enosus is found more or less pervious. Structure of the Liver. The substance of the liver consists of small bodies called lobules or acini; together with vessels which are concerned both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutri- tion of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At certain spots interA'als exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is verj' thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheatli (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 159, I) constituteSTRUCTURE OF LIVER. oil the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or b}' means of a rent hi the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a pin's head, and measure from ^\th to -^\t\i of an inch in diameter. Closely massed together they possess a dark central point ; and there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they connnunicate by vessels. By means of transverse and ver- tical sections of the lobules, their form will appear flattened on the exterior, but many sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest didsions of the hepatic vein, to wliich each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, sonrething like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. To study the minute structure of the lobules, a microscope will be necessary ; and the different vessels 6f the liver should be niinutel}'^ injected. Constituents of the lobules. Each lobule is composed of minute hepatic cells, which are arranged web-liko amongst the ducts and A'cssels ; and it is i^rovided with a capillary netAvork of vessels, and with a plexus of the bile duct. Cells of the lobules. The hepatic or biliary cells (fig. 157, a) form the chief part of the lobule; they are irregular in form, being roimded or many sided, and pos- sess a bright nucleus, or even more than one. In size thev size nnd aiJiieanmce; form. Position to veins. Fis. 157.* A lobule is a distinct t'laud. Biliary cells of the lobule, form size, and contents; vary from -^o^^^^ to ^th of an inch. They are of a yelloAV- ish colour, and enclose granular particles, together with fat and yellow colouring matter. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows radiating from tl>e centre, with spaces (b) between them for the bloodvessels and ducts. The cells are concerned in the secretion of the bile. Vessels of the lobule (fig. 158, b). The smallest branches of the venaportce, after uniting in a circle around the lobule, where they are named interlobular (a), enter its substance, and form therein a network of capillaries (c) near the circumference. A small branch of the heixitic rein (d) occupies the centre of the lobule ; its radicles communicate with the portal network, and it issues from the base of the lobule as tlic intralobular vein. _ The rculicles of the bile duct (fig. 158, a) begin within the lobule ni a fine mtralobular plexus of ducts {g) between tlie hepatic ■ * ^,"|'^,"ified representation of tlie liepatic cells with their arran"ement ni the lobule, a. Cells, b. Intercelhilar space (Hcnle). "^'^''^noement aiTaUi^e- iiient. Its vessels, viz. vena porta', hepatic vein, and bile duct:512 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEx\. use of tlie vessels. Vessels in tlie livei-. Capsule of Glisson. Vena jiortio occupies ]iortal canals. cells (Cln-zonszczewsky); they leave the lobule at tlie circumference branches (/" '''' interlobula; From the an-anffement of tlic vessels, it appears that the portil vein conducts the blood from which bile is secreted ; that the hena k- yem carries away the superfluous blood ; and that the secreted bile IS received by the plexus of the biliary duct Vkssei s oxr THE LiVEK. Two sets of bloodvessels ramify in the liver :_One enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely m spaces (portal canals) where it is enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) run from the anterior to the poste- rior border of the liver without a like sheath. The ramifications of these diiferent vessels are to be followed in the liver. The cajjsule of Glis- son is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramifj'-, and in it are minutely divided before their termination in the lo- bules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the ves- sels' will retract some- what into the loose suiTomiding- tissue. The ve)2a poricE rami- fies in the liver like an arteiy ; and the blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., fi-om tmnk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the A'ein divides into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 159, r). Tiie * A. Two lobules of tbe liver showing the plexus of ducts in the interior, near the circumference (Kieman) ; recent inquiries demonstrate the existence of a plexus throughout the lobule, g. Intralobular plexus. /. Interlobular ducts, c. Small branches of the hepatic dues. B. Lobules of an injected liver to show the arrangement of the veins, a. Smallest branches of the vena porta; ending in the interlobular veins, h. c. Plexus of portal veins within the lobule, d. Intra-Iobuhir commencement of the hepatic vein joining the plexus of the portal vein.613 VESSELS AXD DUCT OF LIVER. division is repeated again and again until the last brandies of the vein (interlohular, fig. 158, b) penetrate between the lobules ; there they unite, and end in tlie interior as before explained. In the portal canals the ofEsets of the vena porUn are joined by small vaginal and surface veins, which convey blood fi-om branches of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery (fig. 159, c), whilst surrounded by the capsule, furnishes vaginal branches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver ; and supply twigs to the coats of the vena portro and biliary ducts, and to the areolar Fig- tissue: fi-omthe vaginal branches a few offsets (capsular) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally the arteiy ends in fine interlo- bular branches, fi'om which off- sets enter the lobule, and convey blood into the network between tiie branches of the vena portaj and hepatic vein (Chrzonszczew- sky). The hepatic vein (venae cavse hepaticffi) begins by a plexus in the interior of each lobule (fig. 158, fZ), and its smallest radicle issues fi'om the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein ; these are received into the sublohular branches, which anastomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Finally, uniting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hepatic veins are directed fi'om before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The vente cavaj hepaticas may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks : so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in conse- quence of their close connection with the liver stnicture. Hepatic duct (fig. 158, e). The duct commences in the biliarj^ plexus within the lobules. On leaving the lobules the radicles communicate by the interlobular branches (/) ; and the smaller ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches (fZ), which lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into aright and a left trunk (fig, 15G, e), and leave the liver at the transverse fissure. ■[• and supplies raucbes; receives vaginal brandies. Hepatic artery nourishes the vessels, and joins veua porta;: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath begin in the lobules. and end in tlie vena cava. Bile duct, bcginuinij, branches. * Vessels in a portiil canal, and tlie lobules of the liver (Kiernan). I. Lobules of the liver, p. Brancii of the vena portre, -vvith a, a, vaginal branches •which supply interlobular offset.s. c. Hepatic artery, d. Hepatic duct. *, i. Openings of the interlobular branches of the portal vein. t Aberrant ducts exist between the pieces of the peritoneum in the left lateral ligament of the liver, and in the pons bridging over the vena porta; and vena cava ; they anatomose together, and arc accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz., vena portsc, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. L I,DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 51i ofmeauin ^^I'^^^ture. The moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a sized'"""" fibrous coat, hned by a mucous layer with cylindrical epithe- lium ; and penetrating the wall is a longitudinal row of openings, on each side, leading iuto sacs, and into branched tubes whicl'i an'l sraaUest sometimes communicate. In the fine interlobular ducts the coat homogeneous structure, with columnar epithelium Lympha- tics. Superficial, deep. Nerves, source. is formed by (Henle). Lympliatics of the liver are superficial and deep. The superficial of the upper surface join the lymphatics in the thorax by piercing the diaphragm, and end for the most part in the sternal glands ; those on the under surface enter chiefiy the glands by the side of the abdominal aorta, a few uniting with the deep lymphatics, and the coronary of the stomach. The deep lymphatics accompany the vessels through the liver, and communicate with one of the large contributing trunks of the thoracic duct. Nerves come from the sympathetic and the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the vessels ; but their mode of ending is not ascertained. THi; GALL-BLADDER. Cse and situation; form: size; connec- tions. Structm-e of wall. Serous coat. Fibrous and muscular stratum. Mucous layer is areolar on isurl'ucc. The gall-bladder (fig. 156) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and to the right of the square lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end {fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver ; whilst the smaller end (neck) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct hy a zigzag part (fig. 160). In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds rather more than an ounce. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdominal wall opposite the tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, where it is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder possesses a peritoneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free sm-face of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end. The fibrous coat is strong, and forms the fi-amework of the sac ; intermixed with it are some involuntary muscular fibres, the cliief being longitudinal, but others circular. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honeycomb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall-bladder this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most dcA'cloped about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each extremity. In the bottom of the larger pits arc depressions leading to recesses.515 STRUCTURE OF GALL-BLADDER. The surface of the raucous meiubrane is covered by a columnar Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct (fig. IGO) its coats project into tlic interior, and give rise tu ridges resembling those in the sacculated large in- testine. The cystic duct (b) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form tlic ductus com- munis clioledochus. It is about an incii and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of tlie sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The mucous lining is provided witli glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 514). On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to form about twelve semi- lunar projections (fig. 160, c), which are ar- ranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This strnc- ture is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried ; as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Bloodvessels and iwves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named c>/stic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the vena portas near the liver. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The bjmphatics follow the cystic duct, and joi-n the deep lymphatics on the spinal column. witli a cohiiiinar epithelium: projections of tlie wall. Piict of gall- bladder : structure same as sac, and is pro- vided wltli glands. Artery and vein, nen e and lymphatics. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The Iddney has a characteristic form :—flattened on the sides, it Use and is larger at the upper than the lower extremity, and is hollowed out form.: at one part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing ,iistin- between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin be K^ish right turned to the spinal column, with the lu'eter or the excretory tube behind the other A^essels ; and let that end of the ^'iscus be directed ilownwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. Witli the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour, red colour, witli an even surface. Its average length is about four size, inches ; its breadth two ; and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. * Gall bladder and its duct. a. Gall bladder, h. Bile duct sacculated, r. Ridges in the interior. (/. Common bile duct. e. Common hepatic duct. L L 2516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. amlwoiglit. Its usual woif^'lit is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker than the lower, and is surmounted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is flat, and more pointed. The position with respect to the spinal colunm has been before detailed (p. 472). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surface it is £>:enerally flattened. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure,—liilum. In the fissure the vessels are thus placed with respect to one another :—The divisions of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches of the artery lie between the two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify ; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. Opposite the fissure is a hollow in the interior of the kidney, named sinus, in which the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. Dissection. To see the interior it will be necessary to cut tlu-ough the kidney from the inner to the outer border ; and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels, and fi-om the division of the excretory duct. The hollow or'sinus containing the bloodvessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the liidney (fig. 161) appears on a section to consist of two different materials, viz., of an external granular or cortical portion ; and of internal, darker Fig. 161.* coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. But these dissimilar-looking parts are constructed of urine tubes, though with a different arrangement. The jiijramidal masses (d pyi'a- mids of Malpighi), are twelve or eighteen in number, and com^erge to the sinus of the kidney. The apex of each mass, which is fi"ee from cortical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in number, some being- situate m a central depression and the others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divi- sions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillaiy termination. Extroiiii- tius: smfaces; Ijordois. Contents of the tissure; their position. Sinus. Open the kidney, and (•lean tlie vessels. Renal siibstanec divided into cortical and pyramidal. rjTaniitlt nunilicr, apcK, ends in jiapilla : base. The base is em- * Section through a piece of tlie kidney, sliowfng the medullary aud cortical portions, and the beginning of the ureter. a. Ureter, h. Pelvis of the ureter, c. Calyx of the excretory tube, portion of the kidney (Henle). d. Pyramidal portions; c. Cortical517 EXCRETORY TUBES OF KIDNEY. bedded in tlic cortical substance, and is resolved into bundles of tubes which are prolonged into the cortical covering. Each pyramidal mass is constracted of uriniferal tubes (tubes of Composi- Bellini) which open below at the apex of the papilla (fig. 1G2, a) ; and the cut surface has a grooved appearance indicatory of its construction. If the mass is compressed, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical or investing part (hg. IGl, e) forms abput three- ^j;;^^^*" fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer subntance; about two lines in thickness, and sends prolongations between the same nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the colour; Iddney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass consistence, gives way beneath the finger. In the injected kidney red points (Jlalpighian bodies) are scattered througli the cortex, giving it a gi-anular appearance. Structure of the Kidney. The mass of the kidney consists of ^^^^^^^^ ,^ minute convoluted tubes, intermixed Avith bloodvessels, Ijoiiphatics, a iibrous nerves, and an intertubular matrix. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. The fibrous coat is a white layer, which is connected with the Fibrous kidney by fine processes and vessels, and is readily detached from '^'^'^^ it by slight force. At the inner margin of the Iddney it sinks into sends in the sinus, and sends processes on the entering vessels and excretory duct. Stroma or matrix. Between the tubules and the vessels of the Matrix of Iddney is a uniting material, which surrounds and isolates them, '^"^^"^^J- and is most abundant in the cortical substance. It somewhat re- sembles areolar tissue in its nature, and is fibrous at some spots. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting tubes, and of the bloodvessels, the dissector will require a microscope, and good fine injections of the kidney. Secretory tubules. The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uriniferi) occupy Uriniferous successively the cortical substance, and the Malpighian pp-amids; ^^^^^'^^ • but they have a different an-angement in each, as is delineated *','.f"nge- below (fig. 1G2, a). inent. In the Malpi(jldan pyramid the tubes are straight, and ascend I" the from the apertures in the apex, bifurcating repeatedly, as far as pjfraluki'f' the base, and forming a cone which resembles the stem and branches of a tree. At the wide end of the pyramid they are collected into size ami bundles which reach nearly to the surface of the Iddney, and be- <^'"^'"°'> come convoluted as they enter the cortex, but some unite in arches (Henle). Near the apex they measure -3-^0^1 of an incli across, but the last subdivisions are only half that size, or of an inch. Descending between the straight tubes are the small " looped mixeil witli tubes " of Henle (fig. 1G2, rj). These run down from the cortical He};f,."^ substance nearly to the apex of the pyramid, where they turn up- ' wards, forming loops with the convexity down, and ascend to open whioU aro into the straight tubes : their size is about a third of the others. '^'""U. In the cortical substance the tubes are more numerous and very in tiin convoluted (fig. 1G3) ; they have an average width of -i^th of an ™bstaioe518 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEX. nro convo- luted, and end: inch, and are snrronndcd by a capillaiy plexus of bloodvessels (fie- 1G4 A). At the one end (farther) each tube is dilated into the Malpighian corpuscle (h) • and at the other it passes into a straight tube or joins an " arch " at the base of the pyramid. The " looped Fig. 162 * Fig. lC3.t mixed with looped tubes : structure. Malpighian hodies, position; size and composi- tion. The capsiTle; liow fonned, Tlie blood- vessels, tubes" of Henle (fig. 162) have the same arrangement in the cortical substance as the larger tubuli uiiniferi. The wall of the convoluted tubes consists of a thin basement membrane, and is lined by a thick, nucleated, and granular epithe- lium. Malpighian corpuscles (fig. 164, a). These small bodies are con- nected with the fi-ee ends of the convoluted tubes, one to each : and are arranged in double rows in the cortical substance between the pyramids, one row being on each side of an interpyramidal branch of artery, from which they receive twigs ; each measures about i-|^th of an inch, and consists of an incasing capsule with an enclosed tuft of bloodvessels (glomerulus). The capsule (5) is the dilated end of the convoluted tube, and is perforated at the extremity by two small bloodvessels. Its wall , consists of a thin basement membrane, and is lined by a transparent laminar eiaithelium. * The glomerulus (fig. 164, b) is formed by the intercommunications * Plan of the arrangement of the nriuiferal tubes, a. Tube at its entling in the pyramid, h. Divisions of the same tube in the pyramid, d. Arches of Henle. c. Twisted tubes joining the "arches." g. Looped tube of Henle, with its convoluted part, /, and Malpighian corpuscle, c, in the cortical sub- stance. t Plan of contorted urine tubes ending in Malpighian corpuscles, which are connected with the small arteries (cl). a. Urine tube. h. Malpighian cor- puscles, c. Interpyramidal branch of renal artery (Bowman).519 BLOODVESSELS OF KIDNEY. of two vessels piercing the capsule, and is clothed with epithelium One of the two, the afferent vessel (^0, i« o^^^* ""^T artery, and divides into convoluted loops of the fineness of capil- laries, which form the exterior of the tuft. The other, the efferent vessel (/), begins in the interior of the tuft by the umon of the loops on the outer surface ; and passing out is distributed m a close network of capillaries (</) on the convoluted urine tubes, and in one with elongated meshes on the straighter tubes near the pyramids. The office of the glomerulus is to secrete the watery part of the urine. -Bloodvessels. Tlie artery and vein distributed to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the organ they nourish. Eenal arteiij. As the artery enters the kidney it diAudcs into four or five branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and reach the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi, where they form arches. From those arches arise small interpyramidal Fis. 164.* two, afferent, and efferent, ■which unite. Use of glomerulus. Blood- vessels of kidney. Branches of tlie artery supply Malpighian bodies. branches, which ascend towards the surface, and furnish the afferent and texture twigs to the Malpigliian bodies, whose arrangement has been re- kidney: ferred to. Other offsets are supplied to the capsule and matrix of the kidney; the former anastomose Avith the subperitoneal branches of the lumbar arteries. Straight vessels descend amongst the tubes in the pyramids of ^,g'g'^^^g'^j,j Malpighi, and some form loops like the tubes of Henle. pjTamids. Renal vein. This vein begins in. the capillary plexuses on the Veins begin convoluted urine tubes ; and its small branches, receiving twigs tub^ui^; from the matrix and the fibrous coat, unite into larger veins, which anastomose freely around the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. anastomose At tliis spot they are joined by offsets fi-om capillary plexuses in pyramids * Plan of the vessels connected with the virine tubes, a. a. Urine tube. 5. End-ililatation. c. Interi:)yramid<aT artery, d. Afferent branch, e. Grlomemlus. /. Efferent vessel, g. Plexus of capillaries around the urine tube. h. Radicles of the veins. R. e. Glomerulus, d. Afferent and /, efferent vessel of the glomerulus. Bowman.520 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and unite into one. Nerves. Al)Sorl)ents. Ureter; office; length. Size varies. CoiU'se, and connec- tions. Sometimes double. Ureter dilated near tlie kiibiey, has calices, which embrace pyramids. Two coats in ureter, muscular and mucous Epithelium many layers. The calicos also two coats. tlic pyramids ; and the larger trunks then accompany the arteries to the sinus of the kidney. Finally all are united into one trunk, which opens into the vena cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced to the smaller branches of the artery. The ahsorhents are superficial and deep :—^The deep absorbents are supposed to begin in a plexus between the urine tubes. Both unite at the hilum of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The UEETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination the canal measures from sixteen to eighteen inches in length. Its size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the kidney it is dilated into a funnel-sliapcd part, named x>elvis; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course from the one viscus to the other, the ureter is close beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen as far as the pelvis; here it changes its direction, and becomes almost horizontal. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the middle of the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac arterj^, being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it lies below the level of the obhterated hypo- gastric artery (p. 553). Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance. Part in the kidney (fig. 161, h). Near the kidney the ureter is dilated into a pouch called pelvis. It begins in the kidney by a set of cup-shaped tubes, named calices or infundibula, which vary in number from seven to tliiileen. Each cup-shaped j^rocess embraces the rounded end of a pjn-amidal mass, and receives the urine fi-om the apertures in that projection ; sometimes a calj^ surrounds two or more masses. The several calices are united together to form two or tlu-ee larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the ureter. Structure. Besides an external fibrous layer, the ureter possesses a muscular and a mucous coat. The muscular covering is composed of an external or longitudinal, ■ and of an internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds durmg the contracted state of the ureter. Its epithelium consists of layers of cells of different shapes ; thus, at the fi-ee surface they are squarish, at the attached surface rounded, whilst in the intermediate strata thej'' are cylindrical (Kolliker). The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the pyramid the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney ; and521 SUPRAKENAL BODY. at the apex the mucous hning is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings. • i i ' . i Vessels. The arteries are numerous but small, and are furnished \esBeiH. by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins correspond with the arteries. The lymphatics are received into those of the kidney. Ljanphatics. THE SUPRARENAL BODY. Tliis small body, whose use is unknowii, has received its name j^^^^^J,™' from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nen'es are numerous, ^.^ ^^^^^ but it is not provided with any excretory duct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper end, and the fore Situation, part of the kidney ; and without care it may be removed with the sm-rounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish yellow. It is hke a cocked hat in form, with the upper part convex, and the Form and base or lower part hollowed, where it touches the Iddney. colour. Li the adult it measures about one inch and a half in depth, and Size ami '\vt;i"'Ut. rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right. Areolar tissue attaches the suprai'enal body to the kidney; and Connec- large vessels and nerves retain it in place. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the Iddney. Thus it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, Avith part' of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. Structure (fig. 165). A perpendicular section shows the suprarenal Two body to be formed of a firm or external (cortical) layer, and of an stractuL: internal (medullary) soft and dark material. With the microscope ea.th has ' this body may be seen to consist of cells, which are lodged in spaces formed by a stroma of areolar tissue, with vessels and nerves. ' ^ The whole is surrounded by a thin Jihrous capsule (a), which sends SiuTounded processes into the interior, and along the bloodvessels. ca^,siUe The cortical part, yellowish in colour and striated, makes about cortiJi two thirds of the thickness of the whole body. Its stroma of areolar v^-t. tissue (a) forms a thin surface layer, and is connected internally Thickness: with processes or septa, which are so arranged as to build up spaces fm-mf"" elongated from without inwards, and arranged vertically around the •'^1'^°''^ centre ; but near the surface there are smaller oval spaces, some of f them crossing the deeper and larger. The spaces or loculi (h) are for masses filled by colunniar masses of cells, but slight force readily removes of celis. these from their containing hollows. The central or medullary portion (c) is rather red in colour, or it Medullary may be dark brown or black from the presence of blood. About i'*""*^- half as thick as the cortical part, it possesses internally small round Tiiiekuess. or oval spaces, on a section, which arc vein trunks cut across. The areolar tissue of its stroma is very fine, and forms a network with Spaces in it.522 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. Its tissue I'oniis 11 uct-woi'k for cells. Clmractpr.H of tlif cells In cortex, size; iiiiiicUullnry l)ait. Arteries. Veins. Nerves. Fig. 165.* snmll but regular nieslies ; and tlie medullaiy is separated generally from the cortical portion by a layer of areolar tissue. Cells fill the meshes. Cells. The cells filling the loculi of the stroma in the cortex, are nucleated with oil globules and fine granules ; and being packed in masses, they take on a polygonal fonn : they measure about the TToot^' of an incli. In the medullary portion the cells resemble those of the cortex, except that they do not contain oil particles ; and they are rather larger and more granular, measur- ing about YoVo*^^ ''^'^ jnch. Bloodvessels. Numerous arteries are fur- nished to the suprarenal body from the diaphragmatic and renal vessels, and from the aorta. In the interior the arteries ramify in the cortex along the septa be- tween the cell masses ; and, fi-equently anastomosing together, end in a fine capil- lary network, with elongated meshes, around the loculi. In the medullary part the fine arteries are distributed through the stroma. The veins originate in capillary plex- uses ; and the several radicles, uniting in large branches which pass through the centre of the medullary part, are collected finally into one trunk ; this opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the A'ena cava. Nerves. The nerves are veiy numerous and large, and pass in- wai'ds along the septa of the cortical part. Branching, they extend between the cortical and medullary parts in the layer of areolar tissue ; and in the medullaiy substance they form a network in the areolar structure, but their ending is unknown. Lymphatics are superficial and deep, and both join those of the kidney ; the arrangement of the deep is undetermined. THE TESTES. Testes The testes are the glandular organs for the secretion of the semen, sitiiateiliii Each is suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cord and its thesci5)tum, ^^^^^^-^^^^ (p. 452), but the left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac partly surrounds each organ. To see the Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of serous sue. testicle (tunica vaginalis), make a small aperture into it at the * Vertical section of the suprarenal body. a. Surface layer of stroma, h. Cells in the cortex, c. Medullary portion, d. Spaces in the medullary part (Harley).523 CHARACTERS OF TESTIS. riff. 166. and lines scrotum. Its visceral part, upper part, and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then ;X cleaned; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to tlieir entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaoincdis (fig. IGG, .7) is a serous bag, which is con T^n,.a.^ tinuous in the fetus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen but becomes subsequently a distinct sac through the obhteration of the part connecting the two (p. 452). i . „„^w It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes, partly ^^^^ for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by testidc it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and projects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an ex- ternal rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface ; and Hke them it has a A-isceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly Avhere the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and forms a pouch between the testis and the arched body (epididymis) on this aspect of the organ. The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the contiguous layer of the scrotum. Foim and jiosition of the testis (iig. IGG). The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. The anterior margin is convex ; and the pos- terior, wliich is flattened, is pierced by the spermatic A'-essels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer side is the epididymis (h). Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body (c) two or three lines in length, (corpus Mor- gagni,) which is the remains of the upper end of the fetal duct of Miiller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tmiica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the upjjer part is directed Suspemled fonvards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and vmald. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or Dimensions, two inches ; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less than an inch. Its weight and weiglit. * The testis with the tunica vaginalis laid open. a. Tosticlc. h. Head of the epididymis, c. Corpus Morgagni. d. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. ('. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Yas deferens. and parietal. Testicle oval. Marsius. Corpus Morgagni.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 521 A ilenso tuiiiu coii- tiiiiis sniiill .secretiiij! tubes. How to see tlic struc- ture (if the testis. Fibrous coat; characters; use. Sends inwards processes, as tlie me- diastinum and tiuer septa a vascular layer lines it (tunica \asculosa). Seminal tubules; appearance and is nearly an oiuice, and the left is frequently larger tlian the other. Stiiuctuiie. The substance of the testicle is composed of minute secerning tubes, around which the bloodvessels are disposed in plexuses. Sm-rounding and supporting the delicate seniiniferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efEerent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection. With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. that on which the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed firmly in that position with pins. The fibrous coat is to be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the entrance of the bloodvessels. Whilst raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter ; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring more fully into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albufji?iea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eji-eball. This membrane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and un- yielding structure : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These several offsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mecliastinum testis (fig. 107, cV) (corpus Highmorianum) pro- jects into the gland for a tliird of an inch with the bloodvessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle. To its fi'ont and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are contained the bloodvessels behind, and a network of seminal ducts in fi-ont (rete testis). Of the finer lyrocesses of the tunica albuginea (fig. 1G7, h) which enter the testis, there are two Idnds. One set round and cord-like, but of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms dehcate membranous septa, which divide the mass of seminal tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, tunica vas- culosa (Sir A. Cooper), which fines the fibrous coat, covering the different septa in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the bloodvessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the small vchis are collected into larger trunks. Form and length of the seminal tales (tubuli scminiferi). The secerning or seminal tubes are very convoluted, and arc but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood-SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTIS. 325 vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis for some distance : their length is said by Lauth to be two feet and a quarter. Ending, size and structure. Within the lobes of the testis some tubes end in distinct closed extremities ; but the rest communicate, forming loops or arches. The diameter of the tubules varies from ■jif„th to xso^^ of i"^'^- '•'•''"^ ^"-^^ °f ^^^^ tubule is formed of a thin translucent membrane, but it has considerable strength. Lining the interior in the child is a nucleated granular ci^ithelium, with polygonal cells; but in the adult the tube is filled by cells of the spermatic corpuscles in different stages of development. On the exterior is a plexus of bloodvessels. Names from the arrangement of the tubes. To different parts of the seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Where the tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they Fig. 167 * become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Com- municating in the medias- tinum, they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper end of the gland they are convoluted, and are called coni vasculosi, or vasa effierentia. The lohes of the testis (fig. 167, a) are formed by bundles of the seminiferal tubes, and are situate in the intervals between the processes of the tunica albuginea : their num- ber is^differently stated :—according to one authority (Beixes) they are 250 ; but according to another (Krause) 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle arc the largest. Each is made up of one, two or more tortuous semmal tubules ; and the minute tubes in one lobe are united with those in the neighbouring lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe tiie tubules become less bent, and are united together; and the tubuli of the several lobes arc further joined at the same spot into larger canals —the tubuli recti. TuhuH recti (fig. 1G7, c). The seminal tubes uniting together • Vertical and horizontal sections of tiic testis to show the an-an^oment of lobes, c. Tubuh recti, d. Mediastinum testis, e. liete testis f Yisl mis ^. \as deferens. I. \as aberrans. n. Rete testis, cut. o Finer septa, i). Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut aJross. length. Communi- cutioiis; size; structure; Tubes cliiinye their name. Tlicy form the lobes: number, shape, tnlws in them, :uul aiTaiige- meiit. Tubes nextmSSECTION OP T]IE ABDOMEX. 52G liocniiio .stniiglit (tubuli recti); aftenvnrds .iiiiii toge- tliei- (I'etc testis), and leave" ^ the gland iis vu.sa ellereiitia. Straetiu-e. Excretory duct is bent on the testicle forming epididymis iianjed parts. Is but a single tube length and size. Wliere it is straight it is the vas deferens : this opens into the urctlira : become larger (J^tli of an incli) and straigliter in direction, and are named tnbuli recti or vasa recta : tiiey are about twenty in number, and piercing the fibrous mediastinum enter into tlie rete testis. Eete testis (fig. 1G7, e). In the mediastinum tlic seminal tubes have very tlnn walls, and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the bloodvessels; they communicate freely so as to form a net- work. Vasa efferentia (fig. 1G7,/). About twelve or twenty seminal tubes issue from the top of the rete, and leave the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the common excretory duct. Though straight at first they soon become convoluted, and have been named coni vasculost. In the natural state they are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled they measure six inches • and they join the excretory duct at intei-vals of about three inches! They have a muscular coat of longitudinal and circular fibres ; and the epithelium of the mucous lining is columnar and cihated. The EXCRETORY DUCT receives the vasa efl:erentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the uretlu-a. Its first part, Avhich is in contact with the testis, is very fiexuous, and forms the epididymis : but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens. The epididymis (fig. 1G7, h) extends in the form of anarch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name fi-om its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major {(j) ; and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pomted or tail-like—(jlohus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body (h). Its head is attached to the testis by the vasa eflrerentia; and its lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tmiica vaginalis. The epididymis is formed of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, whose coils are united into a solid mass b}'- fibrous tissue. After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it will then measm-e twenty feet in length. The diameter of its canal is about ^th of an inch, though there is a shght diminution in size towards the globus minor, but it is increased finally in the vas deferens. The vas deferens (fig. 167, /j) begins opposite the lower end of the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. At first the excretory duct is slightly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a fiiTC round tube : near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be refeiTcd to with the ^dscera of the pelvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends on the inner side of the testicle, and along the bloodvessels of the spermatic cord with which it enters the internal abdominal yng ; it is then directed over the side of the bladder, and through the prostate to open into theDUCT AND VESSELS OF TESTIS. 527 urethra. The lengtli of this part of the excretory duct is about two length ami feet, and the width of its canal about ^\jth of an inch. Opening sometimes into the vas deferens, at the angle of union with the epididymis, is a small narrow enseal appendage, the present: aberrant of Hallcr (fig. 107, I). It is convoluted, and projects up- Kituatiou wards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. ^ Like and size, the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled : its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. Structure. The excretory duct of the testis has a thick muscular Two coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct i^ firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is tliinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular, arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous memlrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the ^''^"^'[.yjjg straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. A columnar epithelium, though not ciliated, covers the inner surface; but m the epididymis it is cihated (Becker). Organ of Giraldesfi In the spermatic cord of the fetus and child, ^jj?^," .p?". close above the epididymis, is a small whitish granular-looking bodj^ (" Corps Imiomine," Giraldes), about half an inch long—the '^y"j^'^^^°^ remains of the lower part of the Wolffian body of the embryo, body," "With slight magnifying power its component white granules are oonsti- resolved into small vesicles, and convoluted tubes of varying shape, filled with a clear tliick fluid ; their wall consists of a tliin membrane, structure, lined by flattened epithelium, with plexuses of bloodvessels ramify- ing on the exterior. Bloodvessels and nerves of the testicle. Tlie branches of the sper- Siiermatie matic artery supply offsets to the epididymis, and pierce the back of the testicle to enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the inteiior of the tunica albuginea ; and oflisets are continued on the fine septa to the seminal tubules, on wliich they are distributed in capillary plexuses. The spermatic vein begins by radicles in the plexuses aroimd the Spevniatiii seminal tubes, and issues from the gland at the back, being there joined by veins fifom the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus ; it joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The an-angement of the lymphatics in the testicle is unknown ; Lymphatics external to that body they ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the and nerves, arteries to the testis : their ending has not been seen. * Sur un Organe place dans Ic Cordon Spermatique, et dont I'existence n'a pas et6 signalee par les Anatoinistes. Par F. Giraldes. Proceedin^rs of the Koyal Society for May, 1858.528 Vessels of tllC llUL't. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artenj is furnished to tlie excretory duct from tlie upper or lower vesicle, and readies as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the ^ermatic artery. Veins from tlie e^ndidymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived fi'om the hypogastric plexus. Dissect Ijlood vessels and iiuisfles. To see the iliaphrafjm. Define iirclies. Diaphragm, situation and form. Origin^t the cimun- ference. Insertion of libres into a central tendon. Parts in contact with tlic under siu'face, and with the n{)i)er. Attachment of border. Section V. DIAPHRAGM WITH AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the Back, the student should prepare -first tlie diaphragm, next tlie large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be neces- sary to remove the peritoneum, definmg especially the central tenchnous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebra;. Whilst cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others m and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, near the spine, wliich give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected : —one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and mil be made more evident by separating from it the fascia covering the quadratus. The DIAPHRAGM (fig. 168, ^) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the suiTounding ribs and the spinal column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, it is connected by fleshy slips with the inner surface of the xiphoid cartilage, and of the six lower ribs ; with two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column—one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle; and, lastly, it is connected with the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon, but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (page 530). The abdominal surface is conoave, and is covered for tlie most part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the liver and the kidney ; and on the opposite side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney : in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each sideband the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 369). At the circumference of tlie midriff the fleshy processes of origin529 DLVrnRAGM AND ITS ACTIOX. alternate with like parts of the tranBversalis^.juscle ; but a s^^^ interv^u^ interval separates the slips to the xiphoid ^^^^^^f and a second space exists sometimes between the fibres from the Uslrib and lhe'areh over the .uadratus l-l^orum-usele In^^^ are certain apertures for the transmission of things from the thorax to the abdomen. , ,i .1 The muscle is convex towards the chest, and concave to the Arci>. abdomen. Its arch reaches liigher on the right than the left side Fig. 168.* (p. 327), and is constantly vaiying during life in respiration. In forced expiration the muscle ascends, and reaches as high as the upper border of the right fourth rib at the sternum, and the upper edge of the lifth rib on the left side, close to the sternum. In forced inspiration it descends, and its slope would be represented by a line drawn from the middle of the ensifonn cartilage to the eleventh rib. Action. As the muscle moves up and down during respiration, it is depressed by the contraction of the fleshy fibres which are attached to the ribs and spine ; and it is raised during their relaxation. When the diaphragm descends it changes its shape. The central tendon, which moves but slightly, remains the highest point of the arch, whilst the sides which contract freely are sloped from the tendon to the wall of the thorax. During the ascent the midriff retains nearly the same form as in a state of rest, for the tendon is Height ill forced expiration and inspi- ration. Use in respiration. Form in inspiration and in expiration, * Under surface of the diapliragm. a. Diaphragm, b. Psoas magnus. c. Quadr.atns luniborum. a. Left piece of tlie tendon of tho diaphragm ; h. middle, and c, riglit piece, d. Left, and c, right crus. f. Inner, and g, outer arched ligament, h. Opening for vena cava ; i, for oesophagus, k, for aorta, j, for sympathetic nerves. M M530 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Effect on tlionix and abdomen. on ■^^scern, and on apertures. State in muscular efforts. Action in- voluntary. Special parts to be examined. Central teiidon. like a tre- foil leaf. Two pillars, with certain resem- blances : an-ange- ment of tibres in each. as tliey ascend to tendon : differences in the pillars. the lowest part of the *arch, and the bulges on the sides reach rather higher. With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of the abdomen and thorax will be altered. In inspiration the thorax is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the upper part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and spleen, are partly moved fi-om beneath the ribs. In expiration the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored to its former size ; and fhe displaced \ascera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed; but the other openings for the vena cava and aorta do not experience change. Preparatory to the maldng of a great muscular effort, the'midriff contracts, and descends for the purpose of permitting a full quantity of air to enter the thorax. Till the effort is over the diaphragm remains in a depressed position. Its action is commonly involun- tary, but the movement can be controlled by the will at any stage. Parts of the diaphragm. The following named parts, which have been noticed shortly in describing the muscle, are now to be re- ferred to more fully, viz., the central tendon, the pillars, the arches, and the apertures. The central temlon (cordiform tendon) occupies the middle of the diaphragm (fig. 168), and is surrounded by muscular fibres ; the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different directions. In form it resembles a trefoil leaf ; of its three segments the right (c) is the largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The pillars (crm-a) are two large muscular and "tendinous pro- cesses {d and e), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, where they are attached to the upper lumbar vertebrae, but large and fleshy above ;' and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverg- ing from each other : the greater number join the central tendon without intermixing, but the inner fibres of the two crura cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line decussating with the fibres of the opposite crus between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus. The fibres of the other crus (d) may he traced in the same way, to form the right half of the cbso- phagean opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres fi-om the right crus is generally larger than that from the left, and is commonly anterior to it. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right (e) is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebra;, and their intervertebral substance, reaching to the disc between the third and fourth verte- bra3. The left pillar d (sometimes absent) is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not531 SPECIAL TARTS OF DIAPHRAGM. reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an inter- vertebral snbstaiice. i m , The arches (Wgamentti areuata) are two fibrous bands on each T«ro arches. side over the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, which give origin to fleshy fibres. The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. internum/) is the strongest, internal and is connected by the one end to the tendinous piece of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the first or the second lumbar vertebra. The arch over the quadratus lumborum (lig. arcuat. externum g) and external. is only a thickened piece of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. Apertures. There are three large openings for the aorta, the vena ;^pertures cava, and the oesophagus ; with some smaller fissures for nerves and ' vessels. The opening for the aorta (Jc) is rather behind, than in the dia- Jor^Iie phragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the ^"J spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. The opening for the oesophagus and the pneumo-gastric nerves (i) ^°j;j,,,ag„^ is rather above and to the left of the aortic aperture ; it is placed and nerves, in the muscular part of the diaplii-agm, and is bounded by the fibres of the pillars as above explained. The opening for the vena .cava (/t foramen quadratum) is situ- Jf^^'.^"',*^ ,^ ate in the right di%'ision of the central tendon ; and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres, except at the inner side. There is a fissure (J) in each pillar for the tlu-ee splanchnic ^'^^'^rj^" nerves; and through that in the left crus the small azygos vein ^" also passes. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt, the ribs that Take away support it on each side may be cut through, and the pieces of the of the ribs with the fore part of the diaplu-agm may be taken away, to diaplnagm. make easier the dissection of the deeper A^essels and muscles. But the posterior third of the diaphragm with its pillars and arches should be left ; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena Clean aorta, cava, are to be cleaned by rcmoAang the fat, the remains of the ^^,'^Jicheif sympathetic, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and suprarenal body, and to the testicle. In like manner the large iliac branches of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. ^ Tlie ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac arteiy ; and on the iliac bloodvessel near the thigh, branches of a small nerve (gcnito-crural) arc to be sought. The muscles are to be laid bare on the right side, but on the left Dissect side the fascia covering them is to be shown ; and the fat is to be • cleared away from the kidney. The psoas muscle, the most internal of all, lies on the side of the psoas and M M 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOJIEX. 532 nerves of liiiiil>ai' I'luxus: spine, With the small psoas superficial to it occasionally On its sui-face, and in tho fat oxtenial to it, tlic following brancts of the lumbar plexus will be found :-Tlie genito-crural nerve lies on the Fig. 169.* fi'ont. Four other nei-ves issue at the outer border—the ilio-hypo- gastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along * Deep view of the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the abdominal cavity (Illustrations of Dissections). Mnsclcs and viscera: a. Diaijlu-agni witli b, internal, and c, external arched ligament, d. End of tlie cesojjhagus, cut. E. Small psoas. F. Large psoas, c. Quadratus lumbonim. h. Iliacus. I. Kidney. J. Rectum, k. Bladder. Vesnds: a. Diaphragmatic arterj-. b. Aorta, c, Renal, d. Spermatic, c. Upper mesenteric, cut. /. Lower mesenteric, c/. Common iliac, and external iliac artery, L Epigastric artery, cut; by its side is the vas deferens, bending into the pelvis. /. Cir- cumflex iliac, «i. Vena cava. n. Renal vein, o. Right .spermatic vein, p.533 ABDOMINAL AOUTA AND BKANCHES. the inner border of the psoas the gangliatecl cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, along with a cliain of himbar lymphatic glands ; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle the obturator nerve may be recognised. External to the psoas is the quadratus lumbornm, and crossing it near the last ril) is the last dorsal neri^e, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle and iliacus. which unites below with the large psoas. The AiiDOMiNAL ACUTA (fig. 169, b) cxtcnds from the last dorsal Rxtent^f vertebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is placed on the left side of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the crest of the hip-bone. The chief connections of the vessel with surrounding parts haA^e Conncc- been before referred to (p. 482), but some deep vessels in relation with it come now into view. As the aorta lies on the spine it rests on the left lumbar veins, which end in the inferior cava. And ^^J^^^'g}^*""' between it and the right crus of the diaplu-agm lie the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar Ipnphatic glands, from w^iich large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoracic duct. The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following Place of order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which i]'i4^'J"],es; leave the sides of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the cceliac axis arises from the front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the fi-ont, the trunk of the superior mesen- teric arteiy begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the sniall capsular branch; and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the fi"ont of the arterial trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery; and from the angle of division the small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four small lumbar branches on each side come from the posterior aspect of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the lumbar vertebrfe. The branches may be classified into two sets—one to the viscera their classi- of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The visceral brandies are cocliac axis, superior and inferior mcsen- Some teric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. This set has been examined, branches, except the renal, capsular, and spermatic. The renal arteries (fig. 1G9, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right Renal angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney cacli divides into four or five branches, which enter the renal sub- stance between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath is beneath its vein ; common iliac vein, and ;•, external iliac (this letter is put on the left artery instead of the ve(7i just below it). «. Ureter. iVcrvcs ; 1. rhrcnic. 2. Ilio hypogastric. 3. Ilio-ingiiinal. 4. P]xtcrnal cutaneous of the thigh. 5 and 6. Genito-crural. 7. Anterior crural.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 534 given off- iiutii: (liflTerenw! l>OtWL'Ctl loft iiiul Tight. C'ajwular arti'i-y. Spei'inatic artery is remarkable. Course to tlie testicle: condition in the fetus. In the I'eiiiale. Branches to wall of abdomen. Inferior phi-enic; course of left and right: distribu- tion. Small otfsets. Other arteries to diai)hraj;ni. its companion vein, being surrounrled hy a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body (inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle capsular artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body : this offset anasto- moses with the other branches of the suprarenal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the fetus. The spermatic artery of the testicle (fig. 1G9, d) is remarkable for its small size in proportion to its length ; for leaving the cavity of the abdomen ; and for having the part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord (p. 452). In its course beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the fi-ont of the psoas, crossing over the ureter ; and on the right side it passes over the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the spermatic plexus of nerves. In the fetus before the testicle leaves the abdomen the spermatic arteiy is very short, but the vessel elongates as the testis is removed fi-om its former site. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian) descends into the pelvis to end in the ovary and the uterus. The parietal hranclies of the aorta are the diaphragmatic, lumbar, and middle sacral. The diaphragmatic arteries (inferior phrenic) (fig. 169, a) are directed outwards along the mider surface of the diaplu-agm near the posterior part, the left artery passing beliind the oesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (intemal) passes onwards towards the front of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and \ni\i the branch (superior phrenic) to the diaphragm fi-om the internal mammary (p. 253). The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with the musculo-phrenic and intercostal arteries. Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external division of tliis arteiy are named superior capsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. On the under surface of the diaphragm are two branches of the internal mammary artery ; one (superior phrenic, p. 253) accompanies the phrenic nerve, and ramifies over the middle of the muscle ; the other (musculo-phrenic, p. 253) appears opposite the ninth rib, and passing along the edge of the thorax, gives offsets to the lower intercostal spaces. The other parietal branches, viz., lumbar and middle sacral, are not learnt in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus (p. 543), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 565).535 ILIAC ARTERIES AND VEINS. The COMMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 1G9, (j) is directed outwards from comT.,on the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into two l^'-g^ t^"'^^,,,,;^,,,,, opposite the fibro-cartilage between the base of the sacrum and the tenaiimtioii. last lumbar vertebra:—one of these (external iliac) supplies the lower limb, and the other (internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed conn«'--- obliqnely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve,«nd sometimes by the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio- Branches, lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The right arteiy is rather the longest, in consequence of the '^^^J^^^^ position of the aorta on the left side of the spine. To its outer side j-jght at first is the vena cava, and near its termination is the psoas muscle. The companion vein {p) is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part ; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the colon »'J^l^left and the inferior mesenteric vessels ; and its companion vein is situate below it. The length of the common iliac ranges fi'om less than half an Length, inch (in one case) to four inches and a half; but in the majority of instaftces it varies between one inch and a half and tlu-ee inches (Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 169, Ti) is the first part of the E|ternal^ vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of lower limb: the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the common extent and iliac to the lower border of Poupart's hgament, where it becomes ^I'^ctw"- femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a Ime firom the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space betAveen the symphysis pubis and the front of the iliac crest. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to Poupart's .^9^1'^^°*!^°"^ ligament, and is covered closely throughout by the peritoneum and around, the subperitoneal fat. To its outer side is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's ligament where the muscle lies beneath it. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near with other Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends down along its inner side, whilst the spermatic vessels, and part of the genito-crural nei-ve lie and nerve, on it for a short distance. The position of the external iliac vein (r) is not the same on both and veins, sides. The left vein is altogether internal to the artery; whilst the right, though internal hi position on the pubes, afterwards lies be- neath the arterial trunk. The circumflex iliac vein crosses it nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two branches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise about Two a qufirtcr of an inch from the end of the arteiy, and are distiibuted to the wall of the abdomen (p. 454).536 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Unimmecl offsets. Origin of brandies Vftries. Occasional brandies from it. Veins of tlie iibdonien except vena liortie. Anatomy of external iliac: position to ai-tery. Brandies. Common iliac veins form cava: difference in lengtli and connec- tions. Veins to it. Lower cava is by side of tlie aorta: extent and connections, Branches from abdo- men, except tliose of digestive .'ipparatus. Some small unnamed twigs are given to tlic psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in usual brandies. The epigastric and circumflex branclies may wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the artery. In unusual branches. Thougli the trunk of the vessel is commonly free from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between the middle and the end by the obturator artery, or by the internal circumflex artery of tlie thigh. Iliac Veins and Vena Cava (fig. 1G9). The larger veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in number, extent, and connections, as to render unnecessary much detail in their description. As the veins increase in size from the circumfer- ence towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac (r) is a continuation of the femoral vein beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac), to form the common iliac vein. On the pubes it is inside its companion artery, and lies between the psoas and pectineus muscles; the left vein remains internal to, but the right slips beneath its artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumiiex iliac (p. 455). The common iliac vein (fig. 169 p) ascends by the side of its accom- panying artery, the right almost vertically, and the left obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and lies at first behind, but after- wards outside the artery of the same name. The left is altogether below the artery of its own side, and crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral branch ; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. The VENA CAVA iNFEEioii (fig. 169, m) collects and conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, below the bifm-cation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its connections with the surrounding paiis have been already noticed (p. 482), but the description may be referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Branches. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and dia- phragmatic), fi-omthe wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive apparatus, viz., the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena portae (p. 488) ; and the blood contained in those veins reaches the cava by the venas cavaj hepaticse, after it has circulated through the liver.rSOAS AND ILIACUS MUSCLES. 537 The spermatic vein (fig. 1G9, o) enters the abdomen by the internal ^pe™atic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 527). At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at right ends diffe- anglcs, and a small valve exists sometimes over the aperture ; on [^Jj."^,^" the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal vein. As right sides: the vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches brandies, from the wall of the abdomen, and the fat about the kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as in the Vein in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent froni the vein and its branches, but occasionally there is one at its union with the renal. The 7-enal or emuh/ent vein (fig. 1G9, ?i) is of large size, and joins Renal vein; the vena cava at a right angle. It connnences by many branches in position to the kidney ; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial '" ' to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, and joins the cava higher up usually difference on than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery : it receives sej^arate branches from the left spermatic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared Suprarenal with the body from which it comes. The right opens into the cava, rentiy wf' and the left into the renal vein. side. The hepatic veins enter the vena cava where it is in contact with Hepatic the liver. These veins are described in the dissection of the liver ,wticed"''^°'^° (p. 509). The lunibar veins correspond in number and course with the L".mi'ar arteries of the same name (p. 544) : they will be dissected after. The diajihragmaiic veins (inferior), two.with each artery, spring Phrenic from the imder surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either' as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. ^ The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are tlie psoas, ihacus, and quadratus lumborum. The PSOAS MAGXus (fig. 1G9, reaches fi-om the lumbar vertebral Psoas to tlie femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly in the ■ thigh. situation. The muscle arises from the front of the trans\^ers'e processes of Origin: the lumbar verctebraj ; from the bodies and intervertebral discs of tlie last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebras by five fleshy pieces each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebras, and with tendinous bands over the bloodvessels opposite the middle of the vertebra?. The fibres give rise to a roundish belly, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends infcriorly in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives fibres of the ihacus, and passes beneath538 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. iusui-tion. Connoctions in front, l)ehind. Of outer bonier, of inner bonier, along pelvis. Use to bend the hip- joint ■with iliacus, or to bend trunk on the limb. Psoas l)arvus; Insertion; often absent. Use ou siiine and pelvis. Iliaens has the form of the iliiiu fossa : origin; insertion. Parts cover- ing it on opi)osite sides. Beneath it. Poupart'8 ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following connections: —In front are the internal arcli of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nei-ve, and, near Pouparts's ligament, the ending of tiie external iliac artery. Posteriorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with the quadratus lumborum, and with the innominate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebraj, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis :—along tlie attached part of this border lies the sj^mpathetic neive, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac arteiy and vein. Action. If the femur is fi-ee to move it is raised towards the belly ; and as the flexion proceeds, the limb is rotated out by the attach- ment of the muscle to the trochanter minor. The psoas is always combined with the iliacus in flexion of the hip-joint. When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles will draw down the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping to the ground. One muscle under the same circumstances can incline the spijie lateral Ij-. The rsOAS tarvus (fig. 169, ^) is a small muscle with a long and flat tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrje, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio- pectineal eminence and the brim of the pelvis, joining the fascia over tlie iliacus muscle. Action. If the spine is immoveable the two muscles will make tense the pelvic fascia. The pelvis being fixed they may assist in bending the lumbar region of the spinal column. The ILIACUS MUSCLE (fig. 169, ") occupies the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, from the base of the sacram, and from the capsule of the hip-joint in fi-ont. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur, but some reach separately the femur near the small trochanter. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia; but over the right iliacus is placed the crecura, and over the left, the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip-joint ; and between it and the grooved anterior margin of the bone, above the joint, is a bursa. The nmer margm is in contact with the psoas and the anterior crural nerve, nections of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart' are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 636). The con- s ligamentQUADIIATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. 639 Action. The iliacus flexes the hip-joint with the psoas when the Usetobena femur is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the hmb is lixcd. In consequence of its union with the psoas, the two are described as the flexor of the hip-joint by Theile. Tlie QUADRATUS LUMi.ouuM (fig. 109,«) is a short thick m»«cle Qu^a^^^^^^^^^^^^^ between the crest of the hip-bone and the last rib. About two ^^.^^^^ inches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral ligament, and from the iliac crest of the hip-bone behind, and an inch outside that band. The fibres ascend to be inserted by distinct fleshy and insertion, tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper, or all the lumbar vertebric ; and into the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. Tliis muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia lum- J^jjl'^.^j''^',' borum. Crosshig the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, a slleatli. together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spina; muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle antago- Useofliotli nismg the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more '"'^"'^ pomplete contraction of the diaphi-agm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of the spine of one. to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus Fascia of tlie is a thin membrane,, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis 'i^'^''"'*^^- of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumbonim, p. 385) ; it passes m front of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. Tliis fascia forms the thickened band called ligamentum arcuatum externum, to which the diaphi'agm is connected (p. 531). Fascia of tlie iliacus and psoas. A fascia covers the two flexor Iliac fascia muscles of the hip-joint, and extends in different directions as far as their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane is joined ty thickest ; and a strong accession is received from the tendon of the small psoas. Its disposition at Poupart's hgament, and the ^vttach-'**"'^' part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been ments before explained (p. 4G4). Opposite the pelvis the membrane is inserted into the bi 'im of internally that cavity for a short distance, and into the hip bone along the i"^'^'"'' edge of the psoas. Opposite the spinal column it becomes tliin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebra; and the liga- ami tlie mentum arcuatum internum, but is blended, on the other, with the ^'^'tetou. fascia on the quadratus. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and reflected towards the brim of the pelvis. Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands Trace the lying along the vertebra;, and to trace ujjwards some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides ; a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. TheDISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEX. 540 and tlie ii'cejitiicu- luiii, and spkncliiiic nerves. Luml)nr lyiiiplmtics end in one duct: lyuipliaties enter glands Beginning of the tlio- racic duct, at first lumbar vertebra. Large azj-gos vein; entrance into thorax, Small azygos beginning of the duct (cliyli receptaculnm), and of the vena azygoB, may be well seen ; and the two may be followed upwards into the thorax. On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the diaplu-agm; and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen licneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lympliatic glands. A chain of glands is placed along the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebriB ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar vertebra tliree or four trunks unite in the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of the viscera and wall of the abdomen are received. Receptaculum chyli (Pecquet). The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen by the union of three or four large lymphatic vessels. Its commencement is marked by a dilatation,, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. Beginning of the azygos veins. The right vein (vena azygos major) begins at the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is united with a lumbar vein. It enters the thorax with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left side of the spine, joining one of the lumbar veins, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 363. Sectiox VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The spinal nerves of the loins are united in a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection. The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be leanit on the left side, although the woodcut shows them on the right side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should cut through Dissection the external iliac vessels, and afterwards scrape away the psoas, oft'heium- ^ox the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a ou'ieft side, small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a connnunication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar i\ex\&. vith «yT,i- The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the pathetic. pgojis^ and offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries.LUMBAR PLEXUS AND BRA.N'CIIES. On the right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of" emergence of the different nerve branches from it maj be noticed. . , i „„ +t,o LUMBAU SnxAL Nkuvks. The anterior prnnary branches of the lumbar nerves enter the lumbar plexus, with the exception ot the last. Five in number, ^ they increase in size from ^'S- ^' ■ the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the intervertebral foramina. Before entering the plexus they supply branches to the psoas and quadratus luinborum muscles. The fifth nerve (fig. 175) receives a communi- cating branch fi'om the fourth, and is to be fol- lowed into the pelvis to its jmiction with the sa- cral plexus. After the two are united, the name lumbosacral is applied to the common trunk ; and from this, before it enters the sacral plexus, arises the superior gluteal nerve (^). The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 170) is fomied by the intercommunication of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas near the posterior surface, it consists of communi- cating loops between the several nerves, and in- creases in size from above downwards, like the individual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus tlu-ough the large lumbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the * Dissection of the luraljar iilexus and its branches. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) a. External iliac artery, cut across, b. Thoracic duct. c. A^ygos vein. Nerves: The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the five lumbar nerves. </. Splanchnic nerves, e. Last dorsal. /. Uio-hypogastric. f/. Ilio-inguinal. Ji. Genito-crural. i. External cutaneous, k. Anterior crural. I. Accessory to obturator, n. Obturator, o. Grangliated cord of the sympathetic. 541 Four luniliar nerves enter plexus, and supply niuscle.s: flfth to the saeral plexus. Plexus liow fonned: situation. connections with nerves. Six branches, viz.:542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Two cu- tauboiiN lirauclius. Ilio-liypo- Knstrir.: course in abdomen. Ilio-inguiiial arises with lirecediiig, and aeconi- pauies it. Genito- cruriil pierces psoas, and divides into genital and crural branch. Com-se of external cutaneous to the thigh, Origin of anterior <;rural: position in the abdomen ; its branches to iliacus, spermatic cord, the fore part of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (ih"o-hypogastric and ih'o-inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the buttock, lower part of the abdomen, and the scrotum. a. The ilio-hjpogastric branch (fig. 170, /) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by pene- trating the transversalis abdominis. Its termination in the integu- ments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 450). h. The ilio-ingidnal hranch ([/) arises Avith the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the crest of the hip bone, where it pierces the transversalis abdo- minis. The farther course of the nei-^^e in the abdominal wall, and its distribution over the scrotum and the groin, are before noticed (p. 451). c. The (jenito-crural nerve (li) is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and fi'om the connecting Ioojd between the first two ; it pierces the fibres of the psoas, and descending on the surface of the muscle divides into the two following pieces. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate separately the muscle. The cremasteric hranch descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes offsets around it: it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. The crural hranch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. 608). d. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh (/) arises from the second nerve of the plexus, or from the loop between it and the third, and appears about the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the inten^al between the anterior iliac spinous processes, and leaves the abdomen be- neath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb (p. G09). e. The anterior crural nerve (h) is the largest offset of the plexus, and supphes branches maijily to the extensor muscles of the knee joint, and to the teguments of the fi-ont of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the tliird and fourth nerves, and receiving a fasciculus also from the second, this large trunk appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Pou- part's ligament; but before the final branching in the thigh (p. 628), the nerve sends off the following twigs :— Some small branches are furnished to the iliacus from the outer side of the nerve.543 LUMBAR ARTERIES AND VEINS. A branch to the femoral arienj, whose place of origin varies much, toft^moral is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. , * /. The obturator nerve (n) appertains to the adductor muscles of f^'^^^^"^ the thigh (p. 633). Derived from the third and fourth nerves m aixlomen; the plexus, it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner border ; escaped from beneath the muscle the nerve crosses the pelvis below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the emi«_intl.e thigh through the aperture at the top of the tiiyroid foramen. Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch:— The accessor!/ obturator nerve (/) arises from the trunk of the |j*^f,^^f'''°''i' •obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its ^^^^^^^y^^^ course is along the inner border of the psoas beneath the investing iiip joint fascia, and over the hip bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator ners^e, and supplying the hip jomt. Gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The lumbar part of the ^l^f^^g^^ :gangliated cord of the sjanpathetic in the abdomen is placed on the in tlie side of the spinal column (fig. 170) ; it lies along the inner border ^^'^""^^"j. of the psoas muscle, nearer the fi-ont of the vertebraj than in the iil'tuorax; thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena •cava. The cord possesses four or five oblong ganglia opposite the jias fojjr^^r _ •bodies of the vertebrre, which supply connecting and visceral branches. Connecting branches. From each ganglion two small branches are hranclies to ■directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, uerves"^^ ■with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the interv^ertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long in the lumbar region in consequence of the gangliated cord being raised by the psoas muscle nearer the fi-ont of the vertebra3. Branches of distribution. Most of the internal branches throw supplies themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach ^ '•'■oera. the viscera indirectl3\ Some filaments enter the vertebrae and their •connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 170 e). The anterior primary branch of the Last dorsal last dorsal resembles the intercostal ner^-es in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, and beneath the fascia cover- ing that muscle, as far as the aponeurosis of the transversalis ab- course in dominis (fascia lumborum) ; here it enters the wall of the abdomen, abaomeu,'^ and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 450). The lowest intercostal artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle • I'mucIi to and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. The LUMiiAii ARTERIES of the aorta (p. 533), are furnished to the Lumbar Back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble nveiumim- the aortic intercostals in their course and distribution. Commonly ^^'^^^ four in number on each side, they arise opposite the centre of the " lumbar vertebra), and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes .joined in a common trunk ; they then pass backwards beneath the course:5d4 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. nnil termi- pillar of the diiipliragin and tlic psoas, to reach the intersMl between the transverse processes, where each ends in an abdominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side lie beneath the vena cava. The dorsal hranch continues to the Back between the transverse processes, and supphes an offset to the spinal canal (pp. 398, 415). The ahdominul branches are directed outwards beneath the quad- ratus lumborum, and enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they anastomose with the lower intercostal above, and witli the circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries below : these branches supply the psoas and quadratus muscles ; and the last furnishes an offset to the teguments with the ilio-hypogastric nerve. The LUMUAR VEINS are the same in number, and have the same arteries*^ ^^'^ course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the transverse process, each trunk is directed forwards to the vena cava. They open into the back of the cava, either singly, or conjointly with those of the opposite side. On the left side the veins are longer than on the right, and pass beneath the aorta. Around the transverse processes, and beneath the psoas muscle, the lumbar veins communicate fireely with one another, with the ilio-lumbar, and sometimes with the common iliac, so as to form a plexus of veins. Issuing above from the plexus is a small branch, the ascending lumbar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding side of the body. n brniioli to the buck, and a bniucli to tlio wall of tho abJoiiioii. Tlie veins and open into the cava; left longest. A plexus around the transverse processes.CAVITY OF THE PELVIS TiiK cavity of the pelvis is ca part of tlic general abdominal space ^^''^"^j^jjl^" (p. 466), and is situate below the brim of the true pelvis. tiou. Boundaries. The space is sm-roundcd by the firm bony ring of Boundaries, the pelvic bones : it is bounded behind by tlie sacrum and coccyx, Behiml and with the pyriformis muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; and ''^foro. laterally and in front, by the innominate bones covered by the obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perinteum, the ca^^ty is limited by the Below, fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ;mi and coccygei muscles : only in this last direction, where the bounding structures are moveable, can alterations be made in the size of the space. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the lu'uiary bladder, the Coutents. lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, according to the sex. All the viscera possess vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. On the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which extends Outline of from the brim to the outlet, and covers the obturator muscle. th'e pelvS."'" Dissection. To brmg into view the pelvic fascia, the internal iliac steps to de- vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- ''!"^ t'le pel- tion of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through in the on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the i"^'"**' Avail of the pelvis, the fascia will be seeii on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a large quantity of fat. By this proceed- ing the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as the situation of a piece of fascia (recto-vesical) which is attached to it, and is directed inwards to the viscera. To display the lower half, the student must raise the outlet of the pelvis; and, should the perineum be midissected, the fat must be and the taken from the ischio-rectal holloAv. The lower part of the pelvic i>"iw^'um, N N546 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. and outside liulvis. Fascia of the Willi (if the polvis. Its attncOi- ment above; and below connections. Eecto-vcsi- callayer after. To remove liip bone, detach fascia; saw the bone, and divide soft parts: then blow np bladder and distend other jiarts. fascia will now appear on the outer side of that fossa, as it covers the obturator muscle. An additional step for showing the arrangement of the fascia may be taken, by removing the external obturator muscle and the obturator membrane, and then scraping away through the thyroid hole the obturator internus muscle, so as to look at the fascia througb that aperture. The riCLVic fascia is a thin membrane in close contact with the obturator muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the attachment of the fleshy fibres, so that it might be called the special fascia (obturator) of that muscle. Superiorly it is fixed into the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the lateral aspect of the cavity. In front of that spot it does not extend so high as the brim, but is inserted into the bone around the attachment of the obturator muscle, except opposite the hole for the obturator vessels and nerve, where it is united with the obturator membrane. Inferiorly the fascia is attached to the hip bone along the side of the pubic arch, and to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament where the obturator internus issues fi"om the pelvis. The outer surface of the fascia is in contact with the obtm-ator muscle. The inner sui-face corresponds above with the cavity of the pelvis, and below, with the ischio-rectal fossa. With this surface the thin membrane (recto-vesical) supporting the viscera of the pelvis is united ; the place of union being indicated, on looking into the pelvis, by a whitish line near to, and on a IcA-'elwith the ischial spine. At the jDOsterior border of the obturator muscle the fascia is joined by a thin membrane (fascia of the pyriformis), which covers the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus but is beneath the iliac vessels by branches of wliich it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may be now seen in part ; but it will be better displayed after the hip bone has been taken away. Dissection. To obtain a side view of the pelvis (fig. 171) it will be necessary to detach the left innominate bone. The pelvic fascia is first to be separated fi'om the bone and the obturator muscle. The innominate bone is next to be sawn through, in fi-ont, rather external to the symphysis, and, behind, at the articulation with the sacrum. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the pelvis, the ischial spme with the recto-vesical fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone-forceps; and the piece of the bone may be then removed by Qutting through the pjTiformis muscle, the vessels and nei-ves passing through the sacro-sciatic notch, and any other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath the pelvis. The bladder is to be moderately distended with air through the ureter, and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina if it is a female pelvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent without distension, the ischial spine and the recto-vesical fascia547 rAKTS IN OUTLET OF PELVIS. should bo raised with hooks whilst the levator ai.i, d, and coccygcus iiuisclo c below it are cleaned. . ParU dosinc, the pelvis below. In addition to the recto-ves.cal fascia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each side, between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriforrais passing through the great sacro-sciatic notch, with the gluteal vessels and nerve above it. Nest comes the coccygcus muscle, c, on the small sacro- sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx : one Outlet of pelvis is closed bj- pyrifonnis, liy coocy- geus, ai)(i saoro-suiatic ligamcut.s, Yvj. 171. border of the muscle reaches towards the pyriformis, the other to the levator ani; and between its hinder border and the pyriformis lie the sacral plexus of nerves (^), and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the pelvic outlet is closed by the levator ani, D, which extends forwards from the coccygcus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow inferiorly, but the muscles of opposite sides are separated in fi-ont by the urethra, with the vagina in the female ; and the interval between them is closed by the triangular ligament of the perinasum, n. The COCCYGEUS muscle (fig. 171, ^) is flat and triangular, and assists to close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises from the upper part of the ischial spine, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic hgament. Widening as it passes inwards the muscle is inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left side : the opposite surface rests on the small * Side view of the muscles in the outlet of the pelvis (Illustrations of Dis- sections). Muscles: A. Gluteus maxiiuus, cut. b. Psoas and Iliacus, cut. c. Coccygcus. p. Levator ani. k. External anal sjihincter. f. Ejaculator urinffi. 0. Ischial spine, cut off. ir. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a External iliac artery, cut; h, its accompanying vein. c. Obliterated hypo- gastric cord. d. Upper vesical, and e, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. Nerves : 1. Sacral plexus. 2. Inferior hemorrhoidal. 3. Pudic. X N 2 with vessels, and nen'es: by levator ani, and by ligament below the pubes. Coccygcus; origin and inser- tion. Connections of surfacesDISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. 548 .Did liordevs. Use on the coccyx. Lc\-atoi' niii; situation. Origin linrtly from iiono, and liartly from membrane. Insertion along middle line of tlie perinteum. Borders and surfaces. Two mus- (des form a tiesliy dia- pliragni. Use on tlie urethra, in micturi- tion, and passage of semen ; on coccyx. Bisscction fur tlie rec- to-vesical fa.scia. sacro-sciatic ligament. Tlie liinder border is contiguoii's to the pyriformis muscle, vessels and nerves intervening ; and the anterior border is parallel with the levator ani muscle. Action. Uniting in its action with the hinder fibres of the leva- tor ani, the muscle will draw slightly forwards the coccyx. The LEVATOR ANI (fig. 171,») is a thin flat muscle, which is attached above to the side of the pelvis, and descends into the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an oblique line above the obturator internus ; lower down fi-orathc fascia on that muscle, and from the back of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it i.s fixed to the lower and inner surface of the ischial spine. And be- tween those osseous attachments the muscle takes origin from the under surface of the recto-vesical fascia, but not in a straight line. All the fibres are directed downwards to be inserted after the follow- ing manner :—The anterior, the longest, descend by the side of the prostate, and join, in front of the rectum, with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perinceum : the middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx (p. 421). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the trian- gular perinasal ligament ; * and there is an interval between the two muscles which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The posterior border is parallel to the coccy- geus muscle. The upper surface is contiguous to the recto-vcsicai fascia ; and the under surface looks to the perinajum (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diapkragm across the outlet of the' pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. Action. By the miion of the muscles of opposite sides below the urethra this tube can be raised, and compressed during their con- traction. Whilst the urine is flowing the fibres are passive, but towards the end of micturition they contract suddenly, and help the other muscles in clearing the passage. As the levatores descend by the side of the vesicuUe scuiinales, and the prostate, they will compress and evacuate the contents of those viscera. The hindmost fibres, which are fixed to the coccyx, will assist the coccygeus in moving forwards that bone. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by dctacliing the fleshy fibres of the levator ani and the coccj'geus at their origin, and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends on the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards sheaths around the prostate and the gut. To demon- * Tlie anterior part of the muscle wliich descends by the side of the prostate, and unites with its fellow below the membranous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, is named sometimes levator seu comi)rcssor ^rostatcc.RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA. sti-ate those sl.catl.s one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the fascia ; and the tubes are to be isolated from the viscera. _ The recto-vesical fascia supports and partly invests the viscera of ^{^J.^' the pelvis. Coverijig the pelvic surface of the levator am it isiixed above, like that muscle, to the wall of the pelvis in front and behind, and between those attachments it joins the pelvic fascia. Below it meets the fascia of the opposite side, in the centre of the pelvis, and forms a partition across the cavity, lilce that of the leva- fnmH^fl.e tores nni, wliich is perforated by the bladder and the rectum. .Lhe ^i.e iidvis, partition is supported anteriorly by being fixed to the pubes, and posteriorly, where it blends with the fascia on tlie coccygeus, by being inserted into the coccyx : it is concave above and convex septum, below, and divides the cavity of the pelvis from the perinatal space. This septum is attached to tlie viscera which pierce it, forming mul use; ligaments for them ; and from the under surface tubes are prolonged on the rectum and the prostate. The slieath on the rectum incloses the lower three inches of the j};^''^*^;.^';;',,,^ intestine, and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus ; be- tween it and the intestine are interposed the branches of the upper liaMUorrhoidal vessels with a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheatb is thinner than on the rectum, and not "^^'^^^^^^ loose ; and is continued forwards to the apex of that body, where it blends with the triangular hgament of the urethra : it is separated from the capsule of the prostate by a plexus of veins, and by some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same an-angement as in the male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate. The true lUjaments of the hiadder are two on eacb side, anterior Ligaments and lateral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. " i > x ., ITie anterior reaches fi'om the back of the pubes to the upper fonn tlie surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder ; it is a naiTOw ligaments, white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Be- tween the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia descends to reach the triangular ligament of the perinojum, and closes the pelvis between the levatores ani. The lateral ligament is a side piece of the fascia, which is fixed ant^ lateral to the upper border of the prostate gland, to the side of the bladder ijiaaacr. close above the vesicula seminalis, and to the back of the bladder between the vesicula; ; from it an offset is continued downwards over the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheath for those bodies. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), whicli ■False liga- are derived fi-om the peritoneum investing it, and will be described bhuuicr. in the following Section. Ligament of the rectum. On each side of the rectum is a strong Ligament of wide piece of the recto-vesical fascia, which is connected externally to the ischial spine of the hip bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder.550 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. Section II. Contents of the pelvis. Outline of their jjosl- tion. Take away fascia, ami clean ves- sels. The se\'oral viscera are to be cleaned. Clean pro- state unci vesicula. The peri- toneum <!over.s jiartly the rectum ; and partly tlie hladdei', leaving front and lower ]iart uncovered. roucli he- tween the i-ei;tuni and bladde : CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE, Directions. It the student dissects a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at paj^e 556. Contents and position (fig. 172). The Adscera in the cavitj' of the male pelvis are, the lower end of the large intestine (rectum) ; the bladder with its excretory tube—the urethra; together with some generative organs. These have the following relative situation :— The rectum Qc) is behind all, and takes a curved course, with the convexity backwards, along the front of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder (a) is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland {h) ; and' the urethra {d) curves forwards from it above the intestine^ Beneath the bladder —between it and the rectum—are the little seminal sacs (</) witli the vasa deferentia, /. Some of these organs are partly surrounded by the peritoneum. Dissection. All the recto-vesical [fascia, except the anterior ti-ue ligament of the bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum. The obliterated (hypogastric) cord from the internal iliac arteiy sliould be followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis ; and the branches of the same artery to the bladder should be cleaned. When the fat has been cleared fi-om the rectum without injuring its arteries, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which tow has been jslaced, will be brought into A^iew, with the ureter (/i) passing to the bladder across its side. The bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned; and the vas deferens (/), which lies on the lateral aspect of the viscus is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away with care the remains of tlie sheath of the vesicula semiualis, defining at the same time the vas deferens inside the latter. The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera in the pelvis so com- pletely as in the upper part of the abdomen. After surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—meso- rectum, the membrane clothes the back of the bladder, projecting for some Avay between this viscus and the rectum, where it forms the recto-vesical pouch : on each side the serous membrane is ar- rested by the obhterated hypogastric artery, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. It covers the posterior sur- face, and each lateral region of the bladder as far forwards as the obliterated hypogastric ; but at that cord it is reflected to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the bladder is therefore uncovered by peritoneum ; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes, so as to allow of its being punctured in front without injury to the serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch is wide behind, where it corresponds with the interval between the iliac ai-teries, and is narrow in fi'ont551 REFLECTIOXS OF rERITONEUM. between the rectum anclthe bladder. Anteriorly it extends slighy into the interval between the vesicular seminales, and ends usually o.to>t ana about one inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx, ihe distance th. of the pouch from the anus is counnonly about four mches ; but anus^a.y it will vaiy with the state of the bladder, for if this viscus is distended the peritoneum will be raised, and removed farther fi-om the end of the intestine. . n . i voia» li^n False ligaments of the bladder: Where the peritoneum is reflected ,^ai««^i;."- from the bladder to the pelvic wall, it gives rise to a wide piece ot ai^ biiui.ier, membrane, which constitutes the false ligaments of that viscus, ^' - Fig. 172.* though without any subdivision of it into pieces. These are said to be five in mnnber :—two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior lirjament (one on each side) reaches from the back two poste- of the pelvis to the bladder, and contains the obliterated hypogastric arteiy, the ureter, and smaller vessels, and nerves. Between these is the hollow of the recto-vesical pouch. The lateral lirjament, also one on each side, the widest, is reflected two lateral, from the side of the bladder to the iliac-fossa and the wall of the pelvis. Along its line of attachment to the bladder is the obliterated liypogastric arteiy. The superior lirjament is prolonged from the top of the bladder ""rt one superior * Side view of tiie dissected male pelvis, a. Urinary bladder. &. Prostate. r. Membranous part of the urethra, d. Spongy part of the iirethi-a. c. Cms ])enis, detached. /. Yas deferens, 'j. Vesiciila seminalis. /t, Ureter. •/. Ilecto-vesical fascia. /.-. Kectum. I. Levator uni, cut.552 DISSECTIOX OF THE I'ELYIS. Extent of tlie voctuin. luiigtli, and divi- sions. First piece jnost covered by lJuritoneuni. Middle piece covered in front. Last piece is uncovered, connections witli ]iarts around : sometimes dilated. Bladder is in ])elvis when empty, to the abdominal wall, along the remains of the obliterated liyno- gastric vessels. The RKCTUM, or the lower part ol; the great intestine (fig. 172, Z;) extends from the articulation between tlie sacrum and the left hi]» bone to the anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum, the recto- vesical fascia, and the levatores ani. The intestine is about eight inches long, and has a winding course, for it follows the curve of tlie sacrum and coccyx : it is divided into three parts—upper, middle, and lower. The U2)2)er jwrtion, longer than the otliers, extends obliquely from the sacro-iliac articulation to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. Surrounded almost entirely by the peritoneum, it lies against the sacnnn, and on the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of the left side. In contact with it, are branches of tlie left internal iliac artery, and the left ureter. In some bodies tlie intestine is much curved to the right side.* The middle jnece Hes beneath the bl; dder, and reaches to the tip of the coccyx : it is about three inches is length, and is covered by peritoneum on the front and sides above, but only in front below. Ilestuig on it is the triangular part of the bladder, Avith the back of the prostate and the vesiculte seminales and vasa deferentia ; and beneatli it are the sacrum and coccj's. On each side is the coccygeus muscle. The loioer part is about an inch and a half long, and is curved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at lirst it is dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles. Above the extremity of the rectum (in this position of the l)ody) are the fore part of the prostate, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrte ; but as the gut recedes fi'om the urethra there is an angular interval left, between them. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling ; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes the end of the intestine within the anus is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men; and in that condition m the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The UEINARY BLADDER (vesica urinaiia) is situate in the fore part of the pelvis (fig. 172, a), and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the kidnej's. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and Hes against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when * It is not uncommon to see the rectum on the right side of the sacrum. In the dis.sectiDg-room of University College in one Winter (1854—1855) I saw three examples of the rectum in that situation. In two bodies the lower end of the left colon crossed the .spine at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line, to the end of the coccy.x. In the third the large intestine crossed the spine twice, once at. the top of the sacrum, and again about the middle of that bone.CONNECTIONS OF BLADDEE. 553 distended it beconics of a conical shape, with the larger part towards an;|^mi;^t« the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly ctu-ved forwards over the pelvis, as it projects above the bone ; and if a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall anteriorly somewhere Axis, (accordhig to tiic distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes, and the end of the sacrum or the coccyx posteriorly. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early rositionjn^^ life as in the adult. For in the cliild this viscus rises above the ^.vltli age."'"'* brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is con- tained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects inferiorly. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (pp. 549 and 551). The connections of the bladder moderately full are the follow- ing:— The sumviit or apes is rounded, and from its anterior part three ■^J'^?- . " ligamentous cords are ijrolonged to the umbilicus ; the central one of these is the remains of the urachus ; and the two lateral are fonned by the obliterated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is distended the apex is above, but otherwise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The hase (fundus) is large, and rests on the middle piece of the Base rectum : in the state of emptiness of the bladder the base is scarcely prominent, but in distension of the viscus, it extends lower, and ^J^^^^i^ I" becomes widened. Connected Avith the fundus are the vesicula? , .' Pirts m seniinalcs and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular contact space, from which the peritoneum is mostly absent. ^^'''^^ Surfaces of the iochj. The fi-ont of the body is in contact with Surfnees; the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, and with the abdominal wall if it is distended, and is altogether fi-ee from peritoneum ; whilst the posterior surface is entirely covered by the serous mem- and pos- l)rane, and is touched often by the small intestine. tuiiur. E.xtending along the upper part of each lateral region is the T^atcral obliterated hypogastric vessel : and running down behind this is the vas deferens, which passes internal to the ureter. Near the base the ureter enters the bladder. All the side of the bladder behind the hypogastric vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The 7}eck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder tlint xeck. joins the urethra : in the state of contraction it is the lowest point of the viscus, but in distension it is above the level of the fundus. It is suiTOunded by the prostate gland. The ureter (fig. 172, h) crosses the common or the external iliac Urotci-in artery, and fonns an arch below the level of the obliterated hypo-1'"'^'"'*' gastric vessel; it enters tlie bladder near tlie base, and somewhat on tlio side, at the distance of one inch and a half or two inches from the prostate gland. Tirn rnnsTATE Gi,ANn (fig. 172, h) surrounds the nock of the rosition ofDISSECTION OF THE PELYlS. 55i the ]iros- tiite ; I'onii; axis. surface; umlcr surlivce. Apex and base. It is pon- taiiied in a sheath; size may increase. Seminal vesicles, their con- nections. deferens; cour.se; unites with duct I'nmi vcsieula. Tlie lu-etlu'a; length; < lu ve, bladder. It is placed about an inch below the level of the syjii- physis pubis, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape is conical with the base turned backwards, and its size equals nearly that of a large chestnut. In the present position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards towards the end of the sacrum ; but in the erect state of tiic body, upwards and backwards from tlie trian- gular ligament. The Mjjper surface is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the anterior true ligaments of tlie bladder. On this surface are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is contiguous to the rectum ; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The ajMx touches the posterior layer of the triangular ligament; and the base surrounds the neck of the bladder, and the common seminal ducts. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- vesical fascia (p. 549), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) surrounds it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis ; and the ejaculatory ducts pierce it obliquely to open into the urethra (fig. 178,/). The size of the prostate alters much, and in old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. The VESicuLiE SEMiNALES (fig. 172 (j) arc two small sacculated bodies, each about two inches long, between the under part of the bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, whilst the smaller touches the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesiculas approach one another, only the vasa deferentia inten^eniug ; but farther backwards they diverge, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum the trianrjular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesicula; are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by involuntary muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 172,/) in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring ; and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed inwards along the side and fundus of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula seminahs. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretory passage for the urine and semen (fig. 172), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In length it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards through the triangular ligament of the peri- na;um to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with the555 CONNECTIONS OF UEETIIRA. concavity to tbc pubes. Thence to its termination the urethra is applied to the penis ; and whilst this body remains pendent the canal fonns a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if tlie penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. division. The prostatic ^wr< (i) is contained in the prostate gland, and Prostatic, receives its name from that circumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it is inclined downwards to the trianguhu- perinjcal ligament. Its con- nections are the same as those of the gland (p. 553). The membranous part (c), about tlu-ee quarters of an inch long, Membra- inten'cncs between the apex of the prostate and the front of the ' perinatal triangular ligament. It slants downwards in the erect posture to the fore jDart of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (n). SuiTounding it are the muscular ronnec- fibres of the constrictor urethras ; and close below it are Cowper's glands with the rectum. The sponcjy part (d) is so named from its being surrounded by a Spongy, cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of tlie penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this di\nsion of the excretory canal is covered for two inches by the ejaculator urinai muscle (fig. 130). The cui-ve of the urethra is the fix:ed bend at the inner extremity. Fixed curve which lies below the pubes. It extends from the bladder to an °^ "'''^""'•■^ ■ inch and a half in fi-ont of the triangular ligament, and consists of extent, the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards, is greatest at the where front of the triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body: feieatest. and from this point it curves up and back to the bladder, and up anteriorly to the penis. It is siUTotmded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntaiy tlius, behind the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of f"ntl"y'°" the prostate ; within tlie ligament by the voluntary constrictor muscles sur- uretlira?, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle ; and '"""'^ before the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinaj. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perinatal liga- Size, ment (n), and Hes between the layers ; and is largest in the nriddle of the prostate. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be re- Dissection, moved, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The teguments should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The I'KNis is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and liangs consti- in front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies (fig. 172, e) named corpora cavernosa, which are filled with the'penlLf556 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. form and uttacluiiciit. spongiosum surrouncls uretlii-ii, iiiid swells into the bulb, ■which is lobecl; and the conical glans penis. a plexus of vckscIs. Below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) wliich surrounds the urethra, and forms tlie head or the glans penis. The tegumentary investment, which covers the whole, is noticed at p. 440. The body of the penis is grooved above and below along the middle line, and is covered anteriorly by the glans penis ; along its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the attachment of the corpora , cavernosa to the bone, the body of the penis is con- nected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. The coiyus sponrjiosum urethrca encloses the urethral canal in front of the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of the penis, where it swells into the conical glans penis. The hulh (fig. 172, d) is directed backwards, slightly, below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by fibrous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The ejaculator urina3 muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a central depression, Avith a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes. The glans xienis (fig. 179, 1) is somewhat conical in form, and covers the truncated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed backwards, and is marked by a shghtly prominent border —the corona cjlandis ; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excava- tion, which contains the piece of the teguments named frcemim X>reputii. Section III. Contents of the female pelvis. and their situation. Use descrip- tion of male pelvis, CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the pelvis of the female are contained the rectum and the bladder and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a hke curve. In the concavity of the bent intestme lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of all are the bladder and the lu-ethral canal. Thus there are three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz., the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum; and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface. Directions. The description in Section I. (p. 545) must be used for instructions respecting the removal of the innominate bone, and the distension of the viscera ; also for the muscles of the pelvic outlet and the anatomy of the f ascise. After the student has learnt the muscles and the fascia, p. 54G, which are nearly ahke m both557 LIGA:srENTS OF UTERUS. sexes, ho may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the rccto-vcsical fascia and much "^^^ fat, the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of of tliefemale the uterus, raise it up with a piece of string passed through the upper Pei^'"^ i-nd. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be l)reser\-ed ; and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the internal iliac artery is to be followed vessels, on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side of the uterus to the blAdder. Aftenvards the urethra, the vagina, is"'"^^ and the rectum are to be cleaned and separated a little from one ^ another at the anterior part of the pelvis ; but the arteries on the rectum arc to be preserved. The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the Kefio'^tioiis male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming toneum. behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued to the pos- terior aspect of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and most of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder without again touchmg the vagina : on each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen. As the peritoneum is followed upwards it may be observed to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and the lateral surface behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the following ligaments for the uterus and bladder. The Irocul ligament of the uterus (fig. 173) passes from the side Broad liga- of the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ. ute'nis° By its position across the pelvis, it di^ddes the cavity into an anterior and a posterior space : in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, which is and vagina ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the j^Jo tlu-ee^^ small intestine when it reaches the pelvis. parts. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, corresponchng with the bodies contained between its two layers. Thus there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovaiy and its liga- ment, l; an anterior, near the upper edge, which is appropriated to the round ligament, N ; and a middle piece, the highest of all, sur- rounds the Fallopian tube, M. Anterior awl -posterior ligaments of the uterus. As the peritoneum Anterior is reflected from the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to J,'!"***" the Ijladder, it forms two anterior and two posterior folds or liga- uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uterine pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-uterine. The recto-uterine pouch corresponds with the recto-vcsical in the Recto- male. On each side it is bounded by the obliterated hypogastric \^ovw\x arteiy : and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the back of the vagina. T\\e false ligaments of the hladder are the same as in tlic male I'K'i;- and are five in number, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a superior:' Sder.'DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 558 Connections <>f the vt'v- tuin, viz., they arc all blended in one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and front of the pelvis. In the female the posterior ligament, containing the vessels of the bladder, is less marked than in the male. ' The RECTUM (fig. 173, is not so curved in the female as hi the male, and is generally larger. Descending along the middle of the of up niiddli'. and lower part. Uterus; sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts :— The Jirst part ends over the third piece of the sacrum, and is en- veloped by the peritoneum, except posteriorly : its connections are similar to those of the rectimi in the male, p. 552. The middle portioii reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has the vagina above and in contact with it. The peritoneum extends on the front for a short distance. The loioer piece curves to the anus away from the vagina so as to leaA'^e between the two a space which coiTesponds, on the surface of the body, with the perinasum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on the sides, and unite below it, and the sphincter muscles surround the extremity. The UTERUS (fig. 173, ^) is somewhat conical in shape, and flattened * Side view of tlie female pelvis. (Illustrations of Dissections.) Muscles and Viscera: a, Pyriformis muscle, cut. b. Large iJsoas, cut. c. Gluteus iiiaximus, cut. d. Coccj'geus, and k, Levator ani, thrown down. f. Sphincter vaginte. o. Urethra. n. Urinary bladder, i. Vagina, k. Rectum, l. Ovary and its ligament, m. Fallopian tube. n. Eound ligament, o. Uterus. Arteries : a. External iliac, b. Internal iliac, c. Middle sacral, d. Uterine. e. Vaginal. /. Upper haimorrhoidal. ff. Gluteal, cut. /(. Obliterated hypo- gastric, i. Inferior vesical.CONNECTIOXS OF TJTEIIIIS. 559 from before l.aekwanls. Unless enlarged, it lies below the brm of fonn and the pelvis, between the bladder and the reetnm ; and it is retained in plaee by the ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards and the lower end communicates with the vagina. _ ' This viscus is directed forwards, so that its position is oblique m r-t-n to^ the cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through its centre would corre- pelvis. spond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvic cavity. _ Axis. The unienor flattened surface is covered by peritoneum, except m Surfaces, the lower fourth where it is in contact with the bladder. The postenor surface, rounded, is invested altogether by the serous membrane. , i • - ^ .x. The vpper end (fundus) is the largest part of the organ, and is m Estremit.es. contact with the small intestine. The loioer end, or the neck (ceiwix) is received into tlie vagina. _ To each side are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian On ttie side tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. The Fallopian tube, jr, four inches long, is contained in the upper Fallopian or fi-ee border of the ligament. One end is connected to the uterus close to the fundus, whilst the other is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fi-inged, f oming the corpus finibriatum. The roiiml or suspensory ligament, N, is a fibrous cord about five \9^^^^^^^ inches long, which is directed outwards through the internal abdomi- nal ring and the inguinal canal to end in the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery ; and it is suiTounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. The ovary, l, is placed nearly vertically, and bulges at the ami tlie posterior aspect of the broad ligament; it is connected to the uterus ''""^ at the inner end by a special fibrous band, one inch and a half in length, the lir/ament of the OA'ary. Its form is oval, and its margins its ligament, are turned forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable. The VAGINA (fig. ]73, ^) is the tube by which the uterus commu- ^^^"t .'juj nicates with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical form; ' in shape, though flattened from above down ; and its length is about five inches. As it follows the bend of the rectum it is slightly lengtli; curved ; and its axis corresponds below Avith the centre of the out- ^i^s. let, but higher up Avith that of the cavity of the pehns. Above the Ai-agina are the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; Connec- and beneath or beloAV it is the rectum. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, Avliich sends a sheath along the loAv.er half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the utenis by an apeiitn-e in the anterior or upper Avail ; and the loAver end, the narroAvest part of the canal, is encircled by the sphincter vagintc muscle. A large plexus of A^eins surrounds the vagina. In children, and in the virgin, the external aperture is partly closed by the hymen. The BT.ADDKR (fig. 173, ") is placed at the front of the pelvis, Bladder above the vagina and in contact with the back of the pubes.DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. 660 respinblos that of the iimle. Diflerenees in tlie two sexes. Course of iiroter. Uretlira: leii^ij'th and form: connections with parts around. Its position and connections so closely resemble those of tlic bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary any further description of them (p. 552). The chief differences in the bladder of the two sexes arc the followine-: In the female the bladder is larger than in tlie male, and its transverse exceeds its vertical measurement. The base is of less extent, and is in contact witli the vagina and the neck of the uterus : and it does not reach below the orifice of the urethra. On the side of the viscus there is not any vas deferens; and the pros tate does not project around the neck. The ureter has a longer course in the female than the male pelvis before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus ere it arrives at its destination. The urethra (fig. 173, is a small narrow tube about one inch and a half long, which curves slightly below the S3anphysis pubis, the concavity being upwards. Its situation is above the vagina' and its external opening is placed within the vulva. In its course to the surface it is embedded in the tissue of the vagmal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the perin;eum. It is surrounded by the muscular fibres of the constrictor and orbi- cularis urethras (p. 430) ; and corresponds with the two divisions (prostatic and membranous) of the male urethra. A plexus of A^eins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IV. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE FELVIS. Vessels and the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels, and their the pelvis, branches to the viscera ; the sacral plexus and its nerves ; and the sympathetic nerve. This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and female pelvis. Directions. The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. But the air should be previously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. To dissect Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the tii^c'pelvis, trunks of the -vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera ; and the obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. nerves, With the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, but these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and rectum, branches of the sacral spinal nerves Avill veins. ' come into view. The veins may be removed in a general dissection, to make clean the arteries.0 0 IXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. SCi When the vessels are prepared the bhadder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. The INTKUNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 174, fj) is One of the trunks resulting from the division of tlie common iliac artery, and furnishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the generative and genital organs, and to the limb. ^ ^ * In the adult the vessel is a short tiimk of large capacity, which size and measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards • as far ns the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery terminates generally in termination; two large pieces, fi-om wliich the several offsets are furnished. Froni the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends for- wards on the bladder. Li entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of the lumbo-sacral connections, nerve. It is accompanied by the mternal iliac vein, which is pos- position of terior to it, and somewhat external on the right side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the Brant-lies. following manner :—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And fi-om the anterior portion come the vesical (upper and lower), hasmor- rhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic : in the female there are in addition the uterine and vaginal branches. Artenj in thefcctus. In the fojtus the lujpogcistric artery takes the Hj-pogastric place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus, fetus/" At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pehns, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and along the side of that \'iscus to the on tlie apex. ^^'"I'l"' Bej'ond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- and beyond tact Avith the umbilical vein, and, passing fi-om the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the artery, though their relative size at the tAvo periods is very different. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased the hypo- Trnusfornia- gastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of the current timt o" «.e of blood through it, and finally becomes obUterated, more or less "^^iiit- completely, as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the top of the bladder, and gives origin to some vesical arteries. PccuUnritics. Tlie Icnr/th of the internal iliac artery varies from half an Trunk varies inch to tluee inclics, its extreme measurements ; but in two thirds of a certain in lengtli. number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. <S'ize. When the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, and is Size, placed at tlie back of the thigh, tlie jiarcnt vessel is larger than the external iliac.DISSECTIOX OP XnE PELVIS. 5. Obturator, 362 «™po8terior • ^ Lraiiches arising from tlie posterior piece of the part. internal iliac may be first examined. iiio-i.nnbnr The ilio-lumhar hranch (lig. 174, h) passes outwards beneatli the psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lumbo- sacral nen'e, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch in tlie iliac fossa :— The ascending or lumhar branch which is beneath the psoas, supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses Fig. 174.* Ims an ascending and with the last lumbar artery : it sends a small sjnnal branch thi-ough the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra, a transverse The transverse or iliac offset divides into branches that ramify branch. ^j^^ ihacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and cir- cumflex iliac arteries ; some deep twigs communicate with the obturator arteiy, and enter the innominate bone. Lateral The lateral sacral arteries (fig. 174, ?) are two in number, superior arteries inferior, but the upper is the larger; they coiTespond in situa- * Dissection of the internal iliac artery (Tiedemanii). a. Bladder, o. Yas deferens, h. Vesicula seminalis. b. Lower end of tlie rectum, c. Levator api. D. Psoas inagnus. ic. Psoas parvus, f. Iliacus. Artn-ics: a. Aorta splitting into the common iliacs. b. Middle sacral brancli. c. Common iliac. d. External, and ff, internal iliac trunk continued by an impervious part along the bladder, c. Epigastric, and /, circumile.x iliac. /(. Ilio lumbar. • i. Lateral sacral. I. Middle htemorrhoidal. L Obturator, m. Gluteal. n. Sciatic, o. Pudic. Nerves: 1, 2, 3, 4. Four highest sacral nerves.563 BRANCHES OF INTEEXAL ILIAC. tioii with the lumbar arteries, and form a cliain of anastomoses by tlic side of the apcrtiu-es in the sacrum. These arteries supply the iji-anclics. pyrifoi-mis and cocoygeus muscles, and anastomose with each otiicr, as well as with the middle sacral. A small sxnnal branch enters each aperture in the sacrum. The fjluteal artery (fig. 174, m) is a short thick trunk, which Giutoal appears to be the continuation o£ the posterior division of the internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the hip bone ; and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein, and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis the artery gives small hranches sm&u^^ to the contiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone. 15. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac arteiy Branches oi {iiib6i lor are the following :— part. The vesical arteries, superior and inferior, are distributed to the Vesical coats of the bladder. ' "^'^' The iipper, three or four in number, arise at interv-als from the upper, partly obliterated Jij^pogastric trunk ; the lowest of these is some- times called middle vesical branch. Offsets are furnished fi-om midille, those branches to the body and upper part of the bladder. The loiver artery arises from the internal iliac in common with a and lower, branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculo3 seminales, and the prostate. A small oifset fi-om this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The hranch to the rectum (middle hasmorrhoidal) is commonly with an supplied by the inferior vesical. It is spent on the anterior and 'I'ectuin? ^'"^ lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the hasmorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig. 174, h). This branch is directed forwards Obtiu-ator below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the top of the enm-ses thyroid foramen : passing through that opening it ends in two '"•ro?« branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid fora- ^ men, and lie beneath the muscle in that situation. In the pelvis Offsets in the artery has its companion nerve above, and vein below it ; and i"^'^'"' it gives origin to the following small branches. Iliac branch : this small offset enters the iliac fossa to supply the branch, bone and the iliacus muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. pubic branch (fig. 139,/) ascends on the posterior aspect of imhic the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, and with an offset from the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator may take origin fi-om the external iUac artciy. The sciatic artery (fig. 174, n) is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal, and is continued over the pyriformis muscle and the sacral ■""'"^ plexus to the sacro-sciatic notch, where it issues between the iuUiopelvis, pyriformis and the coccygeus muscles. External to the pelvis it divides into branches beneath the gluteus maximus, and is distri- and outside c 0 2DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 504 Pudic artery in tliu pelvis: some small oflsets. All acces- .soi-y jiiulic branch. Branches in the female. Uterine aiiery supplies uterus: offsets to vagina, joins ovarian. Vaginal artery. Branches of tlie aorta. Ovarian artery : offsets. Superior ha;morrhoi- dal ends in loops. buted to tlie buttock : in the pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygcus muscles. The pudic artery (fig. 174, o) supplies the perinoeum and the geni- tal organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as the sciatic, from which it often springs. It accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pehns between the pyriformis and coccj^geus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone, and enters the perineal space (p. 422). The artery gives some unimportant offsets in the pelvis, and fi-equently the middle hicmorrlioidal branch arises from it. Accessory xmdic (Quain). The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, and fails to supply some of its ordinary perinasal branches, especially the terminal for the penis. In those cases the deficient branches are derived from an accessory artery, which takes origin fi-om the internal iliac (mostly from the trmik of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular perinfeal ligament. It furnishes branches to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. c. The branches of the internal iliac artery which are peculiar to the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. The uterine artery (fig. 173, d) passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, and ramifying in it, are remark- able for their tortuous condition. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supphed to the vagina and the bladder ; and opposite the ovary a branch bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. The vaciinal artery (fig. 173, e) seldom arises separately from the interna] iliac. Combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends along the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Other arteries in the pelvis. The remaining arteries in the pehas, which are not derived fi-om the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior haamorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery (p. 534), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament ; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. The superior haimorrhoidal artery, the continuation behind the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p. 480), divides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends finally iii about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches tVom the anus ; they terminate oppo- site the inner sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the nmcous membrane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior luemorrhoi- dal arteries.565 VEINS OF THE PELVIS. The middle sacml arlenj of the aorta (p. 533), (fig. 174, I) de- jiiddlo scends along the niicklle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacram, and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, oppo- ,„teral site each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral onsets, arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perio- steum. ' Sometimes a small brancli is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle hasmorrhoidal artery. The INTERNAL ILIAC vuiN receives the l)lood from the wall of the I'lt'-;™^'^, pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corresponding for the pJ;!,aion to most part with those of the arteries. The vein is a short thick its artery: trunk, wliich is situate at first on the inner side of the internal iliac artery ; but as it ascends to join the external iliac, it passes behind, and to the outer aspect of its companion artery on the right side. Branches. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the internal its iiranclies iliac vehi, have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the follow- peculiar are ing visceral branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hajmorrhoida], the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots con-esponding with the branches of pudic, the pudic artery in the ijerinajum (p. 431), but not those corre- sponding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis (p. 441) receives veins fi-om the dorsal vein corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and piercing of penis, the triangular ligament of the urethra, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the prostate. The middle JiwmorrJioidal vein communicates with a large plexus liremon-lioi- (hajinorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (p. 583). The vesical veins begin in a i^lexus about the fundus of the vesical, bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hfBmorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and fonn a plexus in and by the uterine, and side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates above with the OA-arian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube Avith a large vascular vaginal plexus (p. (387). veins. Parietal veins of the pelvis. Three veins of the wall of thepehas, Parietal viz., ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the conunon iliac vein. Dissection (fig. 175). To dissect the nerves of the pelvis, on the Dissection or right side, it Avill be necessary to detach the triangular ligament of the?elvis with the urethra from the arch of the pubes ; and to cut through, on the right side, the recto-vesical fascia and the levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn somewhat from the side of the pehas. If the -bladder is distended let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be First four found as they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches fromDISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 566 last niid coccygeal, sympa- thetic. Sacral nerves are live ; those that are iieculiar are fourth, which gives visceral, and muscu- lar olt'sets. Fifth is be- low ai)er- tnres in sacrum : ends on coccyx. Coccygeal nerve. Sacral plexus; .situation. and form. the fourth to the viscera. Tlie last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the coccy- geiis muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will succeed best by tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to another, begiiming above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the sympathetic (pelvic plexus), which sends branches to the Anscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral spinal nervks (lig. 175). The anterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease suddenly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the apertures in the fi-ont of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted) they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve, and the pecuHarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, will be noticed before the j)lexus is described. The fourth nerve (4 S) divides into two pieces :—one communi- cates with the sacral plexus ; the other joins the fifth nerve, and distributes the following branches to the viscera and the surrounding mu.scles :— The visceral branches (3) supply the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come from the third sacral nerve. The muscular hranches are three in number. One (2) rather long branch enters the levator ani on the visceral aspect; another (4) supplies the coccygeus ; and the third (5) reaches the perinasum by jDiercing the levator ani muscle (p. 423). The Jifth nei-ve (5 S) comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch fi'om the fom-th nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nen^e, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maximus, to end on the posterior surface of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve (1 c.) after issuing by the lower aperture of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve as above stated. Sacral Plexus (fig. 175). This plexus is formed by the lumbo- sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic notch, to unite in a flat band. From that spot the plexus becomes gradually smaller towards the outer end ; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyriformis, terminates in brfinches for the limb at the lower border of that muscle.NERVES OF THE TELVIS. 567 Branches. Most of the branches arise outside the pelvis, and are distributed to the back of the lower limb ; for, only two internal pelvic muscles (pyriformis and obturator intcrnus) receive nerves fi-om it. , J. J! +1 The nei-ve of the ohturator internus springs from the part ot tlie plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral with the first sacral nerve ; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic arteiy, and winding over the ischial spine of the hip ^ ^ bone and through the small P'S- 1 ^ 5. sacro-sciatic notch, enters the muscle on the perinosal surface. The nerves of the pijri- formis are commonly two in number, and arise from separate points of the plexus : they enter the muscle at its visceral aspect. The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, supplies the perinicum, and the genital organs. The nerve arises in the lower part of the plexus, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, to ac- company its artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch. The remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and great sciatic nei"ves, and muscular offsets to the gluteus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb. (Dissection of the Buttock, p. 646.) Dissection. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic that lies in front of tlie sacrum may be examined now : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches, ^vill come into View on the removal of the areolar tissue. Sympatiietio Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The Gangliated Cord (fig. 175) lies on the front of the sacrum and internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it Branches to lIlUKClCS insidi; tlie \tii\\\*: one to ob- turator, two to i>yri- foriuis. Pudic nerve. now seen at its origin. Branches to the lower limb after. Trace ont the sympa- thetic. Sjnnpathetic in theiielvis. The gan- gliated cord * Dissectioa of tlie sacral nerves and plexus (altered from Henle). a. Urinary bladder, h. Rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Coccygeus. Nerves : 4 I and 5 I, the last two lumbar nerves, whicli form by their \miou the lumbo- sacral cord. 1 jS to 5 ^S*, the five sacral nei-ves, forming the sacral plexus. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal nerve. 2. ]3ranch of levator ani. 3. Branch to the bladder. 4. Branch of coccygeus. 5. liranch to the peri- neum, 6. Common brancli ot i S, 5 S, and 1 c, for the back of the coccyx.DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 5G8 joins tlint of ojiiKisito side below in ;i i,''"ii;l'oii: iiffsets of the ganglia to the spinal nerves: to the, liypo- gastric ))lexns and the viscera. PloxiTses of tiie sympa- thetic : situation : how formed. Offsets to the viscera of the male, viz.— to the rectum; to the bladder: ■ to the pro- state gland and the penis. Offsets in the female ; to the ovai-y; to the TOgina : and to the uterus ; converges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which is situate a single median ganglion {gang, ■iiivpar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outwards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwai-ds in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray and white, and are very short: the gray cord unites the ganglion with the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the ganglion to the visceral plexus (Beck). The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches, and fi-om the ganglion in fi-ont of the coccyx, ofEsets descend over that bone. The PELVIC PLEXUSES (lateral inferior hypogastric) are two in iiumber, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral pro- longations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 481). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is united with offsets of the third and fourth sacral nen'es. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of nnion of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus offsets are furnished along the branches of tiie internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital organs: these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset from the back of the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior liijemorrhoidal artery (p. 481). The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and neck of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic x)lexus leaves the front of the pelvis plexus, and is distributed cliiefly to the substance of the prostate. At the fi'ont of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structm-e. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve (p. 441). In the female there are the following additional plexuses for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— Ovarian plexus. The chief neiwes to the ovary are derived from the renal and aortic plexuses (p. 481), and accompany the artery of that body ; but the uterine nen-es supply some filaments to it. Vaginal plexus. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus withont direct admixture with the spinal nen-es : they ascend along the side of the569 STRUCTURE OF TROSTATE. uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or communications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches fi-om the «« gang!'". uterine nerves. . c t on Some few nerves suiTOunding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- ^.g^^J'ij.. form and ganglionic. . . , The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form one chain in fi'ont of ^^^^^"2; the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac artciy : their eflrerent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lym- ^^'J'JjlJf^''^'' phatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, and them, the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the ])elvis are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE FELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the bodies at its base, viz., the vesiculas seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for exami- nation. Dissection. To study the fonn and structure of the viscera, it Take out will be necessaiy to remove them from the pelvis. For this purpose ^ ^scera. the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundaiy, so as to detach the crus of the penis fi-om separate the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When le^^t™'! the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be sej^arated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the m-ethra are to remain iniited. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean tlie is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland ^^'"'^ and the vesicula3 seminales are to be tlieu cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the and penis;, urethra it is to be taken away. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Pkostate GLAND (fig. 17G). This is a firm muscular body, Avith Prostate ' glands m it secreting a special fiuid, which surrounds the neck of f/j"'^^,;,, tlie bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections have situation, been enumerated (p. 653). The prostate is conical in form Hke a chestnut, with the base or Form, larger end directed backwards. Its dimensions in difl"erent direc- dimensions, tions are the following :—Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards laterally, from the apex to the base, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this mid weight respect it varies greatly.DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 570 Surfaces; base, and. apex. Throe lobes ; two liiteral niul a cen- tral. Gland con- tains three tubes. Structure. Fibrous ease ■distinct from pelvic fascia. Muscular and fibrous tissue; how arranged. Olands only few, (Hiding of ducts ; on vesicles are vessels: open into uretlira. Tlie upper surface of the prostate is uarrow aud rounded. The under surface, wliicli is larger and Hatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, or tlie base, is thick, and in its centre is a notch which receives the common seminal ducts. The fore part or apex is pierced by the urethra. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the linn mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 176, &, c) are similar on both sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe {d) will be brought into view by detaching tiie vesicular seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder ; it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, Avhich extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine fi-om that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contamed in the substance of the prostate (fig. 178). The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure. On a section the gland appears reddish gray in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of unstriated muscular and fibrous tissues, with inter- spersed glandular structure ; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous covering. This forms a thin investment for the gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite distmct fi-om the denser sheath derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated fi-om that sheath by a jilexus of veins. Muscular tissue. The firm mass of the gland consists of involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. The muscular fibres are arranged circularly around the tube of the urethra : they are continuous behind with the annular fibres of the bladder, and in fi-ont with a thin layer of circular fibres around the membranous part of the urethra. At the lower and outer parts the texture is looser and more spong.y, especially where the glands are situate, and the larger vessels enter (Eoy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). This arrangement Avill be better seen when the urethra has been opened. Glandular structure. Small branched glands project from the tube of the urethra amongst the muscular fibres ; they form but a small portion of the prostate, and are most numerous in the middle lobe. The final radicles of the ducts end in small sessile vesicles : on the exterior of the vesicles and ducts the bloodvessels ramify. Lining the interior of the tubes is an epithehum of the cohunnar kind. The ducts of the glands vary in number from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the uretlu-a (p. 577).571 ANATOMY OF YESICULA SEMIXALIS. Bloodvessels. The arteries are rather small, and are furnished by Arteries, the inferior vesical and middle hasmorrhoidal (p. 5G3). The veins form a plexus around the gland, which comnnuiicatcs in front with Veins form the dorsal vein of the penis, and beliind Avith the venous plexus at l'''^'""'*- the base of the bladder. In old men this vascular intercommuni- cation gives rise to considerable haaraoiThage in the operation of lithotomy. The nerves are supplied bj' the hypogastric plexus. The lymphatics Nen-es. of this body and of the vesicula3 seminales are received into the Ljnui)Iiatics. glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. VESicuL.'ii Seminalks (fig. 17G, e). These vesicles are two mem- Seminal branous sacs, which secrete a fluid to mix with the semen. They '• Fig. 176.* are placed on the under surface of the bladder behind the prostate, aefmition and diverge fi-om one another so as to limit laterally a triangular situation' space in that situation : their form and connections have been already described (p. 054). Though sacculated and bulged beliind, sacculated the vesicula becomes straight and narrowed in front (duct) ; and at the base of the prostate it blends with the vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct (r/). The vesicula seminalis consists, like tl'ie epididymis, of a tube rorn,e,iora bent into a zigzag form, so as to produce lateral sacs or pouches '"'^^: * View of the under surface of the bladder with the vesiculie seminales and vasa deferentia (shghtly altered from Halier). a. Bladder, h and c ri^t and left lateral lobes of the prostate, d. Middle lobe. e. Vesicula scm'inali^ the right one unravelled /. Va^ deferens. Common seminal duetXmed by the union of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula. h. Uretei™DISSECTIOX OF THE PELVIS. 572 length anil Vesicle liiis lisuul Cdiits ; a n(]venii{; of iiuiseiilar llbivs; aiul a mu- cous coat. End of vns Ueft'vcns : glands and eiiitlielimu. Seminal duc-.ts, how formed : extent, conrst', lengtli, and tenni- natiou. Structure: plnnds and ejiithelium whose bends are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cell struc- ture will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a (luill, measures from four to six inches, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity: connected with the tube at intervals, arc lateral ciccal appendages (fig. 170). Structure. The wall of the seminal vesicle Las the same number of layers as the vns deferens (p. 527); but the muscular coat is thinner. Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, the vesiculaj and vasa deferentia arc covered by a layer of transverse and longitudinal plain muscular fibres. The transverse are the more superficial (the base of the bladder bemg upwards), are strongest near the prostate, and act most on the vasa deferentia. The longitudinal fibres, placed chiefiy on the sides of the vesicuhr;, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra. (Koy. Med. Chir. Trans. 1856.) The mucous memhrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of the tube, and presents an areolar or honeycomb ajDpearance ; it is provided with tubular glands, as in the vas deferens, and is covered by a flattened epithelium. End of vas deferens (fig. 17G). Opposite the vesicula the vas deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather sacculated like the contiguous vesicle : but before it joins the tube of that body to form the common seminal duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. In the mucous lining are numerous tubular glands like those of the intestine (Henle) ; and the epithelium is columnar as in the rest of the tube. Common seminal ducts (fig. 178, /). These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the narrowed part or the duct of the vesicula scminahs with the vas deferens of the same side. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through an aperture in the circular prostatic fibres, and along the sides of the hollow (vesicula prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and their course is convergent to their termination close to each other in the floor of the urethra (p. 570). Structure. The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of the vesicula seminalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- roimdcd by longitudinal involuntaiy muscular fibres, which blend in the urethra with the submucous stratum. It possesses the same glands and epithelium as the dilated part of the vas deferens ; but at the end of the tube the mucous membrane wants glands and is smooth (Henle). THE BLADDER. Bladder out bladder has been removed from the cavity of the pelvis, of the body, its form, and the extent of its difEerent regions, can be more con- veniently studied. Form. Whilst the bladder is in the body, it is conical in shape, and ratherrig. 177. Coats of the bladder. STRUCTURE OF URINARY BL.iDDER. 573 flattened from before backwards; but out o^/]- ^^y.,fJ^^,,Xd circular than when in its natural pos.t.on, and it bscs that aiched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve oi the ^1f this viseus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches Dhnen«ionB. in length, and three inches across (Huschke). Its capacity is greati; influenced by the age and sex and by the habits ot the Sidividual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pmt without in- convenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. As a general rule it is larger in the female than in the male. Structure. A muscular and a mucous coat, with an iuter- venuig fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nen-es are large. The imperfect covering of pei-itcmeiim has been described (p. 550). The muscular coat is formed of tain layers of unstriated muscular fibres, viz. an exter- nal or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 177, ^) form a continuous covering, with the usual plexi- form disposition of the mus- cular bundles, and extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the nraclius, and the subperito- neal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior and lateral fibres enter the prostate; whilst the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubes through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides. Sometimes this outer Peritoneal. JIusoular lias three strata. Kxternal or longitudinal attach- ments : * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and uretlira. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra, .f). Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with tlic circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Cor^ius spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver- nosum. 10. Ureter.57i DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. fonns detrusor urime ; inteninl continuous with i)vo- state. Sub-nnu.'ous layer: extent, fibres, addition to it. Strata are joined. Fibrous Coat. Open tlie bladder. Mucous coat lias folds except on one si)ot. Glands. Epitheliiun. Interior of the bladder. Opening of urethra, with the uvula. layer of fibres is called detrusor ttriiuc from its action in the cxpul sion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 177, ") are thin and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around tlie cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, the sphincter vesicce, and are continuous below with the fibres of the prostate. When the fibres are hypertropliied, they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder ; and in some bodies the mucous coat may be forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The sxihmucous stratum (fig. 177, ^) forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower thii-d of the viscus the fibres are longitudinal, and are continued around the urethra ; but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The pro- jection of the uvula vesicte is due to this submucous stratum. The muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated fi-om another without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Eoy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). Fibrous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enumerated as one of the coats of the bladder ; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hoUow viscera, in which the vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision down the fi-ont ; and the cut is to be continued along the upper surface of the prostate gland. The mucous memirane of the bladder is continuous posteriorly with the lining of the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer; and it is thrown into numerous folds in the flaccid state of the -vascus, except over a small triangular space behind the urethral opening. The membrane is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. Its surface is studded with mucous follicles and branched glands, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. In the epithelium are three kinds of cells :—the superficial are roimdish and flattened; the middle are pjTiform ; and the deeper are conical and cylindrical. Oljects inside the Madder. Within the bladder are the following named parts, vi^., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the triangular surface (fig. 179). Orifices. At the anterior part of the bladder is the orifice of the urethra, sunwnded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small elongated prominence below, uvula vesica;, occa- sioned by a thickening of the submucous muscular and fibrous layers. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate ; and from its anterior end a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra.IXTERIOR OF URETHRAL CAXAL. 575 About an inch and a half behind the orifice oi; the urethra, and OP«;;;.'^f«.f ratlier more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings of the ureters (fig. 179). These excretory tubes for the urine per- forate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of one third of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Eacli terminates by a slit-like opening iji a prominence of the subjacent nuiscular fibres. Triaiujular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra ^[^eoneor^ is a smooth triangular surface, whicli is named tr'ujone (trigonum vesicaj, fig. 179). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side iiow from the m-ethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, "behind, °"" ' between the openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds with 'Jj^q^ij""^'" the triangular space externally at the base of the bladder, between extcniallv. the prostate in front and the A'esicula3 and vasa deferentia on the sides. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occun-ing in the otlier parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The an-angement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters To ex]ios(> -will come into -saew on the removal of tlie mucous membrane from ureters. " the lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces Muscular the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are fil^ters^ thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the con-esponding fibres of the other mine tube ; whilst the remainder are continued down over the triangular sm-face, and blend with the submucous layer. Bloodvessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Ai-teries; the termination of the veins have been detailed (p. 563). The veins; A^essels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nerves of supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 568), are i^'i'^er. derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymx>hatics enter the Ljanphatics. glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE URETPIRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 179). The tube of the urethra extends from the Uretiira: neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average H^^^ll V"^ length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life (Thompson). It is supported by the prostate, the triangular no special ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is divided, as before said (p. 555), into a prostatic, a membranous and P'^''^'"" a spongy part. ."to parts. Dissection. To open the urethra, let tlie incision through the prostate How to be continued onwards to the extremity of the penis along the line oi'c»the of union of the urethral canal with that body. urethra. T:hG prostatic part (fig. 179) is nearer the upper than the lower Prostatic surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and aC76 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Oinieiuiions «ikI slmpe; Uiametcr. On the floor is a fit'st: in the crest is a pouoh. Vcsic-ul.a projects into llie prostate quarter in length, and is altogether the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesicre with its slight ridge. In front of this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (cl), about three quarters of an inch in length, and larger beliind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (veru montanum, caput gallinagfinis) : it is formed like the uvula by a bimdle of the sub- mucous muscular and fibrous tissues. In that crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow (e) named vesicxda prostatica or sinus ^ocularis. The vesicula prostatica or utricle (fig. 178, g) is directed back- wards and downwards in the prostate, for a quarter of an inch, FiK. 178.* passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes. Its orificein the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity nn.ihyits is about as large again. Along the wall, on each side, is placed sides are the tl^g common seniinal duct (/), which terminates on or withm the margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct behmd the prostate, they will render evident the apertures. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the ducts of MiiUer m the fetus, and represents the uterus in the female. * Section tlirongli tlie bladder, prostate, and n.-cUira, ^-^^7^^*^^^^ nrostatica and the common seminal duct. a. Bhidder. 6 iiostate, ana f, J^SrpaTrof the urethra, rf. Vesicula seminahs. c. Vas deferens. /. Common ejacnlatory duct. (j. Vesicula prostatica.INTEEIOB OF UEETEEA. 577 On each side of thecenti'al crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic the prostatic sinus (fig. 179, /). Into this hollow the greater nuinher f^^^^^^ Fig. 179.* sle^atthe hiokt'r'''*r T': ^P^^*-^« seen at the back of the central eminence578 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. Membrnn- ous part: dimensions. parts around. Spongy part: dimensions, two dilata- tions : one in btdb, one in glans; lacunse, one larger than the rest. Ducts of glands of Co^vper. Mucous membrane; extent; colour ; folds; glands; cpitheliimi. Submucous tissue : The membranous 2->art of the urethra (fig. 179, g) is three quarters of an incli in length, and intervenes between the apex of the pro- state gland and the bulb (/c) of the corpus spongiosum urethra. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the naiTowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated cir- cular fibres (p. 430), and outside all by the constrictor urethra muscle. The spongy part (fig. 179, i) reaches to the end of the penis. It is about six inches in length. And its strength depends upon a surrounding material named corpus spongiosum urethrse. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears as a transverse slit, but in the glans, as a vertical inter^^al. Two dilatations exist in the floor of the spongy portion :—One is close to the triangular ligament, being contained in the bulb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb ; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, which has been called fossa navicularis (n) from its shape. There are many small pouches or lacunce (o) in the canal, as far back as the membranous part, which have then- apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the uretln-a. One of these, larger than the rest, lacuna magna, is placed, generally, on the upper boundary or roof of the urethra, opposite the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Cowper's glands (fig. 179, h) are two in number, and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the bulb, but their openmgs are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in fi'ont the tegumentary covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and membranous parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the penis. Its surface is studded throughout with folHcles, and with the apertures of branched glands, which are lodged in the submucous tissue, and whose ducts are inclined obHquely forwards ; and it is provided with papilla towards the external orifice. Its epithelial covering is of the columnar kind, but near the meatus it becomes laminar. Submucous tissue. Beneath the mucous lining of the urethra is a openings of the glands of the prostate, g. Membranous part of the urethra. h. Cowper's glands, a duct from each opening into the urethra, i. Spongy part of the urethra, k. Bulb of the urethra. I. Glans penis, and n, fossa navicularis. o. Openings of lacuna and glands, r. Corpus cavemosum of the penis.579 CORPORA CAVERNOSA PENIS. stratum of longitudinal unstriated muscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- raucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratimi differs at spots:—It is most developed in the prostate, where it fonns the projection of the crest; in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous layer. Around the membranous and prostatic divisions of the urethra there is, in addition, a thin enveloping layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued backwards from the corpus spongiosum urethras to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the Penis. The form and the connections of the penis ha-\nng been described in page 555, the tissues of which it is composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one side of the penis, it will show this body to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) incased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 179, ?•). These bodies form the bulk of the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- taining erectile structure. Each is fixed beliind by a pointed process, crus penis, to the pubic arch for about an inch ; and blends with its fellow in the body of the penis, after a distance of an inch and a half. There is a slight swelling on the crus, called the bulb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). Each corpus cavernosum is composed of a fibrous case with a cavernous or trabecular structure inside, with vessels in the intervals Fig. 180.* nature; arrange- ment in uretlira. Erectile tissue tliroughout. Penis formed of two vascular erectile bodies. Corpora cavernosa, attached behind separatelj', blend together in fi-ont; bulb. The struc- tures of which it consists. of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fibrous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 180), a case n.tn^'7r^ °^ «°'"P"s cavernosum. b. The external or longitudmal layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. The pectiniform septum! P P 2DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 580 that sends in processes: fibres form sti-atft. One septal piece, ■wliicli is imperfect; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. In the cords some mus- cular fibres. Fig. 181.* Vessels. Source of the arteries; termination in dilated veins, and from half a line to a line in thickness. Along the middle of the penis a septal process is sent inwards from it; and numerous other finer threads,—the trabeculjB of the spongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 180, b) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 180, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition ; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are in- separably united by communicating bundles. The septal process (fig. 181) is placed vertically along the body of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two ; but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum peciiniforme is derived. Through the intei-vals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa communicate. It is fonned by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular structure is a net- work of fine tlu-eads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference ; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained ca^dty, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabeculse contain elastic fibres, and unstriated muscular fibres (Miiller). The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Bloodvessels. The bloodvessels of the penis are large in size, and serve to nourish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are ofi'sets of the pudic : the chief branch (art. corp. cavemosi, p. 431) enters at the crus, and runs foi-wards through the middle of the cavernous structure, distributing offsets ; and the rest, coming from the dorsal artery (p. 441), pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. In the interior they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabeculte (fig 182, a), becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute branches, which open into the veins in the mtertrabecular * Pectiniform septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which are formed by the cu'cular fibres.581 CORPUS SPOXGIOSUil URETHI12E. spaces without the inten^ention of capillaries. Some of the finest twigs end in tiifts of short, slightly curled and dilated vessels—the helicine arteries of Muller (fig. 182, e), which project into the inter- udicine trabecular spaces, and are imbedded in the thin coat of the vems (/) : with the extremities of these twsted vascular bodies fine fibrous processes are connected. The helicine arteries exist in greatest number at the back of each corpus cavernosum. The veins fill the interstices of the areolar structure, and anas- Veins are^^ tomose freely together to form venous plexuses ; and into them j^,.^ the terminal branches of the arteries pour their contents. By means uses: Fig. 182.* of the apertures in the septum the veins of opposite sides commu- nicate freely. The erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of the plexuses. The chief veins of the corpus cavernosum escape at the cms penis ending of with the artery, and join the pudic vein ; but others issue along the upper and under aspects, to end in the dorsal vein and the prostatic plexus (p. 565). Corpus spongiosum urethra (fig. 177). This constituent part of the Spongy penis surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at yie*penis°^ the bulb only a thin stratum is above the canal, whilst at the glans penis (fig. 179, Z) it is placed chiefly above the m-ethral tube. Pos- teriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued bej^ond the bulb around the urethi"a. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that its structure of the corpus cavernosum : thus it consists of a fibrous tunic en- Jjous''*^^^' closing a trabecular structure with bloodvessels. The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora The fibrous cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A septal piece (fig. '^^'^" * Magnified view of the trabecular structure and arteries of tlie penis, a. Branch of an artery and its ramifications in the bands of the spongy structure of the penis, h. c. Trabecular structure, d. A fine arterial twig ending in c, a tuft of the twisted or helicine arteries. The dark shadowing, /, represents a vein incasing the bundle of vessels (Miiller).682 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 177, ") projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube of the urethra ; this is best marked for a short distance in front of the bulb, and assists in dividing that part into two lobes. The trabecular hands are much finer, and more uniform in size than in the corpora cavernosa. Bloodvessels. The arrangement of the bloodvessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar in the bulb to that in the corpora cavernosa ; but in the rest of the spongy substance tlie arteries are said to end in capillaries in the usual way. The helicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the glans penis, where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side:—one, artery of the bulb (p. 431), enters the bulb behind ; and several in fi-ont, offsets of the dorsal arteiy (p. 441), penetrate into the glans. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb at the upper aspect. Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the large dorsal vein of the penis, some communicating with veins of the cavernous body : others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein. Nerves and lympliatics. The nerves of the penis are large and are supplied by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves : on the glans penis they are furnished with Pacinian bodies. The superficial Lymphatics, lympliatics of the integuments, and those beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra, join the ingumal glands ; the deep ac- company the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the lymphatic glands in the pehas. mperfect septum, trabeculte. Dlooil- vessels: lielieine arteries, source of arteries ; termination of the veins, Nerves. THE EECTUM. To prepare tlie gut. Rectum is smooth. Lengtli; dimensions. Same coats as in tlie rest of the intestine. Peritoneum. Muscular coat Dissection. The rectum is to be washed out, and then distended with tow ; and the peritoneum and the loose fat ai-e to be removed fi-om it. The lower end of the large intestine, which is contained in the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on the surface, the longitudinal bands of the colon being absent fi-om it. It is about eight inches in length ; and its average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform as far as the lower extremity, where it is dilated, particulai-ly in old people ; but at the aperture of termination in the anus the gut is smaller than elsewhere. Structure. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a mucous, and a submucous stratum ; and the muscular and mucous layers have certain characters which distinguish this part of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum fonns but an incomplete covering, and its arrange- ment is referred to in the description of the connections of the pelvic viscera (p. 552). The muscular coat consists of two planes of pale or unstnated fibres, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular.583 STEUCTUEE OF EECTUM. The longitudinal, continuous with those in the bands on the colon, ha« longi- are here diffused to form a stratum around the gut. The circular ^^^^^^^^^^^ describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and.stronger towards the anus, where they are collected in the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 421). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and re- Mucous sembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; it \s also tliicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestme. vascular: When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into folds in it; numerous accidental folds ; but some near the anus are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are other three permanent folds (Houston) which are half an inch or less in depth, and contain circular fibres of the gut. The most constant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder; another is placed on the right side of the intestine, towards the top ; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the structure, colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually dis- appears. Bloodvessels. The arteries are supplied from three different sources, Arteries, viz., superior hsemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hasmor- rhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior hfemorrhoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut; but arrangement only the upper hsemorrhoidal, which is the largest, requires further hEBmoSoi- notice. The final branches of this artery (p. 564), about sis in ^ai. number, pierce the muscular layer tlu'ee inches fi'om the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins are deficient in valves, and commimicate freely, like the Veins are arteries, in a plexus between the muscular and mucous coats, around valves, the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and thi-ough it reach the vena portte ; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle hajmor- rhoidal branch. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the intestine are obtained J^er*'es. from the sympathetic; and those of the sphincter come from the spinal cord. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on Lymphatics, the sacrum. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE VISCERA. In the pelvis are contained the viscera, alike in both sexes, viz.. Viscera in the bladder, urethra, and rectum : and those special to the female, or the organs of generation.584 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. To remove Dissection. The contents of the pelvis are to be removed, together tlie viscera, ^^j^j^ genital organs. For this purpose the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he should also detach the crus of the clitoris from the bone, and prepare After the parts are taken from the body, the rectum is to be them. separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended ; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed from the -sascera. GENITAL ORGAKS. External organs. Mens Veneris, and labia majora. Foiirchette and fossa navieularis. Clitoris; dissection to see it. It is like tlie penis; has a glans and pre- puce. Composi- tion, corpora cavernosa. The genital organs consist of the following parts :—the mons Veneris and external labia, the clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen. Sometimes the tenn vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pvdendi. In fi'ont of the pubes the integu- ment is covered with hair, and is raised into a slight eminence,— mons Veneris, by a mass of subjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence are two folds of integument, the labia pudendi (labia majora), which con-espond with the scrotum in the male. Above and below, the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures ; and between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inf eriorly ; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with mucous membrane. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named fourchette, or frcenulum ; and between this fold and the lower commissure is an interval—the fossa navieularis. Clitoris and nymphce. Beneath the upper commissure of the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the nympha3 or smaller labia descending fi-om it. Dissection. To see the clitoris, the integuments forming the upper commissure must be removed ; and, after the body of the organ has been laid bare, the crura, one on each side, are to be followed outwards. The clitoris (fig. 183, h) is a small erectile body, and is the repre- sentative of the penis. It has the same composition as the penis, except that the urethra is not contmued along it. Its anterior extremity is terminated by a rounded part or glans (c), and is covered by a fold of the skin con-espondmg with the prepuce of the male. In its structure this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars :—it consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura (one on each side a) to the pubic arch, and are blended in the body. Along the middle is an imperfect pectiniform septum.685 FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. Further, it possesses a portion of corpus spongiosum, but this corpus structure is Hmited to the glans clitoridis (c). spongiosum, ;ruciure is niiuieu giui^o ^...y.. v-^- ,., • , „ „„*:i„ Structure. The outer fibrous casing and the septum are aliJce in tissue. Fig. 183.* both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that in the male organ (p. 680). The bloodvessels of the corpus cavernosum are like those of the penis ; and the glans receives the ending of the dorsal artery (p. 441). The nymplice (fig. 184, ^ labia minora) are two folds of mucous L^-bia mi- membrane, which descend fi-om the end of the clitoris, one on each nora de- ' „ „ , . , J • 1 -ii scend from side of the onfice of the vagina ; they are continuous above with prepuce, the preputial covering of the glans, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner sm-face is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and vagina, and the outer, with the exter- nal labium. Bloodvessels are contained in each fold. Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. Within the nymphiE, between vestibule, the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. In the middle opening of line of the vestibular space is the round orifice of the urethra, which lu'etiu-a. is placed in a median eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Orifice of the vagina (fig. 184), and the hymen. The aperture of Aperture of the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in '^'o vagiua. size. In the child, and in the virgin, it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, named the hymen. After the destruction of that membrane small irregularly-shaped projec- Hpnen and tions, cai'unculce myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina, carunculse. * Representation of the clitoris, a. Cms, and h, body of the corpus cavernosum. c. Glans clitoridis. The lower figure shows the structui'e on a vertical section ; the same letters refer to like parts.586 DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. Mucous layer over gonitiils: its papillro, cpitlieliniu, ami glamls. Mucous membrane. The mucous covering of the external genitals is furnished throughout with papillaa, but these are largest on the labia minora and the clitoris. Its epithelium is laminar. Sebaceous glands open on the contiguous surfaces of the labia majora and minora, and beneath the prepuce ; and mucous glands and follicles exist on the vestibule, and on the inner surface of the nymphte. GENERATIVE OEGANS. Separate vagina and uterus : clean vagina. The generative organs are the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries ■with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. Vagina: extent and curved course. Fomi and size. Interior has columns and rugje. Tliicluiess. An erectile stnicture in the wall. Erectile tissue forms senii- IjuIIjs : THE VAGINA. The tube of the vagina is connected with the uterus at one end, and with the vulva at the other (fig. 173, ^). It has a cui-s^ed course between the two points mentioned ; and the anterior and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the foimer measnres about four inches, and the latter five or six. In the body the vagina is flattened fi'om above downwards, so that the opposite surf aces'may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is jouaed to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots :—thus the external orifice which is sun-ounded by the con- strictor vaginge muscle is the narrowest part; the middle portion is the largest ; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions be- tween the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, instead of the extremity of the passage, may be remai'ked ; and the tube may be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in fi'ont and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rugae pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly around the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy erectile tissue, covered externally by a layer of unstriated muscle, and lined by mucous membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphmcter vaginaa muscle (p. 434). The eo-ectile tissue is more abundant at the ends than the middle of the vagina, and is greatest in quantity below where it gives m- creased thickness to the Avail. Two masses, one on each side ofSTRUCTUEE OF VAGINA. 58T the opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-hulhs by Taylor {hulbi vestibuli, Kobelt, fig. 184, a). These are elongated bundles of plexiform veins, enclosed in fibrous membrane ; they are about an inch in length from above down, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vaginas (a). At the upper end each is pointed, and communicates with the vessels of the clitoris : and at the lower roimded extremity it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies would answer to the divided bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethne in the male, each lateral half being thrust aside Fig. 184.* connec- tions ; they corre- spond witli tlie bulb of the male. n the female towards the eras clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina. The muscular layer is outside the erectile structure and consists of longitudinal fibres. Some reach all along the vagina ; others, and these are the strongest, only as far upwards as the recto-vesical fascia, to which they are attached on each side. Above they end in the superficial layer of the uterus, and in the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and below in the subdermic tissue. The mucous membrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many muciparous glands and follices open on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. Conical and filiform papillas exist on the membrane ; and a laminar epithelium gives a covering to it. Bloodvessels and nerves. The ai'teries are derived fi'om the vaginal, uterine, and vesical branches of the internal iliac (p. 5G3). The veins form a plexus around the A^agina, as well as in the genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves, see page 568. Muscular stratiua. Mucous membrane of the vagina. Arteries. Veins are plexiform. Nerves. * Venous plexuses of the genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kobcit). A. Sphincter vagimE muscle, b. Clitoris, c. Nymphas. a. Semi-bulbs or bulbi vestibuli. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris (pars intermedia, Kobelt). c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris.DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 588 Lymphatics. _ The lymphatics accompany the bloodvessels to the glands by the side of tlie internal iliac artery. JimUi^oiw to '^f BartJwlin. Outside the vagina, near the lower end, are CowpS ° two small yellowish glandular bodies, one on each side, which represent Cowper's glands in the male. Each is about as large as a small bean ; and its duct is directed forwards to open on the mner aspect of the nympha of the same side. The duct resembles- that of Cowper's gland in its structure (p. 430). THE UTERUS. uterus. Form; dimensions. Upper end. Tlie lower end is .small; has an opening. Neck. Body: sides and attached Xiarts. Open the uterus. Its tiiick- ness. The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its ofiice is to receive the ovum, and to retain for a fixed period the developing fetus. This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 185), and possesses inferiorly a rounded narrow neck. Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thiclcness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume exceed always the measure- ments here given. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum : the term fundus is applied to the part of the organ above the attachment of the Fallopian tubes (e). The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication between the uterus and the vagina, named os iiteri (os tincm) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted, and this diminished portion is called the neck (6) of the uterus (cervix uteri) ; it is surrounded by the vagina, and is covered by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. The neck is about half an mch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity. The hody (a) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- riorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except inferiorly in front (about half an inch), where it is connected to the bladder. To each side, which is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of the peritoneum are attached (fig. 173) :—viz., the Fallopian tube at the top (ii); the round ligament (n), rather below and before it; and the ovary (l), and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to be made along the anterior wall from the fundus to the os uteri; and then some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity. The tUchness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the iniddle of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the extremities of the fmidus (fig. 185), the wall becoming thinner towards the attach- ment of the Fallopian tubes.589 ANATOMY OF UTERUS. Interior of the utems (fig. 185). Within the uterus is a small space i which is divided artificially into two-that of the body, and that mtenor of the neck. ..... i The space occupying the body of the viscus (c) is tnangular in i^^^^^ form and is larger than the other. Its base is at the fundus, where ^ {^^^^,^ it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged to- wards the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed downwards, and „,j,icu is joins the ca^nty in the cervix by a naiTOwed circular part, isthvius, 'janowed wliich may be nan-ower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck {d) terminates inferiorly at the os ^nd a uteri, and is continuous above with the cavity within the body, s^die- It is larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, space in ° the neck. Fig. 185.* and is somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (ragce) are directed obhquely from these on each side : ^j^^ ^^^^ this appearance has been named arhor vitce utennits. In the intervals are ridges of between the rugte are mucous follicles, which sometimes become v^'!'^"'^ distended with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs. Structure. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of laj^ers uterus is a of unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with areolar and elastic muscular tissues, and large bloodvessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of C I • 1 11 c 1 There are gestation to form three strata m the wall of the uterus, viz., ex- thiee strata: ternal, internal, and middle :— The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse ; external but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con- verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the sub- * Interior of the uterus, with a posterior view of the broad ligaraent and the uterine appendages, a. Bodj-, and b, neck of the uterus, c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. e. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. (J. The fimbria attached to the ovary, h. Ovary, and i, ligament of the ovary, k. Parovarium.590 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. internal, and micldle. Mncous lining is covered witli glands. follicles in the neclc. Epithelium. Vessels are large. Arteries; veins; nerves. Lymphatics two sets; the ending. Round liga- ment ends in gi'oin; attachment to utenis; how formed peritoneal fibrous tissue ; and otliers are continued into the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they are arranged in a transverse direction. The middle or intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of the uterus is continued into the vagina at one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body of the uterus it is of a reddish-wliite colour, and is thin, smooth, and adherent, but without papillae. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands, which may be either straight and simple, or twisted and branched ; they are lined by ciliated epithelium, and their minute apertures are scattered over the surface. In the cervix uteri, between the rugte, mucous follicles and glands are collected, and near the outer opening are papillas. The epithelial covering of the mucous membrane consists of a single layer of cells, which are columnar and ciliated throughout the ca-^dty and neck of the uterus. The bloodvessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the uterine and ovarian branches (p. 564). The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are large in size, and form plexuses in the uterus (p. 565). The nerves are derived from the sympathetic (p. 568), and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus : in the cervix they are traced to the papilla. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accompanies the ovarian artery to the glands on the aorta : the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Fallopian tube. Round ligament of the uterus (fig. 173, n). This firm cord sup- ports the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad Hgament, and partly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, and is attached to the upper end of the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneum accompanies it in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. . The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary: OvARY (fig. 185). The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with position, ^^g^^g ^£ ^j^g rpj^gj, contained m the broad Hgaments of the uterus, one in each.591 STRUCTUfiE OF OVARY. form and colour. dimensions and weight. Connec- tions. Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flattened from side to side. It is of a wliitish colour, with either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and a third of an inch in thickness. Its weight varies from one to two drachms. The ovary is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is attached to that membrane by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter the stroma. Its outer end (g) is rounded, and is con- nected with one of the fimbriaj at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The inner extremity is narrowed, and is fixed to the side of the uterus .by a fibrous cord (i),—the ligament of the ovary, below the level of the Fallopian tube and round hgament. Siructure. The OA'ary consists of a stroma of areolar tissue con- taining small sacs named Graafian, and the whole is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peiitoneum surrounds it except at the attached margin. The fibrous coat is adherent to the contained stroma. Along the attached margin of the ovary is a sHt (hilum), by which the vessels and nerves enter. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum), or some cicatrices, niay be seen in this covering. Stroma (fig. 186). The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascular, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate fi-om the hilum towards the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains veiy many small cells, about -j-outh of an inch in size ;—the nascent G-raafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 186) are round and trans- parent cells, scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the cortical layer. Duiing the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to thirty, or more, may be counted Kg. 186.* at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a pea. The largest are situate at the circumfer- ence of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat with a fluid inside. The coat of the vesicle named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine areolar tissue, and is united to the stroma of the ovary by bloodvessels, which ramify in the wall. Lining it is a layer of nucleated granular cells—^the memhrana granulosa, Avhich is thickened at one spot, and surrounds the ovum as the discus proligerus (Von Baer), fixmg it contents to the wall. The fluid in the interior is transparent and albumi- • * ^^^^'''"■ing the child-bearing pcriocl laid open. a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growth, b. PHcated body remaining after the escape of tlie ovum (Farre). i Structure. A filirous coat sur- rounds stroma. Stroma, fibrous and granular, with cells. Graafian vesicles, size and number. coat;DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 592 Shedding of au ovum; and corpus luteum. Artery; nerves. Appendage to ovary: situation, form. structure, nous ; it contains the minute ovum, together with molecular gi-anules. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the raptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix (6). Bloodvessels and nerves. The ovarian artery pierces the ovary at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian vesicles they are distributed. The veins begin in the vesicles and the texture of the ovary, and after escaping fi-om its substance, form a plexus ^pam- piniform) within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived fi-om the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Appendage to the ovary (fig. 185, k Parovarium, Organ of Eosen- miiller). On holding up the broad Hgament of the uterus to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. This is the remnant of the upper part of the Wolffian body of the fetus ; it is about one inch broad, with its base to the Fallopian tube, and apex to the attached border of the ovary. The small tubes are from twelve to twenty in number ; at the wider end they are joined more or less perfectly by a tube crossing the rest, which is prolonged sometimes a short way into the broad ligament. Each tube is a closed fibrous capsule with a clear fluid within, and a lining of epithelium. Fallopian Tubes (fig. 185, e). Two in number, one on each side, they convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their ofiice with the vasa deferentia in the male. Each is about four inches in length : cord-hke at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity (/), like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fringed, and the pieces are c&W&d. fimlrio}. When the fimbriated end is floated out in water, one of the processes {g) may be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovarjr. In the centre of the fimbria is a gi-oove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space, and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at different spots :—the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus (ostium uterinum), where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle ; towards the outer end it increases a little, hut it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture (ostium abdominale). Structure. This excretory tube has the same structure as the uteras with which it is connected, viz., a muscular layer covered externally by peritoneum, and lined by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer ; both these are continuous withsunilar strata in the wall of the uterus. Hucous coat The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, particularly Fallopian tulses. Length, and form: it is dilated externally, and fimhri- ated: size of the tube is least at the ends. A muscular stnicture: fibres pro- longed from utenis.593 BLADDER AND UllETHRA IX FEMALE. at the outer eiuL At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous hning of the uterus, but at the outer end it joins i^^^ontinu- the peritoneum. A cohunnar and ciliated epithelium covers tlie peritoneum. surface, as in the uterus, and is said by Henle to be detected on the outer surface of the fimbria!. The bloodvessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vesselii. the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the fonn and size of the female ^^^^j^JJ.^ bladder have been detailed in the description of the connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 560). For a notice of its struc- ture, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 573). Dissection. To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and remove Preparation the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular fibres. ° ' ' After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been open it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the upper part. Urethr-v. The length and the connections of the excretoiy tube Length rr^n Uretln-a. are given m page ooU. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter Size; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder: near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant j^^^^'™ ^'^ structures, the female m-ethra is much more dilatable than the dilated. coiTesponding passage in the male. Structure.-liike the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of bloodvessels, and by mus- ,uaie."^ ' cular fibre. The viuscular layer extends the whole length of the urethi-a. Its gQ^^^Qj!";',. fibres are circular, coiTesponding with those in the prostatic en- cuiariibres. largement of the other sex, and continuous behind with the middle, layer of the bladder. In the perinatal ligament this stratum is covered by the constrictor urethrte as in the male (p. 435). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male m-ethra (p. 576). tio^or^;^'"^ Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards follicles and the inner end are tubular mucous glands, whose apertures are gi""'ls, arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A laminar epithelium is spread over the sm-face, and beneath it are deeper epithelium, conical cells as in the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues S"bniueous lies close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male. tissue. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- Preparation tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectu-M. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes ; Rectum like: and the student may use the description in the Section on the viscera \^alo"^ of the male pelvis (p. 572). Q Q594 DISSECTION OF THE TELYIS. Section VII. INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two lauscles. Define the muscles and the levator ani Origin in the pelvis Insertion. Its connec- tions with parts around. Two muscles, the pyriformis and obturator internus, have their origin %\athin the cavity of tiie pelvis. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areolar tissue which may remain on the muscles ; and define their exit fi-om the pelvis,—the pyriformis passing through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and the obturator through the small notch of the same name. On the right side the dissector may look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. Pyrifonnis. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic notch to the gi-eat trochanter of the femur. The muficle has received its name fi-om its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, thii-d, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between the anterior aper- tures, and from the surface of the bone external to those holes ; as it passes fi-om the pelvis, it takes origin also fi-om the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sacro-sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter. (Dissection of the Buttock, p. 647.) The anterior surface is in contact Avith the sacral plexus, with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with the rectum on the left side. The opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the supe- rior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sacral plexus, and the sciatic and jjudic vessels intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use will be given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the Buttock (p. 647). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its Origin in the pelvis, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, like the preceding ; but the part outside is almost parallel in direction with that mside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the obtura- tor membrane, except a small part behind ; from the pelvic fascia covering its surface ; slightly from the bone anterior to the tliyroid hole, but from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis behind and above that aperture, though opposite the small sacro-sciatic foramen a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres arc directed backwards and somewhat downwards, and end in three or four tendinous pieces, wliich turn over the sharp edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis the tendons blend into one, which is Insertion, inserted into the great trochanter (p. 647). Use as an external rotator of hip joint. Obturator muscle is bent over pelws. Origin in tlie pelvis, arching of its tendons liver the hip hone. t595 LIGAMENTS OF PELVIC BOXES. The muscle is in contact by one surface with tiie wall of the Part nf pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface with the ^^1^1^^ pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels cavity, and nerve. Action. The muscle draws the trochanter towards the back of the "^^^^^^^^^ hip-bone over which it bends, and rotates out the hip-joint. For rotator, further notice of its use, sec p. 648. CoccYGEUS MuscxK. The position and the connections of this Co«!^}jgeiis muscle may be studied with advantage in the interior of the pelvis. The muscle is described at p. 547. LIGAMENTS OF THE I'ELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of the pel- :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccj'x are united with lations. one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two innomi- nate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorl3^ Union of Pieces of Sacrum and Coccyx. Whilst the pieces of the sacrum and coccjrs remain moveable they are articulated as in Ligaments the other vertebraj by an anterior and posterior common ligament, separate,' with a disc of intervertebral substance for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 372). After the sacral vertebra; have coalesced, only rudiments of the andjoinea. ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; but when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, those ligaments disappear in the adult male. Sacro-vertebral Articulation. The base of the sacrum is articu- ^ij^""". lated wtli the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to those vertebra, imiting one vertebra to another (p. 373) ; and by one special liga- ment—the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. For the best mamier of bringmg these different liga- Dissection, ments into -vaew, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebraj (p. 372). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous |"''the vcr- substance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava ; tebne. and between the spines the supra and interspinous bands are situate. Tlie articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with syno- vial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a rather strong bundle of fibres, and by which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse bandfsaero- process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the b use '^■^rtcbral. of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the articulation between the sacrum and the inno- minate bone. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are united at the centre by a fibro-cartilagc, and by an anterior and posterior coccyx."'"^ Q Q 2596 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Dissection. An anterior and a posterior ligaineut, witli a (Ibro- cartilnge. Union of tlic cornua. Motion. Union be- tween the sacrum and liip bone. To dissect the liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligaments; one more distinct, the oblique. Articular cartilage. Motion i.s very slight, as security required; common ligament. And there is a separate articulation for the cornua of the hones. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. AVhen the areolar tissue has heen removed altogether from the hones, the ligaments will he apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fihres that pass between the hones in fi-ont of the fihro-cartilage. The 2JOSterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the last piece of the sacrum, but nan-ows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fihro-cartilage resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebric, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Articulation of the cornua. The cornua of the first piece of the coccyx are imited with the cornua of the last sacral A^ertebra by ligamentous bands, and not by joints as in the articular processes of the other vertebrte. Movement. Whilst the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take place between them. Sacro-iliac Articulation. The in-egular surfaces by Avliich the sacnim and the innommate bone articulate, are united by cartilage (synchondrosis), and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic liga- ment will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus ; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The posterior ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles : these ligaments pass fi'om the rough iimer surface, at the hinder end of the in- nominate bone, to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct fiom the others, and more superficial, is named the ohlique or loiig posterior hgament; it is attached to the posterior upper iliac spinous process, and descends ahnost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articular cartilage. Between the in-egular surfaces of the bones is a thin uneven layer of cartilage (fig. 187, a). It fits into the inequalities of the osseous surfaces, uniting them very firmly to- gether. On separating the bones after the other ligaments are examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife Movement. There is scarcely any appreciable motion in the sacro- iliac articulation, even when the hip-bone is seized by the hand, and pulled forcibly in different directions. The articulation seems designed for security and little movement, inasmuch as the surfaces are not in contact, are very irregular, and have a firm and in-597 SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. extensible piece of cartilage interposed between them. In some instances, and especially during pregnancy, tliere is a greater Bometimes degree of motion perceptible. Two sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the side of the sacrum and S^c'jo-J'cif« coccyx to the hinder border of the os innominatum, across the space two;' Fig. 187.* FiK. 188.t between those bones at the back of the pelvis : they are named lai'ge and small. The large ligament (fig. 188, o) reaches from the back of the Large, liip bone, and the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial tube- rosity. As this may have been cut in the examination of the gluteal region, no fiu-ther notice is given here ; but if it remains entire, see p. GoO for its description. The small ligament (fig. 188, I) is attached internally by a wide Small; piece to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding band. The fibres are directed attacluuents outwards, and arc inserted as a naiTOw band mto the ischial spine of the hip bone. Its pelvic surface is covered by the coccygeus and con- muscle ; and by the opposite surface it is in contact with the great "^ctious. sacro-sciatic ligament. Above it is the large sacro-sciatic foramen ; and below it is the small foramen of the same name, Avhich is bounded by the two ligaments. By their position these ligaments convert into two foramina Aiiertnros (sacro-sciatic), the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : them!' the openings, and tlie things they give passage to, are described with the Buttock, p. G50. * This figure shows the in-egular piece of cartilage {a) in the sacro-iliac articulation. t Sacro-sciatic ligaments, a. Large or posterior ligament, h. Small or anterior ligament.DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. 598 mc^nw'r'"" I^i^^MKNTS OF THE INNOMINATE BoNES (fig. 189). Tlie innominate iiil. bm'iU. ^'ones are xinited in front, at the pubic symphysis, by an interposed piece of cartilage and special ligaments ; and behind, each is con- nected with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra by a separate band (iho-lumbar). In tlie centre of the bone is a mem- branous structure closing the thyroid aperture. Ilio-luiulmr The ilio-lumhar or ilio-vertehral ligament is triangular in form, and is divided into fasciculi. Internally it is attached to the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra ; externally the Pig. ISO.* fibres spread out, and are inserted into the iliac-crest for about an inch, opposite the posterior part of the ihac fossa. To the upper border of the ligament the fascia lumborum is attached: its posterior surface is covered by the quadratus lumborum, and its anterior by the iliacus muscle. The thin ohturator menibrane (fig. 189, h) closes almost entirely the thyroid foramen, and is composed of fibres crossing in diiferent directions. It is attached to the bony margin of the foramen, except above wliere the obturator vessels pass tlu-ough ; and towards the lower part of the aperture it is connected to the pelvic aspect of the hip-bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the * Ligaments of the symphysis pubis, thyi-oid hole, and acetabulum, re. Anterior ligament of the symphysis ; d, inferior, and c, cartilage of the symphysis, with a slit in the middle, h. Obturator membrane, r. Surface of the acetabulum covered with cartilage. /. Fatty substance iu the aceta- bulum, f/. Cotyloid ligament, which is cut where it fonns part of the trans- verse band over the notch. /<. Deep part of the ligament over the cotyloid notch. fixes tlie ■bone be- Lind. Obtin-ator membrane closes an aperture iu front.599 SYMrHYSIS PUBIS, obturator muscles. Brandies of the obturator vessels and nerve perforate it. , Pubic Articulation (fig. 189, «) (symphysis pubis). The oval Unmn^nt^^ pubic surfaces of the hip bones are united by cartilage, and by fibres in front of, and above the bones : they are also connected by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior imhic ligament (fig. 189, o) is very strong and is Anterior formed of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, • and cross one another, joining with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; but the deeper fibres are transverse between the surfaces of the bones. Cartilage cells are mixed with some of the deepest fibres. There is not any strong posterior band ; but the periosteum is ^gj^,"}"'*^^ thickened by a few scattered fibres, which are in contact with the articular cartilage. The superior ligamentous fibxes fill the interval between the bones Upper band, above the cartilage. Tlie suhpuhic ligament (fig. 189, d, ligam, arcuatum) is a sti'ong ^jg^jf'i'g,','^^'' triangularly-shaped band below the symphysis, and occupies the upper part of the pubic arch. The apex of the ligament touches the articular cartilage, and the base, contained within the triangular perinieal ligament, is turned towards the membranous portion of the urethra. Dissection. The cartilage will be best seen by a transverse section Cartilage, of the pubes, Avhich will show the disposition of the anterior liga- ''o^^'^oen. ment of the articulation, and the thickness of the cai'tilage, with its toothed mode of insertion into the bone ; but when another oppor- tunity offers, a vertical section may be made. Cartilage (fig. 189, c). The cartilage is firmly fixed to the ridged Disposition bony surfaces in the symphysis : it is wider above than below, and ^ysfg*^^^"' is generally as thick again before as behind. Variations in its size depend on the shape of the bones. Towards the posterior part of the cartilage there is a narrow Hollow fissure with uneven walls ; and a fibrous structure with large inter- '• spersed compound cells is to be recognised in the wall. It extends variations usually the whole depth of the cartilage and thi-ough a half or a third of the thickness: it is said to increase in pregnancy. In some bodies it reaches through the cartilage so as to divide this into two collateral pieces. Movement. As the bones are not in contact in the pubic sym- physis, but are imited by an intermediate cartilage, the motion is Motion usually very slight. The kind of movement of the hip bone is =' inward and outward, so as to increase or diminish the pelvic iiip-i^one rnvitv moved in ^^'^^^•^y- and out: When the pubic cartilage is divided into two by a larger central space than usual, gi-eater freedom of motion is present in the sym- when physis ; and in pregnancy the looseness of the innominate bone is sometimes so great as to interfere seriously with locomotion. Sgnaiuy.ARTEMES OP THE ABDOMEN. 600 TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 1. Plirenie. 2. Coeliac axis* , 'Coronary liepatic splenic Pancreatiu intestinal ileo-colic right eoUc middle colic S OEsophagoal ■ 1 gastric. Superior pyloric gastro-epiploic . left hepatic branch right hepatic ■ : brancli . pancreatic vasa brevia splenic left gastro- epiploic (Inferior pyloric I panei-eatiuo-duodenal. |cyi ■Stic. 3. superior mesenteric* 4. middle cap- sular 5. renal C. spermatic ". inferior ( Left colic mesenteric* .-< sigmoid (. superior hoe.uorrhoidal 8. Imubar 9. middle sa- cral* /Extenial iUac 10. Common \ iliac Epigastric . circumflex iliac f Pubic branch .-! anastomotic (_ cremasteric. / Ilio-lumbar lateral sacral gluteal . sciatic Parietal branches V internal iliac . ( pudic . Vobturator visceral ^ branches ^Middle liiemor- rhoidal J vesical I uterine. [ vaginal. f Superficial ' ( deep. / Coccygeal . ) comes nervi ischia- j dici ' nniscidar. /Visceral inferior hajmor- rhoidal superlicial peri- nieal ta-ansverse peri- n:i:al artery of the bulb to corpus cavcr- nosuni ^ dorsal ai-teiy. xVrticular. • The branches marked with an asterisk are single.601 VEINS OF THE ABDOMEX. TABLE OF THE VEINS OF THE ADWOMKX. Visceral briuiches , < Internal iliac , 1. Common iliac parietal branches f Epigastric external iliac . -j circumflex [ iliac ilio-lumbar lateral sacral middle sacral into the left. ( 2. Vertebro-lumbar 3. riglit spermatic 4. renal. 5. right capsular 6. diaphragmatic 7. hepatic veins which bring blood from the vena portic. Splenic C Riglit \left . j capsular (spermatic Vena 1'ORT.E I/'ETiemorrhoIdal X)luxus I f Vesical I vesico-prostJitic J .j,,,,^^, pc„is plexus . . ^ ,jj,gp ^,yi„g penis, uterine vaginal. I' Obturator pudic. sciatic gluteal. (Veins of coi-pus cavemo- sum of the bulb ' transverse perinical superficial ijcrinajal inferior liEemorrlioidal. (■coccygeal .-< comes ner%i ischiadicl ( muscular. superior mesenteric coronary / Splenic branches vasa brcvia pancreatic left gastro- epiploic inferior me- senteric . IIntestinal ileo-colic riglit colic middle cnlic right gastro- cpiiiloi'c pancreatic pancrcaticn- duodciial. Left colic sigmoid sui)erior Iiiemor- rlioidal. cystlo602 SPINAL NERVES OF THE ABDOMEN. TADLK OF THE SPINAL NKRVES IN TIIK ABDOMEN. /Posterior branches . Lumbar Sl'lNAL NERVES divide into Anterior branches: of these tlie four first end in the lumbar PLEXUS,* whicli supplies. I Inteniiil . I external 'Ilio-liypogastric, ilio-inguinal external cuta- neous genito-crural anterior crura 1 V obturator . lluscular. J >Iusc>ilar ( cutaneous. ( Cutaneous of tlie i ilium (.hypogastric branch. ( To integuments of ( the groin. \ To integuments of ) the thigh. ( Genital branch. \ crural bi-auch. Branches inside the pelvis . To the iliacus muscle. - -■*. ■,*« To the femoral artery. Branches outside the ( are noticed in the pelvis . . thigh. iOther offsets are de- scribed in the thigh. * The lumbo-sacral gives off the suiierior gluteal nerve. /Posterior branches ( Muscular and unite together and-< cutaneous give off . . . t filaments. Saoral SPINAL KERVF.S divide into ; Visceral Branches inside J to levator ani the pelvis . j to obturator internus I to the iiyriforniis Theanterior branches of the four superior unite with the lumbo-sacral in the \ SACRAL PLKXUS,t and furnish . branches outside the pelvis imdic ^'Infer!or ha^mor- rlioidal superficial ]ierina'al {anterior ami jios- terior) nuisc.nlar to the bulb \^dorsal of the penis. inferior hremor- rhoidal (sumetimcs). to the gluteus maxi-\ mus to the superior ge- mellus to the inferior ge- mellus and the quadratus articular small sciatic ^ great sciatic these arc describeil in the Thigh. t Thither sacral nerves ai-e described at p. 500.XERVES 01-' THE AUDOMEX. TABLE OF THE SYMPATHETIC NEHVE OF THE ABDOMEX ^Dinphragiuiitio Solar Plexus* or pre- vertebnil centre of tlie iibdomeii, fimiislies the foUowiiig plexuses: coeliac superior uicsouteric suprarenal renal . aortic . si>ennatic Vinferior mesenteric Coronary plex^is hepatic Vsplenic Offsets to small and large intestine. iSpermatic plexus, filaments to the. Hjiiogastrie. ) Offsets to tlie large intestine (Superior luiimorrlioidal. {Pyloric right gastro ei)iploic liancreatico-duodeual cystic. I Left gastro-epiploic ( pancreatic. / Great splanchnic nerves. * This receives . | part of small splauchnic ( offset of i)nemao-gastric. Hypogastric Plexus t ends in the pehic j)lexus on each side, which gives the fol- lowing plexuses . inferior lifemoiTlioidal vesical . uterine .vaginal. /■prostatic I cavernous leferential to vesicuUe ■1; seminales. Ganoliated cord of the sjTnpathetic in the ab- domen supplies . External branches internal t This is joined ahove by To the lumbar and sacral spinal nerves. To aortic plexus to hypogastric jilexus to join round middle sacral artery between the cords on the coccyx, in the ganglion impar. j Tlie aortic plexus ' ( filaments from the lumbar ganglia. PNEUHO-GASTKIC NEEVE IN THE ABDOMEN. Pncumo-gastric Right '«left . ( Coronary branches to the liack of the stomach i ttlaments to join the cceliac and splenic plexuses. ( Coronary branches to the front of the stomach, ( and to the hepatic plexus.CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section I. THE FRONT OP THE THIGH. Directions. Position of tlie Ijody. Objects on tlie smface. Promi- jiences limiting the tliigli above. Hollow of Scai'iia's space. Groove over femoral artei-y. Position of great trochanter. Head of the femiu-. All the parts described in Section I. (p. 637) are to be examined before the time for turning the body arrives. ^ Position. During the dissection of the front of the thigh the body lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be supported in a half-bent position by a stool beneath the foot, and should be rotated outwards to make evident a hollow at the top of the thigh. Surface marking. Before any of the integument is removed fi-om the limb, the student is to observe the cliief eminences and hollows on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in fi'ont, by the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching fi-om the crest of the hip bone to the pubes. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx. On the inner side is the projection of the pubes, from which a line of bone (pubic arch) may be traced backwards along the inner and upper parts of the limb to the ischial tuberosity. On the anterior aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- ntient, is a slight hollow, coiTcsponding with the triangular space of Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral arteiy beneath. The position of the arterial trunk may be ascertained by a line from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the loip bone, to the inner condyle of the femiu-. At the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below and behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, the Avell-markcd projec- tion of the great trochanter of the femur will be recognised. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, or the fingers beliind the great trochanter.605 ANATOMY OF SUPERFICIAL TARTS. At the knee the outline of tlie several bones entering into the Bony ^^^^ formation of the joint may be traced with ease. In fi-ont ot the „f knee, joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella may be patella, perceived ; this bone is firmly fixed whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great fi-eedom when the jomt is extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side Condyles^^ of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers arc passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, they will be conducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a shght hollow between it and the femur. Behuid the joint is a shght depression over the situation of the ham or popliteal space ; and on its sides are firm boundaries, which are formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the leg. Dissection. "With the position of the limb the same as before Dissection. directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue -svith its nerves and vessels. At first the intearumeut is to be reflected only from the hollow on Take up 11 -r. ,!T , m • l^ skin at the the front of the thigh close below Poupart s ligament. To raise the top of the skin over it, an incision about four inches in length, and only skin t'"o'l'- deep, is to be made fi-om the pubes along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect; and at the upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the hip bone. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned out- wards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superficial fascia, forms a Superficial general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network ' of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes, iiow As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring regions, consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or the labium according to the sex, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness vaiies in different bodies, owing to the quantity Thickness, of fat in it ; and at the upper part of the thigh it is divisible into ^'""^^ > two strata (superficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and iJito two*^^'^ inguinal glands. The superficial of the two layers is apparent after ^.g^g*^^^' the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To reflect the superficial stratum of the fascia, in- To raise tiic cisions similar to those in the skin are to be employed, though the ^"rotuia"^ transverse one is not to reach so low on the thigh by a couple of inches; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun below, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. This layer of the fat may be thrown upwards readily by a few touches of the knife, along the middle line of the limb ; but where vessels and glands arc not found, viz., along theDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. OOG Sulicutnne- ous layer uininitcd witli I'liu- ]iiirt. Dissection ; to sec the superfutial vessels, lymplinties, ^ncl nerves. The arteries fr<in\ the I'eiiioral. One exter- miil putlic artery ; another beneath' the fascia. Superficiiil epigastric. Superficial circumflex iliac. Veins .join the saphe- uous. Ingiiin.il glands; two sets, outer and inner borders of the tliigli, the separation of the superficial fascia into two laj^ers cannot be easily made. The suhcutaneous layer of tlie fat decreases in thickness near Poupart's ligament, becoming more fibrous at the same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and membranous surface. It con- ceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Ponpai-t's ligament. Dissection (fig. I'Jl). The inguinal glands and the supei-ficial vessels are to be next laid bare by the removal of the surrounding fat; but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, very thin layer of the superficial fascia, which is beneath them, and is visible chiefly on the imier side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be dissected out:—One set (ai-terj-- and vein) is directed inwards to the pubes, and is named external pudic ; another, superficial epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the hmb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some of the small lymphatic vessels maj"^ be traced from one inguinal gland to another. A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the inner side of the saphenous vein, close to the pubes ; and the branch of the genito-ciin-al nerve, or an oflrset of it, may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessuls. The small cutaneous arteries at the top of the thigh are the first branches of the femoral trunk ; thej^ pierce the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin. The external inulic artery {h superior) crosses the spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of the penis and scrotum, Avhere it anastomoses with offsets of the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (inferior, p. 619) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The superficial epigastric artery (c) passes over Poupart's ligament to the abdomen (p. 439), and commimicates with branches of the deep epigastric arteiy. The superficial circumflex iliac artery (fZ) is the smallest of the three branches : appearing as two or more pieces on the outer border of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integuments: it supplies an offset with the external cutaneous nerve. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- panion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein, with the exception of that with the inferior pudic artery : these veins will be noticed subsequently (p. 608). The superficial inguinal glands (c) are arranged in two lines. One set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament; and the other is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and theSEEK CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. 007 lymphatic vessels from the surface of tlio lower limb enter them, wl.icii The upper or abdominal group is joined by the lymphatics of the ^^-in-rZt penis, by those of the surface of the abdomen, and by those of lyiui>liatii's. the buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfi-equently some of the longitudinal set by the side of the vein {\re blended together. Dissection. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is to be n.-vise the detached from the subjacent fascia lata. Internal to the saphenous ti^H'of tim vein a thin nicnd)rane can be raised by transverse cuts above and ^.^^'"j^"*^''^^ below, and by a longitudinal one on the inner side of the thigh ; ' but external to that vessel there exists scarcely a continuous layer. The handle of the scalpel may be employed in the separation ; and the dissector is to avoid injuring the nerves and vessels. In re- flecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will become apparent. The deeper layei- of the superficial fascials a very thin membrani- ]5f^t,^e^j|JJ^gy form stratum, which is most evident near Poupart's ligament, and ndai fascia on the inner side of the saphenous vein. About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata ; and as it stretches across the aperture it is attached to the circum- ference,—internally by loose areolar tissue, but externally by firm covers fibrous bands ; it is also connected with the loose crural sheath of openin"'"' the subjacent vessels in the aperture. The part of the stratum over the saphenous openino: is perforated y^'^ere it is iin.iii6<i by many small apertures for the transmission of the Ij'mphatics ; cribriform and it has been named cribriform fascia from its sieve-like appear- ance. In a hernial protrusion thi-ough that opening the cribriform portion is projected forwards by the tumour, and forms one of the coverings. Dissection. Now the student has observed the disposition of the Dissection superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he may proceed to ex- oftheUUgh. amine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the fi-ont of the thigh, a cut is to be Take away carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee joint, to rather "'"^ below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The skin may be reflected in flaps inwards and outwards ; and as it is raised fi-om the fi-ont of the knee a superficial bursa between it and the patella will be opened. The saphenous vein is first to be traced out in the fat as far as an.l follow the skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it the student ■fehould be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 190) are to Seek cutano- be sought in the fat, Avith small cutaneous arteries, in the following "f front of positions :—On the outer margin, below the upper third, is placed thigh" " the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin arc the ramifications of the internal cutaneousDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. COS ami on side of the knee. Snpei'flcial veins. Internal saphenous vein in thigh pierces fascia lata to join tlie femoral. Veins join- ing it maj' form tliree trunks at the top of the thigh. Cutaneous arteries. Cutaueons nerves. Ilio-iuguinal is near scro- tum. Genito-cra- ral reaches tlio middle of thigh : nerve,—0110 siriall offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh; one or more about half way down ; and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of tlie knee tliree otiier cutaneous nerves are to be looked for :—One, a branch of the great saphenous, is directed outwards over the middle of the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, Hes by the side of the vein of the same name,^ close to the lower edge of the surface now dissected. And the thii-d is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the anterior and inner as- pects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this trunk is named saphenous from its manifest appearance on the surface. The internal saphenous vein (fig. 191, a) is the cutaneous vessel of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the foot to the top of the thigh. In the part of its course now dissected, the vessel Hes inferiorly somewhat behind the knee joint; but as 'it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the fi-ont of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, and enters the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz., external pudic (i), superficial epigas- tric (c), and circumflex iliac (rf), terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of the thigh are most frequently united into one branch, which enters the saphenous ti'unk near the aperture in the fascia lata ; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way. When this arrangement exists tlu-ee large veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein receives a deep branch from the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the integu- ments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 624) accompanies the saphenous ners^e and its branches near the Imee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus, and in greater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguinal. This nei-ve (p. 542) is small in size, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 191,'); it supplies the scrotum, and ends on the contiguous surface of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. The Genito-crural. The crural branch of this nerA'e (p. 542) pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 190, rather external to the line of the femoral arterj'. After or before the nerve has become supei-ficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; and it extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis.CUTANEOUS NEEVES OF THIGH. 606 anterior branches. Middle cutaneous reaches the knee. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of unusual the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side of the limb. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 542) ramifies on the outer aspect External of the limb (fig. 190, ^). At first it is contained in a prominent '^"'^"eoiiB, ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, which l'°^"°'"> arch backwards to supply the integuments of the outer side of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's liga- ment and is continued to the knee below the other; it distributes branches late- rally, but those towards the posterior sur- face are the most numerous, and the largest in size. Middle cutaneous (fig. 190, The nerve of the centre of the thigh is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 542), and divides into two branches. It is trans- mitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee. In the fat tliis nerve is united with the genito- crural and internal cutaneous nerv'^es. Internal cutaneous. Derived from the an- terior crural trunk, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of the thigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), which perforate the fascia in sepa- rate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 190, ^), along which it is continued to the knee. This branch is distributed in the lower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner side of the knee- joint, and is united with the patellar branch of the internal saphe- nous nerve. The inner^ branch (fig. 205, ») perforates the fascia inside the loiee the inner behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it commmiicates • '"^ ^^''^ it furnishes offsets over the knee, and to the upper half of the leg on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the umer side of the thiffh o^'er small ^ ' twigs to tlie 2 M?,?,n'''T °o °* 1- External cutaneous. i. ,> I cutaneous. 3. Internal cutaneous. 4. Internal saphenous 5 Patellar branch 01 saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. 7. Ilio-incuinal 8 'tH„ hypogastric on the beUy. b"'"^i. o. uio- Intemal cutaneous: the anterior l)ranch extends to knee:610 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ( Internal sapliouous passes to ' the leg: a liraneh on patella forms a plexus. Clean tlie fascia lata, and define saphenous opening. Fascia lata surrounds limb: strength varies: ilio-tibial' band. Apertures in it. Processes between the musclesi Connected with bone at upper part of thigh : and appecar by the side of the saplienous vein. One or two come into view near the top of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the tliigh ; and one, larger in size than the rest, becomes cutaneous where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. The internal saplienous (fig. 190,"), a branch of the anterior crural, is continued to the foot, but only a small part of it is noAv visible. The nerve pierces the fascia on the inner side of the knee ; and after communicating with the inner branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwai-ds some offsets over the knee joint. Finally it accom- panies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. Its patellar branch (fig. 190, appears on the inner side of the loiee above the preceding, and is soon joined by the internal cuta- neous nerve. It ends in many branches over the patella ; these communicate with offsets fi-om the middle and external cutaneous nerves, and form on interlacement—plexus p)aiellce—over the joint. Dissection. Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now removed from the sm-face of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves being- thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their- trunks. At the upper part of the thigh the student is to define the saphe- nous opening in the fascia lata by detaching the superficial fascia. The inner side is easily shoA\Ti. But the outer border is blended with the superficial fascia and with the subjacent crural sheath ; and it is only after the uniting fibrous bands are broken or cut tlirough that its semilimar edge comes into view. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It surrounds the limb with a fii'm sheath, and sends inwards septa between the different muscles. This membranous investment is of a bluish white colour, but in fat bodies is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the subcutaneous fat. It is much stronger on the outer than the inner aspect of the limb, where it receives the insertion of the tensor vaginse femoris, and most of the gluteus maximus muscle. This thickened part (iUo-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone and below to the bones of the leg, and helps the extensor muscle to keep the knee- joint straight in standing. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels ; and the largest hole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the under surface form septa between, and fibrous sheaths around the several muscles. Two of the pro- cesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner mter- muscular septa of the thigh : they are fixed to the femur, so as ta limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked by white lines on the surface. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders of the pelvis. Thus it is connected externally with the iliac crest, and internally with the pubes and the pubic arch. In the middle line behind it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's ligament between the pubes and the ihac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes miinterruptedly to611 CHARACTERS OF FASCIA LATA. the leg ; but in front of the articulation it blends w th an expan- d.ffe.nce^^ sion from the extensor muscle, and is contmued over the joint and the patella, though separated fi-om that bone by a bursa, to be m- „£>,.fari ^nfn tViPi hpads of thc tibia and fibula. ""s'de oSe^^ is a band of almost transversa fibres Bands o. (retinaculum) wliich is attached to and supports the knee-cap. pateUa, Fig. 191.* The outer, thick and strong, is continuous externally with the ilio- tibial band, and joins the insertion of the vastus externus at its attachment to the patella : it guides the patella outwards when the joint is bent. The inner band, of slight strength, is fixed to the patella lower than the other, and unites with the insertion of the inner vastus. Directions. The flaps of skin which were removed fi'om the fi'ont * Dissection of the superficial parts of the thigh (Illustrations of Dissec- tions). Vessels : a. Saphenous vein. b. Superficial pudic. c. Superficial epigastric, d. Superficial circumflex iliac, e. Inguinal glands. /. Saphenous opening. Nerves: 1. Ilio-inguinal. 2. External cutaneous. 3. Genito- crural. 4. Middle cutaneous. Small unnamed vessels accompany the different nerves to the teguments. B R 2 outer strong, inner weak. Replace Uaps of skin.612 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nerves, are to be now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts ; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata (fig. 191,/) is a narrow semilunar slit, wliich is situate rather (internal to the middle line of the thigh. It measures about a third of an inch in width, and one inch and a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament ; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure about one inch and a half, and presents a well-defined margin. The inner side of the opening is posterior to the level of the femoral vessels, and is flattened over the subjacent muscle (pecti- neus) ; but it is marked below by a thin and sharp border. The outer boundary is much stronger, and has a semilmiar border when detached, whose concavity is turned downwards and inwards. This edge is named from its shape falciform margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the deeper layer of the superficial fascia. Traced upwards, the outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of Poupart) : the upper end of this border, where it is internal to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named the femoral ligament. Tenseness of The rigidity of the margin of the opening is much influenced by *^e^™^rgins ^]jg position of the limb ; for with the finger beneath the upper part of the falciform border, whilst the thigh is moved in difEerent directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the Hmb is extended and rotated out, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower cornu of the opening the saphenous vein is transmitted : and through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lymphatics and one or two superficial vessels also pass through it. Saphenous opening: situation, and size. Inner mar gin sharp below : outer is firm, and joins Gimhernat femoral ligament. Parts trans- mitted through the opening. Anatomy of femoral hernia. Dissection for femoral sheatli. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. To obtain a knowledge of the hernial protrusion in the thigh, the dissector has to study the tmdermentioned parts, viz., the crural arch and Gimbemat's hgament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection (fig. 192). To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose membranous sheath around the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions. One cut is to be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termmation of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia marked out by those incisions has been raised andANATOMY OF FEMORAL HEENIA. 618 turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be separated Ddme carefully fi-om the fascia lata beneath, from Poupart's Ugament in ^ • front, and fi'om Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side. FoiiparCs ligament (fig. 192, or the crural arch, is the firm The crural band of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the ^^^j^ abdomen, which stretches fi'om the fi-ont of the iliac crest to the ,nents pubes (p. 444). When viewed on the surface, the arch is cun^ed form: downwai-ds towards the limb, whilst the fascia lata remains on the tliigh. The outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is in- serted into the pubic spine and pectineal line of the hip bone, forming Gimbernat's ligament. The space between the crural arch and the iimominate bone is Pyhoiiow larger in the female than in the male, and is closed by parts passing beneath, fi-om the abdomen to the thigh. The outer half of the intei-val is filled by the fleshy psoas and iliacus muscles, to which the arch is closely bound by fascia ; and the inner half is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath. Gimhemafs ligament, or the piece of the tendon of the external Gimbernat's oblique muscle which is inserted into the pectineal line, is about three-fomihs of an inch in length, and is triangular in shape. Its apex is at the pubic spine ; whilst its base is in contact with the form and craral sheath, and is joined by the fascia lata. By one margin connections, (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural sheath (fig. 192, ■^)is a loose tube[of membrane around Crural the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel, sloped unequally on the sides. The wide part or base of the tube is upwards : and ^^^^ the nan-ow part ceases about two inches below Poupart's ligament, tious, by blending with the common areolar sheath of the bloodvessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve Q). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/) ; tliis part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is con- nected to the falciform margin and the superficial fascia. In fi-ont of the crm-al sheath and behind it is the fascia lata of the thigh. The sheath is continuous with the fascire lining the abdomen in how formed this way ;—the anterior part is prolonged beneath Poupart's liga- ment into the fascia transversalis, and the posterior half is contmued into the fascia iliaca (p. 464). Crossing the front of the sheath beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, is a fibrous band, the deep crwal arch. A notice of it is included in the description of the fascia transversalis (p. 453). Dissection (fig. 192). The student is to open the sheath by an Open the mcision across the front, and to raise the loose anterior part with ^j^^Ji hooks. Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each ^ "^'^614 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. JveoTar"""'^^^f'^ Covering of areolar tissue, together with an in- areolar sheath. Contents of craral sheath. guinal gland ; and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over both the artery and the vein, there will be an appearance of two thin partitions, the one being situate on the inner side of the vein separating this vessel fi-om the gland, and the other (J) between the vem and the artery. A fatty stratum stretches over the upper aperture of the sheath, closing it towards the abdomen. Interior of the crural sheath (fig. 192). The sheath is said to be divided into three compartments by two partitions ; and the posi- Space divided into three: the inner is the cmral canal, tion of the so-called septa has been before refeiTed to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery (a), lying close to the side of the sheath ; in the middle one is placed the femoral vein (&) ; and in the inner space (crural canal) only a lymphatic gland (c) is situate. The crural canal (fig. 192) is the innermost space in the interior of the crural sheath :—Its length is about a third of an inch, and it reaches from the base of Gimbemat's ligament to the upper comu of the saphenous opening. It decreases rapidly in size fi-om above down, and is closed below. The aperture by which the space com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. * Dissection of tlie crural sheath (Illustrations of dissections). A. Fascia lata reflected, b. Crural sheath opened, o. Poupart's ligament, d. Fascia lata of the thigh in place, t Two septa dividing the space of the crural sheath into three compartments. Vessels: a. Femoral arteiy. b. Femoral vein, and c, a lymphatic gland, all in the crural sheath, d. Superficial cir- cumflex iliac, e. Superficial pudic. /. Saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. Qenito- crural. 2. Ilio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous.615 COURSE J^T) COVERINGS OF HERNIA. Anterior to the canal, are Poupart's ligament and tte ^P-^r end parts^^^^ of the falciform margin of the saphenous openmg ; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the outer side of the canal, but in the sheath, is the femoral vem._ Through this channel the intestine passes from the abdomen m femoral The'crumZ nngO is the upper opening of the crural canal It is Cmna^ring on a level with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (fig. 140, and ^^^^^^ is larger in the female than in the male. Oval in shape, its greatest measurement is from side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch ; and it is filled by a lymphatic gland. The structures around the ling, outside the crural sheath, are similar to those bounding the canal, viz. in fi-ont the superficial and the deep crural arch, and behind, the pubes covered by the pectineus muscle and the fascia lata. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament with the conjoined tendon ; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. The position of vessels on the several sides of the ring is stated at page 464. Septum crurale. That part of the subperitoneal fatty layer which ^^l^.^ is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has been named crural septum fi'om its position between the thigh and abdomen position; (Cloquet). The situation of the septum is now visible, but its bow formed, characters are ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 463). Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion of Fe^n?rai intestine mto the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut ^g^j^^^j^ descends in the crural sheath, bemg placed on the inner side of the vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its pro- Course; gress from the abdomen, and passes through the crm-al ring, and flrst_^^^ along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this ' spot it changes its course, and is du-ected fomards to the surface next of the thigh, where it becomes elongated transversely ; and should anTtben the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on the abdomen, upwards, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector How it is the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- ^ack.''"^^^^'^ testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of malting the bowel retrace its course, it will be necessary if the protrusion is small to direct it backwards and upwards ; but if the hernia is large it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and after- wards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity the . thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Coverings. As the intestine protrudes it is clothed by the follow- Coverings from peri- toueum, Gimbemat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature be made to resemble more that used in describing inguinal hernia, by calling this opening the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture ?DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 616 ing layers, which are elongated and pushed before it from within oraral sep- outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen, sheathr""^ ^'^^^^^^ t^i^ hernial sac. Next one from the septum crurale across the crural ring. Aftenvards comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side, fo't ^^^^ spread a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, a'nd'skin. there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together with the skin. The cover- The coverings may vary, or may be conjoined in different degrees Stered? according^ to the condition of the hernia. In some instances the prolongation fi-om the crural sheath is wanting. Further, in an old hernia the covering derived fi-om the septum crurale is united usually with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the/asa'a^j-qpWa (Cooper). In general, in an oj^eration for the rehef of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enume- rated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum crurale. how known Diagnosis. This hernial tumbur is generally smaller than inguinal, ■ and does not extend into the scrotum in the male, or the labium in the female ; and if its neck can be traced below Poupart's liga- ment, it can be distinguished certainly from an inguinal hernia. Place of Seat of stricture and division of it. The strangulation of a femoral ^ hernia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. How to cut The external stricture may be found opposite the margin of the the external ga,p]ienous opening, or deeper in, opposite Poupart's hgament. It may be removed by cutting down on the neck of the tumoiu- at the inner side, and dividing the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in this situation, without opening the sac. and the The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by the tliick- structure. ening of the peritoneum. For its relief the neck of the sac is to be laid bai-e, as if there was an external stricture ; and if the intestine cannot be passed into the abdomen after division of all resisting- bands on the exterior of the neck, the sac of the peritoneum is to be opened ; and a director having been introduced through the con- striction, a cut is to be made horizontally inwards for the extent of one or two lines. The several vessels that may be wounded in at- tempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 465. Scarpa's triangular space. Triangular This hollow is situate on the fi-ont of the thigh, and lies beneath ^i'*^^- the depression obsei-vable near Poupart's ligament. It corresponds with the axilla in the upper limb. Clean out Dissection (fig. 193). The space will appear on removing the sS''''' fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side Follow (sartorius) should be fixed in place with stitches. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away ; and the femo-SCAEPA'S TRIANGULAR SPACE. 617 ral vessels are to be followed downwards as far as the sartoiius Lmscfe On the outer side of the vessels elean the divisions of the ,eek nerves, rent erural nerve, together with the branches of an arteiy (pro- antenor crurai nerve, fo i-emovinff the fat from be- takeaway " ™: L°,rr."^^^^ contains tUe trunk, of the «ood c...... vessels of the thigh, and the anterior crural nerve, with lymphatics Fig. 193.* and fat. It measures commonly tlrree inches from above do'wn ; but extent, ^ the length varies Avith the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. * Dissection of Scarpa's triangular space (Illustrations of Dissections) Muscles: a. Sartorius. b. Iliacus. c. Tensor fascite lataj. d. Rectus femoris. K. Pectineus. p. Adductor longus. G. Gracilis. Vessels: a. Femoral artery. b. Superficial circumflex iliac, c. Superficial epigastric. e. Superficial pudic (inferior), and i, the accompanying veins. /. Deep circumflex iliac, g. Deep epigastric. h. Femoral vein. i. Inferior ex- ternal pudic vein. k. Saphenous vein. Nerves : The large anterior crural is close outside the artery. 2. Offset from the same to the pectineus. 3. Middle cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous. 5. Genito-crural. 6. Exteraal cutaneous.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 618 boundaries, roof and Hoor. Position of femoral ai-teiy. Vein. Anterior crui'al nerve, Lymphatics. Femoral artery; extent, course, position to lemur and parts around: division into two. Superficial portion: connection with parts around, The base of the space is at Poupart's h'gament; and the apex is at the meeting of the sartorius with the adductor longus muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the teguments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes towards the middle, where it is deepest; it is constructed externally by the sartorius. A, and by the conjoined psoas and ihacus, B, for about two inches: and internally by the pectineus and adduc- tor longus muscles, E and F ; and between and beneath these, near the large vessels, is a small piece of the adductor brevis. The femoral ai'tery runs through the centre of the hollow, and supplies small cutaneous oflEsets, as well as a large deep branch, the profunda : a small oflEset (external pudic) is directed from it to the scrotum across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery and close to it is placed the femoral vein, which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. About a third of an inch external to the vessel is situate the large anterior crural nerve, wliich lies deeply at first between the ihacus and psoas, but becomes after- wards more superficial and divides into branches. Deep IjTnphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued into the iliac glands in the abdomen ; they ai"e joined by the super- ficial lymphatics. Femoral Artery (fig. 196).- This vessel is a continuation of the external iliac, and reaches from the lower border of Poupart's hga- ment to the margin of the opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name pophteal. Occupying two thirds of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee-joint half bent, by a line drawn fi-om a point midway between the sym- physis pubis and the fi'ont of the iliac crest, to the inside of the inner condyle of the femur. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femm-, and is comparatively superficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but, lower down, it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its connections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial 2Mrt of the artery (fig. 193, a), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is about thi-ee inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned. Incased at first ui the crural sheath for about two inches, it is covered by the sldn and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the aitery rests on the psoas muscle ; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus, E, though at some distance fi'om it in this position of the Hmb, and separated from it by fat, and the profmida and femoral vems. position of vein and Its companion vein Qi) is on the inner side and close to it at the pubes, but is placed behind the arteiy at the apex of the space. The anterior crural nerve lies on the outer side, being distantUPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 619 about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve approaches the artery, or lies on it, near the apex of the containing space. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectincus C)- Unusual position. Some examples of transference of the main arte^ of the Unusual limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In these posiuo cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The hrancJies of the artery in Scarpa's space are the superficial Branches, epigastric and cncumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous ofEsets have been seen (p. 606), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external pudic artery (fig. 193, e) arises separately An external from, or in common with the other pudic branch (superior). It l"^ courses inwards over the pectineus muscle to end in the teguments of the scrotum or the labium pudendi, according to the sex, and it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the tliigh to reach its destination : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perinseal artery. The dee}} femoral branch (fig. 195, ^) or the profunda, is the largest Profunda, offset of the femoral artery, and arises fi'om the outer side of that trunk one or two inches (Quain) below Poupart's ligament. It is Origin consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascertained. In the present dissection it may be seen to and position lie over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex ^angil!^ ^ artery to the outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, mth a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb.* Variation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to Origin of Poupart's ligament untU it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, ^^™|gg"'^''"' and be iixed to the external iliac arteiy (one example, Quain). And the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise separately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral arteiy in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free fi'om the disturbing influence of so large an offset. Femoral Vein (fig. 193, h). The principal vein of the limb, whilst Femoral in the triangular space, has almost the same relative anatomy as the rust inside artery : its position to that vessel, however, is not the same tln-ough- artery, out. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but it soon winds beneath afterwards the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border °^ ' ^ of the adductor longus muscle. Occasionally it is inside the artery * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to tlie trunk above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal pieces into which it divides.(i20 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. throughout. In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch (i) with the inferior external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OF THE ERONT OP THE THIGH. Muscles on the front of tlie thigh. Vessels. Nerve. Take the fascia from the front of the thigh. Follow out sartoruis, and lix it, and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors, and clean the extensor muscle. Dissect tensor of fascia. The muscles on the fxont of the thigh are to be learnt next: they are the sartorius, and the extensor of the knee; and at the top of the tliigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Three muscles are combmed in the extensor, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus intemus. The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst the muscles and suppHes them with branches ; and a large nerve, the anterior craral, furnishes offsets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the Hmb is to be retained in the same position as befofe, and the flaps of skin on the front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the tliigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the leg. In raising the inner piece of the fascia the nan-ow muscle appear- ing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia: and to prevent its displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorius;—viz. a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous, and obturator ; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle ; and the trunk of the great saphenous escaping from beneath it neai- the knee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the sartorius some strong muscles (adductors) are incHned downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of those muscles ; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the sartorius is the large extensor of the knee. For its dissection the knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibres: and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. The little muscle at the upper and outer part of the tliigh,—tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corre- sponding with its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the limb. After tliis slip has been detached, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two trans- verse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its insertion mto the femur.621 SARTOMUS MUSCLE. The SARTORiUR (fig. 194/) is the longest muscle in the body sartorius; anre.tenr±Vom\he pelvis4o the leg- It arcbes^o^^er tlj. W of the thigh, passing from the outer to the mner side of the hmb, Fig. 194 * and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. Its origin is tendinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous pro- origin; cess of the hip bone, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, course over the thigh; * Surface view of the front of the thigh, the teguments and fascia lata being removed (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Sartorius. b. Iliacus. c. Tensor fasciae latae. d. Rectus femoris. E. Vastus internus. f. Pectineus. o. Adductor longus. h. Gracilis, i. Tendon of Sartorius. Vessels: a. Femoral artery. 6. Femoral vein. c. Saphenous vein.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 622 insertion. Connections of the first or oblique portion; of the middle ; and of the lower part. Use; the Umb free and fixed; standing on one leg. Divide the sartorius, show apo- neurosis, and dissect the nerves and vessels. which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of the triangular space containing the femoral artery: it rests on the following muscles, iliacus, B, rectus, d, and adductor longus, G, as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus intemus E and the adductor muscles, as low as the opening for the femoral artery : but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is placed between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gi-acilis, h, with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous' piece, i, rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semi- tendinosus, and separated fi-om them by a prolongation of their synovial bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion to join that from the extensor over the knee ; and fi'om its lower border is given ofE another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears with vessels ; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bends the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia ; and makes tense finally the fascia of the tliigh. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will support the pelvis in standing, and will assist in bringing forwards the pelvis is stooping and walking. When standing on one leg the muscle will help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 195). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral artery. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is divided the in- ternal saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the saphenous nerve above but outside it, is the nerve to the vastus internus muscle, wliich sends an offset on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint : this may be traced now, lest it should be destroyed afterwards. The plexus of nerves on tlie inner side of the thigh may be more completely dissected in this stage. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the Hmb its small anastomotic branch arises : this branch is to be pursued through the fibres of the vastus mternus, and in front of the adductorLOWER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 623 ..agnus tendon to the knee ; an offset of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve. femoral vessels (fiff. 195, 0 Aponeurosis The aponeurotic covering ovei the temoiai ^esseis g ^:>verthe exists on^y where these are covered by the savtonus. It is thin Fig. 195.* * Deep part of the femoral artery and its branches, with muscles of the thigh (Quain's Arteries). — 1. Femoral artery. 2. Profunda artei-y. 3. Intei-nal circumflex. 4. External circumflex. 5. Superficial circumflex iliac and epigastric branches. 6. External pudic artery. 7. Aponeurosis over the lower part of the femoral artery. 8. Anterior crural nerve. 9. Pectineus muscle. 10. Adductor longus. 11. Gracilis. 12. Vastus iaternus. 13. Rectus femoris. 14. Sartorius cut across.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. cntls bolow by a free borclw. Deep pavt of femoral artery: connections, position of veins aud saphenous nerve. The femoral arteiy may be divided. Branches. Anasto- motic ; superfieial aud deep piece. Muscular branches. Femoral To expose muscles on front of the femur. above, but below it is formed of strong fibres, Avliich are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the fidductor muscles. Inferiorly the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its vessels escape. The deep part of the femoral artery (iig. 195, ^) lies in a hollow between muscles (Hunter's canal) until it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus. Here it is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fasciaj. Beneath it are the pectineus, the adductor brevis in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. External to the artery and close to it is the femoral vein ; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Crossing over the artery from the outer to the inner side is the internal saphenous nerve, Avhich is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Splitting of the artery. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two below the origin of the profunda. Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with ; but, in all, the trunks were blended into one above the open- ing in the adductor muscle. Branches. One named branch—anastomotic, and muscular offsets, spring fi-om this part of the artery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 196, 7c arter. anastomotica magna) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and di^ndes at once into two pieces, superficial and deep :— The superficial offset (w) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the - sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (l) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-jomt, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur with an offset of the upper external articular artery ; from this loop twigs descend to the joint. Muscular branches. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly fi-om the outer side of the femoral arteiy ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The FEMORAL VEIN corresponds closely with the femoral artery in its connections and in its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and are to be thrown downwards pre- paratory to -the deeper dissection. Afterwards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is fully carried out, the upper part of the vastus internus will not be prepared for learning.625 TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF KNEE. The TENSOR VAGINi^; FEMORIS (fig. 196, OCCUpieS the upper third Tensor of the thigh, and is the smallest and most external of the outer set ^^^s^nm of muscles. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the hip a,.j.scs from bone at the outer aspect ; from the anterior upper iliac spine, and pelvis, from the notch between this and the inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about three ^^^^^^''j^^g inches below, and rather in fi'ont of the line of the great trochanter of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the Parts gluteus medius. Beneath it arc the ascending offsets of the external circumflex artery ; and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve enters its under surface. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the TJse on thigh, making tense at the same time the fascia lata ; and finally ' it will help in rotating inwards the femur. When the hmb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in on pelvis, balancing the same on the femur in walking. Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia Cut through extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus may be followed upwai-ds to the pelvis. The TRICEPS EXTENSOR of the knee (fig. 195) consists of three fleshy Muscle on parts or heads, outer (vastus externus), inner (vastus internus), and y^lg^"^ middle (rectus), which are united below in a common tendon. The RECTUS FEMORIS gives rise to a fleshy prominence on the Rectus has front of the thigh (fig. 195, At its origin from the pelvis the muscle consists of two tendinous pieces:—one arises from the origin at the anterior inferior iUac spinous process ; the other (to be afterwards l"^^^'^> seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the hip bone, close double, above the acetabulum. The fleshy fibres terminate inferiorly in insertion another tendon, which joins the aponeuroses of the other two muscles in the common tendon. The rectus is larger at the middle than at the ends ; and its fibres raiiscle are directed from the centre to the sides, as in a quill, giving rise form^nd to that condition called pennif orm. It is subcutaneous, excejjt above superficial, where it is overlaid by the sartorius. It conceals branches of the above* external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the vasti. The upper tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior surface where the sartorius touches, whilst the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent vasti. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus Cut the near the lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass on the fi-ont'of the femur is to be divided into two, above, along the situation of some descendmg vessels and nerves : the part external to the vessels and separate IS the vastus externus, and the larger mass, internal to them is vastus internus. ' abovo!""^ 8 s626 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and below fl'oni inner vastus. Vastus externus is thin at the origin; To make the lower separation of the two, look to the outer aspect of the thigh about half way down, where the vertical fibres of the vastus externus cross others (deeper) of the inner vastus, which pass obliquely inwards : sink here the handle of the scalpel between these till it meets the line of division above. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a very narrow attachment to the femur in comparison with its size. It takes origin along the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; to the line connect- ing the trochanter with the linea aspera ; and to the upper half of the linea aspera, and the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis which blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus internus in the common tendon, and sends a slip to the outer edge of the patella. The muscle is pointed at the upper end ; but enlarged below where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is covered by the thesiwfMe's^ rectus, tensor vaginas femoris, and gluteus muscles. The deep sur- face rests on the vastus internus, and receives branches of the ex- ternal circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (fig. 194, ^) forms the large head of the extensor.* The fleshy mass arises fi-om the anterior and two lateral surfaces of the shaft of the femur, except where the vastus externus is attached, and its limits may be thus indicated :—Upwards it reaches as far as the anterior intertrochanteric line ; downwards, in the middle, to about two inches from the articular end of the femur ; and laterally to both intermuscular septa. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres terminate in an aponeurosis, which blends in the common tendon of insertion, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The muscular mass is buried above beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles ; but the lower part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus externus : some of the lowest fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw inwards the patella. The adductor muscles are almost inseparably joined with this vastus along the attachment to the linea aspera. Dissection. The tendon of the extensor will appear by dividing along the middle line of the patella and knee joint a thin aponeu- rotic layer, which is derived fi'om the lower fleshy fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards that fibrous layer the tendon will be laid bare to its insertion into the tibia. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg is conimon to the rectus, the vastus externus, and vastus internus. It is placed in front of the Imee joint, to which it serves the ofiice of an anterior ligament. Wide above where the muscular- fibres termmate, it * Sometimes tlie part of the mass, inside a line continued upwards from the inner border of the patella, is named crureus: naturally there is not any separation at that spot. but is thiol^er below. Parts in Vastus in- ternus and crureus. One mass. Its origin: insertion by a common tendon. Upper part deep, lower supei-ficial. Lay bare common tendon of the exten- sor. Tendon of the exten- sor : attach- ments.627 EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted inferiorly into the prominence of the tuhercle of the tibia, and into the bone below it for an inch : close to its attachment to the tibia a synovial bursa b^^^abe- is beneath it. In it the patella is situate, some few scattered aponeu- rotic fibres passing over the cutaneous surface, but none being con- tinued over the articular surface of the bone. (See Ligament of the Patella, p. 700.) From the lower part of the muscle a superficial aponeurotic ex- expansion pansion is derived: this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in front of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Suhcrurem muscle. Beneath the strong fibres of the vastus, near SmaU sub- the laiee joint, is a thin layer of pale fibres, wliich is but a part of muscle; the mner vastus, separated from the rest by areolar tissue. Attached ends on the to the femur in the lower fourth, and often by an outer and imier slip, syno™^ sac. it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the loiee joint. Action. All three heads of the triceps extend the knee joint when Usejrith^^^ the tibia is moveable ; and the rectus can flex the hip joint over abie^""'^^' which it passes. The fleshy bellies are strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. When the tibia is fixed the vasti -will bring forwards the femur, ^^^^f^^'* and straighten the knee, as in walking or standing ; and the rectus will prop the pehds on the femm-, or assist in moving it forwards hi stooping. The subcrureus contracts in extension of the knee, and elevates iio^^ sub- crureus the synovial membrane above the patella. acts. Intermuscular sepiakThe processes of the fascia lata, which limit Intermus- laterally the extensoi-^uscle of the knee, are thus named, and are ^^"^^^ fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles of are two. the femur. The external septum is the strongest,, and reaches from the outer The outer condyle of the femur to thp insertion of the gluteus maximus. It strongest • is situate between the vastus internus and externus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to which it gives origin ; and it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner partition is very thin along the side of the vastus the inner is internus ; and its place is supplied by the strong tendon of the "^'^^•^"^ct. adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea aspera : the internal articular vessels are transmitted thi-ough it to the front of the knee joint. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 196, ^) is the chief vessel Extei-nal for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises artery^''^ from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artery, but often from the femoral trunk. It is du-ected outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles to the outer part of the thigh, where it ends in branches. Offsets are given from it to the rectus and sartorius ; its bwuchea s s 2 ^'"'^DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 628 ascondinf', transverse. and de- scending Nerve of the front of the thigh is divided. From its superficial part arise— middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous, •which has anterior and / inner hranch. Internal saphenous nerve hecomes cutaneous at the knee has a com- mixnicatiiig and its terminal muscular branches consist of ascending, transverse and descending :— The ascending branch is directed beneath the tensor vaginae femoris to the back of the hip bone, where it anastomoses with the gluteal arteiy, and supplies the contig-uous muscles. The transverse, the smallest in size, divides into two which per- forate the vastus externus, and anastomose with arteries on the back of the thigh. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces Avhich are distributed to the vasti. muscles. One considerable branch enters the outer part of the vastus internus, and reaching the knee, anasto- moses on this joint with the external articular arteries ; a small offset courses over the muscle with a nen'-e to the joint. The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE (fig. 195, ^) of the lumbar plexus (p. 542) supplies the muscles, and most of the teguments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep pieces. A. The superficial part ends in three tegumentary branches :—^the middle, and internal cutaneous of the thigh, and great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve (fig. 190, ^) perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about thi-ee inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 609). The internal cutaneous nerve (fig. 190, ^) sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the irmer side, into the two following branches, anterior and inner. Sometimes these branches arise from the anterior cimal trunk at separate spots :— The anterior branch (^) is directed to the inner side of the knee. As far as the middle of the thigh it Hes over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 609). The inner, branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 609). Whilst underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator, and nearer the knee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The internal saphenous nerve (fig. 195) is the largest of the thi-ee superficial branches. In the tliigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along thek outer side, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nei-ve passes . from beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius ' muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous (fig. 190, "*). It supplies two offsets whilst it is beneath the fascia in the thigh :— xi - , A communicating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of the internal cutaneous and obturator, or with the internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent.629 ANTERIOR CEUEAL NERVE. The patellar branch springs from the nerve near the knee joint, a^ui^pa-^^ and perforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the bxo n . integument over the knee (fig. 190, B. The f/eejJ or musctt^ar part of the anterior crural nerve (fig. 195) gives branches to all tlie muscles of the front of the thigh, except arise the tensor vaginas f emoris; and it supplies also an offset to one of the adductor muscles, viz., the pectmeus. A slender nerve (fig. 193, =) crosses beneath the femoral artery, J^^^f^^^^^^^^ and enters the anterior surface of the pectineus: sometimes there are two. Branches to the sartorius sxe furnished by the middle, or by the sartorius; internal cutaneous nerve, whilst it is in contact with that muscle. A nerve enters the under surface of the rectus, and divides into rectus; branches as it is about to penetrate the fibres. The nerve to the vastus extemus separates into two or more pieces vastus ex- 1 1-1 <• 1 ■ J n-i J. • temus and as it enters the muscle. From one or these an articular nJament is knee joint; continued downwards to the loiee joint, which it enters on the ante- rior aspect. The nerve to the vastus intemus (fig. 195) is nearly as large in j"^^^,^"^ size as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee joint. Its articular branch is prolonged on or in the vastus, and on the J^^Q^g^'^'^' tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee joint; to knee, and it is distributed over the synovial membrane on the fi'ont of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 624). A branch of nerve to the tensor vaqince femoris is derived from Nerve of the superior gluteal (p. 644) ; it enters the under surface of the vagina;, nmscle, and extends nearly to the lower end. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front of Take next the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn the tors^'^*^'^'^" adductor muscles, and the vessels and nen'^es which belong to them. PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the thi-ee adductors,—longus. The adduc- brevis, and magnus, with the gi-acihs and pectineus ; these have the "'"^^^"^^ following position with respect to one another. Internal to all and position.' the longest, is the gracilis. Superficial to the others, are the pac- tineus and the adductor longus ; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with the muscles, and supplying them are the pro- Vessels, funda arteiy (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accom- panying vein. The obturator nei-ve lies amongst the adductor muscles, and fur- Nerve nishes branches to them. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing Dissection680 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. of adductor fascia and tissue arc to bo taken away ; and the two superficial muscles. adductors are to be separated from one another. Nerves. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz., those entering the fleshy- Fig. 196.* * Deep dissection of the adductor muscles ^^1*1; their vessels aud n^ (Illustrafions of Dissections.) f-^^^^.^-.^i^^ ZM^^^ Pectineus, cut. c. Gracilis, d. Adcuctoi brcMS. internus k F. Obturator externus. G. Semimembranosus. ^Tr " ius o lUaciI" Rectus femoris. l. Tensor fascite latai. n. Piece of tlie Sartouus. o. Hiacus.631 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES OF HIP JOINT. fibres, and one issuing beneath tlio adductor longus, to ]om the plexus at tlie inner side of the thigh. p„„,„™ Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and Remove its branches, they must be removed. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 196,«), and Gracilis is fleshy and ribbon-like above, but tendinous below. The muscle f^^^^^^^^' arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the pelvis, pubic border of the hip bone close to the margin, viz., opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about one third of an inch IXTibia. wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sartorius. The muscle is supei-ficial throughout. For two tliirds of the thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as to muscles, have its borders directed forwards and backwards; and in the lower third, it intervenes between the sartorius and semi-membranosus ^ muscles, and helps to form the inner boundary of the popliteal ^ space. At its insertion the tendon is nearer the knee than that of ' ' the semitendinosus, though at the same depth from the surface, and ■ both lie over the internal lateral ligament; and from the tendon an expansion is continued to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius, A bursa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating V?^°^^^^ in that bone ; and then brings the moveable femur towards the feSur, middle Une with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground the gi-acilis will aid in °^ pelvis, propping the pelvis on the limb. The PECTiNEUS (fig. 194, ^) is the highest of the muscles directed Pectineus. fi-om the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone, and from the triangular smooth surface in front of that line ; and it is inserted inferiorly by a tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small j^^g^l^^j, trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, so that the surfaces which are dii-ected Muscle is forwards and backwards near the pelvis, are turned inwards and ' outwards at the femur. One surface is in contact with the fascia surfaces; lata ; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the parts ou the adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. p. Psoas. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, and b, femoral vein. c. Trunk of the prftfunda. d. Internal, and e, external circumflex. /. First, g, second, and h, third perforating, i. Muscular and anastomotic of the profunda, k. Anastomotic of the femoral, with I, the articular, and n, the cutaneous piece. Nerves: 1. Obturator, joined by the accessory obturator nerve, with 2, the superficial, and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep piece. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus intemus, and 9, its articular branch to the knee.632 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Use on femur free and llxed. Adductor longus ex- tends from pelvis to femur. Its connec- . tions with muscles and vessels. Use on femur, on pelvis. Dissection of accessory obtm-ator nerve; cut adduc- tor longus, adductor brevis: trace obturator nerve; and nerve to knee joint. Accessoiy obturator nerve. A ction. It adducts the limb and bends tlie hip joint. When the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing ; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS Hes below the pectineus (fig. 194, «), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the' base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the fi-ont of the pubes below the angle of union of the crest and the symphysis ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obtu- rator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of insertion with the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Action. With the femur moveable, it Avill flex the hip-joint, and with the aid of the other adductors will cany inwards the limb, so as to cross the thigh bones. In walldug it helps the other adductors to project the hmb. With the femur fixed, the muscle props and tilts forwards the pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator nerve and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubes, and throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small accessory nerve of the obturator which turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longUs is then to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath : its tendon is to be detached fi'om that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the branches of the profunda artery. Now the adductor bre-sas will be laid bare. A part of the obtu- rator nerve crosses over this muscle to the femoral artery, and sends an offset to the plexus at the inner side of the thigh : a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath this adductor. The muscle should be separated fi-om the subjacent adductor magnus, where the lower branch of the nerve with an artery issues. In this last step of the dissection the student should follow on and in the fibres of the ad- ductor magnus a slender articular branch of the obturator nerve ; this will be traced after to the knee (p. 655). The accessory obturator nerve * (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk of the obturator, near the lumbar plexus (p. 543), and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it tinrns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial branch of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip joint vnth the * This small nerve is often absent; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies which were examined by its discoverer. The name given to it by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, viz., nerv. ad obturatorem ac- cessorius inconstans. Commentarius de Nervis Lumbalibus.OBTUEATOE NERVE AND BRANCHES. C33 articular artery, and occasionally one to the under surface of the pectineus. , , ,, i The ADDUCTOR BREVis (fig. 196, ^) has a thin fleshy and aponeu- Adductor rotic attachment, ahout two inches in depth, to the fi-ont of the hip thin at the bone with the gracilis. The muscle arises from the pubic border of the bone close to and outside the gracilis, reaching upwards as liigh as the adductor longus, and not quite so low as the graciUs. It is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line leading fi-om the JIJ^j^^']^.''* linea aspera to the small trochanter. tion. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor longus, Parts in Avith the superficial piece of the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their in- sertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, beliind, with the deep piece of the obturator nen-^e and a branch of the inner circumflex artery. In contact with the upper border lies the obturator extemus, F, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. Action. Tliis muscle adducts the limb with slight flexion of the JJ^°,2!fygg hip joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts fi-om the femur it will ^ ^^^^ ' balance and move fon^'ards the pehas. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 196, ^) is a branch of the lumbar 0^'^*™'^*^°^ plexus (p. 543), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as Avell as the hip and knee joints. The nerve issues fi-om the pehas through the apertm-e in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and |uto uvo^ it divides in that opening into two pieces, which are named super- ficial and deep from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. A. The superficial part Q) of the nerve is directed over the adduc- flcf^f pait" tor bi'evis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to ends on the femoral artery, on which it is distributed ; at the lower border of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two to join in a plexus joins plexus with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 628), and in the thigh: supply the teguments.* In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nen'-e sends outwards an to'^^p'^oinT articular twig to the hip joint with the joint-artery. Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to ductor brevis, and the gracilis. adductors. B. The deep piece (^) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of Sfe Se^vf °* the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:— ^ Muscular branches enter the obturator extemus as the nerve adductor pierces it ; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the magnus, .short adductor. A slender articular branch (fig. 196, *) enters the fibres of the and gives adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to kMetoint * In some bodies the superficial part of the nerve is of large size, and has a <listribution similar to tliat of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, whose place it takes : in such instances it joins freely iu the plc.\us.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Dissect pro- funda. Profunda arteiy, origin, course, and ending. Parts around. Branches to muscles of tlie thigla join freely. The named branches are— External circumflex, Internal circumflex, ends on back of thigh, supplies hip joint and muscles. Three perfo- rating branches. First. Second gives nutritious artery. reacli the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee joint : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pop- liteal space (p. 655). Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, as far as they occupy the front of the thigh, it will be requisite to follow back the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The PEOFUNDA (i3g. 196, c) is the cluef muscular artery of the thigh, and arises from the femoral about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament (p. 619). At its origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh it rests on the iUacus muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its termination between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles on the front and back of the thigh, and maintain free anastomoses with other vessels of the thigh and leg (p. 659) : through these com- munications the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named hranches are these :— The external circumflex artery (fig. 196, e) has been described in the dissection of the muscles of the fi-ont of the thigh (p. 627). The internal circumflex branch (fig. 196, d) arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the adductor brevis and magnus. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 648). It supplies the undermentioned ofirsets to the inner side of the thigh :— An articular artery may enter the hip joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular branches arise :—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles ; the other, which is larger, descends with the deep piece of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. The perforating Iranclies, three in number, pierce the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur : they supply muscles on the back of the thigh, and wind round the thigh-bone to end in the vasti (p. 659). The first (/) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second branch {g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding: from it a nutritious vessel is suppHed to the shaft of the femur.635 ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. The third artery (/*) springs from the deep femoral trunk below Third, the adductor brevis, and is transmitted tlii'ough the adductor magnus. . v . .,4.1 The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces And tiie^ the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. _ a fourth. Muscular or anastomotic hranches (i) to the back of the thigh Anastomotic (three or fotu- in number) pass through the adductor magnus at '■'"^'= some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the ham-strings (p. G59). The PROFUNDA VEIN results from the union of the different branches ^1°^'"^'' corresponding with the offsets of its companion artery. It accom- panies closely the arteiy of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., ad- ductor magnus, obturator externus, and the psoas and iliacus inser- brevis. tion, the adductor brevis is to be cut thi-ough near the pelvis, and to be thi-own down. Then the investing layer of fascia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The ADDUCTOR aiAGNUS (fig. 126, ^) is nan-ow at the pelvis, and wide at the femm-. It is triangular in form, with its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femm-, and the other fi"ee at the inner side of the thigh. The muscle arises along the pubic arch of the innominate bone origin is outside the other adductors, reaching fi-om the symphysis to the ' lower part of the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres diverge litres from their origin, being horizontal above but more obli que below, tlieirlnser- and are inserted (from aboA'^e down) into the line fi"om the great tion, trochanter to the linea aspera : into the linea aspera ; and into the yimns line leading from that crest of bone to the inner condyle for about ^^^^^^.^ an inch. The posterior fibres from the ischial tuberosity are vertical vertical, in direction, and end at the lower third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is con- nected by a fibrous expansion to the inner condyloid ridge. The muscle consists of two parts, which differ in their characters, and form The anterior one, thin and fleshy, forms a septum between the other P"^^- adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the pos- terior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the Connections profunda vessels. The posterior surface touches the ham-string °^ smfaees, muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, -with and bordei-s. the internal circumflex vessels ; and along the inner border lie the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the Insertion muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is used as an adductor, but chiefly as a pro- Use ou ' femurDISSECTION OF THE TniGH. 636 and pelvis. Opening lor the vessels; boundaries. Psoas nnd iliacus in the tliiirh. Insertion into femur. Parts around. Use. Obturator externus; origin, insertion. The adduc- tors cover it. and it touches hip joint. Use. Detach obturator. jector forwards of the femur in walking : in the last office it receives help from the other adductors internally, and fi-om the gluteus medius and minimus externally. The femur being fixed it will act powerfully in keeping the pelvis erect on the head of the thigh bone. The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous at the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus internus ; and on the inside by the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 196) arise separately in the abdomen (p. 637), but ai-e united in the thigh,—the conjoined portion of the muscles lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas, p, is in- serted by tendon into the small trochanter of the femur ; and the fleshy iliacus, 0, joins partly the tendon of the psoas, but the rest of its fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below the trochanter. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior ihac spinous process,—the iliacus resting on a small bursa ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule of the hip joint, and a larger inter^'^ening bursa. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The pectineus and the internal circumflex vessels are contiguous to the inner border ; and the sartorius and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip joint ; and their use on the spinal column is given with the description in the abdomen (p. 638). The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 196, ^) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the anterior half ; and fi-om the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for the anterior half or more,—the attach- ment being an inch wide opposite the symphysis pubis. The fibres are directed obliquely backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor bre-\ns and magnus. It povers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by a branch of the obturator nei-ve. As it wmds back it is m contact with the inner and lower sm-faces of the ^ hip joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the Buttock (p. 648). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh : and its action will be given in full with the other muscles of the same group in the Buttock (p. 649). Dissection. By detaching a small piece of the obturator muscle637 OBTURATOR MUSCLE AND VESSELS. from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the same name will be seen amongst its fibres. A better view will be obtamed if the dissection of the vessel and nerve is deferred till after the limb is detached. The oUurator artery is a branch of the internal iliac (p. 563), and enters the thigh through the top of the thyroid foramen. In the aperture the artery divides into two pieces, wliich form a circle ^ivWes^mto on the obturator membrane beneath the muscle :— and' The upper branch extends along the inner half of the membrane ; and the lower, perforating the membrane below the level of the lower other, turns downwards and forms a circle fcy uniting with the'' upper branch. An articular twig to the liip joint is supplied from tliis gives , , articular the lower branch. twig, and Muscular offsets of the artery are furnished to the obturator muscles, muscular. and some small twigs reach the upper end of the adductors. Branches of nerve to the external obturator muscle come from Branches of the deep portion of the obturator, and perforate the membrane with ^^'^ the lower branch of the artery. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both tliis Section and the following one (to p. 665), Directions, are to be completed by the student in the time appointed for the body to lie in the prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the .body Position of is placed with the face down ; and the pelvis is to be raised by blocks, imtil the lower limbs hang almost vertically over the end of the dissecting table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marldng posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can be better ascertained. Dissection. The integument is to be raised from the buttock by Take up the means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the ^^^^' iliac crest of the hip bone, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwftrds across the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in seek cuta- the fat along the line of the iliac crest (fig. 197). Thus in fi-ont, orthe™t^ but rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the crest towards the fore part is a large offset of the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. In a line with the outer border of the erector spinas, are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves.DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 638 and hy side of sacrum : other nerves of small sciatic below, cutaneous arteries. Sources of the cutane- ous nerves. Prom last dorsal nerve. From lum- Tjar plexus, through ilio-hypo- gastric, and external cutaneous. From lum- bar and sacral nerves. From sacral plexus, through small sciatic. Clean By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three ofEsets of the sacral nei-ves are to be looked for beneath the fat. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come fi-om underneath the gluteus maximus. A few turn upwards over that muscle ; the rest are directed down the thigh, and one (inferior pudendal, (fig. 197, bends below the ischial tuberosity to reach the perinfeal space. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will ser^'e as guides to their situation. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. .197). The nerves distributed in the integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived from the last dorsal nerve ; from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses ; and from the spmal nerves (posterior primary pieces). The last dorsal nerve (^) supplies the buttock by means of its lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). This ofEset perforates the muscles of the abdomen, and crosses the front of the iliac crest to be dis- tributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar plexus. Parts of two nerves of the lumbar plexus (p. 541), -^dz. ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in the integuments of this region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (^) crosses the iliac crest in fr-ont of the branches fr-om the lumbar nerves, lying generally in a groove in the bone, and extends only a short distance below the crest. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the tliigh bend back- wards to the integuments above the great trochanter, and cross the ramifications of the last dorsal nerve. Branches of the lumbar nerves C). The ofEsets of the posterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (p. 396) are two or three in number, and cross the crest of the hip bone near the anterior edge of the erector spinas : they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the trochanter major. The brandies of the sacral nerves (^) perforate the gluteus maximus near the sacrum and coccyx, and are then directed out- wards for a short distance in the integuments over the muscle. These ofEsets are usually two in number : the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, and the other by the side of the coccyx. Small sciatic (^). This nerve of the sacral plexus (p. 566) sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus maximus, accompanied by superficial branches of the sciatic arteiy : two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower part of the buttock; the remainmg branches C) descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it (p. 646). Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this regionCUTANEOUS NERVES OVER GLUTEUS. ners^es, and adduct and rotate inwards the lunb to make tense the muscular fibres. Having cut through the fat and fascia ffom the modo of pro- origin to the insertion, let him carry the scalpel along one bundle <=^^'i™B- * Superficial vievr of the buttock of the left side (Illustrations of Dissec- tions). A. Gluteus maximus muscle, with the gluteus raedius ijrojecting above it. a. Continuation of small sciatic artery along tlie back of the tliigh. Nerves and vessels, most of them cut from the teguments : 1. Small sciatic nerve—the trunk ; 2, its cutaneous thigh branches ; and 3, inferior pudendal. 4. Small sciatic offsets in the perinteum. 5. Cutaneous of the sacral. 6. Offsets of the lumbar nerves. 7. Uio-hypogastric. 8. Branch of the last dorsal.GiO DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Fascia of tlie buttock is thin and un- iiiipoi'tiiut. Gluteus maximus. Origin abovo from pelvis; inserted be- low into the femur. Connections of the sur- faces and borders. Use on femur free, and fixed. In standing, and stooping; standing on one leg. Divide the gluteus maximus, of fibres at a timo in tlie direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, it will be more convenient to begin the dissection at the upper border ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. The fascia of the huttoch is a prolongation of that enveloping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the hip bone, and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of, than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment anteriorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus, the fascia splits to incase the muscle. The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS (fig. 197, ^) is the most superficial muscle of the buttock, and reaches fi-om the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin fxova. the pelvis is fleshy, and is connected with bone and with aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from above down, to the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the hip bone below it; next, to the aponeu- rosis covering the multifidus spinas muscle ; then to the back of the lowest piece of the sacrum, and the 'back of the coccytx ; and lastly to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed outwards to their insertion:—About two thirds of the upper fibres, and a-few of the lowest, end in the fascia lata of the outer side of the thigh: and the remainder are fixed for three inches into the lower part of the line leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter of the femur. The gluteus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in the situation, and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common teguments and the investing fascia of the limb, and by the super- ficial nerves and vessels. The things in contact with the under surface Avill be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlays the gluteus medius. And the lower edge, which is longer and thicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates, and bounds posteriorly the perinaeal space ; beneath the lower border the ham-string muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue. Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip joint by putting back that bone, and abducts and rotates out the limb. When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised fi-om a sittmg into a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pehns. In standing both muscles assist in keeping the pelvis balanced on its props ; and in rismg from stooping they are the active agents in bringing upright the pelvis. When the body is supported on one leg the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 198). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across near the pelvis, and without injury to the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament to which the lower fibres are closely jomed. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outerPARTS UNDER GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 641 piece of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detaclied from its under surface, though the branches of the gluteal vessels entering the muscle must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between the ^ij^fJ'^Pf''*^ pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nerves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined, may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, the bursa on each promi- nence of bone will be observed. Lastly the origin of the muscle is to be removed ; and the sacral ^^^^j* nerves are to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres, and to be followed nerves, to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic hgament, where they -will be afterwards seen. Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 198). At its origin the gluteus Parts maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the hip bone, gluteus at sacrum, and coccyx, also the ischial tuberosity with the origin of its origin the hamstring muscles, L, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament, k. At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus, i. Between the muscle and each prominence of bone, viz. the tuberosity and the trochanter, is a large, loose synovial membrane ; and between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle intGrvGTiiii*''' conceals, fi'om above downwards, the undermentioned parts :— piece of tlw rirst, a portion of the gluteus medius, A ; and below it the pyii- formis, b, with the superficial branch (a) of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels (&), and the large and small sciatic nerves (^, which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity ; and internal to the sciatic are the pudic vessels and nerve {d, and the nerve to the obturator internlis muscle C) with its vessels, which are directed inwards through the small sacro- sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator intemus muscle, D, with a fleshy fasciculus—the gemellus, c and E, —above and below it. Next comes the thin quadratus femoris muscle, G, with the upper part of the adductor magnus, H : at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator ex- ternus, F ; and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery (c) with its veins. Dissection. Tracing back the offsets of the sacral nerves which Trace sacral perforate the gluteus, and removing a fibrous stratum which covers them, the looped amingement of the first three nerves on the great sacro-sciatic ligament will appear. Finally the nerves may be followed inwards beneath the multifidus spina) to the posterior sacral foramina. T T642 Tlie sacral nerves are unitea Ijeneath gluteus: cutaneous offsets. DISSECTION OP THE BUTTOCK. Sacral nm-ves Tho external pieces of the posterior primary branches of the first three sacral nerves, after passing outwards beneath the multifidus spin^ (p. 402), are joined by loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament (fig 120) Two or tlu-ee cutaneous offsets are derived'from'this intercom- Fig. 198.* munication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 638). The GLUTEUS MEDius (fig. 198, -'^) is triangular in form, vnth. its base at the innominate bone, and apex at the femur. It arises from * Second view of tlie dissection of the buttock (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Gluteus medius. b. Pyrifoi-mis. c. Upper gemellus, d. Ob- turator internus. e. Gemellus inferior, f. Obturator externus. o. Quad- ratus femoris. H. Adductor magnus. r. Vastus externus. J. Gluteus maximus, cut. K. Great sacro-sciatic ligament, l. Hamstring muscles. Arteries: a. Gluteal, b. Sciatic, c. Internal circumflex, d. Pudic. i c. Anastomotic branch of sciatic. /. First perforating. Nerves: 1. Last dorsal. 2. Upper gluteal. 3. Small sciatic. 4. Nerve to the obturator internus. 5. Pudic. 6. Great sciatic. 7. Inferior pudendal. 8. Cutaneous of the thigh of small sciatic. 9. Muscular branch of great sciatic. Gluteus ^ledius643 GLUTEAL VESSELS AND NERVE. the outer surface of the hip bone between tlie crest and the supe- ges^fr"™ rior curved line, except beliind where there is a surface of bone free from muscular fibres ; and many superficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the front of the muscle. The fibres con- verge to a tendon which is inserted into an impression across the and inserted outer surface of 'the great trochanter, extending from the tip ^^to^t^o; behind to the root m fi-ont. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maxi- Connec- mus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus minimus, and the ' ' gluteal vessels and nerve. The anterior border lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in contact with the tensor of the fascia lata. The posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal vessels intervening. A small bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Action. The whole muscle abducts the hanging femur ; and the j?^*'^^'^ anterior fibres rotate in the limb. In walldng it is combined with hanging, the adductors in mo^ang forwards the femur. Both limbs resting on the ground the muscles assist in fixing the both limbs pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus will aid in balancing ^^^^'^ \ the pelvis on-the top of the femur. one leg." Dissection. When the gluteus medius is detached from the pelvis. Detach and partly separated from the gluteus minimus beneath, the gluteal ^|jJs''t(f see vessels and nerve mil come into view. The two chief branches gluteal ves- of the artery,—one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower down,—are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main piece of the nerve and nerve, is to be followed forwards to the tensor vaginjB femoris muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will be cut in removing that muscle. The gluteal artery (fig. 198, a) is the lai-gest branch of the inter- Gluteal nal iliac (p. 663), and issues from the pelvis above the pyi-iformis ^^'^^'^'^ muscle. On the dorsum of the hip bone it ends in offsets which di^^ded into supply the gluteal muscles and the bone. Its named branches are superficial and deep :— The superficial branch supplies offsets to the integuments, and Superficial some deeper twigs over the sacrum ; it ends in the gluteus maxi- mus, which it penetrates on the under surface. The deep branch (fig. 199, a) is the continuation of the arteiy. Deep and subdivides into two pieces which run between the two smaller = glutei. One (6, superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus minimus (supplying mostly the medius) to the fr-ont of the ihac crest, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the exter- this has an nal circumflex artery. The other portion (c, mferior) is directed "j^'^'^^"" forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, with the pLe. nerve, towards the anterior lower iliac spme where it enters the tensor of the fascia lata, and communicates with the external cir- cumflex branch (p. 628) : many offsets are furnished to the gluteus minimus, and some pierce that muscle to supply the hip joint. Vein. The companion vein with the artery enters the pelvis, and Gluteal ends in the internal iliac vein. vein. T T 2DISSECTION OF TEE BUTTOCK. Superior gluteal nervo is muscular. Glutens minimus. Attacli- ments. It is next tlie bone, its boi*ders. Use on femur hanging, and fixed: standing on one leg. Divide smallest gluteus. trace deep vessels. Outer head of the rectvis. vagingft Origin of pyrtfomiis. Insertion: lies in sacro- sciatic notch: position to other parts. The superior gluteal nerve (fig. 199,') is a brancli of the lumbo- sacral cord (p. 541). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two for the supply of the two smallest gluteal muscles: its lowest branch terminates anteriorly in the tensor femoris, B. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 199, c) is triangular in shape, and arises from the dorsum of the hip bone between the superior and inferior curved Unes, extendmg backwards as far as to a level with the middle of the liip joint. Its tendon is inserted into an impres- sion along the fore part of the gi-eat trochanter, where it is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip joint. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other with the hip bone, the hip joint, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the other gluteus ; and the posterior is covered by the pyiiformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. Action. It acts as an abductor, and rotator out of the femur when this bone is hanging ; and in walldng it and the medius will be employed in bringing forwards the limb. Both legs being fixed, the muscles are used in balancing the pel- vis. In standing on one leg the gluteus pitches the pelvis over the supporting limb with the preceding muscle. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the innominate bone, and define the tendinous portion of the rectus femoris underneath it, close above the hip joint. Whilst detach- ing the gluteus fi"om the parts underneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be observed and followed as the muscle is removed. The outer head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the groove above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, which is attached to the anterior in- ferior iliac spine : and its lower border is connected with the cap- sule of the hip joint. The Pyeifoemis (fig. 198 b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 594), and leaves that cavity through the great sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, Avhich is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. As the muscle passes through the large sacro-sciatic notch it divides that space into two :—The upper giving passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, and the lower transmitting the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius; and its lower, to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion; it645 SCIATIC AND rUDIC VESSELS. rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip jomt. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. ... Aciion. The use of this and the other external rotators is altered ^Jl^^^l'^ll^^. by the position of the femur. K that bone hangs the pyriformis i^n^^and rotates it out; but if the hip joint is bent the muscle abducts the limb from its fellow. Both hmbs being fixed the muscles balance the pelvis, and help ^"groJiJi'd^ to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis only turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 199). The pyriformis maybe cut across and raised ^.Jf^'^^g towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the ciiief ves- ' , . , sels and sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanymg nen^es to nerves, their origin in the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small nerves to the obturator internus p, the gemellus '^^J^J.""*" supeiior ('), and the hip joint, are to be sought in the fat at the branches, lower border of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (^) will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but it will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. ScuTic AND Pudic Vessels. The vessels on the back of the Tiie vessels . . coine from pehas, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the mtemal tiie mac. ihac (p. 563). The sciatic artei'y (fig. 198, V) supplies the buttock below the gluteal. After escaping fi-om the pelvis below the pyriformis, it' descends with the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus : here eom-se the artery gives off many branches with the superficial offsets of its ^"■"'i ending, companion nen^e ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes Branches, the following named branches :— a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pehas, perforates the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nerAd ischiadici) Branch to 11 1 , • 1 . „ tl'P sciatic IS veiy slender, and enteiing the nen'-e near the pelvis, ramifies m nerve. it along the thigh. c. Muscular branches enter the gluteus maximus, the upper Muscular gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name Branch to beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the Jatus!^'^' hip joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 198, e). Varying in size this artery is Anastomotic directed outwards to the root of the great ti-ochanter, where it ^''™«1'- anastomoses with the gluteal and internal circumflex. The pudic artery (fig. 198, d) belongs to the perinfcum and the Pu^ie genital organs ; it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which it '""'"^ lies. Only the small part of the vessel, which winds over the ischial crosses the spine, is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perinaial 'i^^^DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 646 Offsets. Veins. plexus. Small sciatic is cliiefly a cutaueous nerve : space through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and is there distributed (p. 422). It suppHes a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels ; and a twig fi-om it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive contributing twigs corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves come SciATic AND PuDic Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of from sacral j^-^^ pelvis, below the pyi-iformis, are branches of the sacral plexus to the lower limb (p. 566) ; they are furnished mostly to parts beyond the gluteal region, but a few are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The small sciatic (fig. 198, ■'') is a cutaneous nerve of the back of the thigh, for it supplies only one muscle of the buttock. It springs from the lower end of the sacral plexus, generally by two pieces, and takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous branches : much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along the back of the thigh beneath the fascia, and ends below the knee in the integuments of the back of the leg (p. 658). The branches distributed to, or near the buttock, are muscular and cutaneous :— The muscular hranches (inferior gluteal) enter the imder surface of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. The cukmeous branches are directed upwards and downwards at the border of the gluteus :— The ascending set (fig. 197) are distributed in the fat over the lower third of the muscle. The descending set (fig. 197, ") supply the integuments of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (^), which is larger than the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior pudendal (p. 426) ; as it courses to the perinaeum, it turns below the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the thigh to. end in the scrotum. The great sciatic (fig. 198, '') is the largest nen^e in the body. It is the som-ce of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous branches to the limb beyond the Imee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the sacral plexus. It is dnected through the buttock to the back of the thigh, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two large tnmks at its origm, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. The pudic nerve (fig. 198, =) wuids over the small sacro-sciatic ligament by the side of its companion artery, and is distributed with this vessel to the perinseum and the genital organs (p, 422). No branch is supplied to the buttock. ends in the leg; gives tranches to ghiteus : cutaneous, ascending, descending; inferior pudendal liranch. Great sci- atic neiTe; outline of. Course in the but- tocls, no branch in this redon. Pudic nerve.647 GEMELLI AND OBTURATOR INTERNUS. Muscular branches of the sacral plexus are furnished to the gluteus UMv ma^mus and to the external rotators except the obturator externus. Branches of gluteus. One or more brandies of the plexus enter the upper fibres of the gluteus maximus (fig. 198). IVo branches for the pyriformis enter the under surface, and are Branch of learnt with the sacral plexus in the pelvis (p. 5G7). The nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 199, arises from the Nen^of _ upper part of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through the small sacro-sciatic notch with the pudic nerve : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pelvis (p. 567). The nei-ve to the superior gemellus (fig. 199, ^ is a very small "ffXT' twig, and arises separately from the following ; it enters the inner end of the muscle on the superficial surface. The nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (fig. 199, ^) '^^^^^ is a slender branch, which passes with a companion artery beneath and quad- tlie gemelli and the obturator internus, to end in the two muscles ^^t'^, from which it receives its designation. Tliis nerve will be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments '^^^^^'^ from it to the hip joint may be recognised. Dissection. To see the remaining small rotator muscles, hook aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the sciatic artery if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the Umb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be separated fi-om the tendon of the obturator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 198, '^) is the highest of the two Superior muscular shps along the sides of the tendon of the obturator gemeUus. muscle. Internally it is attached to the outer and lower part of the ischial spine, and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great trochanter. Oftentimes the muscle is absent. The INFERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 198, ^) is larger than its fellow, gg^^g^^g Its origin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, along the lower edge or lip of the groove for the obturator internus muscle ; and its insertion is the same as that of the obturator tendon, ^^yj"'^^^^ This muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quad- rator. ratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. Action. These small fleshy slips seem to be but accessory pieces Use to iielp of origin to the internal obturator, with which they combine in use. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS (fig 198, °) arises from the innominate Obturator bone inside the pelvis (p. 594), and passes to the exterior tlu-ough the small sacro-sciatic notch. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the hip joint, and is inserted viiih. the gemelli into the outside top of the great trochanter, in fi'ont of the ijyriformis, as well as P®^^> into the contiguous portion of the neck of the femur. Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is em- lies over hip braced by the gemelli muscles in the following way : near the pelvis the gemelli meet beneath, but near the trochanter they cover the tendon. Beneath the obturator is a synovial sac. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves and the sciatic vessels ;DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 648 Its tendon is divided on tlie edge of tlio pel- vis. Use like ]iyrifonuis on linilj, pehas; !Uid in rotiition. Quadratns lenioris; origin; insertion : parts over and be- neatli it, and at lower border. Use mth limb free, and fixed. Dissect circumflex artery. Intei'nal circumflex arteiy ends in two branches. Obturator exteruus is inserted into pit of trochanter. Connec- tions. and covering the whole is the gluteus maximus. On cutting through the tendon and raising the inner end, it Avill be found divided into three or four pieces as it turns over the margin of the pelvis (fig. 199, ; at this spot the pelvis is marked by ridges of fibro-cartilage, which correspond with the intervals between the tendons, and the surfaces are lubricated by a syno^aal membrane. Action. Acting fi-om the hinder border of the pelvis round which it turns, it rotates out or abducts the femur according as this bone may be hanging or raised. It will erect the .pelvis after stooping, and will balance the same in standing ; and it will rotate to the opposite side the trunk supported on one limb. The QUADRATUS FEMORis (fig. 198, ^) has the form expressed by its name, and is situate between the inferior gemellus and the ad- ductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer border of the tuber ischii for two inches, along the origin of the semi-membra- nosus and adductor magnus ; externally it is inserted into a tubercle in the posterior intertrochanteric ridge, and slightly into the neck of the femur ; and into a line on the upper end of that bone for about two inches, above the attachment of the great adductor. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves, and the gluteus. By the other it rests on the obturator extemus, the internal circumflex vessels,' and its small nerve and vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal cu'cumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is common also to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Action. Though the muscle has but slight power, it will be asso- ciated with the other muscles on the back of the pelvis in rotation out of the pendent femuc, and in abduction of the femur when the hip joint is bent. And its femoral attachment being fixed, it mil help in supporting the pelvis ; or it will turn the face to the opposite side, the body being supported on one limb. Dissection (fig. 199). The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may be now cut across, in order that their small nerve and arteiy, the ending of the internal circumflex artery, and the obtm-ator extemus may be dissected out. The internal circumflex branch (fig. 199,/) of the prof unda artery (p. 634) divides finally into two pieces. One (g) ascends beneath the quadratus (in this position of the body) to the pit of the tro- chanter, Avhere it anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries, and supplies the bone. The other (h) passes between the quadi-atus and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and communicates with a branch of the profunda artery. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 199, ^) has been dissected at its origin in the front of the thigh (p. 636). The part of the muscle now laid bare, winds below the hip joint, and ascends to be inserted into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur where the upper border is ingemellus. 7. Nerve to upper gemellus. 8. Large sciatic nerve. QUADKATUS AND OBTURATOR EXTERNUS. contact ^vith the inferior gemellus. As it turns back to its insertion ^SrSL'roit muscles of the same group it rotates out ..on Fig. 199.* 649 the hancing limb ; but it difEers from them in having the same hanging ° ° , and bent action even wlicn the hip joint is bent. limb. With the limb fixed, Theile supposes it to help in bending the Limb im- moveable. * Third view of the dissection of the buttock (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: a. Gluteus maximus, cut. b. Tensor fascite latfe. c. Gluteus minimus. D. Gluteus medius, cut. f. Pyrifoiinis. G. Gemellus superior. 11. Obturator internus, cut. i. Gemellus inferior, k. Quadratus femoris, cut. L. Obturator extenius. n. Adductor magnus. o. Hamstrings, p. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Arteries : a. Gluteal, h. Its upper, and c, its lower piece, d. Sciatic, c. Pudic. /. Internal circumflex ; c/, its ascend- ing, and }i, its transverse offset, i. First perforating. Jc. External circum- llox. Nerves: 1. Superior gluteal. 2. Sacral. 3. Small sciatic, cut. 4. Pudic. 5. Nei-ve to obtm-ator intemus. 6. Nerve to quadratus and inferiorDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 650 Sacro-sciatic ligaments. Attach- ments of the large one. Form; gives a pro- longation. Small ligament attach- ments. They give rise to two notches: small, witli contents: large, and parts pass- ing through it. hip joint in stooping, instnad of extending it and raising the trunk like the other external rotator muscles. The SACRo-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the innominate bone to the sacrum and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named lai'ge and small. The large or _postow hgament (fig. 199, ^) is attached internally to the posterior end of the hip bone, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the iscliial tuberosity, sending up- wards a prolongation along the pubic arch. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. Branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries per- forate it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united with the large band, but at the opposite end it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial hgament, by wliich it is con- cealed ; and it i-ests on the coccygeus muscle. By their attachments these ligaments convert the large sacro- sciatic notch of the dried pelvis into two apertm-es or foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the inno- minate bone, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its nerve and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nei-ve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the jDyriformis muscle, with the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus below it. Section III. Directions. Position. Take the skin from over the ham. Seek the THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. The ham or the popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less disturbed state than if it was dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection (fig. 200). To remove the skin fi-om the popliteal region let an incision be made behind the knee for the distance of six inches above, and four inches below the jomt. At each ex- tremify of the longitudinal cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwai'ds and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves and vessels, viz., one65L ANATOMY OF POPLITEAL SPACE. or two twigs in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic cutanecu. nerve and artery beneath the fascia; and some oftsets ot the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the sub- cutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. . _ .„ „p Fascia lata, mere this fascia covers the popliteal space it is the limb streno-thened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side; over the and It is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that i>am. interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Dissection (fig. 200). The fascia over the ham is now to be Bemove removed wthout injurmg the small sciatic nerve and artery, and the short saphenous vem, which are close beneath it. A large ^yji^^^^take^^^^^^^^ quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without iiam. injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large Seek«^e^ internal popliteal nerve in the middle line ; and nearer the outer the space, side, on the external popliteal. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nen'e, than by proceeding in the opposite dnection : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee joint are difiicult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve fi'om the external popliteal, which sometimes arises fi-om the gi-eat sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being ^leantlie more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur; and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the leg. On the upper part of the r"toi°nerve, artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee joint is and glands, to be found : and on the sides of the arteiy are tfiree or four lym- phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in their natural position on the inner side. The POPLITEAL SPACE, or the ham (fig. 200), is the hollow behind The ham; the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the form situation 1 1 11 i-iPTP n ^'^'^ extent, of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and downwards along one sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condi- tion the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited, apparently, almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the Boundaries; limb ; and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer outer side, is the biceps muscle (") as far as the joint ; and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the scmimembra- and inner, nosua C) and semitendinosus Q) muscles with the gracilis andDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 652 Limit above and below. Superficial and deep boundaries. Greatest widtli and depth. Contents. Popliteal arteiy; extent; l)art is in the ham. and part beyond. The part in the space; Fig. 200. sartoriiis between them and the femur ; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius ('). The upper point of the ham is Umited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings ; and at the lower point the heads of the gastrocnemius touch each other. Stretched across the cavity are the fascia lata and the teguments. Forming the deep boundary, or the floor, are the following things,— the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and part of the pop- liteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest opposite the femoral condyles, where the muscles are most drawn to the sides ; and is deepest above the articular end of the femur. Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, ■with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein ; the popliteal tninks of the great sciatic nei-ve, and some of their branches ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superfi- cially in the ham ; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the artery in the bottom of the space. The POPLITEAL ARTERY (fig. 200, ^) is the contuauation of the femoral, and reaches fi-om the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. A portion of the artery lies in the ham, and is not crossed by muscle ; but the rest is beneath the gastrocnemms, aud beyond the limits of the popliteal space as above defined. The description of the artery may be divided therefore into two parts, correspondmg with this difEerence in the connections. In the ham the vessel is inchned obliquely from the inner side of *■ View of the popliteal space (Quaiu's Ai-teries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2 view ui u ^1 i 1. u .1''.„„i ,^-,,i;4.p„i nerve. 4. Semimembranosus Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. muscle 5 Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps miiscle. /, 8, Iimei and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The supcrhcuvl vein on the gastvoc- nemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal.POPLITEAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 653 the Kmb to the inten^al between the condyles of the femur ; and is ^°;j;;^Xns. then dii-ected along the middle of the space over the knee jomt. As far as the inner condyle the arteiy is overlaid by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle ; but thence onwards it is situate between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia lata and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur with the posterior ligament of the knee joint. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at °^ first, lies the popHteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered ; but in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches conceal altogether the artery. Below the knee the short saphenous vein (fig. 201, i), and the muscular branches of the artery, are laid over the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to and of the them in position, is placed the internal popHteal nerve, which with its branches lies over the arteiy, like the vein, between the heads of the gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve nms on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the artery the inner head of Cut the the gasti-ocnemius should be cut through and raised. On removing gastrocne- the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought into view;—^the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer, higher up, between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein ; and the first has a companion nerve. Beyond the ham. Whilst the artei-y is heneath the gastrocnemius Artery he- (fig. 206) it sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small muscle—the plantaris c, and the ending is concealed by the soleus B. It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal nerve change Position of their position to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie nerve!"'^ on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery is divided as high as the back of the knee joint; and then the anterior tibial arteiy may lie beneath the pop- liteus muscle. Branches (fig. 201) are furnished by the arteiy to the suiTound- Branches. ing muscles and to the articulation ;—those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or a2ygos branch. a. The muscular branches are upper and lower. The upper set. Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- ^'"'^'^'^'es membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the perfora- ting and muscular branches of the profunda. The lower set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius soleus and plantaris. ' b. A superficial or cutaneous branch arises near the knee joint "''"'^ and accompanies the external saphenous nei-ve over the muscles of the leg to end in the teguments (fig. 201).654 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Brandies to tho joint are live. Two SU11C- rior, external: internal. Two infe- rior : external. internal; and one central ai'teiy. Popliteal vein. Position to the artery. Branches. Popliteal nerves are two, inner and outer. The internal nerve in the space. c. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles of the femur ; they are directed almost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the fi-ont of the joint. The external one (]c) perforates the intermuscular septum, and divides in the substance of the vastus internus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external cu-cumflex (of the profunda) : others descend to the joint ; and one offset foi-ms an arch across the fore part of the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery (Z), oftentimes veiy small, winds beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus in- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee joint, and communicates with the anastomotic artery. d. The inferior articular branches (fig. 206) lie beneath the gastroc- nemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb ; for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch (c) supplies the outer side of the knee joint, anastomosing with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anteiior tibial artery : it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig fi-om the lower internal branch. The internal artery (&) ascends at the anterior border of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and after taldng its share m the fi-ee anas- tomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the articulation and the head of the tibia. e. The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN (fig. 201, h) originates in the union of the venaa comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is super- ficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side, and close to the artery. It is joined by branches corresponding with, those of the arteiy, as well as by the short saphenous vein (fig. 201). The POPLITEAL NERVES (fig. 200) are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh (p. 658) ; they are named internal and external from their relative position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneous and articular offsets, but only the inner one supphes branches to muscles. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (") is larger than the external, and occupies the middle of the ham : its connections are similar to those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial, and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. Like the vessel it extends thi-ough655 POrLITEAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. the back of the leg, and retains the name popliteal only to the lower border o£ the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been already noticed. The branches arising from it here are BrancUcs the following:— . , , . a. Two small articular twigs (fig. 201, ») are furnished to the two^^^^_ knee joint with the vessels. One which accompanies the lower internal articular artery to the front of the articulation, is the largest ; and another takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. 1). Muscular branches arise from the nerve between the heads of muscular; the gastrocnemius. One supplies both heads of the gastrocnemius and the plantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the cutaneous surface of the soleus. And a third pene- trates the popliteus at the imder aspect, after turning round the lower border. c. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, '% ram. communicans external tibialis) is the largest branch, and is a cutaneous ofiiset to the leg nerve."^"^^ and foot. It lies on the surface of the gastrocnemius, but beneath the fascia, as far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes cuta- neous, and Avill be afterwards seen (p. 668). The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (fig. 200,^ peroneal) lies along External the outer boundary of the ham as far as the knee joint; at that |J°P^g*®^^ level it leaves the space and follows the edge of the biceps muscle for two inches, till it is below the head of the fibula. There it enters the fibres of the peroneus longus, and diAades beneath that muscle into three,—musculo-cutaneous, anterior tibial, and recm-- rent articular. Its branches whilst in the popliteal space are cuta- Branches: neous and articular. a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the articular. Tipper external artery to the outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower articular artery : both enter the joint. b. peroneal communicating branch (fig. 205, ram. communi- commuiii- cans fibularis) joins the external saphenous branch of the internal branili popliteal about the middle of the leg. It soon becomes cutaneous, and ofEsets are given by it to the back of the leg. c. One or two cutaneous nerves are furnished by the external cutaneous popliteal to the integument on the outer side of the leg in the upper half. The articular branch of the obturator nerve (fig. 201, ^ perforates Articular the adductor magnus (p. 633), and is conducted by the pophteal 1^^^°^ artery to the back of the knee. After supplying filaments to the ° ^' vessels, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The lymphatic glands of the pophteal space are situate around Lymphatic the large arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides ; f^^m^i the whilst one is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel: they artery. are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the saphenous vein.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Dissect the back of the tliigh. Seek out cutaneous nerves, clean mus- cles and nerves. Three mus- cles on hack of tliigh. Situation. Biceps arises by a long and a short head; is inserted into the fibula and tibia. Connec- tions of the muscle. Use on knee and hip joints; on pelvis and femur. Semi-tendi- nosus is attached to pelvis and tibia. Dissection (fig. 201). Now the popliteal space has been examined, the student may proceed with the dissection of the back of the thigh. The piece of skin between the buttock and tlie popliteal space should be divided, and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the sides of the limb fine ofEsets of the internal and external cuta- neous nerves of the front of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle Hne some filaments fi'om the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia. Eemove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small sciatic nerve and its artery. Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace the perforating and anastomotic arteries to the front of the thigh ; and clean the branches of the great sciatic nerve and pro- funda artery to the muscles. Muscles. The muscles behind the femur act mainly as flexors of the knee joint. They extend from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham : they are three in number, viz., biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. The BICEPS (fig. 201, d) has two heads of origin, long and short, which are attached to the pelvis and the, f emm-. The long head arises from an impression on the back of the ischial tuberosity, in common with the semitendinosus muscle. The short head is fixed to the f emm- below the gluteus maximus, viz., to all the linea aspera, to nearly the whole of the line leading inf eriorly to the outer con- dyle, and to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres end inferiorly in a tendon, which is inserted into two prominences on the head of the fibula by slips which embrace the external lateral ligament ; and a slight piece is prolonged to the head of the tibia. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus ; it rests on the upper end of the semimembranosus, and on the great sciatic n&XYe, and the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side is the semitendinosus as far as the ham. Its tendon gives offsets to the deep fascia of the limb. Action. It can bend the knee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and aftei-wards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head, which passes upwards beyond the femur, will extend the bent liip jomt when the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the gi-ound, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis ; and the short head will draw down the femur so as to bend the Imee in stooping. The SEMITENDINOSUS (fig. 201, ^) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of the hip bone with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy fibres from the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar extent.657 HAMSTRING MUSCLES. This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the S^^^^^^ f^ron^^:^^ maximus. About its middle a tendinous mtersect.on_ may be ob- ,„„,,ctwith served. It rests on the semimembranosus, and on the mternal late- .t. ral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer border is in contact with Fig. 201.* * Dissection of the back of the thigh (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Gluteus maximus, cut below, and partly raised, b. Quadratus femoris. c. Adductor magnus. d. Biceps, e. Semitendiuosus. F. Semimembranosus. 0. Out«r, and h, inner head of the gastrocnemius. Arteries: a. Small sciatic, cut. b. Ending of internal circumflex to hamstrings, c. First, d, second, and e, third i)erf orating of profunda. /. Muscular branch of profunda. g. Popliteal trunk, h. Popliteal vein. i. Short saphenous vein. k. Upper external, and I, upper internal articular artery, Nerves: 1. Small sciatic. 2. Large sciatic. 3. Branch to hamstrings from large sciatic. 4. External popliteal, and, 5, communicating peroneal. 7. Articular branch of obturator to knee. 8. Intcmal popliteal. 9. Articular branch to knee of the internal popliteal. 10. Short saphenous. V V658 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. the biceps as far as tlie popliteal space. As the tendon turns for- wards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, below the level of the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the tendon of the sartorius by a bursa (p. 622). Use on Action. If the leg is moveable the muscle bends the knee ; and i^nee continuing to contract, rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the j^nts'f Icnee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by this and the other hamstrings, on the Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist pelvis. in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. Semimem- The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS muscle (fig. 201, ^) is tendinous at both TCachesfrom name is given from the membraniform appearance of pelns to the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest tibia. impression on the back of the tuber ischii, above and external to the semitendinosus and biceps ; and it is inserted below into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tibia. Parts • The muscle is thick and fleshy inferiorly, where it bounds the around it. popliteal space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor mag- nus. Along the outer border lie the great sciatic, and internal popliteal nerves. Between its tendon and the iimer head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle Avill be dissected with the Imee-joint (p. 699). Use on Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia ; and with the knee and hip straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the joints, femur has been carried forwards. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts altogether on the pelvis. Great sciatic The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 201, ^) lies on the adductor mag- nerve in nus muscle below the buttock, and diAndes into the two popliteal the thigh j^gj.^gg g^Q^^ ^Yie middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurca- tion may be earned upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps, supplies Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the muscles. flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small Small sciatic nerve (fig. 201, 0- Between the gluteus maximus soteticin jjj^^ ^jjg jjj^j^ ^ijig small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it ^ ^' becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance, cutaneous Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; a,nd the largest of offsets. these arises near the popliteal space. Detach Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, t'le^iiam- branches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries, the ^ hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip bone and thrown- down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned. on pelvis.659 BRANCHES OF PROFUNDA ARTERY. Adductor magnus muscle (fig. 201, At its posterior aspect Po^terio^r^ the large adductor is altogether fleshy, even at the opening for the adductor femoral artery ; and the fibres from the pubic arch appear to form magnus. a part almost distinct fi-om those connected with the tuberosity of the hip bone. In contact vnth this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Ending of the perforating arteries (fig. 201, c, d, e). These branches of the profunda appear through the adductor magnus close to the (,^,^,.3^ j.^ femur, and are directed out through the short head of the biceps vasti, and the outer intermuscular septum to the vasti muscles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its course. In the vasti they and ending; anastomose together, and with the descending branches of the external circumflex arter3^ Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given by each theTkin? to the teguments of the outer side of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Anastomoticbranchesoftheprofunda(fig. 201,/) pierce the adductor Anastomotic magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance from the • femur (p. 635). Three or four in number, the highest appears number and about five inches from the pelvis, and the rest in a line at intervals of about two inches from one another : they are distributed to the hamstring muscles, especially the semimembranosus, and communi- cate below with offsets of the popliteal trunk. The HIP JOINT (fig. 202). This articulation is a ball and socket Hip joint, joint, the head of the femur being received into the acetabulum of fg^^g^. the innominate bone. Connecting the bones are the following jjgj^.' ligaments :—one to deepen the receiving cavity, which is named ments. cotyloid ; another between the articular surfaces of the bones,— the interarticular ; and a capsule around all. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the back of Lay bare the hip joint, and the areolar tissue is to be removed fr-om the upper tehind^^^^ and lower attachments of the capsular ligament. Next, the front of the joint should be cleaned with the body and in frout, turned over for a short time, if this change in position does not interfere with the other dissections. In the capsule itself the student has to define a wide thick part define its in front, and a transverse band near the neck of the femur behind. Tlie capsular ligament (fig. 202) is a thick fibrous case, which is capsule strong enough to check the movements of the joint. Its upper ^* margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum at a short Attacli- distance from the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line ''"'^ (fig. 202) ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 203) ; and above, into the neck, near the great trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength, and in the arrangement of the fibres at tlie fore and hinder surfaces. tr TT 2660 DISSECTIOi^ OF THE THIGH. in front "^'^^ (^ftg a, b, c). Iho central portion,_tbe ilio-femoral Ij^ament (a), xs fixed above by a narrow piece to'tbe lower fnteri:, ihac spinous process, and below where it widens, into the anterior mtertrochantenc line. By its strength it can an-est extension the ]omt; and tho femur being fixed, it wilJ prop the pelvis. The by an outer outer edge (c iho-trochanteric band) extends from the hip bone opposite the outer head of the rectus, to the upper and fore part of Fig. 202.* and by inner slip, At back of capsule is a trans- verse band; arrange- ment of its fibres. the great trochanter and neck of the fenaur ; its use is to check adduction of the femur. The inner edge (b, pubio-femoral band) is attached superiorly to the prominent pubic portion of the hip bone inside the acetabulum, and inferiorly to a roughened surface at the lower part of the neck of the femur on a level Avith, and in front of the small trochanter : this band controls the abductory movement of the joint. At the back of the capsule close to the neck of the femur is a band of transverse fibres (fig. 203, b), about as wide as the little finger, which arches like a collar over the neck of the bone. By its lower edge it is united to the cervix femoris by a thin layer (c) of fibrous tissue and syno"\aal membrane ; at the upper edge it is joined by the longitudinal capsular fibres (a). It gives insertion to the longitudinal fibres of the capsule, and prevents that restriction * Fore part of the capsule of the hip-joint, a, Ilio-femoral ligament, b. Pubio-femoral edge or band. c. Ilio-trochanteric band.LIGAMENTS OF HIP JOINT. of the swinging movement which would result from their insertion Use. ~cl by the external rotator muscles ; Mu... and anteriorly by the psoas and iliacus, a bursa bemg between it 6C1 and them. Above is the gluteus minimus, whose tendon is united with the upper and outer band of the capsule; and below is the obturator extemus. Dissection (fig. 204). The capsular hgament is to be now divided over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone being disarticulated but not detached, the cotyloid and interarticular hga- ments inside it will appear. The interarticular or round ligament is attached to the acetabulum by two pieces ; and to bring these into Aaew, the synovial membrane and areolar tissue must be removed. The transverse ligament OA'^er the notch is also to be defined. The cotyloid ligament (fig. 189, g) is a naiTow band of fibro- cartilage, which is fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged across the notch on the inner side, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. Its fibres are not continued around the acetabulum, but are fixed to the margin of the cavity, and cross one another in the band. It is thickest at its attachment to the Cut open the capsule. Define round ligament. Cotyloid Ugament attached around acetabulum. * Hinder part of the hip-joint capsule, a. Longitudinal fibres. I. Trans' verse band. c. Thin piece attached to the neck of the femur about half way down.DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 662 Use. Transverse ligament, foms a hole with boue. Eound ligament is divided Internally. Attach- ments. How to see Its action. State in extension. and flexion and adduc- tion. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. Articular surfaces of femur, acetabulum, bone, and becomes gradually tliinner towards the free margin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This ligament fills up the hollows in the rim of the acetabulum, and deepens the socket for the femur, in the same manner as the glenoid ligament increases the surface for the reception of the head of the humerus. The transverse ligament (fig. _ 189, h) is a finn but narrow band, which reaches across the upper part of the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum. It consists partly of deep special fibres (h) which are attached to the margins of the notch ; and partly of a superficial bundle from the cotyloid ligament (g). Beneath it is an aperture by which vessels and nerves enter the acetabulum to supply the sjmovial membrane and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular or round ligament (fig. 204, &, ligam. teres) is a slight band about an inch long, connecting the femur with the innominate bone. One extremity is roundish, and is inserted into the pit in the head of the femm-. The other is flattened, and divides into two opposite the trans- verse ligament. The anterior piece (c, pubic) is attached with the transverse ligament to the pubic edge of the cotyloid notch. The posterior part (d, ischial) is inserted behind the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the notch. Dissection. To see its condition in the different movements of the articulation, it should be examined in a joint in whiclj the capsule is entire, and the bottom of the acetabulum has been cut out with a chisel inside the pelvis. When the joint is in the extended state, the ligament is generally lax, the two end attachments being near each other ; but if the femur is adducted, the ischial pai-t of the ligament is rendered tight because the head of the femur rises. In flexion of the joint the ligament is tighter than in extension, as the femoral insertion is removed from the acetabular; and if, in the bent state, the femur be rotated out or adducted, the round ligament will be most stretched. A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along it to the acetabulum and the head of the femur. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it suiTOunds the ligamentum teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum the lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis : at this stage the pelvic attachments of the round hgament can be better displayed. Surfaces of bone. The articular surfaces of the bones are not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the femur is a pit into which the roimd ligament is inserted. The acetabulum is coated with cartilage at its circumference,MOVEMENTS OF HIP JOINT. 663 except opposite the cotyloid notch, and touches the head of the cartiiagn- femur by this part: this articular surface is deep above, but ^^uy_ gradually decreases towards the notch. Within the cartilage and close to the notch, is a mass of fat FaUnthe (fig. 189,/) covering about one third of the area of the cotyloid Fig. 204. cavity, which constitutes the gland of Havers : it communicates mth the fat of the thigh beneath the transverse ligament. Movement. In this ball and socket joint, there are the same kinds of movement as in the shoulder, viz., flexion and extension, abduc- tion and adduction, circumduction, and rotation. Flexion and extension. In the swinging movement flexion is freer than extension, the thigh being capable of such elevation as to touch the belly. During swinging the head of the femvu- revolves in the bottom of the acetabulum, rotating around a line corresponding with the axis of the head and neck ; and the rapidity and extent of the movements do not endanger the security of the joint, the head of the bone not having any tendency to escape. In flexion, the back of the capsule and the ilio-trochanteric band are put on the stretch ; and in extension, the strong ilio and pubio- femoral bands are tightened. In abduction and adduction the femur is removed fi-om, or brought * Hip joint opened, to show the interarticular or round ligament, a. Part of the capsule, b. Ligamentum teres : c, its pubic, and, d, its ischial attach- ment. Kinds of motion. Swinging movement: motion of head of femur, state of ligaments. Lateral movement:664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. motion of the head, state of the ligaments. How dislo- cation is produced in the lateral movements ; position after re- duction. Circum- duction, less free than in shoulder. "What rota- tion is. Rotation in motion of bone, state of ligament. Rotation out: motion of bone; state of ligament; why •greatest. Use of bend of femur: towards the middle line of the body. Of the two, abduction is the most extensive, because the limb may soon meet its fellow when it is moved inwards, though, if it is carried in front of the other, adduction is considerable. In both states the head moves in the opposite direction to the shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and the greater part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum ; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the great trochanter comes to rest on the margin of the acetabulum, so as to limit farther motion. As the limb descends and approaches the other, the head rises into the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the inner band of the capsule is tightened over the projecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the capsule is rendered tense enough to arrest the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum by wliich the femur can be lifted out of the hollow; in the one case (adduction) the neck of the femur rests on the brim of the acetabulum, and in the other (abduction) the great trochanter is supported on the margin of the joint-socket. After a dislocation has been reduced, the state of adduction, with the knees fastened together, is the securest posi- tion in which the Hmb can be placed, inasmuch as the head of the femm- then occupies the deepest part of the acetabulum. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take place in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, whose base is at its ex- tremity, and apex at the union of the neck with the shaft of the femur. This movement is less fi'ee than in the shoulder-joint, be- cause of the greater bend between the neck and shaft of the femur. There are two kinds of rotation,' internal and external: in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter, the more extensive of the two, it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur rolls backwards hori- zontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter being put forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves aroimd a line inside it, which passes from the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation out the head of the bone rolls for^vards across the cotyloid cavity, and the gi-eat trochanter is brought backwards, whilst the shaft of the femur moves round the line on its inner side before noticed. The fore part of the capsule is now put on the stretch, and the hinder is rendered loose. The movement of rotation is destroyed by fracture of the neck of the bone. Its degree is proportioned to the length of the neck, and is therefore greater in the femur than in the humerus. Use of bend of femur. By means of the angle at the union of the neck with the shaft, the pelvis is more firmly propped than it would665 SUKFACE MARKING OF LEG. be if the neck was in a line with the rest of the femur. It perniits Kre^or_ also greater surface contact between the head of the temur and tbe ^.^^^^^. hip bone, since the whole head can be lodged in the cotyloid cavity in progression. It gives greater security to the joint m flexion gj^es and extension, for if the neck and shaft of the bone were in a line, «««'i"ty. only half of the articular surface could enter the socket of the innominate bone in walking, and running. The important move- rotation; ment of rotation is also due to this angle ; and greater space is gr^^ter obtained tlirough it for the location of the adductor muscles on the muscles. iimer side of the femur. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the ^^^"jjjj^'^^jj^ muscles in the thigh are to be examined more minutely before the of,^fusde8. dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be removed from the femur, but about two inches of each should be left for after study. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Directions. Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and Avith the markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. Prominences of hone. The bones of the leg can be traced beneath iji the skiu from the knee to the ankle joint. On the inner side is the and flbuia tibia, which is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in fi'ont ^ej^j'^^"^^" and behind by a sharp ridge : above, it presents in front a promi- nent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difficulty in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of tliis bone may be recognised below the knee ; and the lower end forms the eminence (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle joint. On the side of the ankle joint are the prominent malleoli; and Ankle-joint, when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt below the tibia. Muscles and vessels of the leg. On the back of the leg is the swell Behiud is of the calf : this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it [^^^^ ""i^e descends the firm band of the tendo AchiUis, by which those muscles teudo are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the edge of Achiiiis, tile tibia, but nearest the former, is placed the superficial part of ves^'sels.'^^ the posterior tibial artery. In front between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply ; the position Li"e of of the vessel will be indicated by a Une from the centre of the tibial'"'" ankle-joint to the inner side of the head of the fibula. vessels.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 666 Inner ■bonier of the foot. Outer border. Dorsal artorj'. Position of the part. Take away the akin. seek cu- taneous nerves in the fat. Superficial fascia. Two super- liuial veins. Internal saplienous, external saphenous. Cutaneous arteries. Cutaneous nerves. Intonial saphenous. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about an inch in front of the internal malleolus, is the prominent scaphoid bone pointing out the spot at which an amputation (Cliopart's) is practised; whilst one inch and a half farther forwards is a slight depression marking the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the eminence of the tarsal end of the fifth metatarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the centre of the ankle joint to the interval between the inner two toes, will He over the position of the main artery. Position. For the dissection of the back of the leg, the hmb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting- table ; and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Dissection. For the removal of the skin, one cut may be made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a trans- verse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised,—the outer one as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nei-ves and vessels are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is the internal saphenous vein with the nerve of the same name, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous near the loiee. In the centre of the leg lies the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve as itis companion above, and the external saphenous nei-ve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side, in the upper third, cutaneous ofEsets of the external popliteal nerve will be met with. The superficial fascia, or the fatty layer of the back of the leg, is least thick over the tibia. Over the line of the superficial vessels it may be separated into two layers. Superficial Veins. Two veins appear in the dissection of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner and outer. The internal sajyhenous vein (fig. 206, d) begins in an arch on the dorsum of the foot (p. 689). Ascending along the leg in front of the inner ankle, and then behmd the inner edge of the tibia, it reaches the thigh (p. 608). In the leg the vein is joined by super- ficial branches, and by deep roots fi'om the tibial veins. The external saphenous vein (fig. 205, c) begins at the outer end of the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and' appeal's below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg, communicatmg with the internal saphenous. Cutaneous arteries accompany the superficial veins and nerves of. the leg. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 205). The nei-ves in the fat of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already met Avith, viz., the internal and external saphenous, external popliteal, small sciatic, and internal cutaneous of the thigh. The internal saphenous wayve (fig. 205, ')> accompanies the vem ofCUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. * First view of the back of t]ie leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Gastrocnemius, b. Soleus. o. Semimembranosus, d. Biceps. Vessels: a. Popliteal artery, b. Inner saphenous vein. c. External saphenous vein. Na-ves: I. External, and 2, internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous. 4. Communicating peroneal. 5. Common trunk of short saphenous. 6. Small sciatic. 7. Internal saphenous. 8. Internal cutaneous (inner piece). t Second view of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). 3Ius- cles: A. Gastrocnemius, cut. B. Soleus. c. Plantaris. D. Semimembrano- sus. K. Semitenilinosus. p. Tendo Achillis. Vessels: a. Popliteal artery. h. Inner lower articular, c. External lower articular, d. Internal saphenous vein. e. External saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. External popliteal. 2. Internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous, cut. 4. Cutaneous plantar branch.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 668 Exteviuil NiipllCllOUS <iiuls oil the foot; branches to the leg. Brandies of the liopliteal; coinmiini- catiiig <aiid cuta- neous. Termination of small sciatic. TeiTuination of internal cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deep fascia. Continua- tion. and attach- ments. Take away ihe fascia. Muscles in .superficial layer. Gastrocne- mius arises by two lieads from the femur. off lateral cutaneous offsets, and some of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. The extdiud saphenous nerve (fig. 205,*) is a branch of the internal popliteal (p. 655). Perforating the deep fascia about the middle of tlie leg, it is continued Avith the external saphenous vein below the outer ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. As soon as the nerve enters the fat it is joined by the communicating branch of the external popliteal; and near the heel it gives large and long branches to the integuments. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteal. One branch cf the external popliteal trunk, viz. communicating pteroneal (fig. 205, joins thte external saphenous nerve about the middle of the leg: but not uncommonly this branch extends as a distinct nerve as far as the heel. One or two other small cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal terminate over the fore part and outer side of the leg in the upper half. The small sciatic nei-ve (fig. 205, ^) perforates the fascia near the popliteal space, and reaches to about the middle of the leg with the external saphenous vein : it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nen^e. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 205, The inner branch of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (p. 609), extends to the middle of the leg, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may be either cwt or turned aside. The special or deep fascia on the posterior aspect of the leg cpvers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and super- ficial layers. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the knee ; and below, it joins the two annular ligaments (p. 690). Externally it is continued uninterruptedly fi'om the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the heel, and is to be taken fi'om the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner cut head of the gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. Superficial Layer of Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are thi-ee muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, which extend the ankle. The two first are large, giving rise to the prominence on the surface, and end below by a common tendon ; but the last, in- considerable in size, is chiefly tendinous. The Gastrocnemius (fig. 205, ^), the most superficial muscle, is tendinous along the middle, and has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the posterior aspect of- the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus ; and by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle.669 SUPERFICIAL EXTENSORS OF ANKLE. The outer head is fixed by tendon to a pit on the outer surface o£ fhc corresponding condyle, above the attachment of the pophteus muscle, and to the upper and hinder part of the same condyle. The e^jg fleshy fibres of the two heads are united along the middle line t>y a ^'^^^o narrow tliin aponeurosis, and terminate inferiorly with the soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in contact with Parts the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the ^"7^"!'"^ internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space : and the fleshy inner one descends lower than the outer. In the outer head a piece of fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone may exist. Action. When the foot is unsupported, the gastrocnemius extends Jj^^^^j,^^*'' the ankle; and when the toes rest on the ground, it raises the os free,"" calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, and and fixed, in progression. Takin'g its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down Acting from the femur so as to bend the Imee-joint. below. Dissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected Detach by cutting across the remaining head (fig. 206), and the vessels and mfu^°°°^" nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The SOLEUS (fig. 206, ^) is a large flat muscle, which is attached Soleus is to both bones of the leg. It arises from the head, and the upper tiuf^^ones*** third or half of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; of the leg, from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle thii'd ; and between the bones from an and joins aponeurotic arch over the large bloodvessels. Its fibres are directed tendon downwards to the common tendon. The superficial surface of the soleus is in contact with the gastro- Parts over cnemius ; and where the two touch they are aponeurotic. Beneath the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep layer of muscles, and and under the vessels and nerves. Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- Use, cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is the foot fi-ee to move ; and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground. By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both ""'^ '"^"'^" muscles, the common tendon is sometimes broken across. tendon! °^ If it acts from the os calcis, it will draw back the bones of the Acting from leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to the erect posture after stooping. Tendo Achillis (fig. 206, ^). The common tendon of the gastro- . cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About thi-ee ° ' " inches wide above, it commences at the middle of the leg, though it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to "the lower end : below it is narrowed, and is inserted into the lower half of the tuber calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, are the external saphenous vein and ner\'-e.670 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Plantaris. Origin. Insertion. Position of the musclo. Use like gastrocne- mius. Detach soleus, and clean the deep fascia. Deep part of tlie fascia of the leg. Clean the deep muscles: dissent peroneal artery. Four mviR- cles in the deep layer. Position and The TLANTAEis (fig. 20G, ^) is remarkable in having tlie longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it is stretched laterajly. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the muscle arises from tlie line above the outer condyle of tlie femur and fi-om the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and the tendon is inserted into the os calcis with or by the side of the tendo Achillis or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of the tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little muscle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Action. It assists slightly the gastrocnemius in extending the anlde if the foot is not fixed ; and in bending the knee-joint if the foot is immoveable. Dissection (fig. 207). The soleus is to be detached from the bones of the leg, and the muscles and nerves entering it are to be divided ; but in raising it, the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nen'-es beneath. The superficial muscles may be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis ; and the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the OS calcis should be opened. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and deep layers is next to be cleaned ; and the integuments between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot, which pierces the ligament, is to be presei-ved. jDee23 part of the fascia. This intermuscular piece of the fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus it is thin and indistinct; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance and office of an annular ligament in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament between the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles, the posterior tibial nerve, and the trunk and offsets of the posterior tibial vessels, will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two lateral muscles (flexor communis and flexor pollicis); and it will not fully appear until after the membrane covering it has been di^aded longitudinally, and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery, evert and partly divide the flexor pollicis in which it is contained ; then define branches of it to the front of the leg, the outer side of the foot, and to join the posterior tibial artery. Deep Layer of Muscles (fig. 207). The deep muscles at the back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of671 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. Popliteus arises within knee-joint. Inserted into tibia. Parts around it. the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With .jestinatioii. the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot; and have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 207 -'^) arises by tendon, -within the capsule of the knee-joint, from the front of an ob- long depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur; and external to the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise fi-om the posterior ligament. The tendon gives rise to fibres, which are inserted into the tibia above the oblique' line on the posterior sm-face. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle : on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaiis. Along the upper border are the lower arti- cular vessels and ner^'^e of the inner side of the knee; and the lower border corresponds with the attaclunent of the soleus on the tibia. The origin ■svill be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the loiee-joint. Action. The leg being fi-ee, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The foot resting on the ground, it will support the knee. According to the A-iew of Theile, it retracts the external semi- lunar fibro-cai-tilage. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 207, ^) arises below the soleus from the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum be tween it and the peronei muscles ; and from the aponeurosis over * Deep dissection of the back of the leg (inustrations of Dissections). M^isdes: A Pophteus. b. Outer and o, inner part of soleus, cut. d. Tibialis posticus. E. FIexor__di^torum. f. Flexor poUicis. g. Peroneus loDgus. H. Peroneus brevis. i. Tendo Achillis. Arteries: a. Popliteal 6. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular. ^. Anterior tibial" c. Postenor tibial, and £ Its communicating branch to peroneal n Peroneni .artery, h, Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot iVeryc^ • 1 Internal popliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar. •■■uow-jior 9h Use with tibia free, and fixed. Flexor longus pollicis is attached to fibula.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 672 Connec- tions. Use, the foot being free, and fixed. Flexor longus digitorum. Origin. Enters anniTlar ligament. Part is su- perfcial be- low soleus. Use, with foot free, and fixed. Tihiahs posticus. Origin. Insertion. Muscles and vessels in connection with it. Use, with foot free, the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a ^oove in the astragalus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. AboA'e, the muscle is covered by the soleus ; but below, it is superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side arc the posterior tibial nerve and vessels : and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. Action. The foot being unsupported, the flexor bends the last phalanx of the great toe, and extends then the ankle. The foot resting on the ground, the muscle raises the heel ; and it moves back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. The FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM (fig. 207, ^ flexor perforans) arises fi'om the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the attach- ment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity; and from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition in the annular ligament, which is superficial to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer toes. The muscle is naiTow and pointed above, and is placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking ; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS (fig. 207, ^) occupies the interval between the bones of the leg, but it crosses over the tibia inferiorly to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle arises from an aponeurosis superficial to it, and from the interosseous membrane, except about one inch below ; from an impression along the outer border of the tibia which reaches from the head of the bone to rather beyond the attachment of the flexor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent inner surface of the shaft of the fibula as far down as the lowest fidEth. In the lower part of the leg the muscle is directed beneath the flexor digitorum ; and its tendon, entering the inner space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be in- serted into the scaphoid and other bones (p. 687). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerxQ The upper end presents two pointed processes of attach- ment—that to the tibia being the Ifighest—between which the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. _ , , . Action. Its action on the moveable foot is to shorten the inner border by drawing down the scaphoid bone, and to extend the ankle673 POSTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. joint, Tlic toes resting on the ground, it will aid the muscles of andflxed: the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the body. In standing, the muscle can raise the inner border of the foot in standing, with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight o£ the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones in rising up. of the leg, with the soleus. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally to the bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the muscle. By one an aponeu- surface it gives origin to the,flexors of the toes, and by the other to the tibialis. The rosTERiOR tibial artery (fig. 207, e) is one of the branches Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk (p. 652). The ai-tery, vessel extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to extent, the lower edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, internal to the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is concealed i^g^^e"^^"^' by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but upper and below that spot, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner ^'^'"^''^ • edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but ^g^tMt' afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is the flexor poUicis. Between the heel and the ankle, the artery is placed between the Beneath tendons of the common flexor of the digits and special flexor of the ug^ent. great toe. Venae comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial Veins, nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but at the distance of one Nerve, inch and a half it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a Branches, large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular Iranches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus; and an offset from the branch to the soleus pierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. 6. A nutritious artery of the shaft of the tibia is uncertain in its Nutritious place of origin : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the *° posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. A communicating branch (/) arises opposite the lower end of Communi- the tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. d. Articular branches arise from the artery opposite the ankle- Articular joint, and enter the articulation. hranches. e. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous674 DISSECTION OP THE LEG. of the leg ; the largest of those pierces tlie annular ligament, and acoompanies the cutaneous plantar nerve to the sole of the foot. Peculiarities. If the posteiior tihial arlery is smaller than usual, or absent, its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large communicating branch from the peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 207, g) is often as large as the pos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to that bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal) ; and it is directed onwards over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel (/t), where it terminates in branches, which anastomose with offsets of the posterior tibial, and with the tarsal and external plantar arteiies. Two companion veins surround the artery : and the nerve to the flexor pollicis lies on it generally. Branches. Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor pollicis; and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. h. The nutritious artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and i& transmitted tkrough the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through an open- ing in the lower end of the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsum and outer part of the foot ; on the fi'ont of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. d. A communicating offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an en- larged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ^lEiNS begin on the inner side of the foot by the union of the plantar : they ascend, one at each side of the artery, and unite with the anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the offsets of the artery : branches connect them with the saphenous veins. ^ The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 207, ^) a Continuation of the tibial ne'rve, internal popliteal (p. 654), reaches, like the artery, fi-om the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis Size of tibial changes. Pcronual arteii' is contained in flexor pollicis. Termina- tion. Veins and nerve. Branches. Muscular. Nutritious to fibula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Communi- cating. SulDstitu- tions. Posterior tibial veins Posterior675 INTEENAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. and tlie inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular ligament, extent, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. ^ connec- Its connections with surrounding muscles are the same as those of the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal offset, but thence to the ^^^^j^^^ termination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular and '^^'^ cutaneous. Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either sepa- the^.Jeep'^ *" rately along the trunk, or together from the upper end of the flexors, nerve. There is an offset for each of the muscles except the popli- teus ; but the branch of the tibialis is the largest, and that for the flexor polhcis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the so^e of the foot (&g. 207,") begins above ^f'^^hefoot. the OS calcis, and piercing the internal annular ligament as two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and under parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot (fig. 208). The internal annular liqanient stretches between the heel and the ^ annular inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer of ligament: muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a pointed piece to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg; and the opposite gives attachment to the abductor poUicis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost incloses ^^^^^ '■ the tibiahs posticus, lodged in a groove in the malleolus. Imme- diately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum. And posSion. about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor pollicis, resting in a groove in the astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the tibial vessels and nerve. Section Y. sole of the foot, Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate Position of thickness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating, and fastening apart the toes. ' Dissection. The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer ^aiaetlie by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front ; and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skiu is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. X X 2676 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. and dissect cutaneous nerves. Subcuta- neous fat. Lay bare the plantar fascia, and ttio digital ves- sels and nerves: define the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia: division into parts. Central part divides into five pieces: termina- tion of the pieces. Inner piece of the fascia; outer piece. Expose the septa. In the fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve of the sole (p. 675) ; and he may trace out, at a little dis- tance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat is very abundant, and forms a thick cushion over the points that press most on the ground in standing, viz., over the OS calcis, and the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. The fat should be now removed, and the plantar fascia laid bare. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the inter\'als between those processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst much fatty and fibrous tissues; but the vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe, pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to define a transverse fibrous band across the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves; and when this has been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia fi-om the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from tliis circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal de- pressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral pieces. The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corresponding with an intermuscular septum, marks its hmit on each side : and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes, which send fibres to the teguments near the web of the foot, and are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. Where the pieces separate from each other, the digital vessels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles become superficial, and are arched over by transverse fibres. If one of the digital processes be divided longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatarsal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it is in- creased in thickness, and presents a strong band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision may be made along the middle of the foot thi-ough the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal processes will appear on the sides of that muscle.FIEST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 677 The intermuscxaar septa pass down on the sides of the Aexor Two^nter- brevis digitonini, and a piece of fascia reaches across the foot from gepta. the one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it. The in7ier septum lies between the short flexor and the abductor inner pollicis : and the internal plantar nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, pass througli it. The outer partition, between the short flexor and the abductor minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and vessels for the outer side of the little toe. The superficial transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, ^^^l^^^^- and is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the toes, foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and the little toe, and is connected with the sheaths of the others as it Hes over them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheaths of the flexor tendons (fig. 209, ^) are similar to those S'jeatiis of of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the ^l^J tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubri- cated by a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 208). In the sole of the foot the muscles are fj^^^f^^^ numerous, and have been airanged in four layers. To prepare the muscles, first layer all the fascia must be taken away ; but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the sheaths in which they ai"e contained should be opened. First layer of muscles. In this layer are three muscles, viz., Muscles in the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi layer"^^^ digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 208, ■*■), the most internal muscle of Abductor the superficial layer, takes origin from the inner side of the larger P°'l'"^'s; tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis : fi-om the plantar ' fascia ; and from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and the inner border of the foot as far as the scaphoid bone. In front the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the uaner side of the base of the msertion: metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the connections plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes with the accessorius muscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the metatarso- use as phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will abduct slightly that "'^^o'"' toe from the others. l'^^DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 678 The FLKXOR BREVis DiGiTORUM (fig. 208, ^, flexor perforatuB) arises posteriorly by a pointed process from the inner part of the larger tubercle of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons, which are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor, and entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe the tendon of this muscle lies at first, (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor ; opposite the centre of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia, and occupies" the middle of the foot. It conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Aciion. It bends the nearest phalangeal jomt of the four smaller toes, like the flexor sublimis in the upper limb, and approximates the toes at same time. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DiGiTi (fig. 208, ^) has a wide origin behind from the small outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the fi'ont of the inner tubercle, and from the plantar fascia and the external inter- muscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor accessorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Sometimes a part of the muscle is fixed into the projection of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Action. Though it can abduct the little toe from the others, as the name signifies, its chief use is to bend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Dissection. To bring into view the second layer of muscles and the plantar vclsscIs and nerves, the muscles alreadjr examined must be reflected (fig. 209). Cut through the flexor brevis at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nen^e and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abductor poUicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Next the internal plantar vessels and nerve are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the external plantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lumbricales, should be freed from fat. Two plantar The PLANTAR ARTERIES (fig. 209) are the terminal branches of artenes; posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital offsets to the toes. iTuter.'"''^ They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two the external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch of arteries. Flexor brevis digi- torvunj divides into tendons for four toes. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use on the phalangeal joints. Ahdxictor of the little toe. Origin and insertion. Is atTside of the foot. Use as ahductor and flexor. Dissect the next mus- cular layer, and plantar vessels and nerves.PLANT.Uf VESSELS AND NERVES. G79 The internal artery (b) is inconsiderable in si.e -^^i^^^^^^^^^^^ J»^f the internal plantar nerve, under cover ot the abaucior i ' course far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four superficial digital ,„di„g. branches. (Illustrations of Dissections, p. 437.) Fig. 208.* Fig. 209. t Branches. Tbe arteiy furnishes muscular branches, like the nerve, uranciie.s to the abductor pollicis and flexor digitorum perforatus, and to the ^° 'nusclos; flexor brevis pollicis and the two internal lumbricales. Its Supef' and super- llcial digital; * First view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections).—Muscles : A. Abductor pollicis. b. Flexor brevis digitorum. c. Abductor minimi digiti. D. Ligament of the toes. Arteries : a. External plantar, b. Internal plantar. Nerves: 1. Internal plantar, with its four branches, 2, 3, 4 and .0, for three toes and a half. 6. External plantar nerve, with two digital branches, 7 and 8, for one toe and a half. f Second view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Musculus accessorius. b. Tendon of flexor digitorxmi loiigus. c. Tendon of flexor longus pollicis. d, marks the four lumbricales muscles, but the letters are put on the tendons of tbe flexor digitorum perforans. e. Tendon of flexor perforatus. p. Tendon of flexor perforans. a. Sheath of flexor tendons, h. Tendon of peroneus longus. Arteries: a. Internal plantar, b. External plantar, c. Branch to abductor minimi digiti. d. Branch to outer side of little toe. Nerves : 1. Internal, and 2, External plantar. 4. Branch to flexor brevis pollicis.DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 680 lirst, second, third, fourth. External artery has curved course; partly superficial, partly deep. Superficial part: connec- tions, veins and neiTe. Branches. Plantar nerves also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half: muscular branches. Digital nerves are divided ex- cept first; muscular branches: ficial digital branches accompany the digital nei-ves of the internal plantar (fig. 208), and are thus disposed of:— The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe ; the second lies over the first interosseous space ; the third corresponds with the second space ; and the fourth is placed over the third space. At the root of the toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. The external artery (a) takes an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch turned inwards. The vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely inwards towards the root of the gi-eat toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz. from the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 685). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor poUicis and the flexor breads digitorum ; but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os calcis, and the flexor accessoiius : and it is accompanied by venas comites, and the external plantar nerve. It supplies -offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and others to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The PLANTAE NERVES (fig. 209) are derived from the bifurcation. of the posterior tibial trunk behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, hke the arteries, and have the same anatomy as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar arteiy : but the larger nerve lies with the smaller bloodvessel. The internal plantar nerve Q) courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor poUicis, and giving but few muscular offsets, di^ddes into four digital branches (fig. 208 ^ ^ ^ %) for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fourth ; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Muscular offsets are given by it to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor poUicis ; and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch (') to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others ai-e bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by these nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor 2Cond gives a branch to the inner lumbrical brevis poUicis ; the se muscle ; and the third, to the next lumbricalis.SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. 681 Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being give cu- (Uvided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two ^"tiou- toes, whilst the first belongs altogether to the inner side of the great lar oiisets. toe ; all give offsets to the teguments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The external jilantar nerve (fig. 209, -) is spent chiefly in the deep j^j^^^^^'^'^j.^ muscles of the solo of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to o„o toe and both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It cor- ^^^l^; responds in its distribution with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides lias s"Per- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial jj^^j, parts, and a deep portion :—the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and ^\^ll be dissected afterwards. Whilst the external jDlantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor Branches, of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti aiid the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 208) are Two digital two. One (') is undivided ; it is distributed to the outer side i^^anches: of the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi ""^ single, digiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (^} bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two one vided, toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communi- cates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same dis- distribution tribution as those from the other plantar trunk, and end like them ^^^^ others, ii; a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 209). To complete the preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor poUicis should be faywof detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be turned in- muscles, wards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second layer of muscles (fig. 209). In this layer are the Second tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle ; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 209, ^), whilst Tendon of entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the internal the flexor of lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the tendon of divides into the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and beneath a these pierce682 DISSECTION OP THE FOOT. the other tendons : ligaments to tendons. Use on tlie digits with others, and witii- out. Pour him- hricales. Attachment 1 to toes and long flexor, Use on the phalanges. Flexor ae- cessorius is joined with flexor longus. Connec- tions. Use on the toes, on long flexor. Insertion of tendon of flexor polliois. Connec- tions. tendon from the flexor brevis, e. About the centre of the meta- tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor, r, is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two nearest phalanges of the toes are hgamentous bands (lig. brevia). one to each, as in the hand: and the one fixing the flexor perforans is anterior (p. 295). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines with the short flexor in bending the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards, in consequence of its oblique position in the foot. The lumhricales (fig. 209, °) are four small muscles between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two tendons, with the exception of the most internal, and this is con- nected with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Each is inserted by a slip into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes, and sends an expansion to the aponeurotic covering on the dorsum of the phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. If the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the four outer toes is bent, the small muscles will assist the flexors; and thi-ough their union with the long extensor tendon they may aid that muscle in straightening the two phalangeal joints. The accessorius muscle (fig. 209, ^) has two heads of origin :— One is mostly tendinous, and is attached to the under or the outer surface of the os calcis, and to the ligamentum longum plantae ; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner concave surface of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about the centre of the foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendon going to the second, third, and fourth digits (Tm-ner). The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve ; and the flexor brevis digitorum con- ceals it. Action. By means of its offsets to the tendons of certain digits the muscle helps to bend those toes. And fi-om its position on the outer side and behind the long flexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward action of that muscle, and will assist the other flexors in bending the toes directly back. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis (fig. 209, ^) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum ; and, directed to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. It is united to the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process which, jomed by bands of the accessorius, is continued into tlie pieces of that tendon belonging to the second and third toes (Turner). Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus ; and in the foot it occupies aTHIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. 683 hollow below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the os calcis, being enveloped by a synovial membrane. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see page Use on fust 671. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the flexor ^i>d other longus going to the second and third toes, it may bend those digits with the great toe. Dissection (fig. 210). For the dissection of the third layer of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to of muscles, be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. Whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and arteiy ai-e not to be interfered with ; and two small nerves and vessels to the outer two lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third layer of muscles (fig. 210). Only the short muscles of Third layer . of muscles the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal consists of I'one of the gi-eat.toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external 1.1 it is the adductor pollicis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS muscle (fig. 210, ^) is tendinous and Flexor bre- VIS poiliciSi pointed posteriorly, but bifurcated in fi'ont. It is attached behind origin to the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone, and to a prolongation from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal Insei-tlon. phalanx. Kesting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between Connec- the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the meta- Use on the tarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 210, ^), which is larger than the Adductor preceding muscle and external to it, arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and fi'om the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united joins outer with the outer head of the short flexor, and is insertecl with it into short flexor the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer Covers border the external plantar vessels and nerve are directed inwards. P'.'*"tar Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the ul,'', others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- toe! phalangeal joint of the toe. The TRANSVERSALIS PEDIS (fig. 210, ») is placed transversely over Transversa- the heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy bundles P"'^''' = origin,684 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. from the capsule of the metatfirso-phalangoal articulations of the four outer toes (fi-cquently not from the little toe), and from the insertion. fascia covering the interossei muscles. Its insertion into the great toe is united with that of the adductor pollicis. Fig. 210.^ Pig. 211.+ Conneu The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons and the nerves tions. ^£ ^i^g ^Qgg . ^j^g oj)posite surface is in contact with the interossei muscles and the digital vessels. * Third view of the sole of the foot'(Ilhistrations of Dissections). mMusclcs : A. Flexor brevis pollicis. b. Adductor pollicis. o. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. D. Transversalis pedis. Arteries : a. Internal plantar, cut. b. Ex- ternal plantar, and, c, its four digital brandies. Nerves : 1. Internal plantar. 2. External plantar ; 3, its superficial -part, cut ; 4, the deep part, with the plantar arch. 5. Two offsets to the outer two Itimbricales muscles. + Fourth view of the sole of the foot (Illustrations of Dissections). Mus- cles : 0. Three plantar interossei. i. Four dorsal interossei. Arteries: a. Internal plantar, cut. b. External plantar : c, its four digital branches, d. Plantar arch. e. Anterior tibial entering the sole. /. Arteria magna pollicis. (/. Branch to inner side of great toe. h. Branch for the supply of great toe and the next. Nerves: 1. Internal plantar, cut. 2. External plantar; 3. its superficial, and, 4, its deep part, both cut: the latter supplying oflfsets to the interossei muscles. *685 PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. Action. It will aclduct the great toe to the others, and then Use on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR BREVis MINIMI DiGlTi (fig. 210, ^) is a Small narrow Flexor muscle on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and resembles one JJ|g"[ng nkc of the interossei. Arising behind from the metatarsal bone and an inter- the sheath of the peroneus longus, it blends with the inferior liga- ment of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the toe ; it is united also by- fleshy fibres with the front of the metatarsal bone. Action. Firstly it bends the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and Use. nextly it draws down and adducts the fore part of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Dissection Cfier. 211"). In order that the deep vessels and nei-ves Dissect the ^ ^ r, , ■ iiij^ ii-- J. deep vessels may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor poliicis are to be cut and nerves. through behind, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches ; and through the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves with their branches require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei ; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTARABCH (fig. 211, d) is the portion of the external plantar Arch of the artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone of the arteiy."" little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : internally the arch is completed by a communicating branch fi'om the dorsal artery of the foot (e, p. 686). It is placed across the tarsal ends Extent and of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, but under with mus°^ the flexor tendons, and the adductor poliicis to which it gives many des, branches. Ven£e comites lie on the sides of the artery, and the external plantar nerve accompanies it. From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches Branches, are supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the posterior perforating, leave the under Posterior part: these pass to the dorsum of the foot through the tliree outer P^'fo'^t'ng- metatarsal spaces, and anastomose with the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery (p. 696). The digital branches (c) are four in number, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes and half the next. One to the outer iS'^tols*" side of the little toe is single ; but the others lie over the interossei >^^'^ a half, i in the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the transversalis pedis (fig. 210), and bifurcate in front to supply the contiguous sides of two toes. They give fine ofEsets (fig. 210) to the interossei, Muscular to some lumbricalcs, and the transversalis pedis ; and at the point ''"'^ of division they send small communicating branches—a?ifenor anterior perforating, to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the l'Sr^°/''t'ng foot (p. 695). The first digital runs on the outer side of the little toe, supplying First,DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 686 second. third, fom-th digital join inner plantar. Distribution on the toes. Ending of the dorsal arterj- of the foot; its digital tranches, on the digits. External plantar nerve ends in the deep muscles: like ulnar nerve. Dissection. Transverse metatarsal ligament. Dissect the last layer of the muscles. the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the teg-nments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The third is distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis. The last two are joined by superficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand. They extend to the end, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch from the anterior tibial artery. Near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 211, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (inner) .metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital artery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. The digital branch (/, art. magna pollicis) extends to the front of the first interosseous space, and divides into collateral branches (Ji) for the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. Near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends mwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch (g) for the inner side of the gi-eat toe. The arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end with a branch of the plantar arch. External plantar nerve (fig. 211, The deep branch (*) of this nerve accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor pollicis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei ; to the transversalis pedis ; and to the two external lumbrical muscles. The nerve corresponds with the deep portion of the ulnar nerve in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transversaHs pedis muscle, to see a ligament across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 299), which connects together all the meta- tarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia covering the interossei muscles is attached to its hinder edge. It is con- cealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. To complete the dissection of the last layer of muscles, the flexor brevis mkdmi digiti may be detached and687 FOURTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. tlirown forwards. Dividing then the metatarsal ligament between the bones, the knife is to be carried directly backwards for a short distance in the centre of each interosseous space, except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia covering the muscles should bo taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them should be dissected out. Fourth layer of muscles (fig. 211). In the fourth and last layer Fourth of the foot are contained the interossei muscles, and the tendons of uiuscles. the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The INTEROSSEI MUSCLES (fig. 211) are situate in the intervals be- interosseL tween the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, plantar and dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in number, there are three plantar and four dorsal ; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The plantar interossei, 0, belong to the three outer metatarsal bones Three plan- tsr for tiu'GG' (fig. 211), and are slender fleshy slips. They arise from the under outer toes, and inner surfaces of those bones ; and are inserted partly into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toes, and partly by an expansion fi-om each to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot.. The dorsal interossei, i, one in each space, anse by two heads fi'om Four dorsal the lateral surfaces of the bones between which they lie ; and are bonls.^'^ inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the meta- tarsal phalanx of certain toes :—Thus, the inner two muscles belong Attach- to the second toe, one to each side ; the next appertains to the outer side of the third toe ; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external plantar artery and nerve, Connec- and their digital branches, and lie beneath the transversalis pedis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the interossei of the hand (p. 299) they will contri- Use as bute to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints by the flexors ; and they may.help the extensors to straighten the last two phalan- tensors; geal joints. They can act also as abductors and adductors of the toes. Thus as adduc- the plantar set will bring the three outer towards the second toe ; and the dorsal muscles will abduct fi-om the middle line of the ducto^ second toe—^the two attached to that digit moving it to the right and left of the said line. Dissection. Following the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle Trace out from its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the f^'^ ^^^^ scaphoid bone, trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is continued forwards over insertion ofDISSECTION OF THE LEG. €88 tendon of tibialis iios- ticus into tarsus and meta- tarsus. Insertion of tendon of peroneus longus. Connec- tions. the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and over the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation to be inserted into the prominence ofjlie scaphoid Lone. From its insertion processes are continued tomany of the other bones of the foot:—One is directed backwards to the margin of the groove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards:—one to the internal cuneiform bone ; the other, much the largest, is attached to the micMle and outt;/ cujisi^fljuji, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the SQCflnd, thitd, and fftujih metatarsal bones. In other words, pieces are fixed into all the tarsal bones except one (astra- galus) ; and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed beneath the articulation of the astra- galus, it contains a sesamoid bone, or a fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on the under surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneifoiTU bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 211), it is contained in a sheath wliich is crossed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. Position of the limb. Raise the skin. 1 Seek the cutaneons nerves in the leg: on the foot both vessels and nerves: THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the fi'ont of the leg may be put on the sti-etch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the sMn from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and tliis should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner pai-t of the leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nei-ve; and at the outer side others, still smaller, fi-om the external popHteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower thhd, on the anterior aspect, the musculo-cutaneous nerve may be found, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saphenous veins. On the outer side lies the external saphenous nerve • and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenous689 CUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FRONT. nerve ceases. In the interval between tlie great toe and the next the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve appears. The digital nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by reino\nng the integiunents : and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. Fig- 212.* The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. In- ternally and externally it unites with the saphe- j nous A'eins. The internal sajAenous vein begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It as- cends along the inner part of the foot, and in front of the inner ankle to the inside of the leg (p. 666). Branches enter it fi-om the inner border and sole of the foot. I ]\ The external saphenous vein begins on the out- side of the httle toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 666). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 212). The superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly fi'om branches of the popliteal trunks, viz. from the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial nei^ves of the external popliteal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets ramify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (^) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The inner branch (=*) communicates with the internal saphenous ners'e, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe: it joins also the anterior tibial nerve. The outer branch C) divides into tlu-ee nerves ; these lie over the three outer interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the four toes corresponding with those * Cutaneous nciTea of the front of tlio leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibial 2. Musculo-cutaneous, with 3, its inner, and, 4, its outer piece ; the usual distribution is not shown in the woodcut. 5. Internal saphenous. 6. OlTsets of external popliteal. • ^ ui. T T clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins: internal saphenous, external saphenous. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. Musculo- cutaneous supplies certain toes: divides into inner and outer branch.690 DISSECTION OjF THE LEG. Anterior tibial, w}iero found. External isaplienoiis. Internal saplienous. Deep fascia of the leg; attach- ments : transverse fibres at the ankle. Take away the fascia, leave liga- jnentous bands, clean nerves and vessels. Anterior annular ligament; its upper and lower piece. spaces ; it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve (') becomes cutaneous in the first inter- osseous space, and is distributed to that space, and to tlie opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, comes from the back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the offsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it suppHes both sides of the little toe and part of the next. Internal saphenous nerve (^). This nerve is continued along the vem of the same name to the middle of the instep, where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass thi-ough the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed laterally into the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa are prolonged fi'om the deep sur- face ; and one of these, wliich is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the fi-ont from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg bones, but inferiorly it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle jomt it is strengthened by some transverse fibres, and gives origin to the two parts of the anterior annular ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed fi-om the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia is to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band (ex- ternal annular ligament) below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their ners'-e are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short and long extensors of the toes are to Ije traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg the anterior tibial neiwe and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and are then to be cleaned as liigh as the knee. The anterior annular ligament consists of two pieces, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position :—the fonner serving to bind the fleshy belHes to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot:— The upper part (fig. 213, above the level of the ankle-joint, is attached laterally to the bones of the leg ; it possesses one sheath with synovial membrane for the tibialis anticus. The lower part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the os691 FLEXORS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament; and internally, where it is thin and widened, into the plantar fascia and the inner malle- olus. In this piece of the ligament there are three sheaths:—an Sheaths inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus ^^J^ digitorum and peroneus tertius ; and an intermediate one for the ex- tensor pollicis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The external annular ligament is placed below the fibula, and is at- ^^^^^^ tached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to ligament, the OS calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue to the sheaths of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one compartment; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the sheaths of the peronei muscles. The MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OF THE LEG (fig. 213) are three in Muscles on number. The lai-ge muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; yle leg that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; whilst a small muscle, apparently the lower end of the last with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle be- tween the tibialis and extensor digitorum, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot only one muscle appears, the extensor and foot. bre"\'is digitorum. The TIBLA.LIS ANTICUS (fig. 213, reaches the tarsus : it is thick TibiaUs and fleshy in the upper, l3ut tendinous in the lower part of the leg. It arises fi-om the outer tuberosity and the upper half or more of origin, the tibia ; fi-om the contiguous part of the interosseous ligament ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum be- tween it and the next muscle. Its tendon begms below the middle of the leg, and passes through compartments in both pieces of the annular hgament, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, insertion, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is subaponeurotic. It lies at first outside the tibia, rest- Parts in ing on the interosseous membrane, but it is then placed, successively, over the end of the tibia, the ankle joint, and the inner tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and con- ceals the anterior tibial vessels. Action. Supposmg the foot not fixed, the tibialis bends the ankle. Use on the moves the great toe towards the middle line of the body, and raises ^"^^ the inner border of the foot. If the foot is fixed it can lift the inner border with the tibialis and fixed • posticus, and support the foot on the outer edge. If the tibia is slanting backwards, as when the advanced limb on the tibia reaches the ground in walldng, it can bring forwards and make '^"^^"^s- steady that bone. The EXTENSOR PROPRius POLLICIS (fig. 213) is deeply placed at its Extensor ongin between the former muscle and the extensor longus digitorum but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot The muscle arises from the middle three fifths of the anterior narrow part attached to on the mner surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous li"-ament for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes Y Y 2692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. and great too; it crosses the vessels. Use on great too; on tibia. Extensor longus arises from fibula; inserted into four outer toes: arrange- ment of the tendons on the toes. Connections of the muscle. Use on toes, and anlde, on the tibia. Peroneus tertius. Origin. Insertion. Use on ankle, to the surface through a sheath in the lower piece of the annular liga- ment, and continues over the tarsus to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that they arc crossed by it beneath the ligament. Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal joints, and afterwards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on the gi-ound and the tibia slants back- wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOE LONGUS DiGiTORUM (fig. 213, ^) is fleshy in the leg, and tendinous on the foot, Hke the tibial muscle. Its origin is from the head and three fourths of the narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula ; from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and about an inch (above) of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges :— On the metatarsal phalanx the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form an aponeurosis ; but a tendon from the short extensor is not united to the expansion on the little toe. At the further end of this phalanx the aponeurosis is-divided into three pai-ts—a central and two lateral ; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, wliile the lateral miite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peronei on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nei-ve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends the joints of the four outer toes from root to tip, as in the fingers ; and still acting, bends the ankle joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by this and the other muscles, on the front of the leg. The peroneus tertius is situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, from which it is seldom separate. It arises from the lower fom-th of the narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous ligament, and fi-om the inter- muscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle. And it is inserted into the tarsal end (upper surface) of the metatarsal bone of the httle toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part, of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. Action. The muscle assists the tibialis in bending the ankle, and IANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. in drawing forwards the fibula when the leg is advanced to make and leg. a step in walking. The .VNTERIOH TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 213, extends from the blfur- Antenor artery; Fig. 213.* 693 cation of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle joint. At this spot it becomes the dorsal artery of the foot. The course of the artery is forwards through the aperture in the cours and upper part of the interosseous membrane, along the front of that ^^^^ • Anterior tibial vessel and muscles (Quain's Arteries). 1. Tibialis anticus muscle. 2. Extensor poUicis and extensor longus digitorum drawn aside. 3. Part of the anterior annular ligament. 4. Anterior tibial artery : the nerve outside it is the anterior tibial.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. (304 direction. Connections with parts around. Position of veins and nerve. Brandies. Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Jfalleolar; inner and outer. Articular. Dorsal artery, extent and course. Connec- tions. Position of veins and nerve. Varieties in dorsal arter)-. membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A Hne from tlic inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; after\vard» it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius poUicis till near the lower end, where the last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to the inner side. The vessel rests on the interosseous membrane in two thirds of its extent, being overlapped by the fleshy belhes of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at some depth from the surface; but it is placed in front of the tibia and the ankle jomt in the lower tliird, and is comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. Venae comites entwine around the arteiy, covering it veiy closely with cross branches on the upper "part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about the middle third of the leg, and continues Avith them, crossing once or twice : at the lower end of the artery the nerve lies on the outer side. Branches. In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin. a. Cutaneous branches arise at intei-vals ; and the largest accom- panies the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and supplies the contiguous muscles. b. A recurrent branch arises as soon as the trmik appears above the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus to the knee joint: on the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. c. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) spring near the ankle joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size and origin ; the external anasto- moses with the anterior peroneal artery (p. 674). d. Some small articular branches are supplied fi-om the lower end of the arteiy to the ankle joint. The DORSAL AETERY of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial, and extends from the fi-ont of the ankle joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes dow- wards between the heads of the interosseous muscle, to end in the sole (p. 686). The arteiy is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, viz., the astragalus, and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, and by the inner piece of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor poUicis lies on the inner side, and that of the extensor longus digitorum on the outer, but neither is near the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in the leg ; and the nerve is external to it. Peculiarities. On the dorsum of the foot the artery is often removed farther outwards than the line from the centre of the ankle to tlie back of the first interosseous space. Further, the place of the artery may be taken by a large anterior peroneal branch.695 EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. Branches. Offsets are given to the bones and ligaments of the Branches, foot : those from the outer side of the vessel are named tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is furnished to the first metatarsal space. a. The tarsal Irranch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and runs Tarsal, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer border of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal, plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies. b. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer side Metatarsal, of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the short extensor muscle, and anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. c. From the arch of the metatarsal branch three dorsal interosseous winch gives arteries are furnished to the tliree outer metatarsal spaces ; and the geo^Jjf'*' external of these sends a branch to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interossei muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interosseous branch and per- joins a digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior ^"''''''"S- perforating tioig ; and from the beginning of each a small branch, postennor pei-forating, descends to the plantar arch. d. The first interosseous branch (art. dorsalis pollicis) arises from First inter- the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed by dorsal digital pieces like the other dorsal inter- osseous offsets. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS have the same extent and connections Anterior as the vessel they accompany. They take their usual position along the arterj'-, one on each side, and form loops around it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive con-espond with those of the arteiy ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the Divide dorsum of the foot, cut thi-ough the tendons of the extensor longus longus!"^ and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM arises from the outer surface of Extensor the OS calcis in front of the sheath for the peroneus brevis muscle, ^^'^^^ and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. At the back of the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four sends ten- inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment dons" to four to the base of the metatarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to """^"^ the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 692). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the Connec- tendons of the long extensor. Its inner belly crosses the dorsal artery of the foot.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 696 Uso on the toes. brevis. and annular ligament: follow iip the nerves. Nerves of the front of the leg. Keeurrent. Musculo- cutaneous supplies peronei. Action. Assisting the long extensor, it straightens the four inner toes, separating tliem slightly from each other. estensS?"^''' Dissection. The branches of artery and nei-ve wliich are beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by cutting across that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. By dividing the lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor poUicis, and throwing outwards the external half of it,—the difEerent sheaths of the ligament, the attachment to the 08 calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitomm from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal: and a small branch to the knee-joint fi-om the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Neeves to the fkont of the leg. Between the fibula and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal 'nerve divides into recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is small, and takes the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued between the extensor longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 689). Before the nerve becomes cutaneous it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. Anterior The anterior tibial nerve (fig. 213, interosseous) is directed beneath the artery: the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery about the middle tliird of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the foot to the first interosseous space (p. 690). In the leg it crosses the anterior tibial vessels once or more, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery. Branches. In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior tibial muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneus tertius. On the dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extensor ; this is enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot. Muscles on the outer side of the leg (fig. 207). Two muscles occupy this situation, and are named peronei from their attachment to the fibula ; they are distinguished by the terms longus and brevis. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The peeoneus longus (fig. 207, *^), the more superficial of tne two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer border. It arises from the head, and the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula for two thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards ; from the external border nearly to the malleolus ; and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly it ends in a tendon which is continued through the external annular ligament, with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back of the external malleolus ; and it passes finally in a separate sheath below the peroneus brevis, along the side of the os calcis and through the branches to muscles. External muscles of the leg. Peroneus longus. Origin from tlie fibula:697 PERONEI MUSCLES. groove in tlio outer border of the cuboid bone, to the sole of the jn^^^o^'^^ foot. Its position in the foot, and its insertion are described before J," the foot, (p. G88). In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fascia,^ and lies on the peroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle with the peroneus brevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula laterally with respect to it, one being on each side. Action. With the foot fi-ee the muscle extends the ankle ; then Use on foot it can depress the inner, and raise the outer border of the foot in ' the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground it assists to lift the os calcis, and fixed; and the weight of the body as in standing on the toes, or in walking, on the leg.]] .\nd in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The PERONEUS BEEVis (fig. 207, ^) reaches the outer side of the foot, Peroneus and is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior in position attached to to it. It arises from the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula li^uia. for about the lower two tliirds, extending upwards by a pomted piece internal to the other peroneus ; and from the intermuscular septum in front. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus through the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon and bone of enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus ^^^^^^ to its insertion into the projection at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the muscle projects in fi-ont of the peroneus longus. On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot is unsupported this peroneus extends the Use on foot, ankle, and moves the foot upwards and outwards in eversion. Like the long muscle, it is able if the foot is supported to raise and fixed, the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from and on the stooping. Section YII. LIGAilENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, Examine the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has become kuoe^oint dry ; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may be dissected whilst the knee is being moistened. _ Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- Dissection ]omt, it IS sufiicient to detach the muscles and tendons from around see knee, it, and to remove tlie areolar tissue or fibrous structure which mayDISSJECTION OF THE LEG 698 capsule, and tendons. Bones in tlio knco-joint. Capsule, obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A Idnd of aponeurotic capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint: and some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. Articulation of the knek. The knee is the largest hinge joint m the body, and is formed by the contiguous ends of the tibia and femur, \wth the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by strong and numerous ligan:ients. The capsule (fig. 214) is an aponeurotic covering on the front of the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and Fig. 214. Fig. 215.+ arrange' ment. how formed, the lateral ligaments ; and it is derived fi-om the fascia lata united with fibrous ofEsets of the extensor and flexor muscles. It covers the anterior and the external lateral hgament, being inserted below into the heads of the tibia and fibula; and it blends on the inner side with the internal lateral ligament. It is not closely apphed to the synovial membrane, but it is united below with the interarticular fibro-cartilages. Dissection. Four external ligaments, anterior and posterior, inter- nal and external, are situate at opposite points of the articulation. The posterior and the internal lateral ligament will appear on the removal of the areolar tissue fi'om their surfaces ; but the anterior and the external lateral are covered by the aponeurosis on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare till this has been cut The external ligaments. To define the liga- ments ; how to proceed. * External ligament of the knee joint (Bourgery).—1. Anterior ligament. 2. External lateral ligament. 3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Part of the C3iiJ)Su1g t Internal ligament of the knee joint (Bourgery).—!. Tendon of the ex- tensor muscle ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Lateral part of the capsule.EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 699 through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 214, -) is round and cord-like. ,^xternal - It is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the tendon iwent is of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces sniaU: of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular, vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but it is not attached to the femur; it is connected above with the gastrocnemius, and below with the posterior prominence of the head of the fibula. The tendon of the Uceps is inserted by two pieces into the points j^. on the head of the fibula ; and fi-om the anterior of these there is dividecl!''^ a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral liga- ment passes between the pieces into which tlie tendon is split. The tendon of the popliteus may be followed by dividing the posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong teus.j depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal ai-ti- culation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a tubercle on and of the internal condyle of the femur, above the attaclunent of the fnaJmus."^ internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 215, ^) is attached to the con- Interaal dyle of the femur, where it blends with the capsule ; but becoming j^en?-^'^''" thicker below, and separate from the rest of the capsule, it is fixed attaoh- for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the "i^nts; level of the ligamentum patellte. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles is joined by lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, ten™u"V and the internal lower articular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. Tlie tendo7i of the semimembranosus muscle is inserted beneath Insertion the internal lateral ligament into an impression at the back of the mcmbrano' inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia : between it and the bone sis.'^ is a synovial bursa. The tendon sends some fibres to the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation to join the fascia on the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow), wide and mem- Posterior branous, covers the back of the joint between the two lateral, and lig^inient. is joined by fibres from the tendon of the semimembranosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer side. It is fixed below to Two sets'of the head of the tibia behind the articular surface, and above to the " femur, but by strongest fibres opposite the intercondyloid notch. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of the vessels and700 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Anterior ligament, tendon of tlio extensor. Open tlie kneo-joiut of the articulation; and the tendon of the nerves to the interior popliteus pierces it. The anterior ligament (ligamentum patellaj, fig. 215, part of the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscle of the knee (p. 626) is two inches long. Superiorly it is attached to the lower point ot the patella, and to the depression on the inner surface of the apex ; and infenorly it is inserted into the tubercle of the head of the tibia, and into an inch of the bone below it. An expansion of the triceps extensor covers it; and a bursa intervenes between it and the top of the tubercle of the tibia. Dissection (fig. 216). To see the reflections of the synovial mem- brane raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an incision on each side, above the patella. When the anterior portion of the capsule with the patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the intercondyloid fossa of the femur to a mass of fat below the patella. On each side of the knee-pan is a similar fold (alar ligament) over some fat. and dissect The limb may be laid flat on the table, and some of the posterior menfe ligament may be removed, to show the pouches of the synovial membrane which project behind over the condyles of the femur ; but the limb is to be replaced in the former position before the parts are learnt. Synovial The synovial memhrane (fig. 216) lines the interior of the capsule, membrane jg continued to the articular ends of the bones. It inA^ests the interarticulai- cartilages after the manner of serous membranes, and * The capsule of the knee-joint cut across, and the patella thrown down, to show the named folds of the synovial sac. a. Mucous ligament, b. Internal, and c, externa] alar ligament.SYNOmL SAC AND FAT AROUND KNEE. 701 sends a pouch between the tendon of tlie poph'tous and the external fibro-cartilage and the head of the tibia: it is also reflected over the strong cnicial ligaments at the back of the joint. There are tliree named folds of the synovial membrane. One in '"''^ the centre of the joint is the mucous ligament (a), which contains ligaments, small vessels and some fat, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. Below and on each side of the patella is another fold—alar ligament (6 and c), which is continuous with the former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat: the inner (6) is i^rolonged farther than the outer by a semilunar piece of the serous membrane. At the back and front of the articulation pouches are prolonged Pouches, beneath the tendons of muscles. Behind there are two, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of two behind the gastrocnemius. On the fi'ont, the sac projects under the extensor muscle one inch above the articular surface ; and if it communicates and one with the bursa in that situation, it Avill reach two inches above the joint-surface of the femur. When the joint is bent there is a greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and Articular below the patella, and some fat is located around the crucial liga- ments. The infi-a-patellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval be- below the tween the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and P^*^^ '• gives origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued around the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin than on the outer, and overhangs the inner perpendicular facet of that bone. Duiing extension of the joint the infra- patellar pad is apphed to, and lubricates the articular surfaces of use; the femur. The supra-patellar pad is interposed between the triceps extensor above the and the femur around the top of the synovial sac, and is greater P^t^Ua. on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 217). The hgamentous structures within the cap- Dissect sule will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still in the same jptemal position, by tlirowing down the patella and its ligament, and clear- ing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band which connects anteriorly the interarticu- lar cartilages. The remains of the capsule and other ligaments, and the synovial membrane, are next to be cleared away from the front and back of the crucial ligaments, and fi-om the interarticular cartilages. Whilst cleaning the posterior crucial the limb is to be placed flat on the table with the patella down ; and the student is to be careful of a band in front of it from the external fibro-cartilage, or of two balnds, one before and the other behind it. Ligaments within the capsule. The ligamentous structures within Ligaments the capsule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two plates of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tibia. The crucial ligaments (fig. 217) are two strong fibrous cords Two crucial ligaments.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 702 Anterior is oWique, its attacli- mcnts. Posterior is vertical: its attach- ments. The use. Both unite the bones. Eotation checked hy anterior. Use of anterior, and poste- rior crucial. between the ends of the tibia and femur, wliich maintain in contact the bones. Tliey cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, and have received their name from that circumstance. One is much anterior to the other at the attachment to the tibia. The anterior ligament (/) is most oblique in its direction, and is smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner pomt of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted by its posterior shorter fibres into the back of the outer condyle of the femm-, and by the anterior or longer into the hinder part of the intercondyloid fossa. The posterior hgament (e) is almost vertical between the Ijones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the liinder- most impression of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone; and above, its posterior shorter fibres are inserted into the inner con- dyle along the side of the obUque curve, whilst the anterior and longer reach the fore part of the intercondyloid fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, after the external ligaments have been cut through, may now be studied. As long as both Hgaments are whole the bones cannot be separated fi-om each other. Eotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Eota- tion out is not checked by either ligament ; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will pennit the tibia to be put hind foremost. Supposing the tibia to move, as in straightening of the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor tendon, or by force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put m front of the femur. Its use is shown by cutting it across, and leav- ing the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial aixests the too great movement backwards * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and h, external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the latter rather displaced by the bending of the joint, c. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellar surface of the femur.703 INTRA CAPSULAR LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. of the tibia by the flexors or by force; and it is stretched in extreme flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back fi-om the femur. This use will be exemplified by cutting across the posterior (in another joint or in another dissection) and leaving entire the ante- rior ; when this has been done the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyles of the femur, g^^.j^^^^^. The two interarticular or semilunar fihro-cartilages (fig. 218) cover pai-tilages partly on each side the articular surface of the tibia. are two. They are thick at the outer margin, Avhere they are united by fibres to the capsule, and are thin at the inner edge ; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth Fig. 218.* to the fosste for the reception of the condyles of the femur, but are flattened below. In- serted into the tibia at their extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachment to the bone, like the crucial liga- ments ; and they become car- tilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is re- flected over them. The internal cartilage (a) is Internal is ovoid in form, and is a segment of a larger circle than the external. In front it is attached by a pointed end to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external cartilage (&) is nearly circular in form, and is con- External nected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow. cuImm"'^' Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close to ^°"n: the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore part is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory bands, one before, the other behind. The anterior or transverse ligament (c) is a narrow band of fibres '^^ between the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- "^^^'^^^^ times it is scarcely perceptible. The posterior or ascending hand (d), thicker and stronger than the posterior band. * View of the head of the tibia with tho fibro-cartilages attached: the cnicial ligaments have been cut through, a. Inner, and b, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. c. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior band (cut) of the external cartilage, c. Posterior, and/, anterior cnicial ligament.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 Uso of flbro- cartilages in flexion and exten- sion, and in rota- tion : nse of accessory ■bands. Surfaces of bone. On femur, patellar and tibial; characters of tibial: peculiarities of inner. Articular surfaces of tibia. Subdivision of joint- surface of patella. Kinds of movement. other, springs fi-om the back of the outer fibro-cartilagc, and is inserted into the femur as a single band (fig. 217, d) in front of the posterior crucial, or as two bands—one being before, and the other behind that ligament. Use. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between the articular surfaces of the bones at the circumference of the joint ; they moderate the injurious effect of pressure of the one bone on the other ; and cause the force of shocks to be diminished in transmission. In flexion and extension they move forwards and backwards with the tibia. During flexion they recede somewhat from the fore part of the joint, and surround the condyles of the femur; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages the external moves the most in consequence of its ends being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the tibial movements, but the external is most displaced by the projecting outer condyle of the femur. The accessory bands in front and behind serve to retain in place the least fixed external fibro-cartilage ; thus the anterior ligament keeps forwards the front of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the same fi-om displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the hones. The end of the femur is marked by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. The patellar is placed in the middle line above the others ; it is hollowed along the centre, vnih. a slanting surface on each side, the outer being the larger of the two. The surfaces for contact with the tibia, two in number, occupy the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- pression by an obhque groove on each side. On the centre of each is a somewhat flattened surface, which is in contact with the tibia in standing ; and at the posterior thud is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia m rotation. The inner condyle of the femur is curved at its anterior tMrd, the concavity being directed out: this has been named the " obhque curs^ature." Close to the curve is a semilunar facet, which touches the perpendicular surface of the patella in extreme flexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle of the bone, on^the pomts of the tibial spine. The joint-surface of the patella is marked by the followmg im- pressions. Close to the inner edge is a narrow perpendicular facet, and along the lower border is a similar transverse mark. Occupying the rest of the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided by a vertical and a transverse Ime into two pairs of marks—upper and lower. (Goodsir, Edinb. Med. Jom-., 1855.) Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are two in number, bendmg and straightening, like the elbow; but there is, in addition, rotation of the tibia when the jomt is bent.705 MOVEMENTS OF KNEE AND PATELLA. Flexion and extension. Each of these movements may be divided into stages for the purpose of particularizing changes in its direc- tion. In flexion the tibia with its fibro-cartilages moves backwards round riexion. the end of the femur; and its extent is limited by the extensor Movement muscle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. For the anterior third of the movement the tibia is directed down change iu and in along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, giving rise to «l"'ection. rotation inwards of that bone ; but for the posterior two thu-ds, the tibia passes straight back over both condyles. All the external ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and fj'^^^g^^g both crucials are put on the stretch towards the end of flexion. In extension the tibia is carried forwards until it comes into a Extension, straight line with the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent Sf°tibia';" its farther progress. In the liinder two thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight ^^^ggg course over the condyles of the femur ; but in the anterior third the leg-bone is directed up and out over the oblique curve of the inner condyle, and is rotated out. All the external ligaments except the anterior are tightened, and state of the crucial cords help to limit extreme extension. ment^^' Rotation. A half bent state of the knee is necessary for this Two kinds movement, for the purpose of relaxing the anterior crucial and the °^ rotation, external ligaments ; and the foot must be fi-ee. Then, the tibia ■with its fibro-cartilages rotates around a vertical axis, the gi-eat toe being turned in and out. During rotation in the inner articular surface of the tibia touches Rotation in. the inner condyle of the femur and moves backwards ; and the Movement outer articular surface, separated by a slight interval from the thigh bone, passes forwai-ds. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is state of gradually tightened, and stops the motion finally. ligaments. In rotation out the opposite movement of the tibia takes place,— Rotation the inner articular surface being directed forwards, and the outer °"'^> backwards. The internal lateral ligament controls the movement by its fibres state of being made tense. The crucials have not any influence on the ^'sameni,s. motion (p. 702). Movement of the patella. When the knee passes from flexion to ex- Movement tension the patella crosses it obHquely from the outer to the inner °^l'''*ellu. side, touching in succession different parts of the femoral articular surfaces. _ In complete flexion the Icnee-pan lies on the outer side of the in flexion, joint below the femur, where it is scarcely perceptible, and is fixed in its situation. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner what it condyle by its perpendicular facet; and the under part of the outer ' condyle by the upper and outer mark on its square surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to extension the upper and strai.'ht- pair of impressions on the square surface of the patella, and the lower pair rests successively on the pulley-surface of the femur.706 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. In complete extension, the patella is situate at the upper and inner part of the knee joint, where it is very prominent, with its apex and the ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the most part the knee-pan articular surface is raised above the trochlea of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower transverse facet. Peroneo-tibial articulations. The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities, where they touch ; and by an interosseous ligament between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the front and back of the interosseous ligament ; and the loose tissue is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The UPPER ARTICULATION has veiy slight movement, and the structures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends over the joint from the outer tube- rosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The postennor ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint: it is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee joint. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage: and a synovial membrane lining the articulation projects backwards so as to touch that of the Imee joint. The LOWER ARTICULATION possesses an anterior and a posterior band, together with an inferior ligament between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the tibia to the fibula ; and the posterior has attachments behind the articulation similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the space between the contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct fi-om the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit; and on the other it is inserted mto the contiguous part of the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. The interosseous ligament fills the interval between the bones of SZ* the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the limb. Its fibres are directed downwards chiefly from the tibia to the inner surface of the fibula : but some few cross in the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia: and externally, to the oblique fine on the inner surface of the fibula along the upper three fourths, but to the posterior border along the lower fourth of that bone. , . , x -t- Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture which transmits vessels. The upper opening, about an inch in length lies along the neck of the fibula, and gives passage to the anterior tibial vessels. The lower aperture is close to the fibula, about an mch In exten- sion, position to lemur. Articulation of tibia and fibula. Dissection of tlie liga- ments. Upper ar- ticulation, by anterior and poste- rior baud. Synovial sac. Lower ar- ticulation has anterior, posterior, and inferior ligament. Interosse- ous between bones. Attach- ments. Apertures,707 LIGAMENTS OF ANKLE JOINT. above the lower end, and is only large enough for the small anterior peroneal vessels. Some strong irregular bundles of fibres,—the inferior interosseous Inferior ligament, extend between the bones below the aperture for the ' ^ anterior peroneal vessels. It may be seen after the examination of the ankle joint by sawing longitudinally the lower ends of the leg bones. Movement. Veiy little movement is allowed in the tibio-peroneal Motion articulations, as the chief use of the fibula is to give security to the ° ' ankle joint and attachment to muscles of the leg. In the upper joint there is a slight gliding from before back. In in upper the lower articulation the ligaments permit some yielding of the fibula to the pressure of the astragalus, as when the weight of the articiSI-^'^ body is thrown on the inner side of the foot; but if the force is t'on- violent, that bone will be fractm-ed in the lower fourth sooner than the ligaments. Articulatiok of the ankle (fig. 219). Like the knee, the ankle Bones in is a hinge or gmglymoid joint. In this joint the upper surface of johit."^^^ Fig. 219.* the astragalus is received into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula ; and the four ligaments belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection. To make the dissection required for the ligaments of Dissection the ankle jomt, the muscles, and the fibrous tissue and vessels must S'^""^'' be removed from the front and back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the hmb must be placed first on one side and then on the other. The internal ligament is wide and strong, and lies beneath the tendon of the * Internal lateral ligament of the ankle (altered from Bourgery) —1 ^'Sh/'T t''- °f inner^l'gameut 4. Inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. e^iUBui. z z 2DISSECTION OF THE LEG, 708 Anterior ligament is tliin and imperfect. Posterior ligament. Internal or deltoid ; attach- ments. External has three pieces; anteiior, middle, and pos- terior : connec- tions. Open the ankle joint. Synovial fiac. Surfaces of the bones in the joint. tibialis posticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces ; and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus, should be taken away. The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, Avhich is attached to the tibia close to the articular surface ; and to the upper part of the astragalus near the articulation with the scaphoid bone. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The posterior ligament is thinner internally than externally ; and it is inserted into the tibia and astragalus, close to the articular surfaces of the bones. Towards the outer side it consists of trans- verse fibres, which are fixed into the hollow on the inner surface of the external malleolus. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 219) is attached by its upper or pointed end to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone, by fibres which radiate to their insertion in this manner :—The posterior Q) are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus; the middle (^) pass vertically to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; and the anterior (^), which are thin and oblique, join the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and the inner side of the scaphoid bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digi- torum are in contact with this ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 220) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece Q') is a short flat band, which is directed fi-om the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the asti-agalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle portion (^) is flattened and descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior Q) is the strongest, and is almost horizontal in direc- tion ; it is connected externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the posterior part of the astra- galus behind the upper articular surface, extending to the groove for the flexor pollicis tendon. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The middle piece is but slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane of the ankle joint ; and both it and the posterior piece touch the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle joint, separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the osseous surfaces entering into the joint. The synovial memlrane of the joint lines the capsule, and is simple in its an-angement. Articular surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular faces, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and the other with the malleolus. On the fibula the surface of the malleolus which is tm-ned to the astragalus is tipped with cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular surface, wider before thanMOVEMENTS IN ANEXE JOINT. 709 behind and trochlear-shaped, which touches the end of the tibia : and on its sides are articular impressions for contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the largest. Movement. Only the movements of flexion and extension are per- Kinds of mitted in the ankle : in the former state the toes are raised towards the fore part of the leg ; and in the latter, they are pointed towards the ground. In flexion the astragalus moves backwards so as to project behind ; Flexion, and all fiu^her motion is arrested by the meeting of the anterior moving edge of the tibia Avith that bone. The posterior ligament is stretched over the projecting head of state of the astragalus, and the posterior and middle parts of the external Fig. 220.* lateral, and the posterior piece of the internal lateral ligament, are made tense. ^ In extension the astragalus moves foi-wards over the end of the Extension, tibia, and projects anteriorly. A limit to the movement is imposed juoving by the meeting of the astragalus with the tibia behind. The lateral ligaments are partly made tight as in flexion, for state of instance the anterior piece of the external, and the fore and middle ^'S^"'''"*^; portions of the internal. When the joint is half extended so that the small hinder part of slight lateral the astragalus is brought into the arch of the leg bones, a slight movement of the foot mwards and outwards may be obtained ; but if the foot is forcibly extended the portions of the lateral liga- ments, attached to the astragalus, prevent this lateral movement by their tightness. * External lateral ligament of the ankle (altered from Bourgery). — 1. Anterior part. 2. Posterior part. 3. Middle part of the outer ligament! 4. Interosseus of astragalus and os calcis. 6. External calcaneo-scaphoid ligament.710 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection for the joints of the foot. Astragalus with 08 calcis by posterior, external, and Dissection. The joints of the foot ^^rill be demonstrated by re- movmg from both the dorsum and tlie sole all tlie soft parts which have been examined. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 221). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of the astragalus and os calcis. These bones are kept together by two joints, and a strong interosseous ligament; and there are also tliin bands at the outer side and behind. The posterior ligament (fig. 221, a) consists of a few fibres be- tween the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor poUicis ; and the external ligament (i) is connected to the Fig. 221.* interos- seous liga- ment. Articular surfaces, synovial membranes. Motion in standing. sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the extei-nal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 221, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, Avhich are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is gi-eatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 713) articular surfaces will be seen between the bones, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial membranes. Movement. Under the influence of the weight of the body, as in standing, the astragalus moves down and m (not straight forwards) ■with flattening of the arch of the foot, so that its head projects against the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. In this state the interosseous ligament is put on the stretch. * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, I, external and c, interrosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- scaphoid. c. External calcaneo-scaphoid. /. Internal, and ^r, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, li. Dorsal scapho-cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal scapho-.cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.711 LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. When the pressure of the leg is removed the astragalus is carried ^nd ^^en up and out by the tightened ligaments and muscles, and the arch removed, of the foot is restored. Astragalus with the scaphoid bone.- The head of the astragalus Astragalus is received into the hollow of the scaphoid bone, and is united to it ^jJiioid by a dorsal ligament ; but the place of plantjar and external lateral iJ^^e. ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be noticed below. Tlic dorsal or astragalo-scaphoid ligament (fig. 221, d) is attached Dorsal to the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface ™''' • of the scaphoid bone : its attachments vfiW be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The external ligament of the articulation maj'- be seen To lay bare on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and j'^^eJfts the scaphoid bone. Supposing the tendon of the tibialis posticus removed, the inferior ligament will be defined in the sole of the foot by cutting some fibro-cai-tilaginous substance fi'om it. The inferior ligament (fig. 223, c, calcaneo-scaphoid) is attached Inferior behind to the fore part of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, ^'"^ and in fi'ont, to the hollow on the under surface of the scaphoid bone. In the upright posture of the body the tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath it in the sole of the foot; and on it the head of the astragalus rests. The external calcaneo-scaphoid (fig. 221, e) is placed outside the external head of the astragalus, and serves as a lateral ligament to the as- ligament, tragalo-scaphoid articulation ; it is about thi-ee quarters of an inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is inserted into the outer side of the os scaphoides. A synovial membrane serves for this articulation, and sends back Synovial a prolongation to the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head of the astragalus has two articular Surfaces of faces ; a smaller, below, for the os calcis ; and a larger one, elon- gated transversely and larger externally than internally, for the sca- phoid bone. The scaphoid bone is hollowed, and is widest exter- nally. Movement. The scaphoid moves down and in over the transversely Movement: elongated head of the astragalus, or up and out in the opposite direction. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and external liga- ^^({faent ments of the joint are made tight; and when the scaphoid is moved ^""^"^ ^' in the opposite way the strong inferior ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid bone. The ligaments in this '^'^'^'^ articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being much the W™y°''^ strongest; and there is also an internal band. The dorsal ligament (fig. 221, g, superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a dorsal, rather thin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the con- tiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimes712 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. internal. and inferior ligaments. The last is strongest, and divided into two parts: divided into two pieces, or it may be situate at the outer border of the foot. At the inner side of the os cuboides is a stronger internal band (fig. 221,/) from the os calcis ; this is fixed behind to the upper part of the os calcis, external to the hand to the scaphoid bone, and in front to the contiguous inner side of the os cuboides. The inferior calcaneo-cuhoid ligament in the sole of the foot (fig. 222) is much the strongest, and is divided into a superficial and a deep part:— The superficial portion, ligatnentum longum planta: ('), is attached to the under surface of the os calcis from near the posterior to the Fig. 223.t superficial and anterior tubercle; its fibres pass forwards to be connected with the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; but the most in- ternal are continued over the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, assisting to form its sheath, and are inserted into the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, deep band. The deep piece of the ligament (fig. 223, &), seen on division of the superficial (a), extends from the tubercle and the hollow on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the cuboid bone internal or i^osterior to the ridge. * Plantar ligaments of the foot (Boiu-gery).—1. Long 2. Deep portion of the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, peroneus longus muscle. t View of the inferior ligaments of the tarsal bones, a. b. Short or deep inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, c. scaphoid, d. Plantar transverse scapho-cuboid ligament scapho-cuneiform extending into the sole of the foot. /. ligament between the inner and middle cuneifonn bones, verse band between the cuboid and outer cuneiform. plantar ligament. 3. Tendon of the Long plantar, cut. Inferior calcaneo- e. Dorsal inner Plantar transvci-se g. Plantar ti-ans-TEANSVEUSE TAESAL ARTICULATION. 7ia A simple synovial membrane belongs to the articulation. Synovial Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer ^^^^^^^^ part of the articulation ; but at the inner side the os calcis is ,jp„g hollowed from above down, and the os cuboides is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone possesses two movements, Movement: viz. an oblique one, down and in, and up and out. In the downward movement the internal lateral and the upper ^^1^°^°^^.^ hgament are made tight; and in the upwai-d, the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments of the sole are sti-etched. Transverse tarsal articulation (fig. 221). The joints of the Transverse astragalus with the scaphoid, and os calcis with the cuboid bone, "tarsus, form a transverse articulation across the foot in which the move- ments of inversion and eversion take place. In inversion the great toe is adducted; the inner border of the inversion, foot is shortened, and is raised firom the ground so that the sole looks inwards. The scaphoid bone passes down and in over the head of the movement , , . . , 1 . mi 1 01 bones, astragalus, bemg approximated near to the mner malleolus ; and the cuboid bone moves down and in on the os calcis. The cunei- form bones are raised at the same time and contribute to the movement of inversion (p. 716). The ligaments connected with both [joints on the dorsum of the state of foot are tightened. ligaments. In eversion the inner border of the foot descends and lengthens, Eversion i the outer border is raised, and the gi'eat toe is abducted from the middle line of the body. The same two tarsal bones are directed up and out, and the ^on&s and cimeifoiins sink. The ligaments in the sole of the foot of both joints now come ligaments, into use to prevent over movement. Dissection. Saw thi-ough the astragalus in front of the attachment Dissection, of the interosseous ligament between it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone for the purpose of observing the lower and outer calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the os calcis is to be cut thi-ough, to demonstrate its attachments, the articular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 710). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal bones. There are two Surfaces of articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and °^ '^^^^'^ the OS calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex trans- versely and the anterior is concave ; but sometimes the last is subdivided into two. The surfaces of the astragalus will have aandastra- form exactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz. the hinder one concave and the anterior convex ; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. The calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces : and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to be opened for the like pm-pose even should directions not be given.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 714 Union of thu scaphoid bone to the cunei fonu : sjniOAial sac. To the cu- Jjoicl bone: synovial sac. Union of the cuneiform bones one with another, and with the cuboid bone: synovial sac. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of bones. Motion in inversion Articulations of tuk scaphoid bone. The scaphoid bone articu- lates in front with the thi-ee cuneiform bones, and laterally with the OS cuboides. In the articulation with tlie cuneiform hones (fig. 221) there are three longitudinal dorsal ligaments (i, Jc, I), one to each bone; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the mside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 223, e). The place of plantar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial membrane (common of the tarsus) lines tlie articu- lation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneifonn bones. In the articulation with the os cuboides there is a dorsal obhque band of fibres (fig. 221, h) between the contiguous surfaces of the bones ; a. plantar transverse band (fig. 223, rf), which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch the surfaces are tipped wth cartilage, and are furnished with a prolongation fi-om the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. Articulations of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands ; and the external one articulates vnih. the OS cuboides after a similar manner. The tliree cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal bands (fig. 221, n) between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are Avanting, except one between the two inner- most (fig. 223,/). There are also interosseous ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. Laterally there are articular surfaces between the bones, with oflisets of the common synovial membrane. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 221, n) passes transversely between the two ; and a plantar hgament (fig. 223, takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct synovial sac, or with a prolongation of the common tarsal syno^dal membrane. The synovial membrane of the articulations of the cuneiform bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiforms it sends one pro- longation forwards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones ; another, out- wards, to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone ; and sometimes a third to the joint between the external cuneiform and the os cuboides. Articular surfaces. On the scaphoid are three articular faces, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The tlu-ee cunei- forms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, which is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the scaphoid715 LIGAMENTS OF TARSUS WITE METATARSUS. Fig. 224.' in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner ^P'J^^^''''- one nioves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. ^^^^ When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: ligameuts, and as they rise the interrosseous and transverse plantar bands will keep them united. • • t • In standing and in progression these bones are separated some- f"pi^o!" what from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and gression. stretcliing of the transverse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the four U"'"" J'f the ineta- outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, tarsus by and interrosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have oifsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are small transverse bands fi'om the base of one metatai'sal bone to the nest. The plantar ligaments (fig. 222) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are shoit, transverse fibres between the conti- guous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourth is in contact internally with the outer cunei- fonn. Those articulating sm-faces are covered with cartilage ; and are provided with synovial membrane, which is de- rived from the sacs se^^dng for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The digital ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the f^*^™^ transverse metatarsal ligament,- this has been described in page 686. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the Taijsus'^"^ like parts m the hand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are Joint of incased by capsule, and are provided with an upper and a Zort^er longitudvial hand to give strength to the joint: the lower band is ^^r^iute placed between prolongations from the tendons of the tibialis''"'"''''^ anticus and peroneus longus. A simple mjnovial membrane senses for the articulation. dorsal, jilantar, aud interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral imion: sjiiovial sacs. jg Great toe separate. synovial sac. * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatai-sal bones to each other behind (Bourgery).716 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Form of ■bones. Motion up and down, and lateral motion. Joints of four outer toes: dorsal liga- ments. plantar, lateral liga- ments : oblique plantar. Line of tlie articulation across the loot. The articular surfaces are oval fi-om above down, curved inwards and constricted in the middle ; that of the great toe is excavated' and tlie other is convex. Movemmt. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and m and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform with the scaphoid bone ; and this will contribute some motion to inversion and eversion of the foot. The joint possesses hkewise slight abductory and adductory move- ment. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tarsal bones of the last row correspond with four metatarsals ;—the middle cunei- form being opposite the second metatarsal bone, the external cuneiform touching that of the third toe, and the os cuboides carrying the two outer bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with cartilage, and have longitudinal dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, with some oblique in the sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are thin bands of fibres, which are more or less longitudinal as they extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone receives one ligament, except that of the second toe, to which there are three ;—the three bands to the second coming from all the cuneiform bones, one from each. The third bone obtains a ligament from the external cunei- form ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the OS cuboides. Plantar ligaments (fig. 222). There is one longitudinal land from each of the two outer cmreiform to the corresponding metatarsal bone; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal ; they lie deeply between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsals : they will be better seen by cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe there are two bands, one on each side :—the imier is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed into the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral shp on its outer side, which is inserted behind into the external cuneiform bone. Oblique plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends across from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsals ; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch in front of the last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone.METATARSO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. 717 Two synovial membranes are present in these tarso-metatarsal two syno- y vial mem- articulations. branes. There is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, which serves for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the bones: this is not always separate from the following. The second is placed in the joint between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is fin offset of the common sjmovial membrane belonging to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuneiform bones (p. 714) : prolongations from it are fm-nished to the lateral articular faces of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Articular surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not flat; for the Form of metatarsal bones are undulating, and the tarsal are uneven to fft ' into the others. Movement. From the wedge-shaped form of the metatarsal bones a slight movement from above down is obtainable ; and tills is greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there is an abductory and adductoiy motion; and a small degi'ee of the same exists in the fourth toe. adduction. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been taken away. Separate the the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus may be seen l^^teroi^'^^ by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and seous. fi'om the OS cuboides ; the latter bone from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsals from one another. The dissector will find that, in using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the ligaments. IMetatarsus with phalanges. These are condyloid joints, in Union of which the head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cavity "lui ^liT^"^ of the phalanx. lauges, by Each articulation has two lateral and an inferior ligament, as in two lateral the hand; and the joint is further strengthened above by an ex-and inferior: pansion derived from the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A distinct synovial membrane exists in each joint. In the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones, synovial which are connected with the inferior and lateral ligaments. All these structm-es are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct; and their anatomy is more fully described with the dissection of that part. (See page 322.) Surfaces of bone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, which Form of is longest from above down, and reaches farthest on the plantar surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint as in the hand, there is angular Kind of motion in four different directions, with circumduction. motion. Flexion and extension. Wlicn the joint is bent the phalanx passes Bonding under the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is extended extond- the phalanx moves back beyond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to flexion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the st^ito of stretching of the fore part of the lateral ligaments, and by the = extensor tendon ; and to extension, by the tightness of the inferiorDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 718 lateral motion: circular motion limited. Union of the phalanges, synovial sac. Form of tones. Kind of motion, movement of tone, state of ligaments. and the hinder part of each lateral ligament, and by the flexor tendons. Lateral movement. The phalanx passes from side to side across the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by the lateral ligament of the side from which it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the revolving of the phalanx over the rounded head of the metatarsal bone, is least impeded in the great toe joint ; but these movements in the foot are not so free as in the hand. ARTicrLATiONS OF THE PHALANGES. There are two phalangeal joints to each toe, except the first. Ligaments similar to those in the metatarso-phalangeal joints, viz., two lateral and an inferior, are to be recognised in these articula- tions. The joint between the last two phalanges is least distinct; and oftentimes the small bones are immoveably united by osseous substance. These ligaments receive a more particular notice with the dissection of the hand (p. 323). A simple synovial mevibrane exists in each phalangeal articulation. Articular surfaces. In both phalangeal joints, the nearest phalanx presents a trochlear surface ; and the distal one is marked by two lateral hollows or cups with a median ridge. Movement. Only flexion and extension are permitted in the two phalangeal joints of the toes, as in the hand. In flexion the farther phalanx glides under the nearer ; and in extension the two are brought into a straight line. The bending is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon ; and the straightening is limited by the inferior Hgament and the flexor tendons. I719 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. External pudic superficial epi- gastric superficial cir- cumflex iliac Profunda Muscular Anastomotic . Popliteal . {Superior inferior. External circumflex Internal circumflex first perforating second perforating third perforating k terminal branch. [Superficial deep branch. Muscular upper internal | upper external j lower internal j lower'external ] azygos articular sural. Anterior tibial Posterior tibial / Ascending . I descending (transverse. / Miiscular 1 articular ' j ascending . V transverse . nutritious. final branches articular articular ,'Kecurrent cutaneous muscular internal malleolar external malleolar articular tarsal f three interos- ( seous. first interosseous communicating to deep arch ( To great toe and • ( half the next. metatarsal. digital ' Peroneal . nutritious to tibia communicating to peroneal articular internal plantar ^ Muscular . J. nutritious to fibula (anterior peroneal. external plantar . Muscular 'Muscular posterior perfor- ating Vplantar arch . ■{ digital, for three toes and a half anterior perfor- ating. oftrart^fes'^f^thelV^ ^^^-^h end in the limb. wiU be found in the TableVEIXS OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLK OF THE VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. /Posterior tibial Anterior tibial. (Muscular plantar arch internal plantar articular cninmunicating to saplieuous mitritious ^Posterior per- forating digital from three toes and a half anterior per- forating. \ peroneal {Anterior pero- neal muscular nutritious. Communicating ( to deep arch . j interosseous Digital from great toe and half the next. metatarsal. tarsal malleolar commiuiicating to saphenous muscular recuiTent. f Branch from dor- I sal arch of foot j plantar External saphenous.veins from outer sideof oscalcis cutaneous in the f Three interos- ■ J. seous. leg. sural articular muscular. f Superficial (deep branch. Terminal branch first perforating second perforating . Nutritions, third perforating. ( Ascending External circumflex. < transverse ( descending. Internal circumflex (Muscular I articular. Branch from dorsal arch of the foot plantar veins about os calcis communicating with posterior and anterior tibial communicating with deep veins of tliigh cutaneous from outer and inner parts of thigh external jnidic superticial ejiigastric superficial circumflex iliac721 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLE OF THE NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. , / Posterior and /I. extonial anterior cutaueous ( branolies. /Accessory . Oliturator f to obturator trunk .-< to peotineus I to liip joint. to obttirator externus to articulation . Anterior crui-al superficial divi- sion deep division /Superficial por- tion ^deep part Branch ") . V f Muscular ( To gracilis {to adductor longus. j to plexus in the V thigli and artery fTo adductor bre- vis and luagnus articular. /■Muscular f To sartorius ■ t to pectineus. "j middle cutaneous I internal cuta- ( V neous . . ( Muscular internal saphe- nous Anterior and inner branches. To rectus to vastus externus—articular to vastus Internus and crureus ■) Branch to plexus over patella .) to leg and foot. articular of genito crural To integuments. . Small sciatic 2. Great sciatic f Inferior gluteal -j inferior pudendal • ( cutaneous to gluteal region, thigh, and leg. /Articular to hip to hamstrings. external pop- liteal internal pop- liteal Articular cutaneous peroneal communicating recurrent articular musculo-cuta- neous I To peronei 3. To gluteus 4. To quad- "» ratus and VArticular. genielli . J 5. Superior ( To glutei gluteal . I to tensor vaginte femoris. anterior tibial 'Articular muscular short saphenous posterior tibial ( cutaueous to foot and toes. I" Muscular . i articular ( cutaneous to two toes. Muscular to flexors internal plantar Cutaneous of the sole muscular four digital communicating branch articular to the toes. external plantar 'superficial 11^"^™!?'-, part . <'«;9 digital ' (articular, (Muscular deep part. 3 A t articular.CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball; siirroiniding sheath. Parts in front of it. The dissec- tion to be made on the eye of the ox. Detach the muscles. Form of the ball. Position of optic nerve. Diameter; Composi- tion ; number of coats, and central parts. Dissection. The eyeball is the organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit. Supported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded bj"- muscles which impart movement to it; and a thin membrane (tunica vaginalis oculi) isolates the ball, so as to allow free movement. Two lids protect the eye from external injury, and moderate the degree of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or ex- posed surface is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the stu- dent procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissec- tion. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, may be useful. Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the differ- ent muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. The hall of the eye (fig. 225) is roundish in form and consists of two parts, which differ in appearance, viz., an opaque posterior por- tion, forming five-sixths of the whole, and a smaller transparent piece (cornea) in fi-ont; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior belonging to the smaller sphere. To the back of the eye the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it nutritive vessels and the nei-ves enter. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (^^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. The organ of vision is composed of central transparent parts, with enclosing membranes or coats. The coats, posited one within another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour and the vitreous body. Dissection. To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dis- sected, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly : he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, with their strength and appearance ; and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are after- wards given.723 CHARACTERS OF FIBROUS COAT. Fibrous coat of the eyeball. The outer casing of the eye con- Fib.-ouB sists of an opaque hinder part called sclerotic, and of an anterior transparent portion, the cornea. o„,„,„fi^ The SCLEROTIC (cornea opaca) is the firm, whitish, and opaque Sclerotic portion of the external stratum of the eyeball, which supports the more delicate structures within. . ^, • i Dissection Dissection. To examine the inner and outer surfaces ot tins layei to see the it will be necessary to cut circularly with a scissors through the interior, cornea close to the sclerotic, and to remove the cornea from the front of the eyeball ; on piercing the cornea the aqueous fluid escapes from the containing chamber. The other structures may be then abstracted fi-om the interior of the sclerotic covering, and may be set aside with the cornea for subsequent use. The sclerotic tunic of the eye (fig. 225, a) is bell-shaped, and ^^^^^"^ extends fi-om the entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the cornea, forming about five-sixths of the ball. At its back, and a Httle to the inner side of the centre (one tenth of an inch), the optic nerve (J) is transmitted through an aperture in it : this opening decreases in size fxom without inwards, and is cribriform when the nerve is drawn out—the lattice-like condition * Diagram of a horizontal section of the eyeball, a. Outer or sclerotic coat, and d, the cornea, b. Middle or choroidal coat. m. Ciliary ligament, s. Ciliary process, e. Ciliary muscle, and/, iris. c. Inner coat or retina, con- tinuous with the optic nerve behind, with a dark layer outside it. g. Lens, i. Suspensory ligament of the lens. h. Vitreous body. n. Hj'aloid mem- brane, i. Posterior chamber, o. Canal of Petit, r. Sinus circularis iridis. I. Optic nerve. The dotted line through the centre is the longitudinal axis of the ball. 3 A 2DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 724 and bofore. Ending in front. Outer and inner sur- face. Thickness. Sinus circularis. Formed of white and yellow fibres with cells. Vessels and nerves. Cornea: size, extent, fomi. Curve. Surfaces. Action on the rays of light. Composi- tion. Cornea proper is formed of layers; its tissue continued into that of the sclerotic, being due to the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and nerves are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and the centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is continuous with the transparent cornea. Oh the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached ; on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour with flocculi or fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of niptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Where it joins the cornea it becomes again somewhat thickened. In its sub- stance near the union with the cornea is a small flattened venous space, the canal of Schlemm (sinus circularis iridis, fig. 233, '"). Structure. The sclerotic coat is formed of layers of white fibrous tissue, collected into bundles, with a fine network of yellow or elastic fibres. In it are scattered nucleated cells, fusiform in shape, or possessing rays, and some vsdth pigment. Though interlaced with one another, the fibres have rather a longitudinal direction to- wards the back of the ball, and a transverse one at the outer surface near the cornea. Only a few vessels ramify in the membrane, and end in capillaries with large meshes. The presence of nerves in it is a subject for inquiry. COENEA (fig. 225, d). This firm transparent membrane (cornea pellucida) forms about one-sixth of the eyeball, and measures about half an inch transversely, but rather less fi-om above do-wn. Its shape is circular ; though, Avhen viewed in fi-ont, it appears largest in the transverse direction, in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure encroaching further on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex anteriorly, but concave posteriorly ; and it is -^ih. to -J-th of an inch in thickness. Its anterior is of rather less extent than its posterior surface. At the circumference it is thinned, and is blended with the sclerotic coat by continuity of tissue. Sup- ported by the aqueous humour, it deflects the light transmitted to the eye, and influences by its greater or smaller convexity degi-ees of sight at different distances. After death it becomes flaccid fi-om the transudation of the aqueous humour; or, if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered opaque by infiltration of the tissue by that fluid. Structure (fig. 226). The cornea is laminar in texture. It is con- structed of a special thick part called cornea proper: in fi-ont of ' this is the conjunctiva, and behind is the membrane of Demours. The cornea proper, A (lamellated cornea), is made up of a series of superposed layers, about sixty in number, which join one another at numerous points, and cannot therefore be detached for any dis- tance. The laminae are formed of fibres, continuous with those of the sclerotic, which are flattened into membranous layers, arranged one over another. This structure possesses great toughness; and725 STRUCTURE OF CORNEA. its transparency is destroyed by disturbance of the position of the strata. The tissue when boiled gives chondrin. Between the corneal layers are flattened irregular spaces, which join freely with one another ; and these intei-vals are occupied by nucleated stellate cells, called corneal corpuscles. In the healthy condition bloodvessels do not penneate it, but cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Nerves ramify in it, after losing their opacity at the circumference : they are said to form a subepithelial plexus on the anterior surface, from which varicose fibrils are prolonged amongst the pieces of the epithelium. The membrane at the back of the cornea (fig. 226)—membrane of Demours—consists of a basement layer covered by epithelium. The basement layer, E (posterior elastic lamina. Bowman), may be peeled off after a cut has been made across the cornea. It is dense, hard and elastic, measuring -^oo^"^ 2^*^ ^ ^"^^ ™ t\rick.- ness ; it is veiy brittle, tearing readily when an attempt is made to separate it, and curls up when it is free, with the attached surface innermost. Though very elastic, the struc- ture is destitute of fibres. It is always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the comea this lamina breaks up into processes (" pillars of the iris ") which blend with the outer margin of the ills, and with the sclerotic and choroid coats. A luminar epithelium, G, like that on serous membranes, clothes its fi-ee surface (fig. 226). The conjunctiva in front of the cornea (fig. 226) consists chiefly of epithehum cells, though there is a subjacent basement-like stratum. The basement layer, b (ant. elastic lamina, Bowman), is transparent, and only fi-om Corneal spaces, and cells. Has not blood-ves- sels. Nerves. Layer be- hind comea. Basement layer; Fig. 226.* frth to rth of an inch thick. It seems characters; attachment at margin; has an epl- theUmn. Conjunctiva Basement layer 2000"""" 1000 to be a somewhat hardened piece of the cornea, without corneal spaces and cor- puscles. From it fine threads are prolonged into the proper corneal layers, as in the woodcut. The epithelium, d, is formed of three or four layers of scales, the deeper being columnar, but the superficial laminar in form. _ Vascular Coat op the Eyeball (fig. 229). The next covering is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of blood-vessels * Vertical section A of the cornea.—b. Basement layer of cornea, with d the conjunctival epithelium on it. 0. Oblique fibres from it to the'layers of the cornea, e. Basement lamina, with p, epithelium on it of the mem- brane of Demours. g. Surface view of the epithelium of the membrane of Demours. has an epi- theliiun. Clioroid coat is vascular. *DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 726 Compo- iicuts. Dissection to sec tlio clioroicl portion. To show tlie ciliary processes ■by an anterior and a pos- terior view. To make a vertical section. Form and extent: anterior termination, opening. and pigment cells : the muscles in the interior of the ball are con- nected with it. It is constructed of three parts : a posterior (fchoroid) correspond- ing with the sclerotic ; an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea ; and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a level with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. Supposing the comea of an eye cut through circulariy, as before directed (p. 723), it will be necessary to take away the sclerotic to lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel, or with a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the fi-ont of the choroid by breaking through a soft wliitish structure uniting them. Then, the eye being put into water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piece-meal with a scissors ; in taking it o£E the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be pre- served. The white ring around the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the purpose of obtaining an anterior view of the ciliary pro- cesses, which are connected with the anterior termination of the cho- roid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic from the choroid ; and after two or three cuts have been made in it towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position. On removing with care the iris, taking it away from the centre towards the circumference, the ciliary processes be- neath will be displayed. A posterior view of the processes may be prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with a scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed from the posterior half ; on taking away the portion of the vitreous mass adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and wiping ofE the pigment from the back of the iris, the small processes will be made manifest. By means of tliis last dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it Avill show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. Tliis section, which is made with difficulty, should be attempted in water with a sharp large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut with a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 225, b) is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and extends fi-om the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary muscle is entire, it appears to terminate there ; but it may be seen in the other dissec- tions to bend inwards behind that muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliary processes) at the back of the iris. This covering is rather thicker and stronger behind than in front. It is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in fi-ont by the ciliary muscle. Posterioriy it is pierced by a round apertm-e for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly it is united with the uis.CHOKOIDAL COAT WITH ITS STRUCTUKE. The outer surface (fig. 229) is flocculent and is covered by the remnants of a thin membranous layer (membrana fusca, ^^P^^'^^- roidea) between it and the sclerotic coat: on it may be seen smaU veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary artenes and nerves The inner surface is smooth, and touches the tlun dark pigmentary layer of the retina (fig. 225). The ciUaru processes (fig. 227, h) are solid projections on the inner surface of the choroidal coat, and are arranged m a circle. About 85 in number, they lie side by side, and consist of larger and smaller eminences; at their inner extremity they are united by transverse ridges. . i ^, • . n About Uh of an inch in length, they increase m depth internally and projecting around the lens, bound circumferentially by their free 727 Outer sur- face rough ; inner smooth. Ciliary pro- cesses, position, two kinds. Connections with parts around. Fig. 227.* Fig. 228.t ends the space (fig. 225, i, posterior chamber) behind the iiis. In front they correspond with the back of the iris towards then- inner end, but are separated firom it by pigment ; and behind they are closely connected with the membrane (t suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous body, and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that membrane. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed ° principally of bloodvessels. Kamified pigment cells make up most of the rest of the coat. The stroma or web of the choroid is formed by the outrunners of its stroma, special pigment cells (fig. 228, ^) which unite together, and con- struct, with fine areolar tissue, a fibrous network. Its meshes are finer towards the inner tlian the outer surface of the choroid. On * Inner view of the front of the choroid coat with its ciliary processes, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. 6. Ciliary pro- ces-ses. c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, e. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil. t Pigment cells of the eyeball (KoUiker).—A. Ramified pigment cells of the choroid coat. B. Front view of the hexagonal cells of the pigmentary membrane.728 DISSECTION OP THE EYE. Blood-ves- sels, ■with large meshes a:id pigment cells exter- nally : capillaries internally. Strocture of ciliaiy pro- cesses. fho ""f-i"the fibrous web the vessels ramify, with the following diiierence in their arrangement At the outer part (fig. 229) the larger branches of both arteries and vems are situate ; and the veins (/.) form curves (vasavorticosa) as ey end m four or five chief efllerent trunks. In the interspace of the vessels are the ramified pigment cells (fig. 228, which contam a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colouring matter At the intenor of the fibrous web the vessels form a net work of capillaries without pigment cells, and with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is described sometimes as a separate layer (tunica RuyscUana). m the cihary processes there is a similar texture of ramified bloodvessels, though with larger capillary meshes than in the Fig. 229.* choroid ; and towards the free ends the intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter. Ciliaiy CiLiAEY MUSCLE (fig. 229). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary muscle (e) (annulus alhidus), may be seen in its natural position outside the front of the choroid coat. It consists of unstriated fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about ^th of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat (fig. 229, e) ; there are two sets of fibres in it, radiating and circular:— Radiating The radiating or superficial, arise in fi'ont from the sclerotic coat ■° (fig. 225, a), and the fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the * View of the front of the choroidal coat and iris—external surface (Zinn). —a. Sclerotic, cut, and reflected. 6. Choroid coat. c. Iris. d. Circular, e. Radiating fibres of ciliai-y muscle. /. Ciliary nerves, and g. ciliary ai-teries between the two outer coats, h. Veins of the choroid coat.729 CILIARY MUSCLE AND IRIS. cornea ; its fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into the choroid' coat opposite to, and rather behind the cihary processes. The nerves to the iris pierce it. The circular fibres (cihary hgamcnt, fig. 229, d) are internal to c^rcula^ the radiating, and form a ring about -^J-th of an inch wide around the edge of the iris: they are not attached to the sclerotic or the cornea. Use. The radiating fibres of the muscle draw fonvards the fore Action, part of the choroid coat, and the ciliary processes, and thereby relax the suspensory ligament of the lens. The circular fibres are said to compress the outer part of the lens. The IRIS (fig. 229, c) is a vascular and muscular structure, about ^jjfj^jf Jf^^^' half an inch in diameter, whose vessels are continuous with those muscular, of the choroidal coat. Its position and connections may be observed in the difEerent dissections that have been prepared. Placed within the ring of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in fi-ont Situation, of the lens (fig. 225, /), and is pierced by an aperture for the trans- mission of the light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured Fonn. in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference, it is connected with the choroid coat and the ^^^f^' posterior elastic layer of the cornea. The anterior surface is free ^^gj^joj. in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines* converging towards surface, the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of posterior, pigment (fig. 225), to which the term uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 229) is the ^Jtipi^ of the eye ; this is Tiie pupil, slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from -^th to ^ of an inch) by the contraction of the muscular fibres, according to the degree of hglit acting on the retina. Membrane of the pujoil. In the fetus the aperture of the pupil is Membraue closed by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attached to |.g"{^g the edge of the iris, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is suspended. The vessels in it are con- situation • tinuous behind with those of the iris and the case of the lens. About the eighth month the vessels become imperA^ous, and at the time of dis- time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. appearance. Structure (fig. 227). The stroma of the iris is composed of fibres Component of areolar tissue, arranged circularly at the circumference ; and as structures, radiating bundles passing like rays towards the pupil. In it are involuntary muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment cells. Vessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular fibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig. 227, d) is a naiTow Spliiucter band about ji^tli of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on the posterior aspect of the iris. The dilator of the pupil (e) is said and dilator to begin at the outer border of the iris, and to consist of bundles of "''l^^i'"- fibres which join one another, and end internally in the sphincter. Action. Enlargement of the pupil is effected by. shortening of the How they radiating fibres ; and diminution, by contraction of the circular ring. The movements of the iris are involuntary and regulate the admission of light into the ball.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 730 Position and form of pig. went cells. Pigment gives colour. Arteries are looped. Veins. Nerves of the iris. Arteries of tlie eyeball posterior ciliary; two of them named long ciliary. Anterior ciliary. Fig. 230.* The imjment cells are spread out in the stroma, and are disposed also on both surfaces. In the stroma they are ramified and irre- gular, as in the choroid (fig. 228, and may contain yellow, brown, or very dark pigment. On the front tliey are ovalish or rounded, but still ramified ; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uvea), the cells are round without outrunners, and are filled with granules. The colour of the iris, is dependent upon the tint, and the position of the pigment. The artenes of the u-is (fig. 230, ^) have a looped arrangement: they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches {d, p. 46). but some come from the vessels of the cihary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the long ciliary arteries form a circle (e) around the margin of the iris ; from this loop other anastomo- tic branches are directed to- wards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the arte- ries in their arrangement in the iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroidal-coat. The nerves of the iris (fig. 230, a) divide into branches which communicate, and extend towards the pupil ; they are with- out dark outline, and their ending is not known. Ciliary Vessels and Nerves (fig. 229). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 46), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliaiy ; but they will not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. The posterior ciliary branches (gf) pierce the sclerotic coat around and close to the optic nerve, and running forwards on the choroid, enter its substance at different points. Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a circle aromid the iris in the ciliaiy muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the inner, rather below the middle. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit fi-om muscular * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the ills. -i. Half of the iris representing the nerves. a. Nei-ves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, &, within it (Kblliker). b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, e. Arch of vessels at the outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. </. Sphincter of the iris.731 CHAMBER OF AQUEOUS HUMOUR. branches (p. 46) ; they pierce tlic sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the Ion"- ciliary vessels. In inllaramation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and ofEsets of them form a ring round the cornea. The jiosterior ciliary veins (fig. 229) are commonly four in number, ajid the branches entering these trunks form arches (A, vasa vorti- veins; cosa) on the surface of the choroid coat : they perforate the sclerotic layer at separate spots, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. Antenor ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, ^[jj^^J^y and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- veins, thalmic (p. 46) : they communicate with the venous space of the sinus circularis iridis (p. 724). The ciliary nerves (fig. 229,/) are derived fi-om the lenticular Ciliai-y ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 45). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid, nearly as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot tiie nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the cihary muscle, enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unlvnown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and e"d in iris •' •' and ciliary the choroid. muscle. Ch.\mber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 225). The space between spnce con- the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, ^""ofg contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the fetus iiumom-; before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane, but in the adult it is only partly 'f^^^rnto divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boun- two by the daries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on Avliich a vertical section has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in Anterior front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. ^ The posterior chamber (i) is a narrow intei-val behmd the iris at Posterior; the circumference, which is bounded in fi-ont by the iris ; behind ijound- b}' the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous Jiuviour is quite transparent, and consists nearly of j^^^^^^f pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. The Retina (fig. 225, c). This layer (tunica nei-vea) is in part continuous with the optic nerve, and is the most delicate of all the optic nerve.' coats of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is received in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an dissection eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To retina.""" bring it into view on the eyeball in which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps, whilst the eye is immersed in fluid. The retina is the most internal of the three concentric strata in Situation in the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat andDISSECTION OF THE EYE. 732 Form and extent. Cells pro- longed in front. Colour transpa- rency and tliickness. Outer SIU-- I'ace is floc- culent. On the luner sm-- I'aee are seen porus opti- cus. yellow spot. fovea cen- tralis, Layers in the retina One of nerve suhstance has two strata; Fig. 231.* the transparent mass (vitreous) in the interior. It is moulded upon and supported by the vitreous body : and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, with a large aperture in front. Beginning beh.nd at the optic nerve (fig. 225, c), the thin layer extends forwards to the cihary processes (their outer extremities), where it ends in a wavy border—the ora serrata. Where the retina ceases in front, a thin gray layer (ciliary part of the retma) composed of elongated nucleated cells, which are not nerve elements, is contmued on as far as the tips of the ciliary pro- cesses (fig. 233,^') on which it ends. The retina is of a pinkish gray colour, and is semitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it when the two external coats of the eye have been removed ; but it soon loses this translucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. Its thickness is greater at the pos- terior than the anterior part of the eyeball, being --t^th of an inch in the former, and y|oth in the latter situation. On the outer surface of the dissected retina are some fine fi-ag- ments of a structure (Jacob's membrane) to be noticed presently, wliich float in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed. The inner surface is smooth : it is covered with folds in a pre- paration of an eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of the retina (fig. 231). In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, is a slightly elliptical yellow part (fig. 231, ^th of an inch in diameter, wliich is named the yellow sjjot (limbus luteus of Sommerring). Almost in the centre of that spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. Structure (fig. 232). In the retina are layers or strata with blood- vessels : viz., an inner (^), composed of nerve elements ; an outer (\ Jacob's membrane), formed of peculiar- bodies ; an intermediate or granular layer (^) ; and outside all is a pigmentary stratum. Passing through the layers of the retina except Jacob's andthepig- mentar}^, are minute tlireads—fibres of Miiller. The layer of nerve substance (^) is made up of nei'^'e fibres, and of a molecular matrix containing different-sized nerve cells ; these constituents have the following arrangement:— The tubules of the optic nerve (Ji), having become solid in textui-e * Objects on the inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the ball is the yellow limbus luteus, here represented by shading : and in its middle the dark spot. To the inner side is the nerve, with its accompanying artery (Sommerring),733 STRTJCTURE OF RETINA. Fig. 232. and gray in colour from the absence of tlie white substance of Schwann, radiate in bundles from the end of the optic trunk, and communicate together to construct a thin web at the inner aspect of the nervous layer ; this delicate network with lengthened meshes diminishes in strength as it is followed forwards. Outside the nerve fibres is a stratum of molecular material (/), with large pale pyriform and roundish nucleated nerve cells {g) ■with oifsets : this layer begins at the entrance of the optic nerve, and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. Around the optic nen'e the cells are arranged in a layer one deep, but over the yellow spot they are about six or eight deep ; near the ora serrata they ai-e scattered in clusters. An offset from each cell is supposed to join internally the nerve fibres; and other offsets are prolonged ex- ternally into the molecular material (/) and seem lost in it. The outer or columnar stratum {}) (Jacob's membrane) consists of two different elements—rods and cones, which are arranged with their ends inwards and outwards. The rods (a) are elongated solid and grooved particles, which are pointed at the irmer end, and are more numerous than the other ele- ments ; from their inner ends fine threads (rod-fibres) are prolonged through the outer set of granules (c), and are there connected with elhp- tical transversely striated bodies. The co7ies (b) are shaped like a flask with a long neck, and have the larger end turned inwards : they do not project so far out as the rods. When viewed on the outer surface, they form large isolated an inner of altered nerve fibres; and an outer of molecules and nerve cells. Outer layer has special parts. Rods, ■with fibres. Cones, form, * Magnified vertical section of the retina (altered from KolHker)—1. Columnar layer ■with rods, a. and cones, b. 2. Granular layer with outer, c, and inner granules, e, and intermediate non-granular part, d. 3. Nervous layer with g, nerve cells, and h, nerve fibres : outside the cells is a finely granular part, /, and inside the fibres a limiting layer, i, formed by fibres of Miiller. On the left of the vertical section is an ideal plan of the connection of the several parts. Thus the nerve cell, g, unites internally with nerve fibres, and externally with the inner granular layer; and the inner granular layer is further joined by a thread (fibre of Miiller) to the outer granular layer. k. Microscopic appearance of the outer surface of the retina over the yellow spot, where there are only cones. I. Appearance of the retina near the yellow spot—a single circle of rods surrounding each cone ; appearance of the middle of the retina, a large number of the rods surrounding each cone. In all three figures the larger rings represent the cones, and the smaller ones the rods seen endwise.DISSECTION OP THE EYE. 734 niid ending 'if fUii-es. Characters. Granular layer. Inner set of cell.s: outer set. Molecular material. Fibres of Miiller. Extent. Connec- tions. Inner ending. Struetiu-e of yellow spot. Colour. Vessels. swellings (m) amongst the ends of the rods, and at a deeper level. By their inner ends they are united with a pear-shaped cell (fig. 232) in the outer part of the granular layer; and fibres from them are said to reach as far as the molecular material (d) between the two sets of granules. In the fi-esh state both are soft, clear, and homogeneous, with a glistening appearance, but these characters are soon destroyed by water and other fluids: their structure is not ascertained. The granular layer (^) consists of innumerable rounded and ovalish bodies with nuclei, which are collected into two sets (c and e), with an intervening fine molecular material (d). In the inner set (e) there are several kinds of cells, whose nature is unknown. Two sets, which are oval and nucleated, are said to have this arrangement:—One is connected with the fibres of Miiller; and the other has a fibre at each end, like a bipolar ganglion-cell, which is continued outwards and inwai'ds into the molecular material (cl and/). In the outer set (c) two kinds of nucleated cells are to be recog- nized, which are connected with the fibres from the rods and cones in Jacob's layer. The cells of the rod-fibres, the most numerous, are elhptical, and marked by cross strife (Henle, fig. 232). The cells of the cone-fibres are pyriform in shape, with the base tm-ned to the cone, but are free fi-om cross stripes. The intervening molecular portion ((Z) has a striated appearance, fi-om the passage of the fibres of Miiller through it. The fibres of Miiller (fig. 232) are extremely fine thi-eads, which pierce the substance of the retina, supporting and uniting the several layers, as with a framework of areolar tissue : they reach fi'om Jacob's layer to the inner surface. As they pass through the granular laj'cr they are connected with very fine threads amongst both sets of granules (c and e) ; and in the inner set (e) each possesses an oval nucleated cell. At the inner surface of the retina they are dilated and joined to each other, so as to construct a bounding stratum (i, membrana limitans interna) ; and at the outer part they are united in another boundary line at the bases of the cones (membrana limitans externa). Structure of the yellow spot. The strata of the retina undergo modifications in the yellow spot, the chief of wliich are the follow- ing :—externally, the rods of Jacob's layer Q) are absent, and the cones become less bulged and longer towards the centre. Inter- nally, the nerve cells {g) of the layer (^) are six to eight deep, but the nerve fibres Qi) gradually cease at the edge of the central fovea. The intermediate strata thin gradually towards the fovea centralis, where they are so blended as to render difiScult their identification. The yellow colour is due to pigment diffused through the sub- stance, except through Jacob's membrane and the outer set of cells (c) of the granular layer. Water removes it easily. Capillary vessels occupy the yellow spot, whilst the larger branches pass around on each side.735 VITEEOUS BODY AND MExMBRANE, The pigmentary layer (fig. 225) covers the outer surface of the pigmentary retina, and is connected thereto by fine processes/* It consists of a ^yer, single stratum of six-sided nucleated cells, with granular contents (fig. 228, ") which are applied to each other by the edges. Each how formed; possesses a nucleus towards the outer surface, and much pigment towards the inner. From the inner surface of the cells project ^^^^^^^^^^ very fine threads, which penetrate between the rods and cones of Jacob's layer. The pigmentary layer is constituted thus as far as the ora sen-ata of the retina ; but in front of that line, viz., on the ciliary portion of the retina, the cells are rounded and full of pig- ment, and are continuous with the pigment of the ciliary processes extent, and back of the iris. Vessels of the retina. The central artery of the retina, accom- Vessels of panied by its vein, enters the eyeball through the optic nerve (p. 46). Inside the retina the vessel divides into four or five branches ; these pierce the stratum of fibres (fig. 232, h), and end in a network of capillaries amongst the ganglion cells (</), and in the molecular material (/) outside them. In the yellow spot only ^1^^^°''' capillaries exist. In the fetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of ^^us?^'° the vitreous mass to supply the lens capsule. Vitreous Body. A transparent mass fills the greater part of the ^^^y""^ space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 225, h), which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistence of soft jelly. Dissection. The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which "^9 o^^ji" * , . . ... , view of it, the retina was dissected, by talang away the retina, the iris, and the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, j^^^^**^ an eyeball should be fixed upright; the sclerotic and choroid coats are to be cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; and on removing carefully the cornea, ciliary muscle and processes with the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The vitreous body (fig. 225, h) is globular in form, and fills four- gio'i|'g°g^g^ fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly by it. hollowed, and receives the lens with its capsule (gr), to which it is closely united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same Composi- composition as the aqueous humour with some salts and albumen. Enveloping the whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the fine transparent covering of the Hyaloid vitreous body. It passes continuously over the surface ; and in the fetus it is connected with fibres which penetrate the mass. On the Connec- inner aspect are a few delicate nuclei. • At the fore part it is joined by the membrane (t) supporting the ^""o"*" lens ; and it ends by uniting with the back of the lens capsule, and behind. * In the dissection of tlie retina this pigmentai-y layer is removed vnth the choroid through the rupture of the uniting processes ; and it has therefore been commonly described as a part of the choroid coat.DISSECTION OP THE EYE. 736 Structure. Fibrous, with a central canal. How noiu-islied. Suspensory ligament, extent. At the bottom of tho ball the membrane is closely connected with the retina. Stmcture of the vitreous mass. From the slow escape of the fluid after puncture of the hyaloid membrane it has been supposed that there are membranous partitions, dividing the vitreous mass into compartments which communicate with each other. In the centre of the vitreous body is a fibrous canal, which reaches to the back of the lens, and transmits a branch from the central artery of the retma to the lens capsule in the fetus. The vitreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extra-vascular, and receive their nutritive material fi-om the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory/ ligament of the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a trans- parent membranous structure (fig. 233, t), placed around the lens capsule, which joins externally the hyaloid membrane opposite the Fig. 233.* is mai'ked Ijy folds called ciliary processes. Condition how altered. Canal of Petit: situation; anterior part saccu- lated. anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface ; and when these are washed away, plaits (ciliary processes) come into view, which are less prominent and longer than the processes of the choroid coat, and do not quite reach the lens capsule intenialty. The two sets of prominences are dovetailed together,—the projections of one being received into hollows between the other. In this membrane are stiff longitudinal and elastic fibres. The tenseness or laxness is influenced by the state of the ciliary muscle, for during its contraction the membrane is rendered lax by the drawing forwards of the ciliary processes. Canal of Petit. Around the margin of the lens capsule is a small canal (fig. 233, o) about one-tenth of an inch across, which is situate between the suspensory ligament and the front of the hyaloid mem- brane. When the canal has been opened, and filled with air by means of a blowpipe, it is sacculated at regular mtervals, like the * Enlarged representation of the parts of the eyeball on one side opposite the lens : the letters refer to the same parts as in the woodcut, 25.5. d. Cornea, e. Ciliary muscle. /. Iris. g. Lens. i. Posterior chamber, j. Ciliary part of the retina, m. Ciliary ligament, n. Hyaloid membrane. 0. Canal of Petit, r. Sinus circularis iiidis. s. Ciliary process, t. Sus- pensory ligament of the lens.LENS AXD ITS CAPSULE. 737 • large intestine, by the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Lens and its capsule. The lens is situate behind the pupil of Lens of the the eye (fig. 225,g), and brings.to a focus on the retina the rays of '^y*^'^"- light entering through that aperture. The capsule is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which is y^^j^^^ permeable to fluid, and closely surrounds the lens : it is seated in a git^^t;jon hollow on the front of the viti'eous body. The anterior surface and connec- projects towards the pupil ; whilst the posterior is received on the viti'eous mass, to wliich it is inseparably united. The circumference of the case corresponds with the canal of Petit (o). Its anterior surface (fig. 225) is free, and touches the iris (/), p^^j.^."*^"""^ but is separated from it by a slight space at the outer edge (poste- rior chamber, i) ; it gives attachment towards the circumference to the suspensory ligament (<). The fore part of the capsule is four or five times thicker than the very thick; posterior, as far outwards as the attachment of the suspensory liga- ment, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm and quite transparent, and remains clear for some time when im- is firm and mersed in spirit, acids, and boihng water, like the elastic layers of transparent, the cornea. The posterior part of the capsule is thin and mem- Posterior branous, and decreases in thickness towards the centre : it is joined fibrous.'^ by the hyaloid membrane (n) of the vitreous body. In the adult human eye the capsule of the lens is not provided Vessels to it. with bloodvessels ; but in the fetus a branch of the central artery of the retina supplies it (p. 735). Dissection. The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin Open cap- membranous capsule in which it is inclosed. ^^^^ °^ The lens is a solid and transparent doubly convex body ; but the Surfaces are curves are unequal on the two surfaces (fig. 225, g), the posterior e^iluyr' being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded ; dimensions; and the measm-ement fi-om side to side is one tliird of an inch, but from before back about one fourth of an inch. The density density, increases from the circumference to the centre; for wliilst the superficial layers may be rubbed ofE with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines or stellse diverging from the centre, Lines on the and reaching towards the margin ; they are the edges of planes or septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the anterior surface of the lens, and connecting it with ^-"^yer of the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated polygonal cells, itto which can be recognised only in a fresh eye : these become elon- '^i?^^^^- gated towards the circumference of the lens, and seem to pass into the superficial lens-fibres. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling I'^ns is It may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers (fio- 234) arranged one within another, like those in an onion. Under the 3 BDISSECTION OP THE EYE. T88 Ponn of the laiiiiuic. fibres microscope each layer may be seen to be constructed of minute parallel fibres. It consists mostly of albumen, and no bloodvessels are found in its texture. The laminm of each surface have their apices in the centre, where the septa meet ; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and may be turned outwards towards the equator of the lens The constituent ^i?-es of the laminaj are about -^th of an inch m diameter, solid, and flattened at the margin of the lens; and the deeper fibres are narrowed and are wavy at the edge, aud six- sided, less distinct. In the superficial softer fibres are contained gra- nular nuclei (fig. 235, a). The edges are slightly wavy ; and each fibre touches six others (fig. 235, 6), viz. two on each side, with one above, and another below : contiguous fibres are Fig. 234.* Fig. 235.t and attached to the septa hy theii- ends. Change in form colour, and consistence of lens with age. dovetailed together, and this interlocking is best seen in the lens of the codfish. The ends are soft and not well defined, and are connected with the partitions on the opposite surfaces of the lens in this way :— those attached at the union of two septa on the one aspect, are fixed to the extremity of a septum on the other aspect: and the fibres passing between two septa are nearer to the pole at one end, and farther from it at the other, while the middle ones are at the same distance fi-om the ends of the septa on both aspects. Changes in the lens with age. The form of the lens is nearly spherical in the fetus; but its convexity decreases with age, particularly on the anterior aspect, tmtil it becomes flattened in the adult. In the fetus it is soft, is reddish in colour, and is not quite trans- parent; in mature age it is firm and clear; and in old age it becomes flatter on both surfaces, denser, aud of a yellowish colour. * A representation of the laininje in a hardened lens. a. The nucleus. 6. Superficial laminte. t Views of the lens fibres—after Henle.—a. Surface fibres with their nuclei, in the equatorial region of the lens. h. Transverse section of the fibres of the surface of the lens, showing their union with others.CHAPTER XI. DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The organ of hearing is made up of complex bodies, which are Constitu- lodged in, and attached to the surface of the temporal bone. The fimdamental structure, as in the eyeball, is an expansion of a special nerve over a membrane containing fluid. This delicate heaimg. apparatus is enclosed in bone for its protection ; and it is suiTounded by certain accessory structures which convey to it the vibrations produced by the sonorous undulations of the air. The auditory apparatus may be arranged into the parts outside, ^^^f^[^ and those within the substance of the temporal bone. two sets. In the EXTERNAL SET which may be iirst examined, are included Outer set. the pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal : the former has been noticed at p. 33, and the latter is described below. The AUDITORY CANAL (fig. 236) (meatus auclitorius cxternus) is the Auditory passage which leads fi-om the pinna to the ca^aty (tympanum) in the temporal bone, and transmits inwards sonorous undulations of the air. Dissection. To obtam a view of this canal, a recent temporal How to ob- bone is to be taken, to which the cai'tilaginous pinna remains o/it.^ attached. After the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn ofE; and the front of the meatus, except a ring at the inner end which gives support to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone forceps. The canal (fig. 236) is about one inch and a quarter in length. Length, and is formed partly by bone, and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely. In shape it is rather flattened fi-om direction, before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous portion. The size and outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The cartilaginous part (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in Cartilagi- length, and is formed chiefly by the pinna of the outer ear which is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed "s dcfloient by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) cross the cartilage. The osseous piece (6) is about three quarters of an inch long in Osseous the adult, and is constricted sometimes about the middle. Its outer I""'*' "> 3 ij 2740 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. outer end, extremity IS dilated, and the posteiior edge projects farther than the anterior ; the greater portion of the margin is rough, and gives at- tachment to the cartilage of the pinna. The inner end is smaller, and IS marked in the dry bone by a groove for the insertion of the membrane of the tympanum ; it is so sloped that the anterior wall ]uts beyond the posterior by about two lines. In the fetus the osseous part of the meatus is absent. After biiih it grows out of the osseous ring (tympanic bone) which supports the membrana tympani. nSane ..^^'^'''^^ meatus. A prolongation of the integument lines of the skin, the auditory passage, and is united more closely to the osseous than Fig. 236.* inner end. Condition in the fetus. glands. the cartilaginous portion; it is continued over the membrane of the tympanum in the form of a thin pelhcle. At the entrance of the meatus are a few hairs. In the subcutaneous tissue over the carti- Cerujuinous lags of the meatus lie some ceruminous glands of a yellow-brown colour, resembling in form and arrangement the sweat glands of the skin ; these secrete the ear wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices : they are absent in the osseous part, and are most abundant in that small portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. Vessels and nerves. The meatus receives its arteries from the pos- terior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the temporal branch of Xen'es. the external carotid (p. 80). Its nerves are derived from the auriculo- temporal branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p. 91). * Vertical section of the meatus auditorius and tympanum (Scarpa), a. Cartilaginous part of the meatus, b. Osseous portion, c. Membrana tjTiipani. d. Cavity of the tympanum, e. Eustachian tube. Vessels.741 BOUNDARIES OF TYMPANUM. Inner parts of the ear. The internal constituents of tlic organ internal set of hearing are enclosed within the temporal bone, and consist of two large spaces,—tympanum and labyrinth, with theii- accessory bodies. The TYMPANUM, or drum of the ear (fig. 236,d), is a hollow inter- Tympanum, posed between the meatus auditorius and the labyrinth. It commu- nicates with the pharynx by a tube (e Eustachian), through which the air has access ; and it is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are connected. Minute vessels and nerves are contained in the space. Dissection. The tympanic cavity should be examined in both a dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the squamous ^V'sn^ in portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the root of bone, the zygoma and the Glaserian fissure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone forceps some of the upper surface of the petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the dissection as above, but without a^id in the 1 • • • 1 , • , 1 1 T i ■ recent bone, domg m]ury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. Form. The cavity of the tympanum has the form of a slice of a Form and small cork, about a quarter of an inch tliick, the outer and inner boundaries being flattened and the circumference circular. Its size is greater across the space, than from without inwards ; in the former dimensions, du-ection it measures about half an inch, but in the latter not more than a quarter of an inch. The inner boundary (fig. 237) is of greater extent than the outer, inner wall and on it the following objects are to be noticed. Occupying nearly by promon- the whole surface is the large projection of the promontory (a) ; toryand its this is pointed posteriorly, and is marked by two or three minute grooves (d) which lodge the nerves in the anastomosis of Jacobson. Above and below the narrowed end of the promontory is a large aperture; both lead into the labyrinth. The upper opening (6) semicircular in shape, with the convexity g®^^*''* placed upwards, is named fenestra ovalis: into it the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture (c),— fenestra rotunda, is rather triangular in shape, and leads into the and fenestra cochlea ; it is situate within a hollow, which is somewhat semi-ellip- rotunda, tical in form. In the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane, the secondai-y membrane of the tympanum. The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the membrana On outer tjTnpani (fig. 236, c), and the surrounding bone. Above and in J'^euibrani front of the membrane, is the Glaserian or glenoid fissure, which is tympanT'^ occupied in the fresh condition by the long process of one of the ?S.n fe^ur,, small bones (malleus) ; by a small muscle, the laxator tympani ; and by tympanic vessels. Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues also through the Glaserian fissure. The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and is rough and circum- ference ;DISSECTION OP THE EAR. 742 ilicre ; around it the student may the roof; the floor. At back, opening of mastoid cells; pjTaniid; uneven on tlie surface here and obsers'e the following things. The roof is flattened, and consists of the thin osseous plate sepa- rating tlie tympanic cavity fi-om the cranium. The floor is narrower than the roof, and is curved over the subjacent jugular fossa ; it has more or less of an areolar condition, and some small apertures communicate with the fossa beneath. At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large, with other small apertures, leading into the mastoid cells (fig. 237). Below these apertures, but near the inner wall, and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontoiy, is the small conical hollow projection (e) of the pyramid ; this is perforated by Fig. 237.* aqiiediict of Fallopivis. In front canals for tensor tyni- pani and Eustachian tube. Mcmbrana an aperture, and lodges the stapedius muscle. A minute canal con- nects its ca-saty with the aqueduct of Fallopius ; and sometimes a small round spiculum of bone attaches the pyramid to the promontory. In a line with the pyramid, and arching upwards above the fenestra ovalis, is a bony ridge (/) marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The front of the tympanic cavity con-esponds with the carotid artery, only a thin piece of bone intervening. In it are the aper- tures of two canals which lie on the outer side of the passage for the vessel: the upper (h) contains the tensor tympani muscle ; and the lower (i) is the Eustachian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, wliich is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and is named processus cochleariformis. Some objects that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tj'mpanic mem- brane, require separate notice. The memhrana tympani (fig. 238, a) is a thin translucent stratum * View of the inner wall of the tympanum enlarged (Bowman), a. Promon- tory, h. Fenestra ovalis. c. Fenestra rotunda, d. Nerve grooves on the promontory, e. Pyramid. /. Prominence of aqueduct of Fallopius. g. Open- ings of mastoid cells, h. Canal of tensor tympani. i. Osseous part of Eusta- chian tube. k. Internal carotid artery. I. Facial nerve.743 SPECIAL PARTS IN TYMPANUM. between the meatus auditorius and the cavity of the tympanum, t.mpam;^^ It measures one third of an inch across, is oval m form, ana is ^^^^^ attached by its circumference to a groove at tlie inner end of the auditory passage. In the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous andthc rmg, tlie tympanic bone. The membrane is placed very obliquely g.^^^^. so that it forms with the floor of the meatus an angle of 45 degrees, and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditoiy surfaces, canal the surface is concave ; but in the tympanum it is convex, imd attached to its upper half is the handle of the malleus (6),— one of the ossicles. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- lar, epithe- ments of the meatus auditorius ; and the ' inner is derived from the mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle layer is formed ^^JaUun of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and is ' ^ - " fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is connected with the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference ; and near the margin, at the inner surface, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 238, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. The Eustachian tuhe (fig. 236, e) is the channel through which Eustachian the tympanic ca^^ty communicates with the fauces. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed downwards and inwards to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and an osseous is narrowed at the middle. Its course in the temporal bone is along '. the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated and termi- and somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives ■ attachment to the cartilage. The cartilafjinous piece of the tube is nearly an inch in length, cartilagi- and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx "''"^ (p. 126). Through this tube the mucous membrane of the drum of the ear use of the is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The secondary/ menibrane of the tympanum is placed witliin the Membrane fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite construc- side of the cavity, viz. an external or mucous, derived from the * Inner view of the membrana tympani in the fetus with the malleus attached, a. Membrane or drum of the tympanum, h. Malleus, c. Band of circular fibres at the circumference, d. Inferior, and c, superior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. of three layers. Ossicles of the tympa- num are three. Malleus has head, neck, handle : short and long process. Incus, its body; lining of the tympanum ; an internal, continuous with that clothing tlie cochlea ; and a central layer of fibrous tissue. Ossicles of the Tympanum (fig. 240). Three in number, they are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; the next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil ; and the last, stapes, fi-om its likeness to a stirrup. For their examination the student should be provided with some separate ossicles. The malleus (fig. 239) is the longest bone, and is twisted and bent. It is large at one end (a head) and small and pomted at the other (c handle) ; and it has two processes, with a nan-owed part or neck. The head or capitulum (a) is free in the cavity, i& oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression for articulation with the next bone. The necJc (b) is the slightly twisted part between the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before backwards ; but at the extremity it is com- pressed from within outwards : to its outer margin the special fibrous stratum of the membrana tjonpani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in number, long and short. The short one (e) springs from the root of the handle on the outer side,, and touches the membrane of the tympanum. The long process— processus gracilis (rf), is a flattened slender piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure : in the adult this process is joined with the surrounding bone, and cannot be separated from it. The incus is a flattened bone (fig. 239), and possesses a body and two processes. The body (b) is hollowed at the upper and anterior Fig. 239.* processes; short and long. part to articulate with the malleus. The two j^rocesses (short and long) extend from the side opposite to the articulation :—The shorter process (c) is somewhat conical, and is received into the large aper- tm-e of the mastoid cells : the long process (d) decreases towards the extremity, where it curves, and ends in a rounded part (e), the or- bicular process. * Tte three ossicles of the tympanum :'the central bone is the malleus, the left-hand bone, incus, and the right-hand one stapes. Malleus : a, liead ; b, neck ; c, long handle : d, long, and c, short process. Incus : a. Head, b body, c, short process, d, long process, e, orbicular process. Stapes : a, head, b, neck, c, crus, d, base.OSSICLES, LIGAMENTS, AND MUSCLES. 746 The stapes (fig. 239) has a base or wider portion, and a head, with stapes: two sides or crura, Hke a stirrup. The lase (d) is formed by abase; thin osseous plate, which is convex at one margin and almost straight at the other, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovahs : the surface turned to the vestibule is convex, while the opposite is excavated. The head (a) is marked by a superficial head; depression which receives the orbicular process of the incus ; and below it is a constricted part (&), the nech of the bone. The crura crura, (c) extend from the neck to the base, and are grooved on the inner surface : the anterior crus is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of the ossicles (fig. 240). The malleus (d) is placed verti- cally in the tympanum, with the bead upwards, and the joint sur- face turned backwards to articulate with the incus. Its handle is inserted externally into the membrana tympani between the mucous and fibrous layers ; and its long process is directed f oi-wards into the Glaserian fissure. The incus (e) is also upright, so that the long process is vertical, of the incus, and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united with the mal- leus ; the short process is received into the large aperture of the mastoid cells ; and the long one descends, like the handle of the malleus, but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the and of the ...p-i -ill i stapes, cavity, to ]oin inienorly with the stapes. The stirrup bone (/) has a homontal position, with the crura directed forwards and backwards : its base is fixed over the fe- nestra ovahs, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. Ligaments of the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity The bones are united into one chain by joints, and are further kept in p^osition gptl'^o^iiga- by hgaments fixing them to the surrounding wall. ments; Joints of the bones. Where the ossicles touch they are connected either to together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger another ^ bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are sur- roimded by a thin capsular ligament of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second be- by joints, tween the extremity of the long process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Union of the hones to the wall. The bones are kept in place by the or to fix reflection of the mucous membrane over them, and by special liga- tympanic ments. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of wall, fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band {posterior) passes backwards from the incus, near the end of its short process, to the bone supporting it. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by fibres constituting an orbicular ligament. In the recent bone the tliin mucous membrane closes the interval Membrane between the crura of the stapes, and is attached to the groove on °^ ^*^>Pes. the inner aspect. Muscles of the ossicles (fig. 240). Tliree muscles which possess ThreeDISSECTION OF THE EAR. 746 I muscles to tlie ossicles. Tensor tym- pani. Origin. Insertion. Use. Laxator tympani. Origin. Insertion. Use. Stapedius attached to stapes. Use. Lining of tyinpaniun. transversely striated fibres are connected witli the chain of bones ; two of these are attached to tlie malleus, the other to the stapes. The tensor tympani (fig. 240, internal muscle of the malleus) is the largest and most distinct of the muscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of its containing tube, which must be laid open to see it completely. The muscle arises from the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in fi-ont fi-om the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon wliich is reflected over the end of the cochleariform process. Fig. 240.* and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the mal- leus near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the membrane of the tympanum; and as the long process of the incus is moved inwards with the malleus the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra ovalis. Laxator tympani (iig. 240, g, external muscle of the malleus). It is connected externally with the spinous process of the sphe- noid bone ; and passing through the Glaserian fissure, it is at- tached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Action. The muscle draws inwards and forwards the upper end of the malleus, and tilts outwards the handle, so as to relax the merabrana tympani ; and on the cessation of the contraction of the tensor, it can move out the bony chain. The stapedius (fig. 240, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small tendon, which issues from the pyramid, and is inserted into the back of the neck of the stapes. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminish- ing the pressure on the fluid in the vestibule; and supposing it to contract simultaneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous memhrane of the tympanum. The mucous lining of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall; it is continuous with * Plan of the ossicles in position in the tympanum with their muscles. a. Cavity of the tympanum. 6. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. Malleus, e. Incus. /. Stapes, g. Laxator tympani muscle. Ii. Tensor tympani. i. Stapedius.VESSELS AXD NERVES OF TYMPANUM. 747 that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is prolonged into the mastoid cells thi-ough the apertures leading into them. It assists to form part of the membrana tympani, and of the Arran^gc- secondary membrane in the fenestra rotunda ; it is reflected also cavity, over the chain of bones, the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tympani nerve. In the tympanum the membrane is thin, not very ^".^^^^^j^g vascular, and secretes a w^atery fluid ; but in the lower end of the " Eustachian tube it is thick and more vascular, is provided with numerous glands, and its epithehum is laminated. Its surface is covered with a columnar ciliated epithelium, but on Epithelium, the membrana tympani and the ossicula it is laminar and unciliated. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the tympanum are furnished fi-om ^^^^^^^^^^ the following branches of the external carotid, viz., internal maxil- carotids, lary, posterior auricular, ascending pharjoigeal; and some offsets come fi-om the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The veins join Veins, the large meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery supplies an inferior tympanic branch (fig. 238, d, p. 88), which enters the cavity through the Glase- lary, rian fissure, and distributes a branch to the membrane of the tympanum. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery (p. 80), jjosterior; entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, superior tympanic (fig. 238, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches fi'om the ascending pharyngeal, or fi-om the in- inferior; ferior palatine artery, enter the fore part of the space by the P^l^t"^^- Eustachian tube. Nerves. The lining membrane of the tympanum is supplied from Nei-ves from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic ^^^^^^ nerve : but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. Crossing the cavity is the. chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 241). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will Dissection require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in ^uj'nwves; diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve fi'om the glosso-pharyngeal is firet to be sought close to the skull ; and the fine auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. Ill), outside Supposing the nerve to be found, the student should place the cayity,'"'' scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it back- wards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to and inside be followed in its canal; and the branches in the grooves on the '^"^'^y- surface of the promontory are to be pursued :—one of tliese arch- ing forwards joins in the carotid plexus ; and two others directed748 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. I Tympiuiic uerve supplies ineiiibrmic and otlicr branches, viz.: upwards, unite with the largo superficial petrosal, and the facial nerve. The connections of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for tlie muscles. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (fig 241 ) nerve of Jacobson (p. 109) enters a special aperture in the temporal bone, to reach the inner wall of the tympanum. In this cavity the nerve supplies filaments to the lining membrane and the fenestra Fig. 241.* One to the sympa- thetic. Another to petrosal nerve. And a third to otic ganglion : rotunda; and it terminates in the thi-ee undermentioned branches, which are contained in grooves on the promontory, and connect this nerve with others.f Branches. One branch is arched forwards and downwards, and enters the carotid canal to communicate with the sympathetic (*) on the arteiy (p. 115). A second (^) is directed upwards to join the large superficial petrosal ner^^e in the hiatus Fallopli (p. 143). And the third (■*) has the foUoAving course :—It ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and near the gangliform enlargement on the * Jacobson's neiTe in the tympanum (Breschet).—a. Carotid artery, b. Tensor tympani muscle. c. Inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. d. Otic ganglion, Nerves : 1. Petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Nerve of Jacobson. 3. Sympathetic on the carotid. 4. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 5. Offset to join large petrosal nerve. 6. Branch to Eustachian tube. 7. Facial nerve ; 8. chorda tympani branch. 9. Nerve of the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. + Instead of viewing these filaments as offsets of the nerve of Jacobson, they may be sujiposed to come from the other nerves : according to this view the tympanic 'plcxus would be derived from several sources.749 BOUNDAEIES OF VESTIBULE. facial nen'e, to which it is connected by filaments (fig. 35). Be- tliis called yoncl the union with the facial, the nen^e is named small superficial P^*™" petrosal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 146). Nerves to muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a Neives for branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 241, ^) : the stapedius receives muscles, an offset fi'om the facial trunk ; and the laxator tj^mpani from the chorda tympani nerve (?). The chorda tympani (fig. 241, ^) is a branch of the facial nerve Chorda (p. 146). Entering the cavity beliind, it crosses the membrana CT,j"se"' tympani, and issues from the space by an aperture in, or internal cavity, to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the gustatory nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 92. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a nerve of Branch of the tympanum, is an oifset to the outer ear, and may be now traced outer in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. Ill), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. The labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing is so Labyrinth named fi-om its complexness. It consists of three spaces sur- ossecms and rounded by dense bone; and of sacs containing fluid for the membra- expansion of the auditory nerve, which are included -within the parts, former. The OSSEOUS labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semicircular Constltu- canals, and the cochlea : these communicate externally with the osseous*^^ tympanum, and internally, through the meatus auditorius internus, part, with the cranial cavity. The VESTIBULE (fig. 242), or the central cavity of the osseous Vestibule. labjTinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has Dissection been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to *° be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovahs a very little in a dkection upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the knowledge and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 242) is ovoidal in form, and the ex-Form and tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about ith of an inch in length, dimensions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. _ In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture {g) leading Apertures ' mto the cochlea ; and behind are five round openings of the thi-ee J'^foreand semi-circular canals (c^,e,/). ^ « ^'"ee ^e,.,,,^ The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the i„ outer waU.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 750 will. T ]? f Y f f front fossa in ■ ^^^'r is a vertical ridge or crista (b). In front of it; frontof the ridge is situate a circular depression, /o?;ea hemi- sphenca (a), which is pierced by minute apertures for nerves and Fig. 242.* and aque- duct behind, Boof has a fossa. Three semi- circular canals; preparation of them. Length. Termination by five open- ings : one end dilated. vessels, and corresponds with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. Behind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two of the semicircular canals, is the small aperture of the aqueduct of the vestibule (c), which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The roof is occupied by a slight transversely oval depression, fovea semi-elUptica ; this is separated from the fovea hemispherica by a prolongation of the crista (b) on the inner wall before men- tioned. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS (fig. 243) are three osseous tubes, which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named fi-om their foiTU. Dissection. These small canals will be easily brought into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or bone forceps. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are unequal in length, and each forms more than half an ellipse. They communicate at each end with the vestibule, but the contiguous ends of two are blended together so as to give only five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated * View of the vestibule obtained by cutting away the outer boundary in a fetus, enlarged three times, a. Fovea hemispherica. b. Crista vestibuli. c. Aperture of aqueduct of the vestibule, d. Common opening of two semi- circular canals, e. Upper vertical semicircular canal partly laid open. /. Horizontal semicircular canal, partly opened, g. Opening of the acala vestibuli.751 SEMICIRCULAR CANALS. extremity which is called the ampulla. Wlien a tube is cut across Form and it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about • -Lth of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large agam. ' Vrom a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been They are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of the si^pe^'or petrous part of the temporal bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, whilst the inner is joined with the following. . The post&i-ior vertical tube (&) is directed backwards from its 1°^^^^ jimction with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior ver- tical canal, and the lower end is fi-ee and dilated. The honzontal canal (c) has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it hes in the substance of the bone nearly on a level Filjrous membrane lines the labyrinth; and hori zontal. with the fenestra ovalis ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous perios- teal membrane lines the vesti- bule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous Avith the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea thi'ough the aperture of the scala vestibuli (fig. 242, g). The outer surface of the membrane is adherent to the bone ; but has an the inner is covered by a single layer of flattened epithelium, ®Pitheiium, is supplied by the vestibular vessels ; and it secretes a thin serous and con- fluid, liquor Cotunnii, or perilymph, which surrounds the membran- ^ ous labyrinth, and occupies for a short distance the aqueduct : this fluid also fills the scalse of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior coeUea to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to Dissection cut or file away the bone between the promontory of the tympanum fo'^itindi-y and the meatus auditorius internus, on the preparation before used * Representation of the semicircular canals enlarged (from a model in University College Museum), a, Upper vertical ; I, posterior vertical ; andc, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule.752 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. and recent buiie. Fonn and situation : size ; resembles a snail-sliell in some respects. A central pillar or axis : for displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on an- other temporal bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea (fig. 244) is conical in form, and is placed almost horizoiitally in front of the vestibular space. The base of tliis body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertm-es ; whilst the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Eesembling a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube wound round a central part or axis ; but it differs from the shell in ha^^ng its tube subdivided by a partition. The axis or modiolus (fig. 244, a) is the central stem which sup- ports the windings of the spu-al tube. Conical m shape, its size Fig. 244.* is conical.; and porous. A spiral tube closed at one end forms 2J tiuns; measure- ment ; coils. diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (i), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- tracted part in the last half turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fi-esh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the stem, and terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. When measured along the outer side, it is about one inch and a half long. Its diameter at the beginning is about one tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; this projects towards the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first coil. The last half turn bends * Section through the cochlea (Breschet). a. Infundibulum or enlarged upper end of the axis. d. Membrane of Corti. e. Membrane of Reissner, trema. s.t. Scala tympani. s.v. Scala vestibuli. Axis with its canals, h. c. Septum of the cochlea. /. Hiatus or helico-763 COMPOSITION OF SEPTUM COCHLEiE. sharply round, and presents a free margin, &—the edge of the ^In the recent bone the tube is divided into two main passages T.^ed^vided Cscah-e) by the septum (fig. 244, c). In the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin osseous plate,—lamma spiralis, projecting from the axis ; and on the outer wall is a shght groove, opposite the ridge of bone. SepUm of the spiral tube (fig. 245). The partition in the recent Sep^m^ state dividing the tube of the cochlea into two passages, consists oi n^embra- an osseous and a membranous portion :— The osseous part (% formed by the lamina spiralis, extends about Osseous half way across the tube. Inf eriorly it begins in the vestibule, where ■ Fig. 245.* it is wide, and is attached to the outer wall so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity ; and diminishing in size ends above in a point,—the hamulus, opposite the last half turn of the cochlea. Between the hamulus and the axis is a space, Avhich is ends above converted by the membranous piece of the septum into a foramen '^''Po™'^ (fig. 244,/, hiatus, hehcotrema), and allows the intercommunication apertm-e. of the two chief passages of the cochlear tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates of bone, which en- Lamina close canals for vessels and nerves, and are separated farthest from * A diagram of a section of the tube of the cochlea enlarged (modified from Henle). SV. Scala vestibuli. ST. Scala tympani. CC. Canal of the cochlea. 1. Membrane of Rcissner. 2. Cochlear branch of the auditory- nerve. 3. Lamina spiralis ossea. 4. Ligamentum .spu'ale. a. Lamina den- ticulata. b. Sulcus spiralis, c. Tympanic lip of the sulcus spu-alis. d. Inner rods of Corti. e. Outer rods of Corti. /. Lamina reticularis, i. Inner hair cells, m b. Mcmbrana basiliaris. vi c. Membrane of Corti. p. Outer hair cells, a m. Central space between the rods. 3 0754 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. iliffcrs on two sur- faces ; denticulate structiu-e. Sulcus spiralis. Mem- branous part: width and extent. Is glassy looking, with trans- verse lines. Spiral ligament. Scales of tlie coch- lear tube. Position, extent; joined above, separate below. They differ in extent and size: opening in lower. Lining membrane, and con- tents. Subdivision of scala by, Membrane of Keissner. each other at the axis. The surface of the lamina which is turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages (st) is most pierced by apertures. The opposite surface is covered in the outer fifth of its extent by a border or limbus of fibrous structure (a), wliich ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the margin of the bony plate, (denticulate lamina, Bowman). Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (b), lined by flat epithelium, wliich is called sulcus spiralis : its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The membranous part of the septum (membrana basilaris, fig. 245, m b) reaches fi-om the lower edge (c) of the lamina sphalis to the groove in the outer wall of the cochlear tube. Its width varies :— near the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube, but at the apex, where the lamina spirahs is wanting, it con- structs the septum altogether. This membrane is firm and stiif, and possesses fine radiatmg lines, which cause it to spUt in shi-eds. At its outer attachment there is a fibrous band ligamentum spirale, KoUiker) fixing it to the bone. Scalce of the cochlea (fig. 244). The tube of the cochlea is diAdded by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is the scala tympani (st) and the other scala vestibuli (sv) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by two canals being cut off from it by mem- branes. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli (sv) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above they communi- cate tlirough the aperture named helico-trema (/). Below they end differently, as the names express :—the scala vestibuli opens into the front of the vestibule (fig. 242, g) ; but the scala tympani is shut out from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochlcEe, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra ro- tunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into the apex of the cochlea ; whilst the tympanic scala is lai-gest near the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which begins close to a ridge near the lower end of the scala, and opens at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The seal SB are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joms the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the cochlea. The fluid of the vestibular space fills both scalae. Smaller pabtitions of the cochlea (fig. 245). Two thm mem- branes are prolonged fi-om the septum to the outer Avall, across the vestibular scala. One is called membrane of Reissner, and the other membrane of Corti. The membrane of Beissner (>), which is easily torn, is prolonged obliquely from the upper surface of the septum cochlear, where theCOCHLEAR PASSAGES AND OEGAN OF CORTI. 755 limbus ends, to the outer side of tlie tube of tlie cochlea, so as to cut off a small channel,—the canal of the cochlea (cc). It is formed by a very thin layer of fine connective tissue with blood capillaries, and is covered by the epithelial lining of the two spaces between which it intervenes. The membrane of Corti (mc membrana tectoria) stretches hori- Membrane zontally across the tube of the cochlea near, and parallel to the membrana basilaris. Internally it is attached to the limbus of the septum cochleiE, and externally to the wall of the cochlear tube. It is a thin elastic transversely-fibred layer, which is thicker inter- nally than externally. Between it and the membrana basilaris (mb) is a narrow channel for the reception of the organ of Corti. Smaller passages of the cochlea (fig. 245). The spaces re- Sm^isp^ces suiting from the subdi-vision of the scala vestibuH by the membranes ° ""'^ above noticed are two in number, yiz., canal of the cochlea, and space for the organ of Corti. The canal or duct of the cochlea (cc) is the nan-ow interval Duct of the towards the outer part of the cochlear tube, between the membrane ^Jg^JJ^J^^gg of Eeissner Q), and the membrane of Corti (mc). It extends fi'om ^^^^^^^ apex to base of the cochlea hke the larger scal^ ; it is lined by epithelium, and contains a fluid (endolymph). Above it reaches into the cupola and is closed. Below it is joined closed by a veiy small tube (fig. 246, c canalis reuniens Hensen), with the saccule in the vestibule. duct Mow. The space for the organ of Corti is a narrow interval correspond- smallest ing in depth with the sulcus spiralis, and is placed between the space, membrane of Corti (mc) and the membrana basilaris (mi). It T^o^ndanes, contains the organ of Corti and is filled with fluid. The ORGAN OF Corti (fig. 245) rests on the membrana basilaris Organ of (mb), and occupies the nan'ow space between this and the mem- brane of Corti; it consists of rods and cells placed vertically on each side of a median space (sm). The rods are firm peculiar bodies, which are arranged in two Two rows of rows (d and e) over an intervening triangular space ; they slant towards each other above, and are separated below like the rafters position in a roof. The inner row, the more numerous, are in contact with each other on the sides, and the outer set touch only by the upper end. Where they touch above they are flattened and directed out, and the inner (cl) overlapping the outer (e) ; and where they rest on the membrana basilaris each is provided with a nucleus-like body. The cells, somewhat like columnar epithelium, (fig. 245) are Cells in nucleated, and are arranged vertically on the sides of the rods. The cortL °' lower end is furnished with a process which is directed to the membrana basilaris ; and the other, placed upwards, is provided with stifE filaments or hairs. The inner set (i) stand m a single Ime between the sulcus spiralis Inner set, and the inner row of rods. The other set (p) four deep, are flat- and outer tened and riband-like, and bulged below, and are placed outside the external row of rods; the filaments at the upper end project through apertures in the layer (/) above them. 3 c 2 r756 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Lamina reticularis. Epithelium. Two sacs float in fluid of labyrintli. Dissection of them in a fresh bone. The utricle, situation, and form. It sends tubes into the arched canals; they are dilated at one end. and contain a fluid. Endolymph and otolith. Smaller sac is before tlie other, joins canal of cochlea: fluid in it. Lamina reiicularis (f K(511iker). A very thin layer of flattened particles (phalanges) is continued over the outer half of the organ of Corti; in it are apertures, through which pass the filaments at the end of the cells. Around the upper ends of the inner cells is a similar uniting material. It is supposed to fix and keep in place the cells. An epithelial layer, consisting of cubical cells, covers the floor of the space outside and inside the organ of Corti. The MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH (fig. 246) is Constituted of sacs, con- taining fluid, in which the auditoiy nerve is expanded. The sacs are two in number, viz., utricle and saccule, and have the general shape of the surrounding bone ; they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals. They are immersed in the peri- lymphic fluid. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with then- nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surroimding softened material must be removed with great care. A microscope will be needed for the complete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood-vessels a minute injection -will be required. The utricle (fig. 246, d), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is trans- versely oval in form, and connected with it posteriorly are thi-ee looped tubes, which are prolonged into the semicircular canals. These prolongations (g) are smaller than the osseous canals, being only one third of their diameter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is filled by fluid—the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they are mai-ked at one end by a dilatation (/), corresponding with the ampulla of the osseous canal; and, further, two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy : they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the fluid of that sac. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection into the interior of the tube ; and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. The utricle and its tubes are filled with a clear fluid, like water, which is named endolymph ; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit (otolith, e) opposite the entrance of the nerve into it. The saccule (fig. 246, a) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It is separate from the other; but it is continuous below, by a short and small duct (c, ductus reuniens), with the canal of the cochlea. Like the larger sac it has a translucent wall, in which is an767 STEUCTUEE OF MEMBRANOUS SACS. together with blood-vessels and nerves. _ ., . The outer fibrous covering is loose and flocculent, is easily outer, detached, and contains irregular pigment cells with ramifjrmg blood-vessels. The middle stratum (tunica propria) is clear and middle, tough, like the hyaloid membrane in the interior of the eyeball: its inner surface is irregular owing to slight eminences ; and in the ampulla of the semicircular tubes this layer forms the transverse projection. The inner one is formed by a layer of flattened jjmer. nucleated cells, which are continued over the eminences in the interior. In the region of the nerve, both in the ampulla of the semicircular tube and in the sacs, the epithelium is said to become columnar, and to have intermixed spindle-shaped nucleated cells (like the olfactorial), which possess hair-like processes at their free ends. The small calcareous masses, or the otoliths, consist of minute, otoliths elongated, six or eight-sided particles of carbonate of lime, which of^j^g"^ are pointed at the ends, and are situate in the inner part of the wall of the utricle and saccule. Within the enlargement of each semicircular tube there is also a calcareous material. * Petrous bone partly removed to show the membranous labyrinth in place (Breschet). a. Small sac ; b, its otolith ; c. Ductus reunions, d. Large sac, or utricle ; e, its otolith. /. Ampullary enlargement on a semicircular tube. ff. Semicircular tube. Fig. 246.*758 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Blood-ves- sels of tho membranes. Internal auditory artery has a branch to mem- branous sacs; termination; and another to the cochlea; mode of ter- mination : joins a longi- tudinal vessel. Vein to petrosal sinus. Auditory nerve divides into two. A cochlear branch, runs at first in the bone, and then enters the membrane. Ending unknown. Vestibular- branch divides into tliree. Blood-vessels. The membranes of the labyrinthic cavity receive their blood mostly fi-om an artery which ejiters the internal auditory meatus with the nerve ; but some offsets from the posterior auricular blood-vessel supply them behind. The internal auditory artery arises from the basilar trunk within the skull (p. 183), and enters the internal meatus with the auditoiy nei-ve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches —one for the vestibule, the other for the cochlea. The branch of the vestibule, after piercing the wall of the cavity, subdivides into small offsets, which supply the lining membrane, and ramify over the sacs, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a network of capillaries on the exterior of the special layer of the sacs ; and this is most developed about the termination of the nerves. The branch of the cochlea subdivides into twigs which enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets fr-om these are directed out- wards through channels in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near tlie margin of that osseous zone. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the basement layer and the membrane lining the scalte ; but the septum cochlese prevents the communication of the vessels of the two passages. A longitudinal vessel is placed on that surface of the membranous portion of the septum cochleae which is turned to the scala tympani, and is opposite the outer rods of Corti; it communicates here and there with the arterial loops before mentioned. The vei7i. One branch of vein is derived fr"om the cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth : the two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the superior peti'osal sinus in the base of the skull (p. 15). Nerve of the Labyrinth (fig. 247). Only one special nerve, auditory (p. 188), is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the in- ternal auditory meatus, the nen^e divides into two branches, like the arteiy, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In the trunk and in both branches ners'e- cells ai-e contained : in the branch to the labyrinth they form a swelling (intumesc&ntia ganglioformis of Scarpa). The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modiolus into twigs, wliich enter it, and are directed outwards with the vessels into the canals in the lamina spiralis (fig. 245, "). As they enter the lamina they form a plexus with ganglion cells, and are con- tinued onwards near the scala tympani, being still plexifonn, as far as the edge of the bone. At this spot they leave the bone and are arranged in conical bundles, wliich pass through apertures at the junction of the bone with the lamina basilaris of the septum cochlea} : consisting now of axis cylinders they are directed towards the cells of the organ of Corti, but their ending is unknoAvn. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the membranous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed :—One appertains to the utricle (c), and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior759 AUDITORY BLOOD-VESSELS AND NERVE. vertical and horizontal semicircular canals (fig. 247) ; a second ends in the saccule (a) ; and the third belongs to the ampullary swelling (b) on the tube in the posterior vertical semicircular canal. On the sacs the nerve divides, and its filaments separate, some Termination fibrils passing through the otolith and others outside it, and pierce ^^^^^j^ the middle layer of the wall. Now becoming axis cylinders they ending. Fig. 247. di^'ide, and unite in a plexus beneath the epithelium, and are thought to be united with the deep ends of the spindle-shaped cells with hair-like processes. On the ampullary enlargement of the semicircular tubes the nerve in the tubes enters the external side, where it forms a forked eminence (Steifen- p^.oJge^^s sand), corresponding with the projection in the interior. The nerve ^^j^ branch- divides at first into two chief pieces, which are directed to the sides ; ing, end and it is doubtful whether branches extend into the tube beyond those eminences. Finally filaments pierce the wall of the tube, and forming a sub-epithelial plexus of nerve-fibres, as in the utricle, are supposed to be connected with similar auditorial cells. * Distribution of nei-ves^ to the membranous labyrinth (Breschet). a. Nerve to the saccule, b. Nerve entering the ampullary enlargement on a semicirculai' tube. c. Branch of nerve entering the large sac or utricle.IINDEX. The letter (o) refers to the origin, (c) to the course, and (d) to the distribxition of a nerve or vessel which is described in dill'ereut pages. Abdomen, 466. surface of, 436. Abdominal aorta, 482, 533. cavit}', 466. heniia, 455. regions, 467. ring, external, 443. internal, 451, 456. Abducens nerve, (o) 188, (d) 47, (c) 18. Abductor minimi digiti, 297. pedis, 678. pollicis mands, 295. pedis, 678. Accessorius muscle, 682. ad sacro-lumbalem, 391. Accessory nerve of the obturator, (o) 543, (d) 632. pudic artery, 432, 564. spleens, 506. Acini of the Uver, structure, 511. Acromial artery inferior, 248. cutaneous nerves, 256. thoracic artery, 247. Acromio-clavicular articulation, 261. Adductor brevis, 633. longus, 632. magnua, 635, 659. minimi digiti, 298. oculi, 47. pollicis manfts, 296. pedis, 683. Air-cells of the lung, 360. Alar ligaments of the knee, 701. Alveolar plexus, 144. Ampulla;, membranous, 756. of the semicircular canals, 751, Amygdaloid lobe of cerebellimi, 225. Anastomotic artery of brachial, 270. femoral, 624. Anconeus muscle, 304. Angular artery, 28. vein, 28. Ankle joint, 708. Annular ligament of ankle, anterior, 690. external, 691. intemal, 675. of wrist, anterior, 300. posterior, 301, 309. Annular protuberance, 196. Annulus of Vieussens, 338. Anterior elastic layer of cornea, 725. commissure, 217- medullary velum, 226. Anti-heUx, 34. Anti-tragus, 34. muscle, 34. Anus, 417. Aorta, 343, 349. abdominal, 482, 533. thoracic, 349, 361. Aortic arch, 350. opening, 531. plexus, 481. sinus, 350. Aperture of the aorta, 343. of the cava3, 338. of Eustachian tube, 126. for fi^^e femoral artery, 636. of the heart, 338, 343. larynx, 127. mouth, 127. nares, 126. oesophagus, 128. of the pulmonaiy arterj"^, 341. veins, 342. thorax, 118. Aponeurosis, epicranial, 3. of external oblique, 442. over femoral artery, 623. of internal oblique, 445. lumbar, 385. palmar, 290. of the pharynx, 123. plantar, 676. of the soft palate, 129. temporal, 4. of the transversalis muscle, 448 vertebral, 389. Appendages of the eye, 31. Appendices epiploicaj, 470. Appendix auriculie, 338, 342, ctcci, 502. vermiformis, 502. Aqueduct of the cochlea, 764, of Sylvius, 217. of the vestibule, 750.INDEX. 762 Aqueous humour, 781. Araclmoid membrano of the brain, 178. of tho cord, 406. Arbor ritas corobolli, 227. Ai-ch of aorta, 350. crural or femoral, 613. of diaphragm, 531. palmar deep, 298. superficial, 291. plantar, 685. of soft palate, 126. Arcifoi-m fibres, 194. Areola of the mamma, 239. Arm, dissection of, 263. veins of, 264. Arter. acromialis inferior, 248. anastomotica brachialis, 270. magna, 624. angularis faciei, 28. aorta abdominalis, 482, 533. thoracioa, 349, 361. artieulares inferiores, 654. superiores, 654. articularis azygos, 654. auriculai-is posterior, 6, 80. auditoria, 183,758. axillaris, 245. basilaris, 181. brachialis, 268. brachio-eephaUca, 351. bronchiales, 361, 362. buccalis, 89. capsularis inferior, 534. media, 522, 534. superior, 534. carotia communis dextra, 74. sinistra, 118, 351. externa, 77. interna, 19, 103, 182. carpi ubiaris anterior, 286. posterior, 286. radialis anterior, 283. posterior, 308. centralis retina;, 46, 735. cerebelli inferior, 181. inlerior anterioi-, 182. superioi", 182. cerebri anterior, 182, media, 183. . posterior, 182. cervicalis ascendens, 71. profunda, 71, 397. choroidea cerebri, 182, 183. ciUares anteriores, 46, 730. posteriores, 46, 730. cu'cumflexa anterior, 248, 258. externa, 627. ilii interna, 454,535,648. superficialis,439,606. interna, 634, 648. posterior, 248, 258. coccygea, 645. cochlearis, 758. coeliaca, 485. coUca dextra, 478. media, 478. sinistra, 408. comes nervi ischiadici, 645. Arter. comes nervi phrenici, 354. communicans cerebri anterior, 183. posterior, 183. palmaris, 292. plantaris, 685. coronaria dextra, 336. labii inferioris, 27. superioris, 27. sinistra, 336. ventricuU, 485. corpoiis bulbosi, 431, 582. cavemosi, 431, 585. cremasterica, 453, 454. crico-thyroidea, 79. cystica, 487. deferentialis, 563. dentalis anterior, 102. inferior, 88, 92. superior, 89, 102. diaphragmatica, 534. digitales mantis, 292. pedis, 685. dorsales pollicis, 308. dorsalis carpi radialis, 308. carpi ulnaris, 286. indicis, 309. linguae, 97. pedis, 686, 694. penis, 431, 441. pollicis, 308. scapulic, 248, 263. epigastrica, 454, 535. superficialis, 439, 606. ethmoidalis, anterior, 46, 144. posterior, 46, 144. facialis, 27, 79. femoraKs, 618, 624. frontalis, 5, 46. gastricae, 485, 495. gastro-epiploi'ca dextra, 486. sinistra, 485. glutea, 563, 643. hiemorrhoidalis inferior, 422. hcemoiThoidaUs media, 563. superior, 480, 564, 583. helicinae, 581. hepatica, 485, 513. hyoidea ItnguaUs, 97. thyroidese, 79. hypogastrica, 561. iliaca communis, 535. externa, 535. interna, 561. ileo-colica, 478. lumbalis, 562. incisoria, 92. infra-orbitalis, 89, 102. scapularis, 248, 256. innominata, 351. intercostales anteriores, 254, 362, rami anteriores, 362,453. posteriores,397,410. intercostalia superior, 71, 363. interossea, 286. antei-ior, 288. posterior, 307. interossea) manfts, 298, 308.763 INDEX. Arter. intcrosaea) pedis, C95. iutestiniilcs, 478. intra-spiniiles, 415^ ischiiuhca, 563, 645. labiiilis inferior, 27. luchryiniilis, 33, 45. laryngealis inferior, 162. superior, 79, 162. lingiialis, 77, 97. lumbales, 543. i-ami anteriores, 543. posteriores, 398, magna pollicis manfts, 299. pedis, 686. malleolares, 694. mammaria, externa, 248. intenia,70,253,354,454. masseterica, 89. maxillaris interna, 70, 87j 143. mediana, 289. mediastina!, 253, 362. meningea magna, 15, 88. parva, 15, 88._ meningea3, anteriores, 15. posteriores, 15, 80,181. mesenterica inferior, 480. superior, 476. metacarpa radialis, 308. ulnaris, 286. metatarsea, 695. musculo-phrenica, 253, 534, mylo-hyoidea, 88. nasalis, 46, 144. lateralis, 28. septi, 28. nutritia femoris, 634. fibuloa, 674. humeri, 270. tibisB, 673. obturatoria, 563, 637. oecipitaUs, 6, 79,397. ojsophageales, 362, 485. ophthaimica, 19, 45. ovariana, 534, 564. palatina inferior, 79. superior, 143. palmaris profunda, 291. palpebralis inferior, 33, 46. superior, 33, 46. pancreaticiB, 485. pancreatico-duodenalis, 478, 486. perforantes femorales, 634, 659. mammarire intemEO,253. manfts, 298. pedis, 685, 695. pericardiaca), 362. perinoei superficialis, 425. peronea, 674. anterior, 674, petrosa, 15. pharyngea ascendens, 106. phrenicje inferiores, 634. superiores, 354, 534. plantaris externa, 680, 685. interna, 679. poplitea, 652. princeps cervicalis, 397. pollicis, 299. Arter. profunda cervicis, 71, 397. femoris, 619, 634. inferior, 270. superior, 270, 274. pterj'goideu), 89. ptcrygo-palatina, 144. pudenda externa, 606, 619. interna, 422,431, 441,564. pulmonalis, 341, 348, 360. dextra, 349. sinistra, 349. pylorica uifei'ior, 486. superior, 486. radialis, 282, 298, 308. indicis, 299. ranina, 97. receptaculi, 19. reciuTens interossea posterior, 307. radialis, 283. tibialis, 694. ulnaris anterior, 286. posterior, 286. renales, 519, 533. _ sacra media, 533, 565. sacro-lateralis, 562. scapulai-is posterior, 70, 263, 387. sciatica, 563, 645. sigmoidea, 480. spermatica, 527, 534. spheno-palatina, 143. spinales posteriores, 180, 410. spinaKs anterior, 180, 410, splenica, 485, 507. stemo-mastoidea, 79. stylo-mastoidea, 80. subclavia dextra, 68. sinistra, 117, 352. sublingualis, 97. submentaUs, 79. subscapularis, 248. superficialis cervicalis, 387. peiinsei, 425. voliB, 283. supra-orbitalis, 5,46. Bcapularis, 70, 262,387. spinalis, 263. tarsea, 695. temporales profundaj, 88. temporalis, 80. anterior, 5. media, 80. posterior, 6. superficialis, 5, 80. thoracica acromialis, 247. alaris, 248. longa, 248. suprema, 247. thyroideaima, 120. inferior, 70, 120. superior, 78, 120. tibialis antica, 692. postica, 673. tonsillaris, 79. transversalis colli, 70,387. faciei, 28, 80. perinaji, 425. pontis, 182, pubis, 454.INDEX. 764 Arter. tj-mpanica, 88. tympanica inferior, 747. superior, 747. ulnaris, 284, 291. umbilicalis, 661. uterina, 564. vaginalis, 564. vertobralis, 70, 171, 180. vesicalis inferior, 563, 576. superior, 663. vestibuli, 758. vidiana, 144. Articular popliteal arteries, 654. nerves, 655. Articulation, acromio-clavicular, 250. astragalo-scaphoid, 711. astragalus to os calcis, 710. atlo-axoidean, 172, 175. of bones of the tympanum, 745 calcaneo-cuboid, 711. scaphoid, 711. of carpal bones, 318. carpo-metacarpal, 320. of cervical vertebras, 172. chondro-costal, 372. sternal, 372. of coccygeal bones, 595. coraco-clavicular, 250. of costal cartilages, 372. costo-clavicular, 176. vertebral, 369. crico-aryta3noid, 166. thjToid, 165. of cuneiform bones, 714. cuneiform to cuboid, 714. cuneiform to scaphoid, 714. of dorsal vertebrae, 372. femoro-tibial or knee, 697. humero-cubital or elbow, 312. ilio-femoral or hip, 659. of lower jaw, 85. of lumbar vertebra?, 372. of the metacarpal bones, 320. metacarpo-phalangeal, 322. metatarsal, 715. metatarso-phalangeal, 717. occipito-atloidean, 172. axoidean, 174. OS calcis to cuboid, 711. to scaphoid, 711. peroneo-tibial, 706. phalangeal of fingers, 322. of toes, 718. of pubic symphysis, 699. radio-carpal or wrist, 316. cubital inferior, 317. superior, 314. sacro-ooccygeal, 695. iliac, 596. vertebral, 595. scaphoid to cuboid, 714. to cuneiform, 714. scapulo-humeral, 309. sterno-clavicular, 176. sternum, pieces of, 372. tarsal transverse, 713. tarso-metatarsal, 716. temporo-maxillary, 85. Articulation, thyro-arytaenoid, 167. of the thumb, 320. tibio-tarsal or ankle, 707. of vertebrae, 372. Arcus externus diaphragmatis, 631. internus diapliragmatis, 531. Arytajno-epiglottidean folds, 161. jVrytajnoid cartilages, 164. glands, 132. muscle, 166. Ascending cervical artery, 71. vein, 70. colon, 470. pharyngeal artery, 106. vein, 107. AttoUens aurem, 2. Attrahens aurem, 2. Auditory artery, 183, 758. tube, external, 739. nerve, (o) 188, (d) 768. nucleus, 196. Auricle of the ear, 33. Auricles of the heart, 336, left, 342, right, 338. structure of, 346. Auriculae, 338, 342. Auricular artery, posterior, (d) 6, (o) 80. nerves, anterior, 8. great, 8, 67. inferior, 91. posterior, 8, 36. Auricular vein, 6, 80. nerve of vagus, (o) 111, (d) 709. Auriculo-temporal nerve, 8, 91 ventricular apertm-e, left, 343. right, 340. rings, 344. Auricularis magnus nerve, 8, 67. Axilla, 240. dissection of, 240. Axillary artery, 245. glands, 243. plexus, 249. vein, 248. Axis, coeliac, of artery, 485, 533. of cocldea, 762. thyroid, of artery, 70. Azygos, artery, 654. veins (o) 644, (d) 363, 640. uviilse muscle, 131. Back, dissection of, 380. Base of brain, 198. the skull, arteries of, 16, 19. dissection of, 12. nerves of, 16, 20. Basilar artery, 181. membrane, 754. sinus, 16. Basilic veia, 264. Biceps femoris muscle, 656, 699. flexor cubiti, 267, 289, 310. Bicuspid teeth, 133. Bile ducts, 488, 497, 513. structure, 501, 514. Biventral lobe, 225. Bladder, 572, 659INDEX. 765 Bladder, interior of, 674. connections of, ooi, ooy. ligaments of, 549, 551. structure of, 673. Bones of tlie ear, 744. ligaments of, 745. muscles of, 745. Brachial aponeurosis, 266. artery, 268. plexus, 72, 249. veins, 270. Brachialis anticus, 272, 289. Brachio-cephalic artery, 351. vein, left, 352, right, 352. Brain, base of, 198. examination of interior, 208. membranes of, 9, 12, 178. origin of nerves, 184. preservation of, 11. removal of, 10. vessels of, 180. Breast, 238. Broad uterine ligament, 557. Bronchial arteries, (o) 362, (d) 361. glands, 36o. veins, 361, 362. Bronchus, left, 358. right, 358. sti'ucture of, 359. Brunner's glands, 500. Buttock, dissection of, 637. muscles, 640. vessels and nerves, 643, 645. Buccal artery, 89. nerve, 91. Buccinator muscle, 26. Bulb of the urethra, 655. artery of, 431, (d) 582. nerve of, 432. Bulbi vestibuli, 587. Bulbous part of the urethra, 556, 578. Bulbus olfactoiius, 185. Csecum coli, 502. connections of, 470. structure of, 503. Calamus scriptorius, 228. Calices of the kidney, 520. Calciform papiUjB, 149. Canal of cochlea, 755. of Petit, 736. of spinal cord, 413. of tne tensor tympani, 742. Canine teeth, 133. Capsular arteries, inferior, 534, middle, 522, 534. superior, 534. ligament or the hip, 659. knee, 698. shoulder, 310. thumb, 320. Capsvile of crrstalline lens, 737. of Glisson, 510. suprarenal, 521. Caput coli, 502. gallinaginis, 576. Cardiac nerve, inferior, (o) 115, (d) 357. Cardiac nerve, middle, (o) 115 (d) 357. of pneumo-gastnc (o) 111, ^ 355, (d) 357. superior, (o) 115, (d) 337, 357, plexus, 337, 356. veins, 336. Camea) columnaj, 340, 343. Carotid artery, external, 77. , ^, „„ internal,(d)19,182,(c)103. left common, 118, 351. right common, 74. plexus, 20. Cai-pal artery, radial anterior, 283. posterior, 308. ulnar anterior, 286. posterior, 286. Carpo-metacarpal articulation, 320. Cartilage, arytasnoid, 164. cricoid, 163. cuneifonn, 164. of the ear, 35. thyroid, 163. triangular of the nose, 135. Cartilages of the eyelids, 32. of the nose, 30. of Santoiini, 164. of trachea, 167. Caruncula lachrymalis, 33. CarunculoB myrtifonnes, 585. Cauda equina, 409. Cava, inferior, 339, 482, 536. superior, 339. Cavernous body, 555, 579. arteiy of, (o) 431, (d) 582. plexus, 20. sinus, 14. structoe, 580. Cavity of the omentum, 474. Central artery of the retina, (o) 45, (d) 735. ligament of cord, 407. lobe of brain, 203. pillar of cochlea, 752. point of the perina3um, 426. Centrum ovale cerebri, 208. Cephalic vein, 265. Cerebellar aiieries, inferior, 181. superior, 182. Cerebellum, form of, 222. lobes of, 224. structure of, 226. Cerebral artery, anterior, 182. middle, 183. posterior, 182. Cerebrum, division into lobes, 202. convolutions, 204. form of, 198. interior, 208. structure, 219. Cervical fascia, 53, 59. ganglion, inferior, 116. middle, 115. superior, 114. glands, 74. nerves, anterior branches, 72,1170. posterior, 170, 394. plexus of nerves, 73. deep branches, 73.INDEX. 766 Cervical plexus of nerves, superficial, 57, r, . 59,73. Cervicalis, ascendens artery, 71. muscle, 391. vein, 71. profunda artery, (o) 71, (d) 397. vein, 70, 398. supcrficialis nerve, 57,69. Cervico-facial nerve, 38. Cervix uteri, 588. vesicae, 553. Chamber of the eye, anterior, 781. posterior, 781. Check ligaments, 174. Cheeks, 133. Chiasma of the optic nerves, 186. Chondro-costal articulations, 372. glossus muscle, 151. sternal articulations, 372. Chorda tympani nerve, (o) 709, (d) 92, 98. Chordte tendinea;, 341, 343. vooales, 160. _ "WilUsii, 19. Choroid arterj^ of the brain, 182. coat of the eye, 726. plexuses of the brain, 216, 230. veins of the eye, 731. brain, 216. Cilia, 31. CUiaiy arteries, (o) 45, (d) 730. ligament, 729. muscle, 728. processes of the choroid, 727. of the suspensory liga- ment, 736. nerves of nasal, (o) 44, (d) 731. of lenticular ganglion, 45, 731. Circle of Willis, 183. Cu-cular sinus, 14. Circumflex artery, anterior, 248, 258. external, 627. internal, 634, 648. posterior, 248, 258. iliac artery, deep, 454, 535. superficial, 606, 619. nei-ve (o) 249, (d) 258. Clavicular cutaneous nerves, 57, 73. CUtoris, 584. Coccygeal artery, 645. muscle, 547. nerve, 666. Cochlea, 761. canal of, 755. nei-ve of, 758. vessels of, 758. CoeKac arteiy, 485. plexus, 490. Colic artery, left, 480. middle, 478. right, 478. Colon, 469, 501. course of, 470. structure of, 603. Columnar layer of retina, 793. Columns) camese, 340, 343. Columns of the cord, 412. Columns of the vagina, 586. Comes nervi iscliiatici artery, 643. phrenici artery, 354. Commissure, anterior, 217. of the cerebellum, 223, 227. of the cord, 413. great, 209. of the optic nerves, 186. posterior, 217. soft, 217. Commissural fibres of the medulla, 194. Communicating artery of anterior cerebral, 183. of posterior cerebral, 183. in the palm, 291. peroneal nerve, 668. Complexus muscle, 392. Compressor of the bulb, 427. of the nose, 21. Conarium, 218. Concha, 34. Cones of the retina, 733. Congenital hernia, 459. Coni vasculosi, 526. Conical papillae, 148. Conjoined tendon, 448. Conjunctiva, 33. Conoid ligament, 250. Constrictor inferior, 123. of the fauces, 130. middle, 123.' superior, 124. m-ethrae, 430, 435. Conus arteriosus, 340. Convolutions of the brain, 203, 208. of hemisphere, 204. of longitudiual fissure, 206. Coraco-brachialis muscle, 268. clavicular articulation, 250. humeral ligament, 310. Cordifonn tendon, 530. Cords of the abdominal wall, 462. Cornea, 724. structure, 724. Comicula larjoigis, 165. Comua of gray crescent, 413. of lateral ventricle, 210. Corona glandis, 556. radiata, 220. Coronary vessels of the heart, 336. of the lips, 37. artery of the stomach, 486. ligament of the liver, 476. plexus of the stomach, 490. plexuses of the heart, 337. sinus, 336, 353. vein of the stomach, 488. Corpora albicantia, 200. Arantii, 341, 344. cavernosa, 555, 579. geniculata, 208, 222. Malpighiana, 507, 515. mamUlaria, 200. oHvaria, 191, 193. pyramidalia anteriora, 191, 192. posterioi-a, 191,194. quadrigemina, 219.INDEX. 7C7 Corpora rcstifomia, 191, 194. Corpus callosum, 201, 209. (lentatum cerebclli, 227. meduIUi!, 193. fimbriatum uteri, 592. geniculatum externum, 218. intenium, 218. Highmori, 524. luteum, 592. olivare, 191, 193, 219._ spongiosum uretliriu, 556, 581. striatum, 213, 222. th)Toideum, 119. Corpuscles of Malpighi, 507, 516. Corrugator cutis ani, 420. supercilii muscle, 23. Cortex of the tongue, 161. Cortical substance of the kidney, 517. Costo-clavicular ligament, 176. coracoid membrane, 245. transvei-se ligaments, 371. Cotunnius, nerve of, 141. Cotyloid ligament, 661. Covered band of Reil, 208. Cowper's glands, 430. Cranial aponeurosis, 3. nerves, 16, (o) 134. Cremaster muscle, 446. Cremasteric artery, 453, 454. fascia, 446. Cribriform fascia, 607. Crico-arytoenoid articulation, 166. muscle, lateral, 156. posteiior, 155. tlijrroid articulation, 165. membrane, 166. muscle, 155. Cricoid cartilage, 163. Crista vestibuH, 750. Crucial ligaments, 701. Crura cerebelli, 226. cerebri, 198, 222. of the diaphragm, 530. of the fornix, 212. Crural arch, 613. deep, 453, 613. canal, 614. hernia, 465, 615. nerve, (o) 542, (d) 628. ring, 464, 615. sheath, 464. 613. Crypts of Lieberkiihn, 498. Crystalline capsule, 737. lens, 737. structure, 737. Cuneiform cartilages, 165. Cupola cochleas, 752. Curve of the urethra, 555. Cutaneous nerves of the abdomen, 438. of the arm, 265. of the back, 381. of the buttock, 638. of the face, 38. of the foot, back, 689. sole, 676. of the forearm, 278. of the hand, back, 278. of the hand, palm, 290. Cutaneous nerves of the liead, 6. of the leg, back, 666. front, 689. of the neck, beliind,'381. fore part, 59. oftheperina3um,422,425. of the slioulder, 256. of the thigh, front, 608. of the thorax, 238. Cystic artery, 487. duct, 515. plexus of nerves, 490. Dartoid tissue, 440. Decussation of the oblong medulla, 194. Deep cervical artery, (o) 71, (d) 397. crural arch, 453, 613. transverse muscle of perinoeum, 427, 434. Deferential artery, 583. Deltoid ligament, 708. muscle, 257. Dens sapientia3, 133. Dental artery, anterior, 102. inferior, 88, 92. superior, 89, 102. nerve, anterior, 101. inferior, 91. posterior, 101. Dentate, lamina, 214. ligament, 407. Denticulate lamina, 754. Depressor anguli oris, 26. epiglottidis, 157. labii inferioris, 25. alaj nasi, 22. Descendens noni nerve, 76, 113. Descending colon, 470. Diaphragm, 327, 528. arteries of, 534. plexus of, 400. Digastric muscle, 75. nerve, 36. Digital arteries of plantar, 685. of radial, 299. of tibial, anterior, 686. of ulnar, 292. nerves of median, 293. of plantar, 680. of radial, 278. of ulnar, 292. Dilator of the nose, 22. of the pupil, 729. Discus proligerus, 591. Dissection of the abdomen, 436. of the abdominal cavity, 466. of the anterior commissure, 217. of the arm, 236, 263. of the axilla, 240. of the back, 380. of the base of the skull, 12. of the brain, membranes, and , , , nerves, 179. of the buttock, 637. of the cardiac plexus, 356. of the carotid artery, internal, 103.INDEX. 7ff8 DiBsection of the carotitl plexus, 20. of the cerebGlhini, 222. of the cerobruin, 198. of the corpus callosum, 201, 209. of tho corpus striatum, 213, 222. of the crus cerebri, 198. of the external ear, 33, 739. of the infernal ear, 741. of the eighth nerve, 107. of the eye, 722. lids, 31. of the face, 20. of fascia lumborum, 385. of femoral hernia, 463, 612. of the fifth ventricle of the brain, 212. of the foot, back, 689. sole, 675. of the forearm, 276. back, 301. front, 276. of the foiurth ventricle, 227. of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 109. of the hand, back, 277. palm, 289. of the head, external parts, 1. internal parts, 9. of the heart, 333. of the hypogastric plexus, 481. of the inferior maxillary nerve, 89. of the inguinal hernia, 455. of the internal maxillary artery, 87. of Jacobson's nerve, 109, 747. of the labyi-inth, 749. of the larynx, 154. cartilages, 162. muscles, 154. nerves, 161. of the lateral ventricles, 209. of the left side of the neck, 116. of the leg, back, 665. front, 688. of the ligaments of atlas and axis, 172. of the ligaments of atlas and occiput, 172. of the ligaments of axis and occiput, 174. of the ligaments of clavicle and scapula, 260. of the ligaments of hip joint, 659. of the ligaments of jaw, 85. of the ligaments of lower limb, 697. of the ligaments of pelvis, 595. of the ligaments of ribs, 276. of the ligaments of shoulder, 309. of the ligaments of upper limb, 309. of the ligaments of the vertebrse, 373. of the lower limb, 697. of Meckel's ganglion, 139. of the medulla oblongata, 189. of the neck, 51. Dissection of the neck, anterior triangle 59 left side, 116. ' posterior triangle, 53. of the ninth nerve, 11-2. of the nose, 134. of the ophthahnic of the fifth nerve, 18, 40. of the orbit, 39. of the otic ganglion, 146. of the pelvis, female, 556. side view, 657. of the pelvis, male, 545. side view, 546. of the perinajum, female, 433. male, 417. of the pharynx, 121. of the pneumo-gastric nen'e, 107, 354, 491. of the pons, 196. of the popliteal space, 651. of the portio dura nerve, 36,144. of the prevertebral muscles, 168. of the pterygoid region, 82. of the sacral plexus, 566. of the saphenous opening, 612. of the semilunar ganglia, 489. of the shoulder, 256. of the soft palate, 128. of the solar plexus, 489. of the spinal cord, 409. accessory nerve, 107. of the subclavian artery, 65. of the submaxillary region, 93. of the superior maxiUaiy nerve, 100. of the testis, 523. of the thigh, back, 650, 656. front, 604. of the third ventricle, 216. of the thorax, 326. of the tongue, 148. of the triangular space of the thigh, 616. of the tympanum, 741. vessels and nerves, 747. of the upper hmb, 236. of the vena cava inferior, 482, 536. of the vidian nerve, 142. Dorsal artery of the foot, 686, 694. of the penis, 431, (d) 441. of the tongue, 97- of the scapula, (o) 248, (d) 263. nerves, anterior branches, 253, 368, 409. posterior branches, 396,409. cutaneous of the hand, 278. of the penis, (o) 432, (d) 441. Ductus ad nasum, 51. arteriosus, 349. communis choledochus,4S8,497,501. cysticus, 515. ejaculatorius, 572. hepaticus, 488, 514. lymphaticus, 71, 366. pancreaticus, 505. reunions, 756.INDEX. 769 Ductus Riviniani, 99. Stenonis, 29. thoracicus, 117, 36o, oiO. venosus, 510. Whartonii, 93, 99. Duodenum, connections, 482. peritoneum of, 47o. Dura mater, 9, 12. of the cord, 404. nerves of, 16, 407- vessels of, 15, 407. Eai-, external, 33, 739. internal, 741. Eighth nerve, 19, (o) 188. Ejaculator uriniB, 426. Elastic layers of cornea, 725. Elbow joint, Sl'i. Eminentia collateralis, 211. teres, 229. Encephalon, 179. Endocardium, 348. Endolymph, 756. Epend)Tna, ventriculorum, 210. Epididymis, 526. Epigastric artery, 454, 535. ^° superficial, 439, 619. region of the abdomen, 467. veins, 464. Epiglottidean gland, 161. Epiglottis, 165. Erector clitoridis, 434. penis, 426. spinai, 391. Ethmoidal arteries, 46. Eustachian tube, cartilaginous part, 126. osseous part, 743. valve, 339. Extensor carpi radialis hrevis, 303. longus, 302. carpi ulnaris, 304. digiti minimi, 304. digitorum brevis, 695. communis, 303. longus pedis, 692. indicis, 305. ossis metacarpi, 305. proprius pollicis, 691. primi internodii pollicis, 305. secundi internodii pollicis, 305. External cutaneous nerves of arm, 266, 278. of thigh, (o) 542, (d) 609. saphenous nerve, 655, 668, 690. vein, 466, 689. Eye-ball, 722. brows, 31. lashes, 31. Uds, 31. muscles of, 32. nerves of, 33. structure, 31. vessels, 33. Face, dissection of, 20. Facial artery, (d) 27, (o) 79. nerve, (d) 36, (c) 645, (o) 188. Falciform ligament of the liver, 478. Falciform border of saphenous opening, 612 ■ FaUopian tube, 559, 692. Fabc cerebelli, 12. cerebri, 10. Fascia, axillary, 237. brachial, 266. cervical, deep, 53, 59. costo-coracoid, 245. cremasteric, 446. cribriform, 607. of the forearm, 279. iUac, 464, 539. intermuscular of the hiunerus, 274. of the thigh, 627. lata, 610, 651. of the leg, 668, 690. lumborum, 385. obturator, 546. palmar, 290. pelvic, 546. perinoeal, deep, 428, superficial, 425. plantar, deep, 676. proijria, 616. recto-vesical, 549. spermatic, 458. temporal, 4. transversalis, 451, 463. Fasciculus teres, 229. Femoral artery, 618, 624. hernia, 463, 615. ligament, 612. vein, 619, 624. Femoro-tibial articulation, 697. Fenestra ovalis, 741. rotunda, 741. Fibres of the cereljrum, 220. of the cerebellum, 227. of MuUer, 734. Fibro-cai-tilage. See Inter articular. of heart, 345. of totigue, 150. Fibrous coat of eye, 723. Fifth nerve, 17, 187. ventricle of brain, 212. Pilifonn papilte, 148. Fillet of the corpus callosum, 209. of the olivary body, 194, 197, 210. Filum terminale, 407. Fimbria! of the Fallopian tube, 592. First nerve, (o) 135, (c) 16, (d) 138. Fissure, longitudinal, 201. parieto-oocipital, 203, 207. of Eolando, 203. of SyMus, 202. transverse of brain, 214. Fissures of Santorini, 35. of the cord, 412. of the cerebrum, 202. Flexor accessorius muscle, 682. brevis minimi digiti, 298. pedis, 685. cai-pi radialis, 281, 301. uhiaris, 282. digitorum brevis pedis, 678. longus pedis, 672, 681 profundus, 288, 294. sublimis, 284, 294. 3 BINDEX. 770 Flexor pollicis longus, 288, 295. pocUs, 671, 682. brevis, 296. pedis, 683. Flocculus cerobelli, 22o. Follicles, Meibomian, 32. coi'urainoiis, 740. solitary, 493, 504. Foot, dorsum, 688. sole, 675. Foramen of Monro, 213. ovale, 338. for vena cava, 531. of Winslow, 474. Foramina Thebesii, 338. Forearm, dissection of, 276. cutaneous nerves, 278. veins, 277. Fornix, 212. Fossa, ischio-rectal, 419. navicular of the urethra, 578. of the pudendum, 584. ovalis, 338. Fossa3 of abdominal wall, 462. Fom-th nerve, (o) 187, (c) 16, (d) 40." ventricle, 227. Fovea, centralis, 732. hemispherica, 750. semi-elliptica, 750. Fovese of fourth ventricle, 229. Frasnulum labii, 584. Frasnum linguae, 148. pra3putii, 555. Frontal artery, 5, 46. nerve, 40. lohe, 203. vein, 6. Fungiform papillee, 148. Funiculus gracilis, 191. lateralis, 191. Galaetophorus ducts,*239. Galen, veins of, 216. GaU bladder, 514. structure, 514. Ganglia, cervical, inferior, 116, 121. middle, 115, 121. superior, 114,121. lumbar, 543. sacral, 568. semilunar, 490. of spinal nerves, 409. thoracic, 365. Ganglion of the vagus, 110. Gasserian, 18. impar, 568. I'ugular, 109. lenticular, 45. Meckel's, 141.^ ophthalmic, 45. otic, 146. petrosal, 109. spheno-palatine, 141. submaxillary, 97. thyroid, 115. Gastric arteries, 485. vein, 488. Gastro-colic omentum, 474. Gastro-epiploi'c arteries, 485, 486. vein, 488. hepatic omentum, 474. Gastrocnemius muscle, 668. Gemellus inferior muscle, 647. superior muscle, 647. Geniculate bodies, 208, 222. Genio-hyo-glossus, 96, 151. hyoid muscle, 96. Genital organs, 555,584. Genito-crural nerve, (o) 542, (d) 453, 609. Gimbernat's ligament, 444, 613. Gland, lachrymal, 40. parotid, 28. prostate, 553, 669. sublingual, 99. submaxillary, 93. Glands, aryttenoid, 132. axillary, 243. Bartholine's, 588. bronchial, 365. Brunner's, 500. cardiac, 365. cerumiuous, 740. cervical, 57, 58. concatenate, 58. Cowper's, 430, 653. Haver's, 663. inguinal, 440, 606. intercostal, 365. intestinal, 480. labial, 133. laryngeal, 161. lingual, 152. lumbar, 540. mammary, 238. mediastinal, 365. Meibomian, 32. mesenteric, 479. molar, 30. oesophageal, 365. of Pacchioni, 9. pelvic, 569. Payer's, 499. popliteal, 655. solitary, 498, 504. sternal, 365. tracheal, 365. Glans of the clitoris, 584. of the penis, 555. Glaserian-fissure, 741. Glenoid ligament, 310. GUsson's capsule, 510. Globus major epididymis, 526. minor epididymis, 526. Glomerulus, 518. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, (o) 188, (d) 109, 153. nucleus, 196. Glottis, 168. Gluteal artery, (o) 563, (d) 643. nerve, superior, 541, 644. nerves, inferior, 646. Gluteus maximus muscle, 640. medius muscle, 642. minimus muscle, 644. Graafian vesicles, 591. Gracilis muscle, 631.INDEX. 771 Granular layer of retina, 734. Gray commissure of the cord, 41d. crescent of the cord, 413. substance of tlie corpus striatum, 216. of the medulla oblongata, 194, 229. of tho third ventricle, 217. tubercle of Eolando, 195. Great omentum, 474. Gustatory nerve, 92, (d) 97, 155. G3t:us fomicatus, 206. Hemorrhoidal arteiy, inferior, 422. middle, 563. superior, (o) 480,564, (d) 683. nerve, inferior, 422. ple.Kus, 568. veins, 565. Ham, 651. Hamulus lamLnce spiralis, 753. Hand, dissection of, 289. Head, dissection of, 1. Heart, 333. constituents, 334. dissection of, 338. position, 334. structure of, 344. HelicLne arteries, 581. Helicis major muscle, 34. minor muscle, 34. HeUcotrema, 753. HeHx, 34. Hepatic artery, 485, (d) 513. cells, 511. ducts, 488, (o) 511. plexus, 490. veins, 513, 537. Hernia, crural or femoral, 465, 615. inguinal, external, 456. internal, 400. umbilical, 451. Hiatus cochleoe, 753. Hip joint, 659. Hippocampus major, 214. minor, 214. Hollow before elbow, 280. Humero-cubital articulation, 312. Hunter's canal, 624. Hyaloid membrane, 735. Hymen, 585. Hyo-glossus muscle, 95,151. glossal membrane, 150. Hyoid bone, 163. Hypochondriac region of abdomen, 467. Hj-pogastric artery, 561. plexus of nerves, 481. region of the abdomen, 467. Hypoglossal nerve, (o) 189,(c)112, (d) 76,99. nucleus, 195. Ileo-ccecal valve, 503. Heo-colic artery, 478. valve, 503. Ileum intestine, connections of, 469. structure of, 495. Iliac artery, common, 535. external, 635. Iliac artery, internal, 661. fascia, 539. region of the abdomen, 467- vein, common, 536. external, 636. internal, 565. niacus muscle, 638, 636. Ilio-costalis, 391. femoral articulation. 659. hypogastric nerve, (o) 542, 450, 638. inguinal nerve, (o) 542, (d) 451,608. lumbar artery, 562. Incisor branch of nerve, 92. teeth, 133. Incus, 744. Indicator muscle, 306. Infantile hernia, 459. Inferior comu of the lateral ventricle, 211. maxillary nerve, (o) 18, (d) 89. Infra-costal muscles, 368. orbital ai-tery, 89, 102. nerves, 38, 101. vein, 102. scapular artery, 248, 256. trochlear nerve, 44. Infra-spinatus muscle, 259. Infundibulum of the brain, 200. Inguinal canal, 456. glands, 440, 606. hernia, external, 456. internal, 459. region of the abdomen, 467. Innominate artery, 351. veins, 352. Interarticular cartilage of the jaw, 85. of the hip, 662. of the knee, 703. of the ribs, 370. of the scapula, 261. sacro-iUac, 596. sterno - clavicular, 176. of the symphysis pubis, 699. of the vertebrae, 374. of the wrist, 317. Interclavicular ligament, 176. Intercolumnar fascia, 443. fibres, 443. Intercostal arteries, anterior branches, 254, 362, 453. posterior branches, 397, 415. artery, superior, (o) 71, (d) 353. muscle, external, 251, 368. intenial, 252, 368. nerves, 253, 368, 450. cutaneous, anterior, 238. lateral, 238. veins, superior, 363. Intercosto-humeral nerve, (o) 369, (d) 238, 266. Intermediate tract, 414. Intei-musoulai- septa of the arm, 274, of the foot, 677. of the thigh, 627. Internal cutaneous nerve of arm, 249, 266, 271. 3 D 2772 INDEX. Internal cutaneous nerve of thigh, (o) 628, (d) 609. saphenous vein, 608, 689. nerve, 655, 668, 690. Interosseous arteries of the foot, 695. of the hand, 298, 308. artery, anterior, 268, 288. posterior, 307. ligament of the arm, 314. of the log, 706. muscles of the foot, 687. of the hand, 299. nerve, anterior, 276, 289. posterior, 308. Interspinal muscles, 399. Intertransverse muscles, 170, 400. Intervertebral ganglia, 409. substance, 374. Intestinal arteries, 478. canal divisions, 469. structure, 495, 503. Intestine, large, 469, 501. small, 469, 495. Intra-spinal arteries, 415. veins, 4l6. Iris, 729. nerves of, 730. structure of, 729. vessels of, 730. Ischio-rectal fossa, 419. Island of Eeil, 203. Isthmus faucium, 127. of the tbyi-oid body, 119. of the uterus, 589. Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, 217. ad infundibulum, 217. Jacob's membrane, 732. structure, 733. Jacobson's nerve, (o) 109, (d) 748. Jejunum, connections of, 469. structure, 495. Joint, ankle, 707. elbow, 312. great toe, 715. hip, 659. knee, 697. lower jaw, 85. shoulder, 309. thumb, 320. wiist, 316. Jugular ganglion, 109. vein, anterior, 62. external, 29, 53. internal, 75, 106. Kidney, 515. connections of, 471. structure, 517. vessels of, 519. Knee of the corpus callosiun, 201. joint, 697. Labia pudendi externa, 584. interna, 585. Labial glands, 133. artery, inferior, 27. nerve, 92. Labyrinth, 749. lining of, 751. membranous, 766, osseous, 749. Lachrymal artery, 33, 45. canals, 50. duct, 61. gland, 40. nerve, 41. point, 31, 60. sac, 51. Lactiferous ducts, 239. Lacuna) of the urethra, 678. Lamina cinerea, 201. dentata, 214. reticularis, 756. spiralis cochleie, 763. Lamina; of cerebellum, 224. of the lens, 738. Large intestine, connections, 459. structm-e and form of, 501. Laryngeal arteries, 162. nerve, external. 111. inferior, (o) 112, 355, (d) N 161. superior, (o) 111, (d) 162 pouch, 159. Lar5Tix, 154. aperture of, 127, 158. cartilages of, 163. interior of, 158. ligaments, 165. muscles, 154. nerves, 161. ventricle, 159. vessels, 162. Lateral column of the medulla, 191,193. of the cord, 413. Lateral sinus, 13. ventricles, 210. Latissimus dorsi, 250, 384. Laxator tympani, 746. Leg, dissection of the back, 665. front, 688. Lens of the eye, 737. sti-ucture of, 737- Lenticular ganglion, 45. Levator anguli oris, 26. scapula;, 386. ani, 421, 548. glandulaj thyroideoc, 119. labii superioris, 25. alseque nasi, 22. inferioris, 25. palati, 129. palpebraj superioris, 42. Levatores costarum, 403. Lieberkiihn's crypts, 498. Ligament of the lung, 328. Ligaments of the bladder, 549, 551. of the larynx, 165 of the ovary, 569. of the pinna, 35. of the uterus, 657. Ligament, acromio-clavicular, 261. alar of the knee, 701. annular, anterior of the ankle, 690.INDEX. 773 Lisrament, annular, external of the ankle, ' 691. internal of the ankle, 675. anterior of the wist. 300. posterior of the wriBt, 301, 309. anterior, special, of ankle, 708. of elbow joint, 313. of knee joint, 700. of wrist joint, 316. of carpus, 318. astragalo-scaphoid, 711. atlo-axoid, anterior, 172. posterior, 172. transverse, 175. calcaneo-asti-agaloid, 7l0. cuboid, 710. scaphoid, 711. capsular of the hip, 659. of the knee, 698. of the shoulder, 310. of the thumb, 320. cai-pal, dorsal, 318. palmar, 318. carpo-metacarpal, 320. chrondo-stemal, 372. common, anterior, of vertebrae, 373. common posterior, 373. conoid, 260. coraco-acromial, 260. clavicular, 260. humeral, 310. costo-clavicular, 176. coracoid, 245. transverse, anterior, 371. middle, 371. posterior, 371. vertebral, 370. xiphoid, 372. cotyloid, 661. crico-thyroid, 166. ciTicial, 701. deltoid, 708. dorsal of the carpus, 318. of Gimbemat, 444, 613. glenoid, 310. ilio-femoral, 660. lumbar, 598. interarticular, of the clavicle, 176, of the hip, 662. of the jaw, 85. of the Icnee, 703. of the pubes,699. of the ribs, 370. of the wrist, 317. interclavicular, 176. interosseous of astragalus, and os calcis, 701. of carpus, 318. of cuneifoi-m bones, 714. Ligament, interosseous of metacarpal bones, 320. of metatarsal bones, 716. of radius and ulna, 314. of the scaphoid and cuboid, 714. of the tibia and fibula, 706. interosseous, inferior, of the tibia . and fibula, 707. interspinal, 377. intertransverse, 377. intervertebral, 374. lateral, external of the ankle, 708. internal, 708. external of the carpus, 319. internal, 319. external of the elbow, 312. internal, 312. phalangeal of the foot, 718. phalangeal of the hand, 323. external of the jaw, 85. internal, 85. external of the knee, 699. internal, 699. external of the wrist, 316. internal, 316. long plantar, 712. metacarpal, dorsal, 320. palmar, 320. metatarsal, dorsal, 715. plantar, 715. mucous, 701. obtui-ator, 598. occipito-atloid, anterior, 172. posterior, 173. occipito-axoid, 174. odontoid, 174. orbicular of the radius, 314. of the patella, 700. palmar of carpus, 318. peroneo-tibial, 706. of Poupart, 444, 613. posterior of ankle, 708. of carpus, 318. of elbow, 313. of knee, 699. of scapula, 262. of wrist, 316. proper of the scapula, 262. pubic anterior, 699. superioi-, 599. round of the hip, 662. round of the radius and ulna, 315. sacro-coccygeal, anterior, 596. posterior, 596. sacro-iliac, anterior, 596. posterior, 596. sacro-sciatic, large, 697, 650. small, 697, 650. sacro-vertebral, 595. of the scapula, anterior, 262. posterior, 262.774 INDEX. Ligament, sterno-claviculai-, 176, stylo-liyoid, 103. maxillary, 85. subpubic, 699. BupraspLuous, 377. suspensory of penis, 440. tai'so-metatarsal, dorsal, 716. lateral, 716. plantar, 716. thyro-arytajnoid, 167. epiglottidean, 167. hyoid, 165. tibio-tarsal, 708. transverse of the atlas, 175. of the fingers, 291. transverse of the hip, 662. of the knee, 703. of metacarpus, 299. of metatarsus, 686. of the toes, 677. trapezoid, 260. triangular of the abdomen, 444. of the m-ethra, 428. of "Winslow, or posterior, 699. Ligamentum arcuatum, 531. denticulatum, 406. ductus arteriosi, 345. latum pulmonis, 328. longum plantse, 712. mucosimi, 701. nuchse, 383. patellae, 700. spirale, 754. subflavum, 376. teres, 662. Limb, upper, 236. lower, 604. Limbus cochlese, 754. luteus, 732. Limiting membrane of retina, 734. Linea alba, 443. semilunaris, 450. Linese transversa, 449. Lingual artery, 77, 97. glands, 152. nerve, 92, 97, 153. vein, 97. Lingualis muscles, 152. Lips, 133. Liquor Cotmmii, 751. Lithotomy, parts cut, 432. Liver, 507- connections of, 471. ligaments, 476. stouctm-e, 510. vessels, 512. Lobes of the cerebellum, 224. of the cerebrum, 203. Lobules of the testis, 525. of the liver, 510. Lobulus amis, 34. caudatus, 509. uadratus, 508. pigelii, 509. Locus niger, 200. perforatus anticus, 201. posticus, 200. Longissimus dorsi, 391. Longitudinal fibres of the brain, 201. fissure of the liver, 609. sinus, infeiior, 13. superior, 10. Longus colli muscle, 168. Lumbar aponeurosis, 385. arteries, 643. anterior branches, 644. posterior branches, 398. ganglia, 643. glands, 640. nerves, anterior branches, 541. posterior branches, 398,415. plexus, 541. region of the abdomen, 467. veins, 537, 644. Lumbo-saoral nerve, 541. Lumbricales of the foot, 682. of the hand, 295. L\mgs, 368. connections, 330. physical characters, 358. structure, 359. vessels and nerves, 360. Lymphatic duct, 117, 365. right, 71, 366. Lymphatics of the arm, 266. of the axilla, 243. of the groin, 440, 606. of the lungs, 361. of the mesentery, 479. of the neck, 58. of the pelvis, 569. of the popliteal space, 655. of the thorax, 365. Lyra, 212. Malleolar arteries, 694. Malleus, 744. muscles of, 745. Malpighian corpuscles of spleen, 507. of kidney, 518. MamillsB of the kidney, 516. Mamma, 238. structure of, 239. Mammary artery, internal, (o) 70, (c) 253, 354, 454. gland, 238. Masseter muscle, 81. Masseteric artery, 89. nerve, 90. Mastoid cells, 742. Maxillary artery, internal, 87, 143. nerve, inferior, (o) 18, (d) 89. superior, 18, 100. vein, internal, 89. Meatus auditorius externus, 739. nerves of, 740. vessels of, 740. urinarius, 578. Meatuses of the nose, 135. Meckel's ganglion, 141. Median basilic vein, 264. cephalic vein, 264. nerve, (o) 249, (c) 270, (d) 287,292. vein, 264, 277. Mediastinal arteries, 253, 362. Mediastinum of thorax, 328.INDEX. 775 Mediastinum of testis, 524. MeduUa oblongata, 190. gray matter of, 194, ii'J. Medulla spinalis, 411. Medullary substance of the kidney, 616. velum, anterior, 226. posterior, 226. Meibomian follicles, 32_. Membrana basilaris, 754. granulosa, 591. pigracnti, 735. pupillaris, 729. reticulai-is, 756. saccifonnis, 318. tympaiii, 743. Membrane of Corti, 755. of Demours, 725. hyaloid, 735. Jacob's, 732. of the labjTinth, 751. of Eeissner, 754. Membranes of the brain, 9, 178. of spinal cord, 404, Membranous labyiinth, 756. part of the cochlea, 754. part of the m-ethra, 578. Meningeal ai-tery, anterior, 15. middle, 15, 88. posterior, 15, 80, 181. small, 15, 88. nen'es, 16. Mesenteric artery, inferior, 480. superior, 477. glands, 479. plexus, inferior, 481. superior, 481. Tein, inferior, 480. superior, 478. Mesentery, 475. Meso-c£ecum, 475. colon, left, 475. right, 475. transverse, 475. rectum, 475, 550. Metacarpal arteries, 286, 308. Metatarsal arterv, 695. Mitral valve, 343. Modiolus of the cochlea, 752. Molar teeth, 133. glands, 30. Mons Veneris, 684. Motor oculi nerve, (o) 187, (c) 16, (d) 43, 47. Mouth, cavity of, 132. Mucous ligament, 701. Multifidus spina) muscle, 400. Muscularis mucosa), 496. Musculi papillares, 340, 343. pectinati, 338, 342. Musculo-phrenic artery, 253, 534. cutaneous nerve, (o) 696, (d) 689. of the arm, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. spiral nerve, 249, 275. iVlusc. abductor digiti minimi, 297. digiti minimi pedis, 678. indicis, 299. pollicis, 295. Muse, abductor pollicis pedis, 677. accossorius pedis, 682. ad sacro-lumbalem, 391. adductor brevis, 633. digiti minimi, 298. longus, 632. magnus, 635, 659. pollicis mantis, 296. pedis, 683. anconeus, 304. anti-tragicus, 34. arytajuoideus, 156. attollens aurem, 2. attrahens aurem, 2. azygos uvula3, 131. biceps femoris, 656, 699. flexor, cubiti, 267, 289, 310. brachialis anticus, 272, 289. buccinator, 26. cervicalis ascendens, 391. chondi-o-glossus, 151. ciliaiis, 728. circumflexus palati, 129. coccygeus, 547. complexus, 392. compressor naris, 21. constrictor inferior, 123. isthmi faucium, 130. medius, 123. superior, 124. urethi'EB, 430, 435. coraco-brachialis, 268. cormgator cutis ani, 420. supercilii, 23. cremastericus, 446. crico-aryttenoideus lateralis, 156. posticus, 155. thyroideus, 156. deltoides, 257. depressor anguli oris, 26. epiglottidis, 157. depressor labii inferioris, 25. alse nasi, 22. diaphragma, 628, 369. digastricus, 75. dilatator naris, 22. pupiUffi, 729. ejaculator urinEe, 426. erector clitoridis, 434. penis, 426. spina;, 391. extensor carpi radialis brevier, 303. longior, 302. ulnaris, 304. brevis digitonim pedis, 695. digiti minimi, 304. digitorum communis, 303. indicis, 306. longus digitorum pedis, 692. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 305. pollicis proprius, 691. primi intemodii pollicis, 306. secundi intemodii pollicis, 306. flexor accessoi-ius, 682. brens digiti minimi, 298. brevis digiti minimi pedis, 685. carpi radialis, 281, 301.INDEX. 776 Muse, flexor carpi ulnaris, 282. digitorum brevis pediSj 678. longus pedis, 672, 681. profundus, 287,294. sublimis, 284, 294. poUicis longus, 288, 295. pedis, 671,682. polliois brevis, 296. pedis, 683. gastrocnemius, 668. gemellus inferior, 647. superior, 647. genio-hyo-glossus, 96, 151. hj'oideus, 96. glosso-pharyngeus, 152. gluteus maximus, 640. medius, 642. minimus, 644. gracilis, 631. helicis major, 35. minor, 35. hj'o-glossus, 95, 189. iliacus, 538, 636. . ilio-costaHs, 391. indicator, 306. infra-costaHs, 368. infra-spinatus, 259. intercostales extemi, 251, 368. interni, 252, 368. interossei manfts dorsales, 299. palmares, 299. pedis dorsales, 687. plantares, 687. interspinales, 399. intertransversales, 170, 399. kerato-cricoideus, 156. latissimus dorsi, 250, 384. laxator tympani, 746. levator anguli oris, 26. scapulae, 386. ani, 421, 548. glandula; thyroideae, 119. labii superioris, 25. alse nasi, 22. labii iaferioris, 25. palati, 129. palpebrse, 42. uvulaj, 131. levatores costarum, 402. linguales, 152. longissimus dorsi, 391. longus colli, 168. lumbricales mantis, 295. pedis, 682. mallei extemus, 746. internus, 746. massetericus, 81. multitidus spiuEe, 400. mylo-hyoideus, 93. obliquus abdominis externus, 441. internus, 445. capitis inferior, 399. superior, 399. oculi inferior, 48. , superior, 42. obturator externus, 636, 648. ^temus, 694, 647. Muse, occipito-frontalis, 2. omo-hyoideus, 64, 386. opponens digiti minimi, 298. pollicis, 296. orbicularis oris, 24. palpebrarum, 23. orbitalis, 50. palato-glossus, 130, 151. pharyngeus, 130. palmaris brevis, 290. longus, 282. pectineus, 631. pectoralis major, 243, 244. minor, 244. peroneus brevis, 697. longus, 688, 696. tertius, 692. plantaris, 670. platysma myoides, 52, 58. popliteus, 671, 699. pronator quadratus, 288. radii teres, 280. psoas magnus, 537, 636. parvus, 538. pterj'goideus extemus, 84. internus, 84. pyramidalis abdominis, 450. nasi, 21. pyrifoi-mis, 594, 644. quadratus femoris, 648. lumborum, 539. rectus abdominis, 448. capitis anticus major, 169. minor, 169. lateralis, 113. posticus major, 398. miaor, 398. femoris, 625, 644. oculi externus, 47. inferior, 47. internus, 47. superior, 42. retrahens aurem, 2. rhomboideus major, 386. minor, 386. risorius Santorini, 26. rotatores dorsi, 401. sacro-lumbaUs, 391. salpingo-pbaryngeus, 125. sartorius, 621. scalenus anticus, 67. medius, 67. posticus, 67. semi-spinaUs colli, 399. dorsi, 399. semi-membranosus, 658,699. semi-tendinosus, 656. serratus magnus, 250. posticus inferior, 388. superior, 388. Boleus, 699. sphincter ani externus, 421. internus, 421. pupillae, 729. vagina;, 434. spinalis dorsi, 390. splenius capitis, 389. com, 389.INDEX. 777 Muse, stapedius, 7-16. Btemo-cleido-mastoideus, 62. hyoideus, 64. thyroideus, 64. stylo-glossus, 95, 161. hyoideus, 76. pharyngcus, 102. Bubanconeus, 275. subclavius, 245. subcrureus, 627. eubscapularis, 255. supinator radii brevis, 307. longus, 301. supraspinatus, 262. temporalis, 4, 82. tensor palati, 129. tarsi, 49. tympani, 746. vaginas femoris, 626. teres major, 259. minor, 259. tliyro-aryta;noideus, 157. hyoideus, 65. tibialis anticus, 691. posticus, 672, 687- trachelo-raastoideus, 391. tragi cus, 34. transverealia abdominis, 447. com, 391. transversus amis, 35. linguae, 152. pedis, 683. perinsei, 427, 434. alter, 427. profundus, 429, 434. trapezius, 382. triangularis stemi, 252. triceps extensor cruris, 625. cubiti, 273. vastus extemus, 626. intemus, 626. zygomaticus major, 26. minor, 26. Mylo-hyoid artery, 88. muscle, 93. nerve, 92. Nares, 30,126. Kasal artery, internal, 46, 144. artery, lateral, 28. cartilages, 30. duct, 51. nerve, (d)'43, (c) 143, (o) 46. Naso-palatine nerve, 141. artery, 143. Neck, anterior triangle of, 60. posterior, 63. dissection of, 51. Nerve of Jacobson, 109, 748. Wrisberg, (o) 249, (d) 266, 271. Nerve to the inferior gemellus and quad- ratus, 647. latissimus, 250. levator anguli scapula;, 72. obturator intemus, 667, 647. pectineus, 629. pterygoid, internal, 147. Nerve to the pyriformis, 667. rhomboid muscle, il, obT. Bcaleni, 73. serratus muscle, (o) 72, (d) 250. BubclaviuB, 72. superior gemellus, 647. tensor palati, 147. tympani, 147. vaginas femoris, 629. teres major, 250. minor, 259. vastus extemus, 629. intemus, 629. Nervous tunic of eyeball, 781. Nerv. abducens, (o) 188, (c) 18, (d) 47. accessorius obturatorius, 543, 632. spinaUs, 112, 188, 383. acromiales cutanei, 73, 256. articulares poplitei, 655. articularis poplitei, obturatorius, 683, 655. auditorius, 188, 750. aui ieulares anteriores, 8. auricularis magnus, 8, 57. pneumogastricus, (o) 111, (d) 749. auricularis inferior, 91. posterior, 8, 36. auriculo-temporaUs, 8, 91. buccales, 38, 90. buccinatorius, 90. cai-diacus inferior, (o) 115, 121, (d) 357. cardiacus medius, (o)115,121, (d) 357. cardiacus pneumogastricus. 111, 355, (d) 357. cardiacus superior, (o) 115, 121, (d) 337, 357. cervicales nervi facialis, 59. rami anteriores, 72, 170. posteriores, 170, 394. cervicalis superficialis, 57, 59. cervioo-facialis, 38. chorda tympani, 92, 146. ciliares gangUi ophthalmici, 45, 731. ciliaris nasalis, 44, (d) 731. circumfle.xus, 249, 258. claviculares cutanei, 57. coccygealis, 462, 566. cochlearis, 758. communicans fibularis, 668. corporis bulbosi, 432. cruralis, (o) 542, (d) 628. cutanei abdominis, anteriores, 439. laterales, 438. cutaneus extemus brachialis, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. lumbalis, (o) 642, (d) 609. musculo - spiialis, 266, 275, 278. cutaneus intemus braclii.ilis, major, 249, 271, 278. brachialis minor, 249, 266, 271. femoris, (d) 609, (o) 628.INDEX. 778 Nerv. cutaneus intemua musculo-spirnliB, 266, 275. cutaneus medius femoris, (o) 628, (d) 609. cutaneus musculo-cutaneus, 266. piilmaris, 287, 290. plantaris, 675. ratlialis, 278. dorsalis manfts, 287. dentales posteriores, 101. dentalis, anterior, 101. inferior, 91. descendens noni, 76, 113. diaphragmaticus, (o) 73, (d) 354. digastricus, 36. digitales mediani, 293. plantares, 680. radiales, 278. ulnares, 292. dorsales, rami anteriores, 253, 368, 409. posteriores, 396, 409. dorsalis penis, 432, 441. ulnaris, 278, 287. facialis, 35, 145. frontalis, 40. genito-crm-alis, 562, 608. cruralis, ramus femoralis, 609, ramus genitalis, 453. glosso-pharyngeus, 109,153, 188. glutei inferiores, 646. gluteus superior, 541, 644. gustatorius, 92, 97, 153. hsemorrhoidales superiores, 481. hjemorrhoidalis inferior, 422. hypoglossus, 76, 99,112, 153. ilio-hypogasti-icus, 450, 542, 638. inguinalis, 451, 542, 608. incisorius, 92. infra-maxillares faciales, 38, 59. orbitales nervi facialis, 38. orbitalis, 50, 101. trochlearis, 44. intercostales, 253, 450. intercosto-cutaneianteriores, 238,439. cutanei laterales, 238, 438. humeralis, 269, 238, 266. interosseus anticus, 289. posticus, 308. labiaUs, 92. lachrymalis, 41. laryngeus externus. 111. inferior, (o) 355, (d) 112, 161. laryngeus superior, (o) 111, (d) 162. lumbales, rami anteriores, 541. posteriores, 398, 415. lumbo-sacralis, 541. malares nervi facialis, 38. massetericus, 90. maxillaris inferior, (o) 18, (d) 89. superior, 18, 100. medianus, 249, 270, 287, 292. meningei, 16. molles, 115. motor ocuU, (o) 187, (c) 18, (d) 43, 47. musculo-cutaneus laracliii, 249, 272, 278. Nerv. musculo-cutaneus cruris, 696, (d) 689. musculo-spiralis, (o) 249, (d) 275. mylo-byoideus, 92. nasalis, (o) 40, (d) 43, 46, 143. naso-palatinus, 141. obtui-atoriuB, (o) 642, (d) 633. articularis, 633, 655. occipitalis, major, 395. minor, (d) 8, (o) 57. oesophageales, 355. olfactorius, (c) 16, (d) 138, (o) 185. ophtbalmicus, 18, 40. opticus, 46,138, 185, 218. orbitalis, (d) 50, (o) 101. palatinus magnus, 141. medius, 142. minor, 142. palpebrales, 33, 101. pabnaris cutaneus, 290. uhiaris profundus, 299. superficiales, 292. patellaris, 610, 629. perforans Casserii, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. perinseales superficiales, 422, 426. peronealis, 654. petrosus superficiaUs extemus, 20. magnus, 20,143. parvus, 20, 749. pharyngei, 109,115. pharyngeus, 111. pbi'enicus, 73, 354. plantaris extemus, 681. extemus profundus, 686. intemus, 680. pneumo-gastricus, 110, 188, 354,491. popliteus extemus, 654. intemus, 654. portio dm-a, 35, 144, 188. mollis, (o) 188, (d) 758. pterygoidei, 91. pterygoideus intemus, 91, 147. pudendus inferior, (o) 646, (d) 426, 439. intemus, (o) 567, (d) 422, 432, 441. pulmonares anteriores, 355. posteriores, 355. radiaHs, 278, 287. recurrens, 112, 355, (d) 161. articularis, 696. sacrales, rami anteriores, 566. posteriores, 401, 638. saphenus externus, 668, (d) 690. intemus, (o) 628, (d) 610, 628, 690. sciaticas magnus, 667, 646, 658. parvus, 567, 638, 641, 658. spermatici, 481. spheno-palatini, 101. splanclinicus major, (o) 367, 491. miior, (o) 368, (d) 491. minimus, (o) 368, (d) 491. splenici, 490. stylo-hyoideus, 37. suboccipitalis, ramus anterior, 113.INDEX. 770 Nerv. suboccipitalis ramus posterior, 397. subscapulures, 249. superficialis cordis dexter, (o) no, (d) 356. sinister, (o) 121, (d) 337. supra-maxillares nervi facialis, 38. orbitalis, 6, 40. Bcapularis, 73, 2G3, 378. trochlearis, 7, 41. eympatheticuB abdominis, 481, 489, cervicis, 113. pelvis, 567. thoracis, 356, 367. temporales nervi laciaUs, 38. profundi, 90. superficiales, (d) 8, (o) 38. temporo-facialis, 37. malaris, 50, 101. thoracici, auteriores, 249. lateniles, 238. thoracicus posterior, 72, 250. tibialis anticus, 690, (d) 696. posticus, 674. trigeminus, 17, 187- trochlearis, 17, 40, 187- tympanicus, (o) 109, (d) 748. ulnaris, 271, 286, 293. uterini, 568. vaginales, 568. vestibularis, 758. ■vidianus, 142. Ninth nerve, (o) 189, (e) 112, (d) 76, 99. Nipple of the breast, 238. Nodule, 224. Nose, cartilages, 30. cavity of, 134. meatuses of, 135. nerves and vessels of, 141, 143. Nuclei of medulla oblongata, 195. Nucleus eaudatus, 213. lenticularis, 213. Nutritious artery of fibula, 674. of femur, 634. of humerus, 270. of tibia, 673. Nymphjc, 684. Obliquus abdominis extemus, 441. intemus, 445. capitis inferior muscle, 399. superior muscle, 399. oculi inferior, 48. superior, 42. Obturator artery, (o) 663, (d) 637. fascia, 546. Ugamcnt, 698. membrojie, 598. muscle, external, 636, 648. internal, 594, 649. nerve, (o) 543, (d) 633. Occipital artery, (o) 79, (c) 397, (d) 6. lobe, 203. vein, 6, 50. sinus, 13. Occipito-atloid articulation, 172. ligaments, 172. Occipito-nxoid ligament, 174. frontalis muscle, 2. Odontoid ligaments, 174. ffisophagus, connections of, 120, 364. structure, 132, 364. ffisophageal arteries, 362, 485. nerves, 355. opening of diaphi-agm, 631. Olfactory bulb, 185. cells, 138. nerve, (o) 185, (d) 138. region, 137. Olivaiy body, 191, 193. commissure, 194. fasciculus, 194, 197, 219. Omentum, great, 474. small, 474. splenic, 474. Omo-hyoid muscle, 64. Ophthalmic artery, 19, 45. ganglion, 45. nerve, (o) 18, (c) 18, (d) 40. vein, 46. Opponens pollicis muscle, 296. Optic commissure, 186. nerve, (o), 185, 218, (c) 46, (d) 732 thalamus, 217, 222. tract, 186. Ora serrata, 732. Orbicular ligament of the radius, 314. Orbicularis oris, 24. palpebrarum, 23. Orbit, 39. muscles of, 42, 47. nerves, 40. periosteum of, 39. vessels, 45. Orbital branch of neiTe, (d) 50, (o) 101. Organ of Corti, 765. of Giraldes, 627. Orifice of the m-ethra, 578. of the uterus, 588. of the vagina, 685. Os hyoides, 163. Ossicles of the tympanum, 744. Os tincaj, 588. Os uteri externum, 688. Otic ganglion, 146. Otoliths, 756. Outlet of the pelvis, 418. Ovaiies, 659, 690. appendage to, 692. arteries of, 634, 564. Ovicapsule, 691. Ovisacs, 691. Ovum, 591. Palate (soft), 128. Palatine, arteries, superior, 143. artery, inferior, 79. nerve, external, 142. large, 141. small, 142. Palato-glossus, 130, 161. Palato-pliaryngeus, 130. Palm of the hand, 289. cutaneous nerves of, 290780 INDEX. Palmar arch, deep, 298. superficial, 291. nerve of the ulnai-, deep, 299. superficial, 292. cutaneous nerves, 290. fascia, 290. Palmaris brevis muscle, 290. longus muscle, 282. Palpebrii?, 31. Palpebral arteries, 33, 46. ligament, 32. nerves, 33. veins, 33. Pancreas, 505. connections, 484. structure of, 505. Pancreatic arteries, 485. duct, 497, 505. veins, 488. Pancreatico-duodenal arteries, 478, 486. Papilla lachrymalis, 31. PapillflD of the tongue, 148. Parietal lobe, 203. Parovarium, 592. Parotid gland, 28. arteries, 80. Patellar nerve, 629. plexus, 610. Pectineus muscle, 631. Pectoralis major muscle, 243, 244. minor muscle, 244. Peduncle of the cerebellum, inferior, 227. middle, 227. superior, 226. of the cerebi-um, 198, 222. of the pineal body, 218. Peduncular fibres, 219. Pelvis, female, dissection of, 555. male, 545. dissection of, 545. Pelvic cavity, 545. fascia, 546. plexus, 568. Penis, 555. integument of, 440. structure of, 679. vessels of, 582. Peptic glands, 495. Perforating arteries of the femoral, 634, 659. of internal mammary, 253. of the palm, 298. of the sole, 685, 695. Perforans Casserii nerve, (o) 249, (c) 272, (d) 278. Pericardium, 332. vessels of, 333, 362. Perilymph, 751. Perinscum, female, 433. male, 417. Perinseal artery, superficial, 425. fascia, deep, 428. superficial, 424. nerves, superficial, 422, 425, 432. Periosteum of the orbit, 39. Peritoneal prolongation on the cord, 461. Peritoneum, 472. of female pelvis, 557. Peritoneum of male pelvis, 650. Peroneal artery, 674. anterior, 674. nerve, 665. Peroneus brevis muscle, 697. lougus muscle, 688, 696. tertius muscle, 692. Peroneo-tibial articulations, 706. Pes hippocampi, 214. Petrosal ganglion, 109. sinus, inferior, 15. superior, 15. nerve, large, 20, 143. small, 20, 749. external, 20. Peyer's glands, 499. Pharynx, 123. interior, 126. muscles of, 123. openings of, 126. Pharyngeal ascending artery, 106. nei-ve, 111. vein, 109. Pharyngeo-glossal muscle, 152. Phrenic artery, 354, 634. nerve, 73, 354. Pia mater of the brain, 179. of the cord, 406. Pigmentary layer of retina, 735. Pigment cells of choroid, 727. iris, 730. Pillars of the abdominal ring, 443. of the fornix, 218. of the his, 725. of the soft palate, 128. Pineal body, 218. Pinna, or auricle of the ear, 33. Pituitary body, 200. Plantar aponem-osis, 676. arch of the artery, 685. arteries, 678, 685. ligament, long, 712. nerve, external, 681, 686. internal, 680. Plantaris muscle, 670. Platysma myoides muscle, 52, 58. Pleura, 328. Plexus, aortic, 481. brachial, 72, 249. cardiac, superficial, 337. deep, 350. carotid, 20. cavernous, 20. cervical, 73. posterior, 396. choroides cerebri, 216. cerebelli, 250. coeliac, 490. coronary, anterior, 337. posterior, 337. coronary of the stomach, 490. diaphragmatic, 490. gulas, 355. hepatic, 490. hsemorrhoidal, 668. hypogastric, 481. lumbar, 541. mesenteric, inferior, 481781 INDEX. Plexus, mesenteric superior, 481. ccsophagenn, 355. ovarian, 568. patellar, 610. peh-ic, 568. pharyngeal, 111. prostatic, 568. pterygoid of veins, 89. _ pulmonary, anterior, 355. posterior, 355. renal, 490. supra, 490. sacral, 566. solar, 489. spermatic of nerves, 481. of veins, 537. splenic, 490. tympanic, 748. uterine, 668. vaginal, 568. vesical, 568. vertebral, 116,171. Plica semilunaris, 33. Pneumo-gastric nerve, (o) 188, (d) 110,188, 354, 491. Pons Tnrini, 200. Varolii, 196. structure of, 191. Popliteal artery, 652. glands, 655. nerve, external, 655. internal, 654. space, 651. vein, 654. Popliteus muscle, 671, 699. Portal veins, 487- Portio dura, (c) 145, (d) 35, (o) 188. mollis, (o) 188, (d) 758. Porus opticus, 732. Posterior commissure, 217. elastic layer of comea, 725. ligament of knee, 699. medullary velum, 226. pjramid, 191, 194. tnangle of the neck, 53. vesicular column, 414. Poupart's ligament, 444, 613. Pouch, larjTigeal, 158. of the auricula, 338, 342. Prepuce, 640. Princeps cervicalis artery, 397. pollicis artery, 299. of the foot, 686. Processus cochleariformis, 742. vermiformis, 223, 227. Profunda artery, inferior, 270. of the neck, (o) 71, (d) 397. of the thigh, 619, 634. superior, (o) 270, (d) 274. Promontory, 741. Pronator quadratus muscle, 288. radii teres muscle, 280. Prostate gland, 569. connections, 553. structure, 570. Prostatic part of the urethra, 676. sinuses, 677. Psoas magnus muscle, 637, 636. Psoas parvus muscle, 538. Pterygoid arteries, 89. nerve, extenial, 91. internal, 91, 147. plexus of veins, 89. Pter3'goideus extenius muscle, 84. intemus muscle, 84. Pterygo-maxillary ligament, 125. region, 81. palatine artery, 144. Pubic region of the abdomen, 467- symphysis, 599. Pudendal inferior nerve, (o) 646, (d) 426. Pudic arteries, external, 606, 609. artery, internal, (d) 441, (c) 422, 431, (o) 564. nerve, internal, (o) 667, (d) 422,432, 441. Pulmonary artery, (d) 341, 348, 360. nerves, 355. veins, 342, 353, 360. Puncta lachrymalia, 31, 50. Pupil, muscles of, 729. Pyloras, 492. Pyloric arteries, 486. Pyramid, anterior, 191, 192. decussation of, 194. of the cerebellum, 224. of the thyroid body, 119. of the tympanum, 742. posterior, 191, 194. Pyramidal fibres of the medulla, 192. masses of Iddney, 516. Pyramidalis abdominis muscle, 450. nasi muscle, 21. Pyramids of Malpighi, 517. Pyi'ifonnis muscle, 594, 644. Quadratus femoris muscle, 648. lumborum muscle, 539. Eadial artery, 282, (d) 298, 308. nerve, 278, 287. veins, 283. cutaneous, 277. Eadialis indicis artery, 299. Radio-carpal articulation, 316. Radio-ulnar articulations, 314, 317. Eanine artery, 97. vein, 97. Raphe of the corpus callosum, 209. of the medulla, 194. of the perinoeum, 417. Receptaculum chjdi, 540. Recto-vesical fascia, 549. pouch, 650. Rectus abdominis muscle, 448. capitis anticus major, 169. minor, 169. posticus major, 398. minor, 398. lateralis, 113. femoris, 625, 644. Rectus oculi extenius, 47. inferior, 47. internus, 47. superior, 42. Rectum, connections of, in the female, 558INDEX. 782 Rectum, connections of, in the male, 652. structure, 682. Eecm-rent interosseous artery, 307. radial, 283. tibial, 694. ulnar, anterior, 286. posterior, 286. Eecurrent nerve of pneumo-gastric, (o) 112, 355, (d) 161. nerve of popliteal, 696. Eenal artery, (d) 519, (o) 533. plexus, 490. vein, (o) 519, (o) 537. Eestiform body, 191, 194. Eete testis, 526. Eetina, 731. structure, 732. Eetrahens aurem, 2. Ehomboideus major muscle, 386. minor, 386. Eima of the glottis, 158. Eing, abdominal, external, 443. internal, 451, 456. Eisorius Santorini muscle, 26. Eods of retina, 733. Eoot of the lung, 329, 331. Eoots of the nerves, 408, 414. Eotatores dorsi, 401. Eound ligament of the hip joint, 662. of the liver, 509. of the uterus, 452,559,590. Saccule of the ear, 756. Sacculus laryngis, 158. vestibuli, 756. Sacral artery, lateral, 562, middle, 533, 565. ganglia, 568. nerves, anterior branches, 566. posterior branches, 401, 638, 642. plexus, 566. Sacro-coccygeal articulation, 595. iliac, 596. vertebral, 595. lumbalis muscle, 391. sciatic ligament, large, 597, 650. small, 597, 650. Salpingo-pharyngeus muscle, 125. Salvatella vein, 277. Saphenous vein, external, 666, 689. ^ internal, 608, 628, 666, (o) 689. opening, 612. nerve, external, 668, (d) 690. internal, (o) 628, (d) 610, 690. Sai-torius muscle, 621. Scala tympani, 754. vestibuli, 754. Scalenus anticus muscle, 67. medius, 67. posticus, 67- Scapiilar artery, posteiior, 70, 263, 387- ligaments, 262. muscles, 255, 259. _ Scapulo-clavicular articulation, 260. humeral, 309. Scarpa's triangle, 616. Schneiderian membrane, 136, Sciatic artery, (o) 563, (d) 646. nerve, large, 567, 646, 658. small, 567, 638, 646, 658. Sclerotic coat of the eye, 723. sti-ucture, 724. Scrotum, 440. Second nerve, (o) 185, (c) 46, (d) 732. Secondary membrane of the tympanum, 741, 743. Segments of the cord, 412. Semicircular canals, 750. Semilunar cartilages, 703. ganglia, 490. valves of aorta, 344. of pulmonary artery, 341. Semi-bulbs of vagina, 687. Semi-membranosus muscle, 658, 699. Seminal ducts, 572. Seminiferal tubes, 524. Semi-spinaUs colli muscle, 399. dorsi muscle, 399. Semi-tendinosus muscle, 656. Septiun am-icularum, 345. cochleae, 753. crurale, 463, 615. intermuscular, of the am, 274. of the thigh, 627- lucidum, 211. nasi, 135. pectiniforme, 680. scroti, 440. of the tongue, 160. ventriculorum, 348. Serratus magnus muscle, 250. posticus inferior, 388. superior, 388. Seventh nerve, (o) 188, (c) 144, (d) 36. Sheath of the fingers, 291. of the rectus, 449. of the toes, 677. Shoulder joint, 309. Sigmoid artery, 480. flexm-e of the colon, 470. valves, 341, 344. Sinus, basilar, 15. of the bulb, 578. cavernous, 14. circular, of Eidley, 14. coronary, 336. lateral, 13. longitudinal, inferior, 13. superior, 10. occipital, 13. petrosal, inferior, 15. superior, 15. pocularis, 576. prostaticus, 577. straight of the skull, 13. torcular, 13. transverse, 15. of Valsalva, 344. Sixth nerve, (o) 188, (c) 18, (d) 47. Small intestine, 469, 495. omentum, 474. Socia paroticUs, 29. Soft commissure, 217.INDEX. 783 Softpalato, 128. muscles of, 129, Solar plexus, 489. Sole of the foot, dissection of, 675. Soleus muscle, 669. Solitarv tjlands, 498, 504. Spermatic artery, _(o) 534, (d) 527. cord, 452. fascia, 458. plexus, 481. veins, (o) 527, (c) 537- Spheno-palatine artery, 143. ganglion, 141. nerves, 101. Sphincter ani extern us, 421. internus, 421. of the pupil, 729. vaginio, 434. vesica}, 574. Spigelian lobe, 509. Spinal accessory nerve, (o) 189, (d) 112. nucleus, 195. arteries, 180, 410. cord, 411. membranes of, 404. structure, 413. nerves, 408. filaments of origin, 414. roots of, 408. veins, 416. Spinalis dorsi muscle, 390. Spiral tube of the cochlea, 752. Splanchnic nerve, large, 367, (d) 491. small, 367, (d) 491. smaUest, 367, (d) 491. Spleen, 506. connections, 471. structui'e, 506. Splenic artery, 485, 507. omentum, 474. plexus of nerves, 490. vein, 488. Splenius capitis muscle, 389. colli, 389. Spongy bones, 135. part of the urethra, 578. Stapedius muscle, 746. Stapes bone, 745. Stellate ligament, 370. Stcnson's duct, 29. Stemo-clavicular articulation, 176. cleido-mastoid muscle, 62. hyoid muscle, 64. thyroid, 64. Stomach, form and divisions, 491. connections of, 467. structure of, 492. Straight sinus, 13. Stiiate body, 213, 222. Stylo-hyoid ligament, 103. muscle, 76. nerve, 37. glossus muscle, 95, 161. mastoid artery, 89. maxillary ligament, 85. pharyngeus muscle, 102. Subanconeus muscle, 275. Subarachnoid space, 406. Subarachnoid space, of the cord, 406. Subclavian artery, left, 116, (o) 352. right, 68. vein, 71. Subclavius muscle, 245. Subcrureus, 627. Subcutaneous malar nerve, 50, 101. Sublingual artery, 97. . gland, 99. Submaxillary ganglion, 97. gland, 93. region, 93. Submental artery, 79. Suboccipital nerve, anterior branch, 113. posterior branch, 397. Subpeduncular lobe, 225. Subperitoneal fat, 451, 615. Subpubic ligament, 599. Subscapular artery, 248. nerves, 249. Subscapularis muscle, 255. Substantia gelatinosa, 413. perforata antica, 201. Sulci of brain, 202, 224. Sulcus, longitudinal, of the liver, 509. spiralis, 754. ■ transverse, 509. Superficial fascia of the abdomen, 438. of the perinasum, 424. of the thigh, 606, 607. Superficialis cervicalis, artery, 387. vola; artery, 283. Supinator radii brevis, 307. longus, 301. Supra-orbital artery, 5, 46. nerve, 6, 40. renal capsule, 521. plexus, 490. scapular artery, 70, 263, 387. nerve, 73, 263, 387. spinal artery, 263. spinatus muscle, 262. trochlear nerve, 7, 41. Suspensory ligament of the lens, 736. of the liver, 476. of the penis, 440. Sympathetic nerve in the abdomen, 480,490. in the head, 20. in the loins, 543. in the neck, 113. in the pelvis, 567. in the thorax, 367. Symphysis pubis, 599. Synovial gland of Havers, 663. Tajnia hippocampi, 214. semicu'cularis, 213. Tarsal artery, 695. articulation, 713. • cartilages, 32. Tarso-metatarsal articulations, 715. Taste buds, 149. Teeth, 133. Tegmentum, 200. Temporal aponeurosis, 4. artery, 80. deep, 89. middle, 80.INDEX. 784 Temporal artery, superficial, 5. fascia, 4. musclo, 4, 82. nerves, deep, 90. superficial, 8, 38. vein, 6, 81. Temporo-facial nerve, 37. malar nerve, 50. maxillary articulation, 85. sphenoidal lobe, 203. Tendo Acliillis, 669. palpebrarum, 32. Tendon of triceps extensor, 620. Tensor palati musclo, 129. tarsi, 49. tympani, 746. vaginiB femoris, 625. Tentorium cerebeUi, 12. Teres major muscle, 259. minor, 259. Testes, 522. Thalamus opticus, 217, 222. Thebesian foramina, 338. valve, 339. Thigh, dissection of, back, 650, 656. front, 604. Thii-d nerve, (o) 187, (d) 43, 47, (c) 16. ventricle, 216. Thoracic duct, 117, 365, 540. ganglia, 365. Thoracic-acromial artery, 247. alar, 248. humeral, 248. long, 248. superior, 247; Thorax, boundaries of, 326. parietes of, 251, 368. Thymus body, 329. Thyro-aryt£Bnoid articulation, 167. ligaments, 160. arytsenoideus muscle, 157. epiglottidean ligament, 167. hyoid membrane, 165. muscle, 65. Thyroid artery, inferior, 70, 120. superior, 78, 120. axis of arteiy, 70. body, 119. cartilage, 163. plexus of veins, 120. vein, inferior, 71, 120. middle, 75. superior, 79. Tibial artery, anterior, 693. posterior, 673. nerve, anterior, 696, (d) 690. posterior, 674. veins, anterior, 695. posterior, 674. Tibialis anticus muscle, 691. posticus, 672, 687. Tibio-tarsal articulation, 708. Tongue, 148. muscles of, 160. nerves of, 153. vessels of, 97. Tonsil, 131. Tonsillitic artery, 79. Torcular Hcrophili, 13. Trachea, connections of, 120, 357. structure of, 167. Trachelo-mastoid muscle, 391. Tractus intennedio-lateralis, 414. Tragus, 34. muscle, 34. Transverse colon, 470. fissure of the cerebrum, 214. of the liver, 509. ligament of the acetabulum, 662. of the atlas, 175. of the fingers, 291. of the knee, 703. of the metacarpus, 299. of the metatarsus, 686. of the toes, 677. perineeal artery, 425. sinus, 15. tarsal articulation, 713. Transversalis abdominis muscle, 447. cervicalis artery, (o) 70, (d) 387. colli muscle, 391. faciei artery, (o) 80, (d) 28. fascia, 451, 463. Transversus auriculas muscle, 35. lingua), 152. pedis, 683. perinsei, 427, 434. deep, 429, 434. Trapezius muscle, 382. Trapezoid ligament, 250. Triangle of the neck, anterior, 60. posterior, 53. Triangular cartilage of the nose, 135. fibro-cartilage of mist, 317. ligament of groin, 444. of the urethra, 428. space of the thigh, 616. surface of the bladder, 575. Triangularis stemi muscle, 252. Triceps extensor cruris, 625. cubiti, 273. Ti'icuspid valve, 340. Trigeminal nerve, (o) 187, (c) 17. Trigonum vesicae, 675. Trochlea, 42. Trochlear nerve, infra, 44. supra, 7, 41. Tube of the cochlea, 752. Tuber cinereum, 208. Tubercle of Kolando, 195. Tubules of the stomach, 494. of small intestine, 498. of large intestine, 604. Tubuli semiuiferi, 524. uiiniferi, 517. Tunica albuginea testis, 524. Euyschiana, 728. vaginalis, 523. oculi, 722. vasculosa testis, 524. Turbinate bones, 135. Twelfth intercostal nerve, 450, 543, 638. Tympanic artery, 88. Tympanum, 741. arteries of, 747-INDEX. 786 Tympanum, lining membrane, 746. nerves of, 747. Ulnar artery, 284, 291. nerve,'(0) 249, (c) 271, (d) 286, 293. veins, 285. cutaneous anterior, 277. posterior, 277- Umbilical hernia, 461. region of the abdomen, 467. vein, 510. Umbilicus, 436. Ureter, 520, 553, 575. Urethra, female, 593. connections, 560. orifice of, 585. structui'e, 593. male, interior, 575. connections, 554, 575. structure, 678. Uterine arteries, 564, 590. plexus of nerves, 568. veins and sinuses, 565. Uterus, 588. interior of, 589. ligaments of, 557- connections of, 558. structure of, 589. Utricle of the ear, 756. Uvea iridis, 729. Uvula cerebelli, 224. palati, 128. vesicae, 574. Vagina, connections, 559, 586. structure and form, 586. Vaginal arteries, 564, 587. plexus, 568. veins, 565. Vagus nerve, 110, 188, 354, 491. nucleus, 196. Vallecula, 223. Valve Eustachian, 339. of caecum, 503. mitral, 343. semilunar, 341, 344. of Thebesius, 339. tricuspid, 340. of Vieussens, 226. ValvulfB conniventes, 496. Vas deferens, 452, 526, 572. aberrans, 527. Vasa aberrantia, 270. brevia, 485. efferentia testis, 526. rete testis, 526. vorticosa, 728. Vascular coat of eye, 726. Vastus extemus muscle, 626. internus muscle, 626. Vein, alveolar, 144. angular, 6. ascending cervical, 71. lumbar, 544. pharyngeal, 107. auditory, 758. auricular, posterior, 6. axillary, 248. Vein, azygos, large, 363, 540. smaU, 364, 540. superior, left, 364. basilic, 265. brachial, 270. brachio-cephalic, left, 362. right, 352. bronchial, left, 361, 362. right, 361, 302. cardiac, anterior, 337. great, 336. small, 337. cava, inferior, 353, 482, 536. superior, 352. cephalic, 265. cerebellar, 184. cerebral, 183. choroid, 216. cUiary, anterior, 731. posterior, 731. circumflex iliac, 455, 535. coronary of the heart, 336. of the stomach, 488. of the corpus cavemosum, 581. striatum, 216. deep cervical, 70, 398. diaphragmatic inferior, 537. dorsal, of the penis, 565. dorsi-spinal, 398. emissarj', 6. emulgent, 519, 536. epigastiic, deep, 454, 53b'. superficial, 439, 608. facial, 28, 79. femoral, 619, 624. frontal, 6. of Galen, 216. gastro-epiploic, left, 488. haemorrhoidal, 565, 583. hepatic, 513, 637. iliac, common, 536. external, 536. internal, 565. infraorbital, 28,102. innominate, 352. intercostal, 363. posterior branch, 398, 416. superior, left, 363. right, 363. intraspinal, 416. interlobular, 513. intralobular, 513. jugular, anterior, 62. external, 29, 53, internal, left, 118. right, 75, 106. laryngeal, -162. lingual, 97. longitudinal, of the spine, anterior, 416. lumbar, 398, 544. mammary, internal, 253, 353. maxillary, internal, 89, 353. anterior, internal, 28, 144 median, of the arm, 264, 277. basilic, 264. cephalic, 264. mesenteric, inferior, 480. 3 E786 INDEX. Vein, mesenteric, superior, 478. occipital, 6, 80, 398. ophthalmic, 46. ovarian, 537. palpebral, inferior, 28. pancreatic, 488. perinEcal, superficial, 425. phar)Tigeal, 107. phi-euic, infexior, 536. popliteal, 654. portal, 488, 512. posterior, spinal plexus of, 416. profunda of the thigh, 635. pterygoid plexus, 89. pudic external, 608. internal, (o) 582, (c) 432. pulmonary, 342, 353. radial cutaneous, 277. rauine, 97. renal, 519, 536. sacral, lateral, 565. middle, 565. saphenous, external, 666, (o) 689. internal, 608, (o) 689. spermatic, 527, 537. spinal, 410. splenic, 488. subclavian, 71. sublobular, 513. supra-orbital, 6. renal, 522, 536. scapular, 71, 263, 387. temporal, 6, 81. superfi^cial, 6. thyroid, inferior, 71, 120, 353. middle, 75. superior, 79. tibial anterior, 695. posterior, 674. transverse cervical, 71, 387. uhiar, 285. cutaneous, anterior, 277- . posterior, 277. umbilical, 510. uterine, 565. vaginal, 565. vertebral, 70, 171. of the vertebrEB, 416. vesical, 565. Velum interpositum, 215. pendulum palati, 128. Vena cava, inferior, 482, 536. superior, 352. portse, 488, (d) 512. Vena) cava) hepaticaj, 513. Venous arch of the foot, 689. of the hand, 277. Ventricles of the brain, 20. fifth, 212. fourth, 227. lateral, 210. third, 216. of the heart, 335. left, 343. right, 340. stiTicture of, 344. of the larynx, 169. Vermiform appendix, 470, 502. processes, 223, 227. Vertebral artery, (o) 70, (c) 171, (d) 180. plexus, 116, 171. vein, 70, (o) I7I. Veru montanum, 676. Vesica urinaria, 573. Vesical artery, inferior, 563. superior, 563. plexus of nerves, 568. veins, 565. Vesicula prostatica, 576. Vesicular column of cord, 414. Vesiculae seminales, connections, 554. structure, 571. Vessels of the brain, 180. of the dm-a mater, 15, 407. Vestibule of the ear, 749. artery of, 758. nei-ve of, 758. of the vulva, 685. Vestigial fold of pericardium, 333. Vidian artery, 144. nei-ve, 142. Villi, intestinal, 497. Vitreous body, 735. fluid, 735. Vocal cords, 160. Vulva, 584. Wharton's duct, 93, 99. White commissure of the cord, 413. Winslow's foramen, 474. Wrisberg's nerve, 249, 266, 271. Wrist joint, 316. Yellow spot of eyeball, 732, 734. Zonule of Zinn, 736. Zygomaticus major muscle, 26. minor muscle, 26. THE END. BRADBURY, AGNEW, t CO., PRINTERS, WHITKFRIARILLUSTRATIONS OF DISSECTIONS SERIES OF ORIGINAL COLOURED PLATES, THE SIZE OF LIFE, EEPRESENTING THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY. BY GEOEGE VINEE, ELLIS, PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN ONIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON, AND G. H. FORD, Esq. THE DRAWINGS ARE FROM NATURE AND ON STONE BY MR. FORD, FROM DISSECTIONS BY PROFESSOR ELLIS. SECOND EDITION. 1 Volume Folio, idth 8vo Volume of Letterpress, £6 6s., half-hound Morocco ; or, In 29 Parts, 'price £5 3s. These Plates are designed to serve both as patterns for the Student to copy iu his dissections, and as aids to him in after-study. For the pui-pose of cairying out the pictorial representation of dissections, the part of the human Body to be iUustrated is divided into suitable stages or regions ; and the muscles, bloodvessels, and nei-ves of each region are shown in layers in the natural order of succession, so that their mutual connections may be brought before the eye at one and the same time. The Illustrations comprise views of the Head and Neck, the upper Limb, the Perinteum, the abdominal parietes, the Pelvis, and the lower Limb ; and they arc accompanied by a concise description of the objects displayed in each Plate, with a short notice of the practical applications of Anatomical facts to Siu-gery. All the Figures are drawn of life-size from actual dissections ; and they are printed in colours with the object of making them as true pictures as possible' of Nature, and more serviceable as copies for the Student to imitate. {List of Plates on other side.). ILf^UStEATIONS OF DISSECTIONS. LIST OF PLATES. ■THE UPPER LIMB. i l.—Superficial Muscles of ^Thorax and Axilla witli Contents. II.—AxiUiiiy \'esscl.s, and . Brachial ,. Plexus of Nerves' -witli Branches. iE^te III.—Suiierlicial Veins and Nerves in .1. . front of bend of Elbow. ' Plato IV.—Superlicial view of Arm on inner siile, witli parts undisturbed. Plato v.—Shoulder, with Muscles at back of Scapula. Plate VI.—Triceps Muscle behind Hninei-us, and sonic ShunIder Muscles. .Plate VH.—Musculo-spiral Nerve iii Arm, and Profunda Vessels. Plate VIII.—Surface view of Forearm, with' parts undisturbed. Plato IX.—Deep view of frontier Forearm. Plate X.—Superficial and deej) views of Palm of Hand. Plate XL—Superiiciixl View of back of Pore- ' arm and Hand. Plate XII.—Deep view of blaok of Forearm. THE HEAD AN^ NE.CK. Plate XIII.—Base of SkitU, and first and second views of Orbit. Plate XIV.—Sinuses of Dura Mater;^d two deep Views of Orbit. Plate XV.—Anatomy of side of Neck beliind StM'no-mastoid muscle. Plata XVI.—feui-face view of Neck in front of ■ , Sterno-niastoideus Muscle. Plate XVII.—View of front of Neck after dis- placement of Sterno-mastpideus. Plate XVllI.—Subclavian Artery and sur- rounding xiarts. Plate XIX. —Dee)) view of back of Neck. Plate XX.—Superficial view of Pterygoid region; Plate XXI.—Deep view of Dissection Pterygoid region. Plate XXJI.—Anatomy of . Submaxillary re- gion. Plate XXIII.—Upper Maxillary Nerve, and deep pail; of internal Maxillaiy Artery. Plate XXIV.—Internal Carotid and ascending Pharyngeal Ai-teries, and Cranial Nerves in Neck. Plate XXV.—External View of PharjTix with- its Muscles. Plate XXVI.—Interior of Phaiynx, and Mus- cles of Soft Palate. Plate XXVII.—Larynx and Vocal Apparatus, with JMuscles, Vessels, and Nerves. Plate XXVIll.—Nose Cavitj', with Bounda- ries and Openings. THE PERINiEUM. Plate XXIX.—Anatomy of posterior lialf, or anal part of Perimeum in Male. Plate XXlk.4Superfleial view of antoior or urethral lialf of Jlale Peii- iiieuni. Plate XXXI.—Deep view of anterior half of Peiiuteum oi: Male. THE ABDOMINAL PABIETES. Plate XXXII:—First view of Abdominal Wall in Inguinal region. Plate XXXIII.—Second view of Abdominal Wall in Inguinal region. Phite XXXIV.—Third view of Abdominal Wall in Inguinal region. Plate XXXV.—Inner view of Wall of Abdo- men in Inguinal region. Plate XXXVI.—Deep Muscles of Abdominal Parietes, and Vessels of Cavity. 'Plate XXXVII.—Internal Jliac Arteiy, and Liunbar and Sacral Plexuses. THE Pelvis. Plat6'»2SXVIIL—First side view ^ Male Pelvis, witli Muscles below. Plate XX^f^IX.—Second view of MaleJEehis, . showing ;5Bficia in interior... •Plate XL.—Sitbi view of VTsceVa of Male PehTS. ., Tldte XLI.^Side view of Viscera of "Female Pelvis. THE LOWER LIMB. Plate XLIL—Supei-ficial parts of Groin, and Fascia Lata at top of Thigh. Plate XLIII.—Anatomy of parts coneernedin Femoral Hernia. Plate XLIV.—Sui-face view of Thigh, with cutaneous Nerves and Vessels. Plate-XLV.—Anatomy of Femoral Vessels, and anterior Crui'al Ner\'e. Plate XLVI.—Deep ^iew of fore and outer jmrts, of Thigh. Plate XLVII.—Muscles inside FemiU', with Vessels and Nerves. Plate XLVII J.—First stage in theJDissection of the Buttock. Plate XLIX.—Buttock, second stage. Plate L.—Buttock, third stage. Plate LI.—Popliteal Space, with Contents. Plate Lll.—Back of the Tliigh. Plate LIII.—Ham undisturbed, andlirst stage of Back of Leg. Plate LIV.—Deep Muscles ofCalf, and Popli- teal Vessels and Nerves. Plate LV.—Deep Dissection of Back of Leg. . Plate LVI.—First and Second stages in ex- amination of Sole of Foot. Plato LVIL—Third and fourth stages of Dis- section of Sole of Foot. Plate.LVIII.—Front of Leg and Dorsiun of Foot, London: SMITH, ELDER, & CQ., 15, Waterloo Place.