PELVIS. 191 diploe was obliterated, the Haversian canals enormously enlarged, and the osseous cor- puscles {lacuncB) diminished in quantity. From an analysis mode liy Dr. Leeson, the fresh bone contained,—in 100 parts; animal matter, 18'75; water, 52'OS; phosphate and car- bonate of lime, 29'17 parts. The grumous medullary matter contained,—in 100 parts ; animal matter, 2-t'78; water, 73"39; and phosphate and carbonate of lime, 1"83 parts. Under the microscope, Rainey found many granular, roundish bodies, about the size of blood corpuscles, and some fat globules ;— Simon, in a different part, could find no new or mature cell formations, but plenty of cyto- blasts, and a few young fat cells. Mr. Curling considers the softening of mol- lities ossium to be eccentric ; i. e., to commence in the centre of the bone, and pass outwards, affecting first the denser parts, and then the areolar extremities of the bone. He looks upon it as the result of defective nutrition, and that both the constituents waste in nearly equal ratio throughout. This author remarks tliat the pains always precede fracture or dis- tortion, and are not the result of these condi- tions. In one case, he observed copious sweats and salivation ; in another, a foetid unctuous exudation from the hands and feet; in a tliird, foetid perspiration ; in a fourth case, that of an old woman of seventy, who had been bedriilden for four years from ])ara- plegin, thei'e were no deposits in the urine. The pelvic bones might be cut with a knife, but the ribs and vertebra; were less affected. The enlai-ged cavities and areolae were filled with red patches, resulting from injected vessels, and an oily medulla.* Kokitansky gives as a ciiaracteristic of one form of moUities ossium (to which he applies the names oi" odco-walaclna'' or "r/iac/iitisjinis adutto) uin"),that \t affects principally the b(mes of the trunk, those of the extremities being affected in a subordinate degree ; that it occurs especially in childbed women, and is often associated with cancer of the internal organs. This eminent pathologist also states that, in this disease, the bony corpuscles (lacunas) are found empty, and without canaliculi; that the lamellar structure is also lost, and the structure satured with fat. The extract ob- tained by boiling differs, both from chon- drine and from the normal animal matter of bone, a circumstance which he considers to he the most remarkable characteristic of the disease. He states further, that this form of the disease is painful, malignant, and has never been cured. In some eases, the muscles were in a state of fatty degeneration. Mr. Dalrym[)le concludes, from microsco- pical observations of one variety of niollitics ossium, that it was a simple fungoid, vialit^naiit condition of bone. He found the areolar spaces enlarged by the absorption of their partitions, and great increase in the vascu- larity of the lining membrane. The "lacunaj" were also enlarged, and the "canaliculi" con- * Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xx, p. 3G0. siderably shortened, in the parts most affected. The red, grumous matter contained in the cavities, exhibited a large quantity of blood corpuscles, together with numerous nucleated and nuclear cells, witii many cytoblasts, and some few caudate cells. Many oil globules and fat cells were also present. He con- siders the disease to differ from malignant osteo-sarcoma, in there being no deposit of new bone, and that the caudate cells, instead of increasing, become disintegrated, resolved into granular matter and oil globules, and finally dissolved.* Professor Paget considers, that there are two kinds of moUities ossium, in one of which he places the lUiachil'minis adulturum, described by Kokitansky, as well as that just quoted from Mr. Dalrymple, where the bones are re- duced to a soft, flexible and cartilaginous con- dition simply. In the other variety, which he considers to result, like frag'ditas oidum, from failij degeneraiion of bone, he would place all the cases which have occurred in this country, including that of Mr. Solly's before described. ()f the former variety, this patho- logist has never seen a S))ecimen, and he does not, apparently, consider it either a malignant or a frequent condition of the bones. His observations have led him to conchnle that the grumous contents of the bony cylinder in this disease, of whatever hue—jellow, pink, crimson or dark red — are composed of dis- guised fit. In part of a femur presented to the Hunterian Museum by Mr. Tamplin, he found free oil globules in large quantity, fat cells filled with oil, or empty, collapsed, and rolled up, and crystals of margarine contained in or without the fat cells. The colour, which was j ellow, pink and crimson, was owing to the iuic of the oil globules, nuclei and granules of the collapsetl fat cells. There was no excess of blooil cor])nscles whatever. In a portion of a femur presented by Mr. How- ship, there was left, after boiling, only a small quantity of white crystalline matter.^ John Hiniter remarked, in a case of mol- lities ossium, described by Goodwin in the Med. Ohserv. and Inquiries, that the bony structures were spongy, deprived of their earthy matter, and so soaked in soft fat as to reseml)le a fatty tumour. In the pelvic bones of a female past the middle age, affected with the rostrated variety of angular deformity, I found, on making sections, a large quantity of a yellowish fatty matter contained in the areolar structure. This was particidarly the case, also, in the head and neck of the femur, which even alter long maceration, had entirely a smooth and greasy section. On applying heat to vai'ious portions of these bones, in order to ascertain the [iroportion of earthy constituents, they ignited and burnt with a copious blllei^h, fatty flame, with much smoke, and continued to burn freely till all the fitty matter was ex- hausted. The bones, which were very light, * Dub. .Joar. vol. ii. 18 JG. + Lectures on Nutrition, Med. Gaz., 1847, p. 231.