SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 44.9 in bundles containing from six to three nerve- rami intestinales present much the same cha- tubes forming a widely-meshed network. The racters as the nerves of the heart. Many of Fiii. 295. Communication hetiveen the sympathetic and third spi^ial verve in the Frog, showing tlie arrangement of the fibres of the communicating branch at its points of junction with the spinal and sympathetic nerves. HP, sympathetic nevve; H, ^cephalic side of tlie same; p, pelvic, cp, spinal nerve; c, its central, and p its peripliei al end. a, portion of commnnicating branch running centially; b, portion of ditto running pherijiherically; c and d, libres of the ramus communicans passing upwards in tlie direction of tlie head, and downwards towards the pelvis; jr, (7, ganglion-cells; h, pigment. (^Aftcr Bidder and Volkmann.) the fibres seem to become lost in the muscular coats of the intestine; a few slender twigs, particularly in the stomach, can be traced through these to the mucous or submucous coats. The nerves of the uniinpregnated uterus also contain a considerable number of the fibres of Remak. In the impregnated uterus of the cow, some of the twigs which run along the cervix of the organ consist almost entirely of fine tubular nerve-fibres ; in others the fibres of Remak are more numerous than the tubtilar nerve-fibres. Ga!iglia have been observed by Remak on the nerves distributed to the mus- cular substance of the cervix uteri in the pig. Small ganglia are also present in the impreg- nated cow's uterus, both on the nerves passing to the organ and also in the twigs which pass upwards along the posterior wall of the cervix of the uterus. Some of them contain as few as from six to nine ganglionic corpuscles: they seem to be more numerous, and are larger near the point where the cervix uteri becomes continuous with the vagina. Divi- sions of the fine tubular nerve-fibres have been observed by Kilian*; he describes a fibre belonging to the finer variety as dividing into two branches, and each of these, after running a short distance, as again dividing. As regards the nerves of the urinary bladder, in that of the ox they are very numerous, especially towards the neck and posterior aspect of the organ, and present a more or * Henle and TfeufFer's Zeitschrift, p. 222. Supp. less white appearance. Some run beneath the peritoneal coat, others between the deep and superficial layers of muscular fibres ; and some may be traced through these to the mucous coat. At first the branches contain both broad and fine tubidar fibres : in their farther course, only fine fibres appear to exist. There are present, especially towards the cervix of the organ, a number of small ganglia similar to those in the uterus. Ganglia have also been describetl by Miiller as occurring on the nerves distributed to the cavernous tissue of the penis. The branches of the sympathetic which pass to the diiterent glandular organs also consist chiefly of fine nerve-fibres and fibres of Remak. In general there are more or fewer fibres belonging to the broad variety also present. In the substance of the organs they run in company with the blood-vessels and with the ducts of the glands, and appear to be cliicfly di^tributed to these: at least no nerve-fibres have as yet been discovered run- ning separate from the vessels or ducts in the parenchyma of the organ. In the finer rami- fications of the nerves, the broader tubular fibres gradually disappear. The fine fibres also lose their distinct dark margins, and become pale and more or less indistinct. Their exact mode of termination has not been determined. Pappenheim, however, describes the nerves of the kidney as ter- minating in a loope'd arrangement. Small ganglia occur on the nerves distributed to G G