317 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. minal muscles be also brought into vigorous action, the whole force of either of these two muscular strata may be regarded as com- pressing the viscera within the abdominal cavity. And since many of these viscera are hollow organs, which enclose moveable con- tents, and communicate with the exterior of the body, such a forcible pressure will expel the contents from their interior, so soon as their terminal orifices are thrown open; — whether by their relaxing spontaneously, or yielding to any superior force. In this way, the contraction of the walls of the belly plays an important part in the acts of defaecation, micturition, and parturition, as well as in that of vomiting. Now in the three former of these acts, the intermittent abdominal pressure does but assist those more continuous expulsive contractions which are effected by the muscular walls of the hollow viscera themselves. And supposing that the cardia were open, and the pylorus shut, it is obvious that either pressure on the stomach, or contraction of its walls, would alike tend to expel its contents. Careful observation of the act of vomiting in any of the higher animals will show that it is always assisted by the abdominal pressure. And the vivisections which many ex[)eri- menters have practised, agree in carrying this investigation further; and in stating, that this pressure, which ordinarily results from simultaneous contractions of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, may be due solely to the latter *, (as is normally the case in Birds f), or to the former, or even to an inconsiderable compression exerted by the lower ribs upon the epigastric region.^ While the solitary observation of Maingault (J, which affirms the occurrence of vomiting in the absence of all such pressure, stands ex- pressly contradicted by the Committee of the French Academy appointed to report upon his Memoir. But whether the stomach really contracts during the act of vomiting, — and if so, what is the amount of assistance which it thus af- fords this process,—are questions which, long the object of physiological controversy, can even now scarcely be regarded as decided. On the one hand, there are not wanting experiments, which show that the act of vomiting may be effected without the aid of any gastric contractions whatever. Among such we may specially adduce the vivisection practised by Magendie||, in which a Pig's bladder was substituted ibr the stomach of a living Dog, and was subsequently emptied, by vomiting, of a large part of its contents. Such a result conclusively proves that gas- tric contractions are not essential to the physical act of vomiting, however frequently they may take a part in the process. And * Magendie, Sur le Vomissement, pp. 22. 37, 38. t Krimer in Horn and Nasse's Arcliiv. 181G. i Bulletin de la Faculte'de Me'decine, 1813. No. 10. p. 481. et seq. § Sur le Vomissement. Paris, 1813. II Op. cit. p. 18. that inactivity of the stomach, which has been directly observed by many * physio- logists in the artificial vomiting of vivisected animals, has been all but actually seen in the living human f subject. On the other hand, the observations in which a muscular contraction of the stomach has been seen to concur in this act, are even more numerous than the preceding. The amount of such contraction seen appears to have varied, having sometimes been so slight as to be scarcely visible. In all instances, it has specially engaged the pjloric extremity of the organ: and, in most, it is described as either circular^, and alternating with relaxa- tion; or peristaltic, like that found in the di- gesting stomach, independently of all vomiting. And though an anti-peristaltic movement is detailed by Haller and others, yet so far as I can find, this doctrine, which is expressly con- tradicted by the observations just referred to, rests only on one or two (J vague descriptions of Wepfer, Rudbeck, and Schwartz. From these very brief allusions to both sides of this conflicted question, the author has been careful to eliminate every statement which does not refer to actual facts. And the reader must recollect, that not only does the stomach offer few obstacles to such direct observations||, but that some of those summed up in the above statements, are ren- dered additionally trustworthy by being results quite at variance with the theories of their observers ; while others have been confirmed by very frequent and careful repetition.^ Hence, on the whole, I think we must con- clude as follows : — The act of vomiting is es- sentially, and perhaps sometimes solely, the result of powerful abdominal pressure on the contents of the stomach. It implies a pa- tulous cardia. The abdominal pressure which effects it, often coincides with, and is aided * Bayle, Wepfer, Chirac, Baciaccus, Senac, Schwartz, and (especially) Magendie. t Lepiue, Bulletin de I'Academie de Me'decine, vol. ix. p. 140. In this case, wliich lias been strangely niisipioted by many English authors, the stomach was protruded from a wound in the belly. It con- tained food and air, remained quite motionless, and could not even be excited to contract by manual titillation and pressure. But as soon as it was re- turned into the cavity of the belly, the abdominal efforts at vomiting, which had been previously inefi'ectual, discharged its contents. J Haller, Opera Minora, vol. i. p. 389.; Schwartz, in Halloi-'s Disp. Anat. vol. i. p. 327. ; VVepfer, Sur la Cigue aquatique, p. 253.; the Author, Op. cit. p. 11.; Betz, Wurteinberger Corr. Blatt. Bd. xx. pp. 145. et seq. § Rudbeck, quoted by Morgenbesser in Haller's Disputationes Anatomicaj, vol. i. p. 293.; Wepfer, Op. cit. 251. and elsewhere; Schwartz, ?oc. ci<. Rud- beck describes it as a contraction, which began at the pylorus, and was followed by a systoleof the whole organ, from the lower to the upper orifice. While, according to Wepfer, it commenced in the duodenum, and passed hence towards the pylorus and the mid- dle of the stomach. II See remarks on the gastric movements, p. 312. ^ Although unable to quote exactly, I believe INIagendie somewhere alludes to his own results as confirmed by the vivisection of about two hundred animals.