PELVIS, 182 line of thoracic vertebra to the right side, and is calculated to keep the line of the whole spinal column in equivalent relation to the di- rect and perpendicular line of gravity. It is an interesting question, how far this common ten- dency of the lumbar curve influences the po- sition of the fcEtal head, by affording more room for the sinciput at the right sacro-iliac joint, and determining its long axis in the left oblique diameter, which is generally allowed to be the most frequent presentation. In by far the greater number of all kinds of pelvic deformity that have come under niy own ob- servation, the projection of the sacral promon- tory, when present, has been towards the left side, showing the effect of a natural and previ- ously existing tendency when the supporting structures have been softened by disease. To this subject I shall presently have occasion again to advert. In these cases of partial distortion of the pelvic brim, the cavity and inlerior outlet are generally roomy, shallow, and open. Often the transverse or antero-posterior diameter of the inferior outlet is larger than natural, and the pelvis then approaches the condition of the complete ovnfe deformity. An important prac- tical result of this fact is, that in these defor- mities of the brim all operations tor extraction of the foetus "per vias naturales" are facilitated and rendered more successful. The obstruc- tion being simply and only at the brim, when that is overcome the rest is easy. Two examples of deformity of the brim are recorded by Dr. Ramsbotham. One is pre- served in the Museum of the London Hospital (^see fig. 114.). The conjugate diameter of Fig. 114. Contraction of the brim of the pelvis. {After Ramsbotham.') the brim measures 2| inches; the transverse 5 inches; and the distance from the .side of the sacral promontory to the centre of the su- perior branch of the pubis on each side is equal, and measures also 2^ inches. Dr. Ramsbotham considers this to be just below the smallest space through which the fetal head could pass entire. The cavity, iiowever, and the sacral curve, are well proportioned, and the distance between the sciatic tuberosi- ties 41 inches, or a quarter of an inch more than in a healthy pelvis ; so that the fcetal head would pass easily, having overcome the ob- struction at the brim. The second is the pelvis of a woman who was delivered by cranio- tomy, which is considerably contracted in all its diameters, but more especially at the brim. The conjugate diameter is 2i inches only ; the transverse 4| inches; and while the dis- tance from the right side of the sacral promon- tory to the right pubic ramus is 2^ inches, that on the left side is 2j inches only. The depth of the cavity posteriorly is only 4 inches ; the spines of the ischia project considerably inwards, and the distance between the tubero- sities measures only 3i inches. This author considers that a proportionate increase in the transverse diameter does not fully compensate for a great contraction in the conjugate, in permitting the passage of the foetal head. In cases in which the brim is ob- long, and presents a preponderance of the antero-posterior diameter, as in the funnel- shaped and masculine pelves, the fogtal head necessarily presents its long antero-posterior diameter to that of the brim, and the case may be one of face presentation. Distoriioiis affecling the caviljj only or prhi- cipalli/, and causing obstruction there to the ])assage of the festal head.—These are occa- sionally seen without particular deformity at the brim or outlet. Vertical Jlainess of the sacrum, or want of the proper vertical curvature, is occasionally met with, according to Dr. Churchill, after whom the annexed engraving of a specimen of this deformity is taken (^Jig. 115.). This is Flatness of the sacrum, and contraction of the pelvic cavity. {After Churchill.) sometimes accompanied by an increased sacro- vertebral angle. One or two instances I have met with, in which there was a tendency to this peculiarity. It is attended with diminu- tion of the antero-posterior diameter of the cavity, and is most frequently met with in cases of general ovate deformity. The opposition it would offer to the passage and circumvolution of the fcetal head is evi- dent. An inward projection of the sciaiic spines is often seen in connection with contraction of the transverse diameter of the inferior outlet, without any inordinate massiveness or mascu- line form of the pelvis, as in the example be- fore mentioned, and is, probably, sometimes dependent on the same cause—viz., the action