STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 398 and instantaneous character of this change, which is only paralleled by the similar efficacy of the pancreatic juice, quite distinguislies it from that slower and less perfect metamorphosis which other animal secretions and substances are able to produce. The absence of tiie high temperature, and the evident putrefaction, which are generally associated with the action of these latter, still farther distinguish the specific metamorphosis due to these secretions. But the substance and secretion of any one of the salivary structures, seems insufiicient for the production of this agent. The sub- maxillary glands, and the mucous membrane of the mouth can, however, together furnish it without any aid from the parotid.* The mastication and insalivation of the food is immediately followed by its deglutition, which propels the pulpy or semifluid mass it now forms into the stomach. On entering this organ, it is subjected to a special act of gastric digestion. The energetic action of the mixed saliva is not affected by the gastric juice secreted by the stomach. Much of the starch of the food is probably converted into sugar during the short sojourn of the aliment in this cavity. The sugar thus produced would seem to be absorbed by the vessels of the gastric mucous membrane with extraordinary rapiditj'. The water, salts, and soluble organic compounds of the food are similarly taken up. And the gastric juice attacks and dissolves the pro- tinous element of the food. The peri'ect- ness of this process of solution depends on the mechanical state of the substances con- cerned, and the quantity and efficiency of the active liquid. Of the resulting solution or peptone, part is immediately absorbed by the gastric vessels, while part passes on into the duodenum, in company with portions of pro- tein, which have not yet yielded to the solvent process. Many of these portions ultimately become dissolved, and with the peptone that accompanies them, are taken up by the veins of the intestine. The intestinal digestion of the food is a still more complex act. The chyme that enters the duodenum probably contains all the alimentary principles originally present in the food. But it includes them in very different proportions compared with their original quantities. And these proportions have very diverse destinies in connection with the di- gestive process. The watery ingredient of the food, and the salts it introduces, probably have but to complete their absorption. The soluble cal- careous compounds appear, however, to de- compose the bile ; and to combine with and precipitate some of its acids in the shape of insoluble salts of lime. * The experiment on which Bidder and Schmidt (Op. cit. p. 281) claim a similar efficacy for that of the mucous membrane of the small intestine, appears scarcely to warrant sucli a conclusion. Should its accurac}' be hereafter established, it would be inte- resting to determine how far the glands of lirunn were concerned in the process. The protein-compounds probably continue their course through the intestine, still un- dergoing (or rather completing) a gradual process of solution under the action of the gastric juice which accompanies them. Whether any special intestinal juice* aids this process, may at present be looked on as doubtful. And whether the quantity of bile usually added in the duodenum can really hinder it, in the way in which Bidder and Schmidt f have found that it suspends the power of the gastric juice out of the body, remains equally uncertain. The starch of the chyme would seem to be converted into sugar, by the addition of a further quantity of an agent, similar to that which is furnished by the mixed secretions of the salivary glands and mouth. At any rate, the secretion of the pancreas, which is poured out into the duodenum with the bile, is gifted with the capacity of inducing this change just as rapidly as the mixed saliva itself. The fatty constituents of the food are probably absorbed by two channels, if not by two processes. But the quantitative share taken by each of these, remains at present unknown. That a certain portion of the fat contained in the food is taken up by the vessels of the alimentary canal, seems evident from the remarkable difference in the amount of this substance, which is found in the organic residuum of the portal blood, and that of the ordinary systemic veins.| But the quantity thus absorbed can scarcely be large. It ap- pears to consist chiefly of the more fluid elain. And hence there seem no valid grounds for the supposition of much assistance being given to its transudation from the digestive canal into the veins, by means of a saponi- fication with their alkaline blood. A much greater quantity of the fatty matter of the food is taken up by the lacteals of the villi, and is conveyed from these vessels into the thoracic duct. The microscopic details of this process have already been mentioned. Hence, it only remains for us to notice its chemical relations to the various secretions poured into the small intestine, in the lacteals of which segment of the canal the white or fatty chyle is chiefly found. The experiments and observations of Claude Bernard would ascribe the formation of c\\\i\e ch\ei\y to the pancreatic jiiire. This secretion appears to have the power of se- parating fats into their acid and base. But the fact, that such a saponification is pre- vented by an admixture of gastric juice, or any other acid, would justify us in doubting whether the change really occurs in the acid chyme of the living body. And all the appearances of the chyle in the lacteals of the villi concur in representing their fatty contents as being not saponified, but merely in a state of minute division. The production of this con- dition,— which closely corresponds to that of * Compare p. 349. f Loc. cit. j See Heller's Archiv. vol. iii. p. 487.; vol. iv. pp. 15—37. 97—132.