169 PELVIS. coccyx has five pieces in the Pheasant and Turkey, and, in the latter, is said not to be perforated for the spinal chord. In the Pea- cock there are eight pieces, and the terminal bone is a horizontal oval plate to support the radiating feathers. In the tailless Manx va- riety of the common Fowl, the coccyx is borted into a single tubercular projection. The ilia and ilio-sacral ossifications are broad, and the ischia long, divergent, and widely expanded posteriorly into a very broad sacro- sciatic element, much hollowed out in the pelvic cavity, and enclosing a large foramen (seefig. 105. /). This is es))ecially marked in the Crown Pigeon, Bustard, Crested Curassow, and Guan. The pubes are long, and generally unite with the ischia to complete an elongated obturator hole (p). In the Dove, the pubes and ischia are united in their whole length, and the foramen is obliterated, while in the Crested Guan and Trumpeter it is subdivided into an anterior and posterior portion, as in the Ostrich and Rhea. In the Grallatores the sacrum is broad, and composed of from ten to twelve pieces, but in the Oyster Catcher there are fifteen. In the Snipe the transverse processes are more or less separated. The coccyx is in seven or eight pieces. The ilia and ischia are shorter and broader than in the Natatores, the former being placed more parallel to the spine, crossing it at about 165° ; and the latter forming an ilio- ischial angle of 160°. The inter-cotyloid dis- tance is very great, especially in the gigantic Crane, but in the Stork and I3ittern the whole pelvis is smaller and more contracted. The pubes are long, diverging, and parallel to the ischia, especially strong in the Aptcnodytes ; and enclosing often a large obturator foramen by coalescing with the ischia. In the Stork, Ibis, and Flamingo, however, there is no such union. In the Scansores, the sacrum of the Parrot is short and very broad, the ilia and ischia also short and broad, as well as the ilio- sacral and sacro-scialic bones, inclosing a small foramen ; and the pubes, uniting with the ischia in two distinct places, encloses a subdivided obturator foramen. The coccyx of the Tou- can is long and very flexible. In the Passeres, the sacrum is composed of from ten to thirteen pieces ; but in the King- fisher there is but eight. The coccyx is in seven to nine pieces, very flexible in the Pies and Swallow; and in the Woodpecker very strong, and supporting on its anterior aspect, near the extremity, a remarkable, round, concave disc, formed by the coalescence and spreading of several of the bones anteriorly. Its use is evidently to support the body by being ap- plied to the stems of the trees to which it clings in the pursuit of its prey and attaching the spreading tail feathers. The ilia, ischia, and pubes are slender in the Passeres, and the obturator foramina generally incom- plete. The pelvis of the Raptores, or Birds of prey {fig. 107.}, is narrower, the bones more com- pact and massy, and less expanded than in the foregoing orders. The sacrum is narrow, and composed gene- rally of eleven bones, which, in the Sparrow- hawk, are ankylosed to the last lumbar ver- tebra. The coccyx is straight, and in seven or eight pieces, with a large and blade-like ter- minal bone directed dorsally {a). The ilia (b) are proportionally larger, and project more dorsally than in the other orders, overlapping the spine with elongated wings, concave externally; and a strong tapering ilio- sacral j)late {g), which is directccl much down- wards, as well as backwards, to unite with the sacro-sciatic plate (c) behind the foramen, so as to cross the line of the coccygeal bones almost at a right angle- The ischia {c) are rather short, strong, and co«i>f)-g«i/'posteriorly, where they terminate by a long and pointed spine (i), with a strong but narrow sacro- sciatic ossification enclosing a small foramen (A). The iscliio-sacral cotyloid buttresses (/) are largely developed. The ilio-iscliial angle is remarkable in being reversed or turned for- ward to a marked extent,—130° in the Eagle, and 145° in the Owl (see Jigs. 107. and 112. . Fig. 107. Pelvis of the Eagle, lateral view, showing the reversed itio-ischial angle. 11.), a peculiarity to which we have seen, as before mentioned, a tendency in the pelvis