539 RUMINANTIA. consequence of a partiality for saline matters, which the animal gratifies by licking portions of rock containing saltpetre; in this way, silicious and other earthy particles swallowed at the same time, accumulate and adhere together in the form of calculi. The intestinal tutje is remarkable for its length ; in other respects its characters are for the most part extremely simple. Taking the Sheep as a type, we observe the descend- ing or duodenal portion (a, 361.) to be short and straight, but rather thicker than the remainder of the small intestine, which is twisted into a multitude of gyrations until within a short distance of its termination, where the convolutions cease, and the gut ascends in a direct line to join the colon {h, fig. 361.). The large intestine is scarcely broader than the small throughout the greater part of its extent; nevertheless, it is very much expanded at its commencement, and also a little dilated at the rectum {d, fig. 361.). The central mass of the colon folds itself into a series of double concentric cir- cumvolutions, which are within one another, but not exactly on the same level, the inner coils being the most prominent ; from this peculiar disposition it follows that the fosces are at first directed concentrically inwards and subsequently reversed excentrically out- wards. The arrangement of the intestines in the Cameline ruminants differs little from the ordinary type : in the Llama the duo- denum is enlarged at its origin, and further characterised by a short oval pouch, placed anterior to the first duplicature of the gut (Cuvier). The elongation of the digestive tube, as compared with the animals' length, from mouth to anus, may be reckoned, ac- cording to Meckel, as 12 to 1 in the Camels, Antelopes, and Deer ; 22 to 1 in Oxen ; and 28 to I in Sheep. The proportionate length of the large and small intestine also varies considerably; thus, while of equal length in Camelidas, the smaller doubles that of the larger in Cervidae, and is fully five times greater in CEgosceridae, Antelopida;, and Bovidse (Meckel). The entire length of the intestinal canal in one of the Giraffes dis- sected by Prof. Owen, exceeded 134 feet. The [ccEcum (e, fig. 361.) is in all species bulky, and, like the colon, smooth and unpro- vided with lateral bulgings ; its blind ex- tremity is more or less obtuse, rounded, or club-shaped. The intestinal glands in Ruminantia generally do not offer any deviation worthy of notice; in the Giraflfe, however, we have discovered a curious exception to this rule, arising out of the presence of certain pouch-like folds in connection with the glandulae agminatae, and in particular with a very remarkable exten- sion of the last Peyerian patch beyond the ileo-colic opening.* Probably more than one * On a remarkable pouched condition of the GlandidcE Peyeriana' in the Giraffe. By T. Spencer Cobbold, M.I)., Edin. Philosoph. Journal, New Series, vol. iii. 1856. half of the entire series of agniinated follicles exhibited this peculiarity, but in consequence of our having retained only some six or eight feet of the gut for minute examination, we are not in a jiosition to state with accuracy either the total number or precise localization of all, the glands (four of which were found) presenting this anomaly. In the small in- testine the foUl consists simply of a semilunar valve-like production of the mucous mem- brane, overlapping the anterior or duodenal end of each patch *, so as to leave a sort of cul-de-sac, the exposed or convex surface partaking of the ordinary villous texture, and the internal wall or concavity beconn"ng folli- cular ; it is conspicuous when distended, and leaves a fossa capable of admitting the tip of the little finger (fig. 362.). Fig. 362. Peyerian patch from tlic Giraffe, showiiu/ a valvular fold at one end. Natural size. (Original.) Far more striking and complicated is the pouched structure situated within the ccecal extremity of the colon (fig.'.W-i.). Here, we have from fifteen to twenty sacculi combined to form a beautiful network of cells, seven of them resembling in many respects the water reser- voirs of the reticulum, and having a depth which varies from three to four lines; the remainder are more or less inconijilete, and those farthest from the ileo-colic orifice are mere depressions, the walls of separation being scarcely elevated from the surface. With the exce|ition of two minute fossae to the left of the valve, and three rather larger below, towards the ca'cal extremity of the gut, the entire mucous membrane, both within and without the pouches, is beset with fol- licles having precisely the same character as those of the last Peyerian patch, of which indeed they are, in reality, a continuation ; * Possibly the position here given is incorrect, as the intestine had been divided into sections before tlie structure was detected, rendering it difficult to decide this point with certainty.