14.8 PELVIS. why elongation of these fibres should not take place as well as of those of the investing liga- ments. Tenon also asserts, that he has observed relaxation of the pubic ligaments, even in the male, during life. Sandifort considered that in women who have borne many children the pelvic ligaments become permanently looser. In a female aged 79, dissected by Cruveiliiier, the symphysis pubis was exceedingly moveable, the sub-pubic ligament had disappeared, and a fibrous capsule invested the joint. Soemmer- ring believes that separation of the pubes is not rare, even during easy labours, and that they remain permanently loose, and the pelvic diameters larger, after many labours. Ac- cording to the last author, the sacro-iliac joints have also been found separated by a cavity of the width of an inch in females who have died during parturition. But it is a question, whether this was not caused by disease and deposit of pus. In a woman mentioned by Frank, in Textors Neuem. Chiron, (vol. i. p. 261.), the pelvis was so moveable every time she became pregnant, that she could not stand upright. Instances of separation of the pubic joint during labour are also mentioned by Eichelbursj in Bust's Magnziiie (vol. xvii. part iii. p. 350.), and by Nicholson in Trans, of Physic, in Ireland (vol. iv. 1821.). Dr. William Hunter, in his memoir upon this subject, gives two cases of parturient women, in which the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilages was replaced by a ca- vity lined by a perfect synovial membrane, and forming a perfect arthrodial joint; and he concludes, that a certain relaxation of the pelvic ligaments takes place in the latter months of pregnancy and during labour, al- lowing of a slight increase of the |)elvic ca- pacity, and a yielding to the shape of the foetal skull. On examining the pelves of five women who had died soon after delivery. Dr. Knox of Edinburgh found, in all, a remarkable relaxa- tion of all the ligaments of the pelvic joints ; in one the bones could be made to slide over each other. This anatomist also inclines to the opinion that this process is a regular and healthy one in the parturient female. This opinion is also supported by the post-mortem researches of the celebrated Rokitansky of Vienna, who considers that, in parturient women, the pelvic ligaments become soft, relaxed, and stretched. In addition to the testimony on this side of the question, M. Senoir read an essay on the " Articu/afionf: of the Female Pelvis," at the Academy of Medicine of Paris, on the 1st of April, 1851 ; in which he concludes, 1st. That the articulations of the pelvis proper should not be considered as amphiarthroses, but as arthroses; and, 2ndly. That analogy of structure and composition leads him to thmk that an effusion of synovial fluid from the membrane lining the joints, causes the sepa- ration of the bones sometimes observed. (^Bulletin de I'Academic Nation, de Mcdccine, t. xvi. No. 13. April 15th, 1851.) It is, however, considered by Baudelocque, Boyer, Burns, Dewees, Denman, and I think most English writers on Obstetrics of the present day, that, in common cases, no sensible relaxation of the pelvic ligaments takes place, and that, when such relaxation does occur, it should be rather considered in the light of a morbid condition, as it adds very little to the diameters, and is attended with severe in- conveniences from rupture of the sacro-iliac ligaments. Notwithstanding, comparative anatomj', par- ticularly in Cows, Seals and Guinea-pigs, to be presently considered, presents us with a strong analogical proof in favour of the doc- trine of some parturient relaxation of the pelvic ligaments in women. Comparative Anatomy of the Pelvis. — In the different races of mankind, the pelvis, as influencing in a very great degree the form of the body, presents considerable varieties. Camper, and afterwards Soemmerring, re- marked that Negroes had more slender loins and hips than Europeans, consequent upon narrower pelves. Soemmerring gives a com- parative measurement of the diameters of the brim in a Negro and an European of adult size. In the Negro, he found 3 in. 111 lines, long or transverse diameter ; in the European, 4 in. 6 lines ; in the Negro the short or conjugate diameter was Sin. 7i lines, and in the European, 3 in. 11 Hnes. From Camper's measurements, the long diameter was to the short one as 39 to 27^ in an adult Negro, and as 41 to 27 in an adult European, who, nevertheless, was of much less stature than the Negro. The measurements in the table on page 151, were taken in the dissecting rooms of King's College, from an adult male Negro 6 feet high. From the measurement of this pelvis, the antero-posterior diameters seem to pre- vail in the Negro, and the whole pelvis to be smaller than in the European. This is seen remarkably in the limited breadth of the sacrum, (3 in. 9 lines), and in the ap- proximation of the ischial spines (3 in.,) both much lower than the average European ; the latter, indeed, less than in the Chimpanzee. In fact, I have never met with an European sacrum so narrow as in the Negro above mentioned, especially in an individual so tall as 6 feet. This difference is remarkably contrasted in the pelvis of O'Byrne, the Irish giant, in the Hunterian Museum, in which the iliac wings are remarkably large in compa- rison with the true pelvis, and the sacrum very broad. The superior pelvic outlet is in this skeleton disproportionately larger than the inferior, the ischiadic tuberosities being nearly as close together as in ordinary- sized pelves. This sudden narrowing of the pelvis has evident reference to the better sustaining of the viscera of the pelvis and ab- domen. It is supposed that in Negro women ge- nerally, fi'om the easy labours they undergo,