PANCREAS. 109 scirrhous tumour in the mesentery. M. Giierin observed this lesion protluted by a similar cause. 'SI. BerjauJ by aneurism of the aorta; and M. Mondiere by scirrhous pylorus. In some cases it seems to be pro- duced by arrest of its function, as when scirrhous disease of tiie pylorus has put a stop to the passage of food into the duodenum. ])r. Wolf mentions a case in whicli the atropliy seems to have been produced by tiie ossifica- tion of tile pancreatic arteries and obstruction of tlie duct. I do not i<novv if tlicre are any symptoms by which idiopathic atropliy de- clares itself during life, and in those cases in which it is secondary, the symptoms are those of the primary disease and not those of the pancreatic affection. The degree of wasting is sometimes very great ; Cruveilhier met with a case in which it did not exceed an ounce in weight. Induration. — Sometimes the pancreas is found of a firmer consistence than natural, without any perce|)til)le alteration in structure. It lias been alleged that in these cases it is the secreting structure that is affected, the areolar tissue not being implicated in the induration, which im|)arts to tiie gland a more nodidar or granular appearance and feeling. But whether this is so, 1 cannot say, as I have never submitted an indurated panci'eas to microscopical examination. It is said to be not unconmion for induration of this kind to disappear, as ha[)pened in a case recorded by Mr. Lawrence, soon after exposure to the air. Soflening has been found to occur chiefly in persons suffering from scrofulous affections. Portal relates that he found the gland remark- ably sul'tened without any other cliange, in two children who died of nieasels. In confluent small pox and malignant scarlet fever softening of the pancreas has occurred. Dr. Copland states that he has found it softened in cases of malignant remittent fever and scurvy, but only in conjunction with softening of other organs, as the spleen, &c. b. Iiijiammatiott. — The number of cases in which post-mortem ajipearances of acute in- flanmiation of the pancreas have been re- corded is certainly very small. When it does occur the appearances are said to be great injection of the whole gland, imparting to it a brown-red colour and an unnatural softness and friability. In a case recortled by Mr. Lawrence, this brown-red colour presented a strong contrast with the pale ancEiniatetl con- dition of the other parts. When the inflam- mation does not end in resolution, it may give rise to the cffuxiim of jjlastic liiniph on the surfiice, producing a general or partial false capsule, or to the f<irn7(ilion of pus in its sub- stance— pancreatic abscess It is also said to end sometimes in grnigroie. In consequence of the effusion and subse- quent organisation of coagulable lymph upon the surface of the pancreas it has occasionally been covered by a false membrane of great consistence. By the extension of the ad- hesive inflammation to some of the neigh- bouring organs, as the stomach, duodenum, liver, s|)leen, mesentery, mesocolon, &c., bands are occasionally formed, connecting the pan- creas to one or more of these organs, which sometimes acquire so great a degree of hard- ness, as to be with difficulty divided with the scalpel. In su]ipurative inflammation, whatever may have been its point of commencement, the pus is ultimately infiltrated into the interlobular tissue, and when the process of suppuration is completed, is generally collected into one cavity. In most cases, the infiammatioii being but partial, this cavity is of moderate size ; but sometimes the suppuration proceeds to such an extent that the texture of the gland is almost entirely destroyed. In some in- stances, this destruction being complete, the purulent matter is contained in a membranous envelope, formed by the cellular tissue which covers the organ. Portal has seen more than two pounds of pus contained in a sac of this description. The character of the purulent matter in such cases seems to be various. According to Gendrin it is commonly inodor- ous and creamy ; Portal, on the other hand, states that in complete suppuration of the pancreas, the pus is sometimes of an intoler- able smell ; not unfrequently it is combined with a clear yellowish fluid, and with a whitish curdy substance, the most dependent part being occupied with a grey powdery [)us. This has been attributed to its admixture w ith the pancreatic juice. In the great majority of cases, inflammation appears to extend to the [)ancreas from neigh- bouring organs; in some cases it becomes adherent to the stomach at a point where the latter is undergoing perlbrative ulceration, and I have seen a case where this adhesion had a conservative effect and served as a stop- gap, whereby, when the ulcer had completely eaten through the coats of the stomach, the escape of its contents into the abdominal cavity was preventetl. Portal speaks of ab- scess in the pancreas having been frequently observed in disease of the testicles, and njen- tions one case in particular in which, after the extirpation of a testicle and the ligature of the spermatic cord, a large quantity of pus was found in the ci rd, and a consiilerable abscess sui-rounding the pancreas; and he refers to Antoine Petit as atlducing different examples of this kind iu support of his ob- jections to the practice of ligature. M. Ton- nclle mentions two cases of puerperal pei i- tonitis in which pancreatic abscess occurred. In Mr. Lawrence's case the patient died five weeks after delivery. It is to be regretted that in these cases more accui ate dissections v/ere not made, particularly with the view of ascertaining the condition of the venous con- nexion between the parts primarily affected and the pancreas : it is very possible that the inferior mesenteric vein might have been found in a state of inflanmiation, and the pancreatic abscess might have been from secondary purulent deposit transmitted to >t by branches from the spknic vein after the