54 OVUM. formative process of the ovum, including the addition of the external coverings, is completed within the ovary; and, on the other hand, there are a few instances in which, as in the trematoda and cestoid en- tozoa, the germinal vesicle and yolk sub- stance of the ovale are formed in separate organs, instead of in the usual manner entirely in the ovary. The varieties of the ovaries in different animals may be considered under two heads — viz., 1st. Their relation to tlie passages or outlets as influencing the mode of discharge of the ova from them ; and 2nd, their internal structure as related to the form of the ovum produced. Fig. 36 Ovary and oviduct of a layhig Foicl, hilled twelve hours after laying the last egg. a. Left ovary; b, opening of the infiradibulura of the oviduct; c, d, glandular portion of the oviduct; at d, the isthmus; e, an egg in the uterine portion of the oviduct, in which the shell is begun to be deposited; /, the rectum, ending in the cloaca; g, the undeveloped right oviduct oocasionallj' met with. a. Relations of the form of the ovaries to tlie discharge of ova.—In the majority of verte- brated animals the ovary or ovaries are quite detached from the conducting tube or ovi- duct ; the ovides are formed in close capsules of the ovary, by the bursting or fissure of the wall of which they escape; the oviduct opens at its upper end into the abdominal cavit}', and there receives the ovum which has been discharged from the ovary. This is the general arrangement in mammalia, birds, reptiles, am- phibia, and cartilaginous fishes. There is some difference in the form of the ovary in the higher and lower of these animals. In mam- malia and birds, in chelonia and the crocodiles among the reptiles, and in cartilaginous fishes the ovary is more or less solid, and the ovules are developed in capsules which project towards the external surface; but in the lizards Fig 37. 4 (^From Cams and Otto.') Female of the Falco buteo opened, showing the left larger oviduct and ovary, and the smaller right oviduct and ovary, a' n, the right and left ovaiies; b, the left infundibulum ; c, d, the left oviduct; /, the rectum, ending in the cloaca, which has been opened, showing at A'/i the openings of the right and left oviducts, and at i'i those of the ureters; g, the vestige of the right oviduct.