281 RESPIRATION. In both they are simple loops, but a distinc- tion is obvious ; so evident as to render it impossible that the transition from the ex- posed to the concealed state of the branchite can consist in a bodily retractation. On the external organs, preparatorily to their disap- pearance, the vibratile cilia first cease, the epidermis then increases in density, the meshes between the blood-capillaries enlarge, and the vessels become obliterated. These declining changes are not limited to the extreme distal ends of the branchial lobules. They occur simultaneousl}' on every part of the surface. Temporary arches (c) of delicate cartilage now arise within the brancliial ciiamber. It is from the convexities of these arches after the manner of the pisciform type that tiie new vessels (a) of the internal temporary gills proceed. They are appended under the character of de- licate flocculi. Enlarged, they appear as minute digitations. Each carries a looped vessel, and is loosely invested with a de- licate membrane ((/). This membrane belongs to the mucous, not to the epidermal, class ; and yet it differs in a striking manner from that which lines the rest of the branchial chamber. Nowhere is it ciliated. That co- vering the branchial vessels is remarkably thinner than the parietal portion. The former, however, is true epithelium. Its constituent scales are distinctly traceable hy their out- lines, though they are as structureless as a basement membrane. It is not often that it happens that the epithelium of a breathing organ overlies, as in this instance, perfectly homogeneous parts. Nothing but the proper coats of the vessel lie underneath. They are literally structureless and hyaline. The cells of the superficial epithelium, therefore, admit of indisputable definition. It is not " base- ment membrane," but epithelium, though attenuated, that here invests the respiratory vessels. By this demonstration a principle is established. Epithelium is not sup[)lanted by any other structure on the organs dedicated to respiration. No other instance, however, is known within the limits of the vertebrate kingdom in which this epithelium is ciliated, than that afforded in the case of the tem- porary external gills of the Ampiiibia. On those of fishes these motar organisms do not exist. Wherefore this distinction ? Why should they exist on the external and not on the internal gills? It is not a law of the mucous membrane that they should not exist, for they occur in other tracts of this same structure. These are questions of ultimate design which it is not given to science to answer. Air-hladder of fishes. — This oi'gan repre- sents the prototypal form of " the lung" in the animal kingdom. It is present in nearly all osseous fishes. It is always tensely filled with gas. In that of marine fishes, ox3 gen predominates; in that of fresh water, nitrogen. Humboldt found the gas in the air-bladder of the electric gyranotusto consist of 9G parts of nitrogen, and 4 of oxygen. Biot found 87 parts of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid in the deep Mediterranean fishes. No hydrogen has ever been detected in this organ. It occupies the roof of the abdomen, between the kidneys and chylopoEetic viscera, and sometimes (gi/inno!us ophiocephahts, coins), beneath the caudal vertebrte to nearly the end of the tail. In some species of diodon, tetradon, dactijlopterus, pemelodus, and poia- notus, it is bifurcated. In nrius grigora, foly- pterus and lepidosircn, it is divided lengthwise into two bladders. In the ci/prinidee and characinidce it is divided transversly into two communicating compartments. Many other varieties of form occur. (J'^idc art. Pisces.) The pro[)er walls of the air-bladder consist of a shining silvery fibrous tunic, the fibres being arranged for the most part transversely and circularly, and in two layers. They are con- tractile and elastic. This coat yields the finest gelatine. Its fibres belong to the white variety: they "swell" under the action of acetic acid. A stratum of vessels is inter- posed between the mucous membrane and the fibrous layer. The meshes formed by these vessels are considerably larger and more oblong than those of the pulmonary ca|)il- larics. In the latter instance the meshes exceed the vessels in diameter. The arteries of this organ are derived sometimes from the abdominal aorta, sometimes from the ca^liac artery, sometimes from the last branchial vein ; and in thelcpiilosiren they are continued from the aortic termination of the two non-rami- fied branchial arteries, and therefore convey venous blood to the cellular, lung-like, double air-bladder (Owen). The veins of the air- bladiler return, in some fishes, to the portal vein ; in some to the hepatic vein; in some to the great cardinal vein ; and in the lepido- siren, they penetrate by a common trunk the great portal vein formed by the confluence of the visceral and vertebral veins of the trunk. In the protopherus and ganoid fishes the vessels of this organ form no rctia mirabilia and vaso-ganglions, but rather a diffused capillary network, more close and rich in the anterior than the posterior part. In the osseous fishes, several varieties of the vascular system of this organ occur. That of the carp forms tufts of capillaries throughout the whole interior of the organ, a variety of which tufts occurs in the |iike. The [)erch and cod exhibit a vaso-ganglion, a body pe- culiar to the air-bladder of fishes. In the cod-fish, a large artery, a branch of the coeliac, and a still larger vein, which empties itself into the mesenteric, perforate together the fibrous tunic of the bladder. Before they reach the inner surface, they divide into some branches which then radiate and sub- divide upon the mucous membrane. The arterioles frequently anastomose with each other. Both are inextricably interwoven, and form the basis of the so-called " air-gland," which is essentially a larger " bipolar rete mirabile" (MLiller), or vaso-ganglion. In the cod the ultimate vessels of this gland have a loop-like arrangement, their free surface (a a}, being covered over with another layer of