200 PELVIS. In these cases, according to Ramsbotimm, it is rare that the transverse diameter does not exceed three inches. Less room is required if the brim alone be distorted, according to the same author. All pelves contracted in their diameters be- low the measurements given in the last list may undoubtedly be considered to require, for the delivery of a foetus of viable or full-grown size, the abdominal section. Dr. Robert Lee, however, advocates strong- ly, and with great justice, the propriety of inducing abortion in these deplorable cases, as a means of saving the life of the mo- ther. When the sacro-pubic diameter is below 1^ inch at the brim, this author considers that abortion should be inikiced before the fifth month. According to Ritgen, labour should be induced in the twenty- ninth week, when the sacro-pubic diameter is 2 inches 7 lines ; in tiie thirtieth week, when it is 2 inches 8 lines; in the thirty- first, when 2 inches 9 lines ; in the thirty- fifth, when 2 inches 10 lines; in tiie thirty- sixth, when 2 inches II lines; and in the thirty-seventh, when exactly 3 inches. When above 3 inches, the case should be left to na- ture. Barlow thinks that premature labour should be induced when this diameter is con- tracted to 21 or 2^ inches.* But in many cases, especially on the Con- tinent, a much less degree of contraction of the conjugate diameter has been thought suf- ficient to justify the Caesarian operation. In a table given by Velpeanf, out of sixty-two cases where narrowness of the conjugate diameter was the reason adduced for adopt- ing this operation, in one case it was 1 inch only; in eight cases, IJ inch; in twenty- three cases, to 2 inches ; in twenty-five cases, 2 to 2^- inches; and in five cases, 2\ to 2% inches. These, without doubt, in- clude many which the British practitioner would place in the fir->t of the foregoing classes, and were adopted with a view of saving the child's life, at an additional risk to the mother. The "pelvis ohlujue om/«," or ohiiquclij con- tracted pelvin. — This form of pelvic distortion was first distinguished and accurately described by Naegele.the distinguished Professor of Mid- wifery at Heidelberg, as possessing the follow- ing characteristics {seeJig. 123.): — L Complete ankylosis of one of the sacro- iliac joints, with coalescence of the sacrum and ilium, generally leaving no cicatrix nor line of junction.—2.'Arrest of development, contrac- tion of the lateral mass, and diminution of the foramina, on the ankylosed side of the sacrum. —3. Narrowing of the innominate bone of the same side, shortening and also flattening of the linea innominata, contraction of the sa- cro-sciatic notch by the ankylosis, and con- traction of the lateral parts of the sacrum and ilium composing the sacro-iliac junction. —t. Shifting of the sacrum towards the anky- * Essays, p. 3j4. f Traite des Accouchements, p. 457. losed side, and twisting of its anterior surface in the same direction, together with removal of the pubic symphysis towards the opposite side, so as to be no longer placed in the median line opposite to the sacral promon- tory, but obliquely directed towards it; a di- rect forward line from the promontory falling on the superior pubic ramus, between the symphysis and acetabulum, its distance from the former varying with the degree of distortion. The bodies of the lower lumbar vertebra are also,moreor less, turned towards the ank} losed side.—3 On the ankylosed side, the inner wall of the pelvis, both before and behind, is less excavated and flatter than in the normal pelvis. —6. On the side free from ankylosis also, the form deviates from the normal shape, although at first sight it appears healthy. On placing together the corresponding non-ankylosed sides of two of these pelves, separated at the symphysis and in the median line, in which the right and left sacro-iliac joints respectively were ank3 losed, Naegele found the pubic bones widely divergent from each other. So that, on this side also, these pelves are abnormal, not only in direction, but in form also, being curved less behind and more in front, than in the normal pelvis. — 7. From this it fol- lows, that the obliquely deformed pelvis is contracted in the diameter which extends from the normal sacro-iliac joint to the opposite acetabulum; while it is not con- tracted, but sometimes, according to the de- gree of distortion, even widened in the di- ameter, from the ankylosed joint to the acetabulum of its opposite side. The superior pelvic aperture thus presents the appearance of an oblique oval (or oblong), the longest diameter of which corresponds to one of the oblique pelvic diameters, and the shortest to the other oblique diameter. From this ap- pearance of the brim he was led to apply the name above given. That the sacro-cotyloid distance, and also that between the apex of the sacrum and the sciatic spine, is smaller on the ankylosed side than on the other. That the distances between the sciatic tuberosity of the ankylosed side, and the posterior superior iliac spine of the opposite side, and also be- tween the last lumbar spine and the anterior superior iliac spine of the ankylosed side, are less than the like measurements on the oppo- site side. That the distance between the lower border of the pubic symphysis and the posterior superior iliac spine, is greater on the ankylosed side than on the other. That the walls of the pelvic cavity converge towards the ouflet in some degree in an oblique direc- tion, and the sub-pubic arch is more or less narrowed, and turned towards the thigh of the ankylosed side. That the contraction of the sa- cro-sciatic notch, and the approximation of the sciatic spines, is proportionate to the degree of distortion. And, lastly, that tlie acetabu- lum of the ankylosed side is directed more forward than normal, and the opposite one almost directly outward. In most cases, the sciatic tuberosity, and the acetabulum of the ankylosed side, were more elevated than the