198 PELVIS. consequent!}' the greatest share of supporting the weight of the body, falls nearer the left leg and the left side of the pelvis. The effect is such as to produce great similarity in the form of all these pelves, which vary only in the de- gree of distortion. The sacral promontory is directed to the left side, vfhile the sacral con- cavity is more or less twisted so as to face the left acetabulum. The innominate bone of the left side is placed lower and more ver- tical than that of the right side, which appears longer and less bent; so that the left ischial tuberosity projects lower and more vertically than the right, which is everted and directed outwanls. The left acetabulum is brought nearer to, and more directly luider, the sacral promontory, the cotylo-sacral arch being more carved tiian the right; while the right sacro- iliac joint and lateral sacral mass are higher, the cotylo-sacral curve more open, the iliac wing more spread, and directed, like the acetabulum, more forwards, and the ischio- pubic ramus placed more obliquely, than those on the left side. In the female Hunterian skeleton, the ob- liquit}' of the spine and pelvis are so great, that the upper dorsal vertebra are placed above the right sacro-iliac joint. The femora are shortened, and curved forwards and out- wards, and the leg bones forwards and inwards, in compensating curves. The left knee, how- ever, is more untler tiie line of gravity than the right. A tendency to a somewhat similar twist is seen in an adult hydrocephalic ske- leton in the same collection. These pelves present, at first sight, some re- semblance to the very different " ohliquely ovate'" pelvis of Naegele. The most charac- teristic differences are, the presence of other rickety appearances, and the want of the co- incidence of lateral deviation of the pubic symphysis with the sacro-ihac ankylosis and malformation of the latter. Rokitansky includes all the pelves which present a want of symmetry at the sides under the general term of oblique pelves, after Osian- der's classification, in which he comprehends by far the greatest number of pelvic deformi- ties of all kinds. He gives, as a characteristic of this class,—approximation of the sacral promontory to the pectineal eminence on one side, which side has also a higher level and a less pelvic inclination than the opposite one, originating in a lateral curve and torsion of tiie sacrum towards the contracted side, —and straightening out of the linea innominata on the opposite side, between the sacro-iliac joint and the acetabulum. It includes the frequent pelvic deviations resulting from lateral curva- ture of the spine, but most frequentl}' arises from rickets, or displacement of the fenmr by hip-joint disease or violence. To a rickety child, who rarely begins to walk till after the usual age, by far the most frequent positions arc thn two which we have just considered, and the mechanism of these positions, in my own estimation, is quite suf- ficient to account for the first impression of the most frequent deformity of the rickety pelvis, the ovate, as well as for the not un- common angular infantile distortion. In standing and walking the supporting pres- sure on the pelvic structures is sustained, either divided or alternately undivided, be- tween the cotyloid cavities and the sacrum. From the peculiar disposition of the cotyloid articulation, the pressure of the head of the femur is exerted in two directions, 1st, upward and backwards along the cotylo-sacral rib, which is the principal hne of pressure, and, 2nd, inwards on the lateral pelvic arch. In the up- right position the softened cotylo-sacral rib yields in the direction of its C curve, which becomes more acute as the sacrum sinks. An increased obliquity of the pelvic inclination, such as has been stated to be generally conse- quent upon the advance of the sacral jjromon- tory and increased lumbar curve in the ellipti- cal deformity, will bring the line of gravitj', both of the trunk and whole body, in front of the acetabular supports, which will cause them to increase the backward curve when pressure is exerted upon them (see Jig. 122. e, a b.). But that such a condition is produced by a greater obliquity of the normal infant pelvis than that of the adult, or that this alone is sufficient to account for the elliptical defor- mity taking place usually in the infant pelvis, by causing divergence of the acetabula under pressure during the upright posture, as asserted by Dr. Murphy, is a conclusion which the re- sults of the observations given in a former section, as well as those of Weber, therein stated, will not at all admit of;—for, as was there seen, the obliquity of the normal infant pelvis is not at all 'greater, if as great, as that of the adult. But if the acetabula are already separated by the elliptical deformity, or if the leg bones yield inwards, so that the pressure on the aceta- bular articular surface at its upper vaulted part is directed upwards and outwards, as seen in the accompanying diagram (^g. 122. B,a,b), then the pressure inwards of tiie heads of the fe- murs upon the lateral pelvic arches is taken off", there is traction instead of pressure on the pubic tie, tiie acetabula become still more widely separated, and the elliptical deformity increased. In such specimens of ovate pel- vic deformity as have the leg bones attached, I have found the tibiae and fibulae bent much inwards, or the leg bones so disposed by an inward knee-bend as to take oft' the inward pressure at the acetabula, and even sometimes by extreme adduction of the femurs, so as to exercise a strain upon the round ligaments of the hip joint and rotator muscles, and thus pro- duce a direct outward traction. In this posi- tion of the bones, the action of the adult muscles which support the erect posture—viz., the great glutei and psoae, will be such as to increase the deformity (seeJig. 122. E, c d), as well as those before mentioned which sustain the spine erect. If the angular deformity have been already impressed upon the infant pelvis by the bending of the cartilaginous junction, while the bones of the legs, and in some degree those