STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 348 those tubes which immediately encircle each follicle. When fresh, these tubes always exhibit the structure just described ; their only contents being a clear, structureless, homogeneous fluid. But from their minute size, it is obvious that this fluid can never be obtained from their inte- rior in sufiifient quantity for any trustworthy analysis. While unless the secerning process were extremely rapid, even the secretion poured forth into the tube would often be mixed with those coarsely filtered contents of the intestine which can enter its upper orifice from the general cavity of the alimentary canal. And as regards all fluids found in the gene- ral cavity of the intestine, we ought never to forget that to procure them in a state of abso- lute purity is impossible. Under normal cir- cumstances, the fluid present in any part of the bowel can only be regarded as a complex mix- ture of several ingredients, all of which are probably themselves undergoing a continual metamorphosis. Could we deduct from the contents of the intestine all chyme, bile, and pancreatic secretion, the residue would be strictly an intestinal juice. And by far the larger quantity of such a juice would be com- posed of the secretion of the intestinal tubes. Now we shall hereafter find that analogy sup- plies us with some plausible conjectures re- specting the fluid secreted by the duodenal glands. While the closed follicles which abut on the cavity of the bowel can scarcely furnish sufficient fluid seriously to afltct the composition of any mixture which it may contain. Hence whatever the share taken by the villi, the secretory office of these tubes might ap[)arently be to some extent determined from an examination into the chemical and physiological properties of even such an im- pure or mixed intestinal juice. The reader will, however, hardly be sur- prised when he is informed, that these condi- tions have never yet been fulfilled; and hence, that a satisfactory account of this interesting fluid remains at present impossible. But he must not therefore think the above allusions superflubus. For it is only by a reference to these conditions of experiment, that we can judge how far we ought to accept the state- ments made by various recent observers re- specting this fluid. Thus Frerichs * obtained intestinal juice from fasting cats and dogs, in whom a few inches of intestine had been emptied, and tied at both ends, about five hours before they were killed. Lehmann-j- procured it from a fistula of the small intestine, which had fol- lowed an operation for hernia in the human subject ; and in which another fistula, higher up, gave passage to the ordinary mixed con- tents of this part of the alimentary canal. Zander J instituted fistulae in animals. And, finally. Bidder § and Schmidt, who adopted Frerichs' method without obtaining one drop * Op. cit. p. 850. t Op. cit. vol. ii. p. 112. X Koelliker, Op. cit. § Lehmann, Loc. cit. and Bd. iii. s. 335. of intestinal juice, carefully compared the mix- ture withdrawn from simple fistulae, with a very small quantity of a purer fluid which was yielded by dogs in whom the pancreatic and biliary ducts had been tied, and the gall bladder made to discharge its contents externally. According to all these observers, the intestinal juice is a transparent, viscid, and strongly alkaline fluid. It contains nuclei, and round or columnar nucleated cells; — an abortive cell-growth, the admixture of which does not substantially afl^ect the struc- tureless character of the secretion. Of its com[)osition and reactions we can only say, that it appears to contain mucus and the ordinary salts; which together form a solid residuum, that amounts to about 2 per cent, of the whole quantity of fluid.* As regards the physiological properties of the intestinal juice, it has the power of con- verting starch into grape sugar. But however obvious the usefulness of this capacity, it is possessed in an equal degree by so many other animal substances, that it can hardly be re- garded as the specific purpose or function of this secretion.-)- But the recent observations of Zander, together with those of Bidder and Schmidt, claim for this secretion a much moi'e impor- tant office :— an office which would entitle the whole of the small intestine to that ap- pellation of a " venfriculus succenturiatus, " which was formerly bestowed on the duode- num. These observers agree in the state- ment, that the intestinal juice dissolves protein- compounds, both in and out of the body. And from the careful quantitative researches of Bidder and Schmidt, it would follow, not only that its solvent powers upon these sub- stances are from three to four times greater than those of the gastric juice itself, but that in the Dog, about half the daily albumen of a flesh diet is habitually left untouched by the stomach, to undergo solution in the intestine by the secretion. Against such a conclusion t would suggest the following arguments, which together in- duce me to think that this doctrine ought not at present to be accepted. That a large organ like the stomach, with a definite and com- plicated structure, should so incompletely discharge its single chemical function, is a paradox which alone involves a great improba- bility. This suspicion becomes still stronger when we consider that, under normal circum- stances, gastric juice is always conveyed from the stomach into the intestine during the pro- cess of gastric digestion; while it is evident that none of the experiments by these observers quite exclude the possibility of such a transit. Nay more, if we suppose—what is surely not * Bidder and Schmidt observed a much larger quantity in the mixed Huid ; but point out that the fixed contents would be raised \>y the addition of the more concentrated secretions of the Ii\-er and pancreas. Hence I prefer quoting the estimate deduced by Lehmann from what was probably a purer fluid. t Compare the remarks on the pancreatic fluid, in a subsequent part of this article.