717 PLACENTA —(Normal Anatomy). Partly within its substance is fonneii an in- Suhxtnnce.—When a clean section has been complete sinus, the circidai- vein or sinus, made through the placenta (^g. 484.), the two This constitutes an interru|)tecl channel, which surfaces ali eadj' described are observed to more or less encircles the placenta. Several enclose between them a soft sponsiy sub- orifices are observed in its walls. Some com- stance, which is made up principally of count- municate directly with the interior of the pla- less ramifications of the foetal villi. These centa, and others with the uterine sinuses. are attacheil at their base to the chorion, from Fig. 484. Vertical section of the ivid/s of the utenis with the placenta nttarhed. From a umman in the thirtieth week of gestation. {After Wagner.) The length of the lines un, serves to distinguish the uterus; p, the placenta, and d<l, tlie decidua. To the right of tlie figure the decidua is separated into arV, uterine decidua, and <//>, decidual prolongations wliich form the dissepiments dividing the placenta into lobes; /, funis; am, amnion; ch, chorion; vf, foetal blood-vessels (divided) upon the surface of tlie placenta; vv, villi; us, uterine sinuses; a a, curling arteries in the substance of the uterus. which they spring, while their opposite extre- mities are united to the decidual layer form- ing the uterine boundary of the placenta. The inters])aces left between the villi and their ramifications form what have been termed the cells of the placenta. They are widest between the roots of the villi, and much smaller between their extremities. In these spaces the maternal blood circulates. When injections are tlirown into the placenta from the uterine arteries or veins, these spaces become filled, and the mass, when broken, exhibits a peculiar granular appearance. Di[)- ping down among the villi, and reaching in some cases as far as the foetal surface of the placenta, are numerous sheet-like prolonga- tions of decidua (fig. 484. d}>). These con- stitute the dissepiments which separate the entire mass into its several lobes or cotyle- dons. At the placental niargiu, the decidual layer generally ilips under the villi, forming a return end or border, which is directed in- wards, and is attached at a distance of 3—4'" from the margin to the outer surface of the chorion. The exact relation of the decidua to the villi, in various parts of the placenta, will be better understood after a more minute description has been given of each of these structures. The tufts and vi//i. — A placental tuft has been often compared to a tree. It con- sists of a trunk giving off numerous branches, which ultimately end in finer subdivisions or villi (Jig. 484. vv and Jig. 485. a). The trunks may be said to take root in the cho- rion, from which they spring, vvhile the branches and finer subdivisions spread la- terally and upwards, until they come into contact, at their sieles, with the adjacent tufts and villi, and above with the decidua which bounds the placenta towards the uterus. Many of the villi, instead of branching like trees, proceed thread-like from the floor to the roof of the i)lacenta, only sending off short knotty side branches. Tiie tufts are so closely set, that their forms cannot be readily discerned until they are floated out in water. The stems are tough and fibrous, or coriaceous, while the branches and finer villi, though strong, are of a more brittle texture. When one of these is broken off; and examined by the microscope, it presents the following characteristics — the subdivi- sions are abrupt, contorted, and singularly