UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 714 venous plexuses surrounding the vaginal orifice, together with their communicating branches, have been ah-eacly described. The external pudic veins, collecting the blood from the mons veneris and the interior of tiie labia, take a course similar to that of the correspond- ing arteries, and empty themselves into the saphena. The lymphatics of the external organs ter- minate in the inguinal glands. The nerves.—The external parts are abun- dantly supplied with nerves derived chiefly from the pudic. The pudic nerve arising from the lower part of the sacral plexus [)asses through the sacro-sciatic foramen and accom- panying the pudic vessels divides into two branches. The inferior, or perineal branch, sends twigs to the labia, nymphae, and roots of the clitoris, and then gives oiF the superficial perineal branch, which is distributed to the constrictor muscle of the bulb of the vagina. The stiperior. or branch of the clitoris, corre- sponds with the dorsal nerve of the penis. Beneath the pubic arch it passes between the roots of the clitoris and is distributed along the side of that organ in the manner already described {fig. 4-81. ii). Some ot its ramifica- tions are distributed upon the prepuce and in the nyni[)hse and upper parts of the labia. The labium also receives nerves from the branches of the inferior pudendal i-\e.'[\e, a. da- vision of the small sciatic nerve. Tliese com- municate with the superficial perineal branches. Abnormal Anatomy of the External Organs. Labia.—The labia, together with the whole of the external generative organs, may be deficient, or they may retain through life an undeveloped or foetal condition, consisting only of a very narrow fold of nitegument. In rarer cases, the labium of one side only has been developed. The labia may, on the other hand, present the form of a double or even a triple fold. In cases of deficiency of the lower part of the abdominal integument and ante- rior wall of the bladder, with separation of the pubic symphysis, the labia are imperfectly formed, and are set wider apart than usual, inclining somewhat outwards. The labial commissure is then also deficient. The pos- terior commissure of the labia may be much hypertrophied, projecting unusually forward, and covering more or less the entrance to the vagina. The labia are occasionally so com- pletely coherent along the median line, that the vulvar fissure is obliterated, leaving only an aperture sufficient for the passage of urine. This condition is commordy the result of in- flammation of the vulva in early infancy. The diseases affecting the tissues of the labia may be superficially seated, or may in- volve more or less their entire substance. The principal superficial afFections are erythe- matous inflammations, often accompanied by vesicular, chiefly herpetic or eczematous, and sometimes pustular eruptions ; enlargement of the follicles, increased secretion, occasion- ally watery, and in excessive quantity, occur- ring in combmation with a solid oedematous condition of the part (oozing tumour of the labium), excoriations, aphthous or specific (chancrous) ulcers ; and condylomata, espe- cially of the softer and syphilitic kind. The deeper seated affections are acute, and chro- nic inflammation of the fibrous and cellular tissue; induration and hypertrophy, some- times of considerable extent (elephantiasis); serous infiltration, associated with pregnancy, or cardiac disease; suppuration producing large collections of pus within the labium ; sloughing and gangrene. The veins of the labia frequently become varicose in multiparte, and haemorrhagic effiisions take place into their substance. These effusions may be produced during straining efforts, or by external vio- lence, but are especially apt to occur during labour, from pressure of the child's head upon the veins returning the blood from the vem us plexuses that surround the vaginal orifice, whereby the latter become over-distended and ruptured, a considerable interstitial he- morrhage olten resulting. Cysts enclosing a glairy fluid, and adventitious growths of a more solid kind, such as are common to fibrous and cellular tissue, are not unfrequently found within the labia. Cancerous degeneration is more rare, but it may occur, either alone, or in combination with vaginal or uterine cancer. The labia may suffer lact ration during labour, from forcible violation of the person, and in other ways. Fistulae, communicating with the rectum, and permitting the passage of foecal and gaseous fluids, occasionally form in the labia as sequelae of suppurative processes. Lastly, these parts are occasionally the seat of hernia of the intestine, and, more rarely, of the ovary. Clitoris.—Entire absence of the clitoris pro- bably seldom or never occurs alone. But the clitoris and nymphae may be deficient even when the labia are present. The clitoris is sometimes so small that its presence may escape detection. More often it is of unusual size, (jrojecting beyond the labia. Such en- largements, though occasionally occurring without degeneration of the tissues, are more commonly the result of inflammatory hyper- trophy, or are occasioned by protuse condylo- matous (syphilitic) growths, in which the prepuce also may be included. The clitoris is also subject to cancerous degeneration, sometimes attaining an enormous size. NymphfS and vestibule.—The protrusion of the nymphas between the labia, which occurs as a normal condition in infants, is not unfre- quently observed in adults, when these parts, exceeding their ordinary dimensions, hang down below the posterior commissure : their lower extremities may in rare cases be pro- longed as far back as the anus. The number of the nymphae may be increased to two (Morgagni), or even three pair (Neubauer). Excessive hypertrophy of the nymphae is common in certain climates. It may be asso- ciated with corresponding enlargement of the