219 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). brane.* When tv/o fronds are about to con- jugate, they place themselves parallel and op- posite to each other, with their concave sur- faces facing. We next remark that the cell membrane partially gives way at the line above mentioned, the two halves of each Closterium separating slightly on the side opposite its fellow, but remaining in contact on the other side. The openings are soon observed to be occupied by cushion-like projections of the in- ternal membrane, which squeeze out between the valves. From the fact that the cavity of the internal membrane is double, or rather that each halfof the Closterium possesses an independent primordial membrane, it follows that each of the projections above mentioned consists of two distinct saccuU. Soon the two double cushions come in contact; they are at first perfectly colourless, but shortly afterwards become filled with green granular matter, and press so closely together as to be no longer distinguishable. It is next observed that from the junction of the four sacculi, two canals have resulted, each of which soon swells out in a hemispherical form, corresponding to Fig. 136. Conjugation of Closterium. The two fronds are connected by two delicate tubes, eacli of which contains a hemispheiical germ- cell closely invested by its membrane. The two germ-cells, which are iu opposition by their flat surfaces, appear as one. About 40 diam. that of a mass of green granular matter which now occupies its cavity. This mass is soon in- vested by a delicate membrane, which, in the progress of development, thickens and pre- sents an uneven surface. The two bodies which thus take their origin are the germ cells. They soon become free from the struc- ture in which they were formed, and, according to IMorren, display for about fifteen minutes after their escape an active motion. After this period, the motion ceases, and they attach themselves to a foreign body. Morren has observed their germination. The spherical germ lengthens first at one, then at the oppo- site extremity, so as to assume the charac- teristic crescentic form of the plant. Its green contents divide into two masses, each of which is invested by a separate primordial membrane, and occupies one of the future seg- ments of the frond. In a short time the young Closterium com[)letely resembles the adult. It is worthy of remark, that in the abnormal cases in which only one germ results from * Morren, Ann. des Sc. Nat. I'" Ser. p. 325. the conjugation of two individuals, only one of the halves of each empties itself, the other remaining unaltered.* In other families of Desmideas, the pro- cess of conjugation, although variously modi- fied as to its less important details, is essentially the same as that which occurs in Closterium.f 17. In the Zygnemaceae, confervoid plants, which seem to have a close relation with the DesmideiE, the phenomena of conjugation have been long known. The frond consists of a series of cylindrical cells, which lengthens indefinitely by repeated division of its ele- ments. Here, as in the Desmideae, it is the last-produced cells in the filament which take part in the process of conjugation. In Spirogyra the union of two cells belonging to opi)osite filaments takes place by the ex- pansion of one side of each, so as to form a papilla, or short tube with a rounded end. The ends of the two projections then come into contact, become slightly flattened as they are pressed against each other, and unite. The double wall formed by their union, dissolves, or is broken through, so that a free passage is es- tablished between the two cell cavities. Upon this, the whole of the chlorophylle previously arranged round the inside of each of the cells, becomes a confused mass, which soon forms itself either in the cavity of one of them, or in the connecting canal, into a globular or oval smooth spore, invested with a colourless cellulose membrane. Having arrived at this condition, it remains several months — from the autumn of one year to the spring of the following,—without undergoing any change of forin.j During this period two new membranes are produced within the first by the secretion of cellulose on the surface of the primordial utri- cle. Of these two, the external is of consider- able thickness, and of a yellow colour. The internal, which may be considered as the proper membrane of the spore, is delicate and * According to Morren, the process above de- scribed is not the only one by which the reproduc- tion of Closterium takes place. In the green granvilar matter contained in a frond, there occur spherical corpuscles 'which, according to that observer, are capable of reproducing the parent plant. He has describe<l and figured their germination, and it is worthy of remark tluat his figures of the earliest stages of Closteriathus developed, correspond closely with those of the earliest stages of the plant as ob- served by Mi\ lialfs, who, however, assigns to them a different origin. (See British Desmideae, tab. xxvii. m.) t It is clear that if the formation of germs by conjugation were the onlj' provision for the repro- duction of the species, in the Closteria and many other families of Desmideas, its total disappearance must result, inasmuch as the conjugation and con- sequent destruction of a pair of Closteria can only give rise to an equal or less number of new individuals, liut the other mode of reproduction already' alluded to as occurring in Closterium, and which has been so well described by Mr. Kalfs in the other Des- midea', affords an effectual safeguard against their otherwise possible extinction. % Braim has observed the germination of tlie spores in a specimen of Spyrogyra setiformis which had been collected for eleven months. fBraun, /. c. p. 1-14.)