577 OVARY — (Abnormal Anatomy). ing that purpose at all, and it is probable that these, in preference to other and more healthy follicles, become the seat of subsequent mor- bid changes. For it must be remembered that the cir- cumstances under which the male and female generative elements escape from the place of their original formation are essentially dif- ferent. The male secreting organ, the testis, is provided with an excretory duct for the escape of the fertilising fluid ; but the female gland is a shut sac. To the normal esciipe of its products many barriers are opposed, and it has already been shown by what com- plicated machinery the shedding of the female product is effected. But it is impossible to regard this complex process without perceiv- ing how easily a failure in any of those steps may defeat the final object for which that process is set on foot. The thickness of the walls of the follicle, the density of the ova- rian coverings, or of the parenchyma of the ovary, if the follicle should fail to reach the sur- face ; the chance of the ovum perishing before it quits the ovisac, and so the stimulus to the healthy development of tiie latter being lost ; the chance of an excessive accumulation of litjuor folliculi or of blood within the follicle, causing damage to the ovum, and replacing a natural by a morbid amount of exudation. In these and other possible interruptions to the natural completion of ovulation we may discover ihe elemen^^sS^many future morbid changes. And althouglv it would require a long continued and deep research into the aberrant functions of the ovary to determine the true ordei* and sequence of many of these morbid processes, yet it is impossible to carry anatomical investigation into the structure of the morbid ovary, especially under incipient forms of disease, to any extent without many fragmental observations occurring suggestive of the idea that the ovary, like any other gland, may have its natural functions impelled, and that many of the organic changes which are observed in this part may owe their origin to such interrupted processes. Some of the observations which have led me to the adop- tion of these views have been already given, and some others will be detailed as suggestive of a better basis for the stuily of ovarian pathology than has hitherto been employed ; for of all the organs of the body the ovary is perhaps that whose pathological conditions have been regarded with the smallest amount of reference to its natural or deranged func- tions. From these considerations, then, I have been led to the conclusion that certain conditions of the ovary, which, from their concomitant symptoms during life have been deemed in- flammatory, are not necessarily associated with inflammation ; that it is probable, first, that the natural process of ovulation is often ac- companied by symptoms very similar to those of inflammation ; and seconilly, that the pro- cess of ovulation is occasionally disajipointetl or interrupted, and that the follicles, whose Slip I). natural development has been interrupted, may, like the hydatiform placenta, become the seat of a low form of nutrition, terminating in effusion and collection of various dropsical fluids. With regard to the anatomical evidences of inflammation of the ovary as furnished by post-mortem examination, they are chiefly the following, viz.: general redness or hypertemia of the ovarian parenchyma, or of the walls of the follicles ; swelling of the ovary to the ex- tent of increasing the organ to three or four times its natural size, producing a round, oval, or flattened foj m of the ovary ; a general tension or hardness of the organ in the early stages of inflammation, and subsequently softening, con- sequent on degeneration of the tissues and their infiltration by serous or puriform effu- sions ; and lastly, but rarely, gangrene of the ovary. Of these morbid changes the only one which appears to require a more particular account is Snppuratiim of the ovary. Pus may be found in a circumscribed cavity within an en- larged and highly vascular ovary, portions of whose structure may still retain its natural condition. Or the entire ovary may be con- verted into a bag of pus, the natural tissues being entirely destroyed, and the fluiti bounded only by the ovarian tunics. In such cases the abscess " appears to rise from suppuration in the substance of the viscus, similar in every respect to phlegmonous abscess in any part of the body, and not connected with any cyst, or change, or addition of structure, the product of morbid growth."* These abs- cesses, which are sometimes of enormous size, may burst into the general sac of the peri- toneum, or, after forming adhesions witii sur- rounding parts, may discharge their contents externally through the abdominal walls, or into the Fallopian tube, uterus, vagina, blad- der, rectum, or other part of the intestine. Portal mentions cases of ovarian abscess as large as an infant's head, and Dr. Taylor-f- of Philadelphia has recorded an instance in which the ovary contained twenty pints of pus. It is highly probable that these and even still larger collections of pus, which have been found in the ovary, were, as M™° Boivin has suggested, originally cases of encysted ovarian dropsy, but inflammation and suppuration having been set up in the walls of the cyst, the original contents have been gratlually in- termixed with pus, until the whole fluid has appeared to be of that nature. Probably of this kind also was tlie case recorded by VaterJ, in which the ovary was as large as the human head, and " containetl pus distributed into several capsules." This, therefore, was a multilocular abscess. Exce[)t in connection with acute metro- peritonitis, suppuration of the ovary may be considered as comparatively rare. Dr. * Seymour's Illustrations of some of the principal Diseases of l.lie Ovaria, p. 40. t North Amer. Med. & Surg. Journ. 1826. X Haller, Disp. Med. !• 1'