REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 214. dislocation of tlie tube, each cell dividing into two in a plane parallel to the septa.* 5. The Ulvacese, among which the frond has no longer the form of a filament, but assumes that of a membranous expansion of juxtaposed cells, still present the same phenomena to our notice. In the cells set apart for the forma- tion of zoospores, the green protoplasraa is increased in quantity, at the same time that it becomes accumulated towards one point of the cell-wall. As the zoospores are formed, they are observed to converge with their apices towards this point. The phenomena attending their escape from the parent cell are similar to those which we have already noticed, 6. In some genera, which seem to be closely related in form and structure to the Bryop- sidea2, we observe this important difference, that the zoospores are developed in an organ specially destined to tiiis purpose, which presents peculiarities of form distinguishing it from every other part of the branching tubular frond. Thus in the genus Derbesia distinct spore cases are to be observed, the cavity of which does not communicate with that of the frond. These organs, which are of an oval form, take their origin in the same manner as the ordinary vegetative branches of which they are modifications. A young branch which is destined to become a spore case, instead of elongating indefinitely, begins, after having arrived at a certain length, to swell out into an ovoid vesicle, in the cavity of which a rapid accumulation of protoplasma takes place. The next change which oc- curs is the separation of this protoplasma from that of the rest of the plant with which it was before continuous, so as to give rise to an oval and opaque mass, which soon becomes surrounded by a distinct membrane. As the result of the division of this mass, a number of pyriform zoospores, each of which is fur- nished with a crown of cilia, are set free. Many other genera have been described by Derbes and Solier-j-, in which the relations of the spore cases to the frond are similar to those which exist in Derbesia, although the forms presented by the organs in question are infinitely various, 7. The researches of the authors above alluded to, alongwith those of M. Thiiret, have shown us that in many families of the olive- coloured Algee, the occurrence of zoosporous reproduction is no less general. The zo- ospores, however, although they resemble in their general form those of the plants which we have been considering, differ from them not only in respect of their olive colour, but * In the genus CEdogoniiim, the protoplasma of each joint, instead of being converted into a number of zoospores, goes to form but one, which differs from those of other genera, in the first place in being considerably lai'ger, and secondly, in present- ing around its rostrum not two, but a number of cilia, which are arranged in the form of a crown. (See Thuret, I. c. p. 226.) t Derbes and Solier, Sur les Organes reprodncteurs des Algues. Ann. des Sc. Nat. xiv. 260. in the arrangement of their cilia. These organs, which are always two in number, are Fig. 130. Sporangium of Ectocarpus sillquosus, 240 diam. Ectocarpus is one of the simplest forms of olive- coloured Alga;, consisting of branching, conferva- like filaments. The extremity of any of the branches is capable of being converted into a sporangium by the absorption of the septa of the terminal cells. The zoospores are arranged in regular horizontal la3'ers, the positions of which are indicated in the empty sporangium by faint markings of its membrane. usually of unequal length, and emanate not from the beak, but from the reddish-coloured point in its neighbourhood. The longest is directed forwards, being closely applied to the colourless beak ; while the other, which seems during the motions of the spore to serve as a rudder, assumes an opposite direction. In many genera a peculiarity exists, the significa- tion of which is not yet completely under- stood—that, namely, of a double fructification. The ovoidal sporangia (oosjwrangia, Thur.}, which have been frequently described as single spores, in reality contain numerous zoospores. The other form {triclio-s2)orang'mm,1hw.)con- sists of a series of small cells joined together so as to form a narrow and generally short fila- ment. Each of the cells contains a zoospore, which, according to the observations of Thuret, is no less capable of germinating than the one produced by the oosporangium. In the genus Cutleria there is observed, for the first time, another feature of great interest and importance; namely, the appearance of two kinds of organs which seem to be opposed to each other as regards their reproductive func- tions. The sporangia (trichosporangia) of Cutleria, not only dilifer from those of other genera, in respect of their greater size, but