OVUM. 20 Fid. 13. Campanularia geyiiculuta (a and b from Lovcn, us copied by Steenstrup}. A, modified or bell-shaped polype head or cap- sule, producing the female individuals at g,g,g', th*^ earliest of these budding from the granular stem g'. B, the female heads expanded from the bell: one of them containing two ova, o o; the otlier con- taining two ciliated embryoes, of which one is issu- ing at the summit of the attached medusoid, e e. o {from Schultze), male heads of the same spe- cies of Campanularia; p, upper part of the polype head, or bell-shaped capsule; c, sexual capsule, or modified attaehed Medusoid, containing spermato- zoa ; d, another of the same, burst, and spermatozoa discharged, s; c", other spermatic capsules advanc- ing behind the first. ledge of Desor's observations, and has farther proved the necessity of fecundation for the development of the ova so produced in the Campanularia geniculata {sec fig. 15. C). The various modes of production as they have been observed in the Tubularia by Van Beneden*, have been so fully detailed in the Article PoLVPiFERA,that the reader is referred to that article for an account of them. But it is to be observed that the reconversion of the Medusoid progeny of this animal into the Polype form described by that author (see Article PoLYPirERA,^g. 50., p. 45.), has not received confirmation from the researches of other naturalists. Much remains still to be learned of this remarkable process; but enough has been ascertained to show that in a certain number of animals, usually known as passing the jjreater part of their lives in the Compound Polype condition, the state of sexual com- pleteness frequently belongs not to the Polype, but to a progeny having the form of a Medusa, and produced by a non-sexual process of de- velopment from the Polype stem. AcaleplicE.— Some time before the peculiar history of the development of'the Polypina, now sketched, was discovered, an equally curious and unexpected phasis in the genera- tion of some AcalephfE or Medusae had been established by the concurrent researches of several inquirers ; by whicli it was shown that the animals familiarly known as sea nettles existed for a time in the early stages of their development in the form of an attached pol}'- poid, and were produced by a process analo- gous to gemmation, or transverse fission, in numbers from this Polype stock. •]- Adult Medusae are perfect animals in which the male and female sexual organs are placed on distinct individuals. The fecundated ova which they produce are first developed into a ciliated moving animalcule somewhat like a polygastric infasorian. This creature, after * M^m. de I'Acad. de Bruxelles, tom. xvii. f The Swedish naturalist Sars appears to have taken the lead in this discovery, as early as 1828, by his observation of the Compound Polypoid, from which the Medusas are thrown off; and subsequently, in 1835, by the discovery that this animal, or stro- bila, is really the young condition of a Medusa, or rather a colony of Medusas. Very interesting obser- vations of a similar kind were published \iy Dalzell on this bodj', under the name of Ilydra tuba, in 183G, but his observations probably date from an earlier period (Edin. New Phil. Journ. vol. xxi. 183G). Sars pursued the investigation of the process further, and published the results in Wiegmann's Archiv, 1837 ; but the complete account of his observations was not published in the same Journal till 18-11; see also Ann. des Sc. Nat. for 1841. In the meantime V. Siebold had arrived at precisely similar conclusions, and subsequently their views have been fully con- firmed by Dalyell (Remarkable Animals of Scot- laud) ; J. Reid (Ann. of Nat. Hist. 1848, and Pliy- siolog. Researches); Steenstrup (Alternations of Generation) ; and Huxley (Phil. Trans. 1849, part ii.) See also Dujardin, Rlem. sur le Developpement des Meduses et des Polypes Hj'draires, Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1815. The reader is also refei-red to Dana's great work on Zoophytes in the United States Explor- ing Expedition. Philad. 1848.