OVUM. [125J the proglottis ; and finally they are dis- charged from this, usually after the separation of the joint from the main tapeworm, by the irregular rupture of the outer wall, or by a genital aperture. Here, then, we have another instance of the combination of the several com- ponent elements of the ovum together with the sperm, previous to the enclosure of the whole by a membrane so as to give the form of a complete ovum. The ova of most of the Cestoidea, as in the common tapeworms, are of proportionally small size. The external envelope is firm, thick, and nearly homogeneous; sometimes, however, presenting a slight appearance of fine radiated striae passing through it, which recalls the structure of the thick membrane of the Fish's ovum. The vitelline substance is very finely granular, or almost clear; the germinal vesicle is perceived with difficulty, but is of large size.* In some Cestoids the external envelope is of a brown colour, as in the Trematoda, and in others presents pecu- liar forms and prolongations from its surface. A delicate vitelline membrane is described within the outer covering by some authors.f The segmentation of the yolk appears to be complete; but this process has been observed only in a few instances. Of the ova of the Cystic Entozoa nothing need here be said, seeing that it has already been shown that the several genera of this order, viz., Cysticercus, Ccenunis, and Echi- nococcus, are only larval and aberrant forms of the Cestoid worms, and being immature animals, never produce ova, excepting through their more advanced stage of cestoid develop- ment. Echinodcrmata. — The different orders and families of this class are all of distinct sex, so far as is yet known, with the single exception of one of the Holothurida, viz., Synapta(S. DuverniEa), described by QuatrefagesJ as presenting a combination of the testicles and ovaries in one organ, resembling in some measure that which exists in the Gasteropo- dous Mollusca. In the females of Echinus, Asterias, and Hoiothuria, the ova have been studied with care by different observers. In all of them the ova present.'when mature, more or less of a deep yellow, orange, or red colour, which belongs to the yolk-substance. This sub- stance is finely granular, and is enclosed, at least in some, as Echinus, by a delicate vitelline membrane; but in others, as Hoio- thuria, there is a considerable deposit of an albuminous layer of a peculiar structure, which, from its adhering closely to the vitel- * See Kolliker in Muller's Archiv. for 1843, p. 92; Tafl. vii., fig. 44, i" Details as to the structure of these ova will be found in the work of Von Siebold in Burdach's Physiologie, vol. ii.; in Dujardin's Hist. Nat. des Helminthes, see pi. ix. and xii. ; in Blancliard's memoirs in the Annal. des Scien. Nat. for 1848, p. 321; in Van Beneden's work ; and in Kuchen- meister's more recent Ilandbuch der Parasiten des Menschen, &e., Leipzig, 1865. X Annal. des Scien. Nat., 1842, xvii. line membrane, obscures the latter envelope, and thus has made its existence doubtful to some observers. This albuminous deposit also exists in Echinus, but is in that animal distinguishable from the vitelline membrane.* The colour and opacity of the yolk-sub- stance in the mature state of the ovum usually prevent our perceiving the germinal vesicle ; but in the earlier stages of formation, when the ovum is of lighter colour or even quite clear and transparent, a germinal vesicle with a single distinct macula is easily per- ceived. This vesicle has disappeared in the ova which are depo.sited. The segmentation of the yolk is complete in the Echinodermata : the process has been fully traced by Sars in Asterias •]-, and by various observers in some other genera. It was in the ovum of Hoiothuria tubulosa that Professor Johannes Miiller first made the novel and interesting discovery of an aperture leading through the thick external membrane towards the yolk ; an obsei-vation which has been confirmed by various other physiologists J, and has been productive of important con- sequences in its extension to a number of other animals in which such an aperture was not previously suspected to exist. Miiller brought this observation before the Berlin Academy, and it was noticed in the printed report of the proceedings in 1851. A more detailed account of his observations on this subject is given by Miiller in his Archiv. for 1854? (p. 60.). The very thick covering of the ovum of Hoiothuria presents an appear- ance of radiated lines running through it per- pendicularly to the surface, which resembles in some degree the marking in the membrane of the Fish's ovum, but is not so di-stinct, and does not appear, as in it, to be produced by visible tubes or pores passing through the membrane. The canal of the micropyle pierces the wiiole thickness of the radiated membrane; but Miiller conceived that it did not perforate the delicate vitelline membrane placed on its inner surface. Leydig, however, and Leuck- art are of opinion that the canal passes com- pletely into the interior of all theegg-coverings, and reaches the surface of the yolk, so that it may convey the s])ermatozoa to that body. The entrance of the spermatozoa has not, however, as yet been actually observed. According to Leydig, the thick membrane may consist of several layers united together, such as, internally the vitelline membrane, the thick albuminous part in the middle, and ex- ternally the nucleated layer formed by the remains of the ovarian capsule. Leuckart and Leydisr have also pointed out the fact that the formation of the canal of the micropyle in the esg of Hoiothuria proceeds from or is con- nected with the original attached and pedicu- * Derbfes, in Annal. des Scien. Nat. 1847, 3" Se'r. vol. viii., p. 80, and Leydig in Miiller's Archiv. for 18.54, p. 312. f Wiegmann's Archiv. 1844, and Annal. des Scien. Nat, 3'" ser., vol. ii. p. 190. X Leuckart in Bischoff's VViederlegung, &c., 1854, and Leydig, loc. cit.