690 mass, so that a miiscLilar rather than a fibrous tissue results. A small quantity of elastic fibre is also occasionally found in the.-.e ute- rine formations. Fig. 474. UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. Section of fibroid iumour of the uterus. {Ad Nut.) The structural variations observable in fibroid of the uterus, are dependent chicHy upon the peculiarities in arrangement of these component elements. In the more dense formations, the vihite shining fibrous bands enclosing little pellets of the browner sub- stance, form nimieroiis small compact masses, which are again closely united together by a somewhat looser fibrous tissue that serves to combine the whole into lobes or lobules, va- rying m size from a pea to that of a man's head. The variation in density of these masses depends, further, upon their vascula- rity. In the softer kinds, bloodvessels that may be injected permeate the mass, running along the bands and layers of fibrous tissue connecting the lobules. Such tumours are sometimes of a deep red colour. The denser masses, on the otiier hand, are apparently nearly bloodless ; at least, injections cannot be made to penetrate them. The different configurations which these masses of uterine fibi oitl assume, appear to depend in a great measure upon accidental conditions. In this particular three varieties may be noticed. \st var. Interstilial fibroid. — The mass here forms a growth, sometimes of immense size, but still contained within the proper boundaries of the organ, occupying one or other uterine wall, but neither encroaching upon the uterine cavity, nor protruding ex- ternally. Such is the case represented in Jig. 475., in which the external appearances were those of the ordinary gravid uterus in the seventh month. Such masses appear oc- casionally at their periphery to merge gra- dually into the healthy tissues of the uterus, but more commonly there exists a distinct boundary formed by loose cellular tissue with which the tumour is so lightly connected that it may be easily detached and turned out of its investing capsule {fig. 473 ). Fig. 475. Interstitial fibroid of tlie uterus. {Ad Nat.) The tumour is formed in the substance of the posterior wall, which is so attenuated at one spot as to be nearly broken through. The cavity of the uterus is shown in the lower part of the tigure un- altered in size. 2nd var. Siihperiloneal fibroid. — In this variety the fibroid mass or masses protrude from the external surface of the uterus. Here one or several round or oval tumours are formed which seem to grow out of the uterine substance by a narrower or broader base, or they remain attached to it by a peduncle. These masses consist entirely of fibroid, having either simply an investment of perito- neum, or beneath that also, in many instances, a layer more or less thick of uterine sub- stance which is usually laminated, so that a capsule composed of the natural tissues of the uterus is formed around the tumour (^g. 476.). 3rd var. Stih-miicous fibroid.—In this va- riety the fibroid mass quits its bed in the uterine walls, and projects into the cavity of the uterus ; it becomes covei'ed by an exten- sion of the lining membrane of the uterus, and sometimes also beneath this by a layer of healthy uterine tissue. These tumours, when they possess a peduncle, constitute the fibroid polypi of the uterus. A distinction has been made in these po- lypi between such as form continuous out- growths from the substance of the uterus, and those in which the pol\pous mass forms a discontinuous tumour, connected only by a narrovi^ stem of mucous and muscular tissue. The original position of the fibroid growth in the uterine walls, whether in the middle or nearer to their inner or outer surfaces, proba- bly determines, in a great measure, the direc- tion and form which these growths ultimately take, and is consequently productive of the three varieties above noted. The different forms which fibroid assumes are in accordance with these varieties of po-