19 OVUM. In a certain number of the Campanulariae, Sertularise, and TubuIaritE, of which the in- ternal strncture is more complex than in the Coryne, and in which the Polype always na- turally presents a branched form, or groups of distinct Polype heads formed upon a connnon stem by gemmation, it is now well ascertained that the Polype state is not the only nor the complete condition of the animal, but that by Fig. 13. Branch of Sertiilaria geniculata, magnified, shewing polypes, and ovigerous capsules. a process, in some instances similar to that above described, in others, somewhat different from it, a set of bodies, charged with the oifice of the sexual production of the ova, are deve- loped in place of the more ordinai-y Poly pe heads or individuals. In the Campanularia ge- latinosa, according to Van Beneden, the gene- rative heads are close bell-shaped capsules, within which small Medusoid boilies are deve- loped by a process apparently analogous to gemmation, or, at all events, without sexual generation, and each of these Medusoids be- coming free, move about in the adjacent fluid as independent animals. The farther destina- tion or changes of these Medusoid bodies have not yet been observed, but from parallel observations in other similar animals, it is believed that they afterwards attain to sexual completeness, and I'orm ova which are de- veloped into the Polype form.* * See the View of Campanularia geniculata, hy Van Beneden, in Mem. de I'Acad. de Bruxelles, 1844, vol. xvii.; and Ann. des Sc. Nat. torn. xx. p. 350, 1843. See also the very interesting account of Tu- But the interesting observations of Loven*, and also some'previous observations of Lis- ter f, would show that in the Campanularia Fig. 14. Campatmlaria. ( From Dcsor.') A, po rtion of a branched stem, magnified, c, non-sexnal head or individual; gg, two capsules, or modified heads, producing JMedusoids by gemma- tion, in difierent stages ; m, Medusoid escaping; v(' ni", Medusoids more advanced, moving freely by the contractions of tlieir disc. geniculata, and in Tubularia, the Medusa-like bodies may in some instances not be detached from the Polype heads or capsules, and may even not be developeil fully into the Medusa form, but nevertheless produce their ova in that attached situation, antl thus give rise to ciliated embryoes, which, when excluded, move for a time, and then, like the others arising from the detached Medusae, become converted into I'oly[)es. According to Desor, of Boston J, the same Campaiudaria may at one time produce two kinds of capsules, the one set containing ova the other spermatozoa ; the Medusoid progeny not being developed, and the ova giving rise to forms similar to the parent Polype: and M, S. Schultze, of Greifswald, has confirmed this statement§, apparently without the know- bularia, in Dalycll's Remarliable Animals of Scot- land. * In Wiegmann's Arcliiv, 1837. t Phil. Trans. 1834. X Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1849, xii. p. 208. § MUllcr's Archiv, 1850, p. 63. C 2