STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 403 D D 3 example, absorb the water of these tissues, coagulate their albumen, and thus corrugate and condense their mass. The narrowing which is produced by inflammation or by morbid growtlis, may be regarded as more mechanical. It results, eitiier from the ex- sudation or deposit directly engaging more or less of the cavity of the tube ; or what has a similar effect, from its ultimate contraction first reducing the size of the diseased part, and then trenching upon that of the neigh- bouring healthy parietes. Where the deposit of the new substance has been preceded hy a loss of the normal tissue, — as often occurs in inflammation and ulceration — the con- striction which is thus subsequently brought about is of course much more considerable. .3. To the above causes of constriction in- trinsic to the tube, we may add several which are extrinsic to it. These are chiefly impor- tant, eitlier by the inflammation they excite, or by the obstruction which constriction beyond a certain limit is apt to produce. Hence they will be hereafter alluded to, in connexion with those displacements of the tube, by which obstruction is most frequently brought about. Dilatation.—An increase in the calibre of the digestive tube may be the result, either of distention of its cavity, or of relaxation of its walls, or of both of these causes conjointly. Thus that segment of the canal wiiich is im- mediately above an obstruction, is always found in a state of distention : its dilatation being obviously produced by an onward trans- mission of the intestinal contents, to the point where their progress is arrested. And even in the absence of direct morbid obstruction, constant distention of the tube can to some extent imitate this state. Thus the colon of persons habitually constipated, frequently be- comes enlarged to a vast extent. And the stomach of the rice-eating Hindoo, or the potato-eating Celt, often acquires a similar in- crease of capacity. In many of these cases it is, however, pro- bable, that the passive distention of the organ is assisted by an actual relaxation of its walls. In the enlarged bowels of obese individuals there can be little doubt that this is the case. And most of the diseases at present asso- ciated under the name of ileus exhibit, as one of their characteristic changes, a relaxa- tion of the bowel, which may be distin- guished from the preceding by its rapid occur- rence, its morbid nature, and its usually con- siderable amount. Thickness.—It is seldom, if ever, that the walls of the intestinal canal are altered in their thickness only. A|)art from the obvious physical effects of distention and constriction, by which their tenuity is respectively increased and diminished, the coats of the bowel rarely undergo changes in this respect, without pre- senting some other appearances, such as be- tray a more important lesion. Indeed, the foregoing alterations in calibre are often as- sociated with changes of texture. Thus, in persons who have died from slow starvation, the intestines become extremely thin, soft, and transparent. A similar change sometimes accompanies that atrophy of the tube, which is produced by tubercular perito- nitis or by diarrhoea, and is attended by an anaemic pallor of the canal. The dilatation caused by obesity is usually associated with an increased thickness of the intestinal pa- rietes; a condition which has been compared to hypertrophy. Here, however, a careful examination will easily show that the real nutrition of the tube has by no means under- gone an increase commensurate with that of its bulk. The bowel is indeed enlarged : but its muscular coat is softer, paler, and weaker; and its whole appearances are those of a thickening, which is chiefly due to an increased effusion of fluids interstitial to the normal solid structures. Situation. — Changes in the situation of various parts of the canal are by no means uncommon. We have already alhuled to the great freedom of movement which is natural to the small intestine *; and have specified the various regions of the abdomen which distention of the stomach -)- or large intes- tine J may cause these segments respectively to occupy. We have also briefly mentioned the more frequent congenital displacements. We have therefore only to enumerate those displacements which are independent of the above causes. The abnormal positions of the different parts of the intestinal canal are naturally divi- sible into the extra-abdominal, and the intra- abdominal; in other words, into those in which they are placed externally to the abdo- minal cavity; and those in which their change ra situation is within the belly, and thus al- lows them still to be bounded by its walls. The first of these classes includes the various kinds of hernia: in which an unna- tural deficiency or weakness of some part of the abdominal parietes allows a portion of the canal to be protruded through them; forming a displacement which, according to the situation of the protrusion through the wall of tlie belly, is called inguinal, femoral, abdominal, umbilical, or diaphragmatic hernia. Amongst the second class of displacements, or those which are included within the pa- rietes of the belly, we may first mention some, which are attended with few, if any, S3mp- tonis during life; and are, at least in many instances, a mere adaptation of the canal to external pressure. Thus the habit of tight-lacing sometimes gives the stomach an hour-glass shape, some- times thrusts down its projecting cardiac pouch, towards the left hypogastric region and the pelvis. In like manner, the bulk of the organ may be forced aside into various un- usual situations by the pressure of any tu- mour in its neighbourhood. Thus, during the latter stages of pregnancy, the uterus so flu- encroaches upon the stomach, that the latter impedes the descent of the diaphragm, and * See p. 3-10. f See p. 309. % See p. 3C2. ct seq.