456 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. by the S3 mpathetic in the ch'ciimstance that the normal imnressions which are made upon them do not reach the sensorium. Thus, tlie greater part of tiie mucous membrane which Hnes the bronchial tubes, as well as that of the oesophagus, receives its nerves from the eighth pair; the lacrymal glands receive fila- ments from the fifth nei've ; and from the fiftii and seventh nerves fibres are distributed to the salivary glands : and yet all these organs present the same relations in regard to sensi- bility as the pancreas or other glands which derive their nerves from the sympathetic. The fact of certain parts being beyond the control of the will, and from which the or- dinary impressions they receive are not con- veyed to the sensorium, does not so much de|)end on any peculiarity in the nerves with which they are supplied, as upon their ana- tomical constitution. Such is the case, for example, with the muscular fibres presenting the same characters as those which are found in the walls of the ducts of the various glands, as well as with those which are present in the coats of the blood and lymphatic vessels. That the impossibility of influencing these structures by any effort of volition, as well as the fact of their being removed from the sphere of sen- sation, do not depend on any peculiarity in the properties of their nerves, is shown, Valen- tin says, by the fact that the greater part of the nerves for the salivary glands are derived, as al)ove stated, from the fifth and seventh cerebral nerves. The same thing also holds true, according to him, of the mammary glands, the nerves supplied to which proceed chiefly from the supra-clavicular and inter- costal .nerves. As regards the argument which is drawn in favour of the views of Bichat, from anencephalous foetuses, Valentin re- marks that there is no evidence to show that in the development of the various organs in the fustns nervous influence is; at all concerned ; and, moreover, that the phenomena of growth and nutrition are not dependent on the sym- pathetic is shown by the circumstance of few or no sympathetic fibres being sent to the extre- mities, Tlie sympathetic is moreover capable of transmitting stimuli to and from the cerebro- spinal centres, in the same manner as the ordi- nary nerves arising from these, though in a less degree; stimulus applied to the spinal cord being capable of exciting contractions in the heart and intestinal canal, while on the other hand stimuli applied to the latter may also be trans- mitted to the former. This is shown by the severe pain which is felt in organs supplied by the sympathetic, when affected with disease, as well as by the circumstance that irritations of the intestinal canal not unfrequently give rise to contractions in the muscles of animal life : as is not unfrequently the case with children, when the presence of worms in the intestinal canal gives rise to impressions which are convened along the centripetal nerves to the spinal cord, anil are there trans- ferred to tlie motor nerves which pass to the voluntary muscles, exciting them to contrac- tions. As already stated, Valentin believes that all the true nerve-fibres which are pre- sent in the sympathetic, are derived from the brain and spinal cord ; on entering the sym- pathetic they pass through a greater or smaller number of its ganglia, and are then distributed to the different organs, in the same way as the ordinary cerebro-spinal nerves. The S3 nipathetic is therefore, according to him, a cerebro-spinal nerve, possessed of the same properties, and deriving these from the same source as the other cerebro-spinal nerves ; the only peculiarities in the sympathetic being its numerous points of origin, as well as the large number of ganglia which it presents. Similar views are also held by Longet*, and others. After the discovery of the gelatinous fibres in the sympathetic, it was held by some, that while motion and sensibility in the organs sup- plied by this nerve depended u[)on the tubu- lar nerve fibres sent to them through the medium of tne branches of the sympathetic by the brain and spinal cord, the processes of nutrition depend upon the gelatinous or pro- per sympathetic fibres. Moreover, as tliese fibres are found in the cerebro-spinal nerves also, it is supposed that they pass to the ex- tremities along with the cerebro-spinal nerves, where they in like manner preside over the nutrition of these parts. According to these authors, the ganglia are so many centres, from which nerve fibres, possessing peculiar pro- perties, pass off in different directions ; some to the viscera, others to the extremities, along with the cerebro spinal nerves, and by means of which the nutritive jjrocesses are regulated. Thus, while the internal viscera receive sen- sory and motor nerve fibres from the brain and spinal cord, they, as well as the organs of animal life, receive the nerve fibres which regulate the nutritive processes from the sym- pathetic. Such seems to be the view of Remakf, R. Hall if, and others. Volkmann^ adopts the same view as was held by Bichat, regarding the sympathetic as constituting a system of nerves distinct from and independent of the cerebro-s|)inal system. Under the term sympathetic, he includes not only the sympathetic, commonly so called, but also the ganglia which occur on the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves, as well as those which are present on several of the cerebral nerves. All the finer nerve fibres are regarded by him as sympathetic fibres. These originate in the different ganglia ; some of them pass inwards to the viscera, over whose movements and nutrition they preside, while others pass along with the cerebro- spinal nerves to the extremities, and serve as the nerves of nutrition to these parts. Each of the ganglia he regards as a nervous centre. * Anatomie et Physiologie de Systfeme Nerveux, tome ii. p. 5C9. et seq. f Observat. Anat. et Microscop. de Systemat. Nerv. Striictura, Berlin, 1838. X Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, July, 1846, &c. ยง Waguer's Handworterbuch der Physiologie Zehnte Lieferuiig, p. 499.