[114] OVUM. Carj'se, and of his views as to the nature of this process of non-sexual reproduction in general. The viviparous Aphides, according to Dr. Burnett, are neither male nor female, and do not possess, as has been supposed, any ovaries or oviducts. The new colony already begins to be visible within the body of its parent before the latter has itself been brought forth. The substance in which the new progeny takes its origin consists, at first, either of a single nucleated cell of a-oVo" diameter, or of a small mass of these cells at- tached in the same place as that occupied by the ovary in the oviparous females. These masses increase in quantity, are subdivided by a kind of notching into more numerous masses ; and each of these being inclosed in a capsule, the whole come to be arranged in a continuous row or series. There is not, however, any germinal vesicle nor segmenta- tion, as in the sexual ova ; and when develop- ment of the new insects is complete, it is by falling into the abdominal cavity, and by es- caping through a genital aperture (porus genitalis) that the offspring is excluded. With regard to the origin of the cellular mass or germ from which the non-sexual progeny proceeds, Dr. Burnett states that a small mass, of a different appearance from the germinal part of the ovum, is seen to be in- cluded within the arches of the embryo ; and the next colony is produced from this mass. He regards this process as analogous rather to one of internal gemmation than of true generation, coinciding therefore more nearly with the views of Leuckart and Carpenter than of Steenslrup and Owen. Arachnida. — The ova of nearly all the higher Ai-achnida do not differ much in their internal structure from those of Insects; but they do not present the same varieties of ex- ternal form. Their mode of first origin is also very different. All the higher Arachnida are, like Insects, of separate sexes. The Tar- digiada are hermaphroilite; and in these as well as some other simpler Arachnida, as Pycnogonida and Acari, the ovum, though proportionally of laige size, is of extremely simple structure, approaching very nearly to that of the lowest classes of Invertebrate animals. The ova of the higher Arachnida are gene- rally spheroidal ; the choi'ion or external membrane is genej-ally smooth ; the vitelline membrane is slender, clear, and structure- less ; the yolk-substance is not unfrequently coloured, often purplish, consisting of a consi- derable quantity of large oily-looking globules, smaller granules of various sizes, and larger corpuscles which have been looked upon as cells, but which Leuckart states are only ag- gregated masses of granules held together by a viscid substance. The germinal vesicle is proportionally large, placed eccentrically, and possesses a macula, which in some genera is simple and flattened, as in the Scorpion, in others multi|)le and granular, as in Epeira. The formation of the ova may be observed in Arachnida with great ease, from the manner in which they are disposed in the ovary, pro- jecting like bunches of grapes from the central part of that organ, in almost every stage or degree of advancement. The process has been carefully observed by Wittich * and others. So soon almost as the ovum begins to be formed, it causes a bulging or projec- tion of the membrane from the surface of the ovary ; and when that has somewhat increased in size, the ova hang or project from the sur- face in small pediculated ovi-capsules. Ac- cording to Wittich, V. Carus f, and Leuckart, the part of the ovum which earliest makes its appearance within the small ovicapsules is the germinal vesicle. At first it appears quite sim- pleand without a macula, which last soon after- Fig. 80*. Ovarian ova of the Spider. ( From Wittich.') a. Small fragment of the ovary of Epeira diadema from which three ova project in the early stage of their development previous to the formation of the yolli: the germinal vesicles are enclosed in the membrane formed by the bulging out of the ovarian substance. h. Two ova similarly situated, but more advanced; the primitive granular yolk substance intervening between the germinal vesicle and vitelhne mem- brane. c. An ovum still more developed; the germinal vesicle occupies the upper part; in the finely gran- ular yolk substance below is seen the dark body regarded by some as a yolk nucleus, presenting an appearance of concentric lamellar stmcture; towards e. in the figure, or close to the connecting pedicle, the large nucleated cells are seen, which usually occupy that situation, and appear to give rise to the cellular yolk substance. d. More advanced ovum greatly increased in bulk, the pedicle diminished, and the yolk com- pletely occupied by the larger cells or corpuscles; the yolk nucleus has disappeared or is obscured. e. §• /. Different forms of the yolk nucleus or dark body, which for a variable time is placed within the ovum during its formation. * Die Entstehung des Arachnideneies im Eier- stock, &c., Muller's Archiv. for 1849, p. 113. f Zcitsch. fur VVissen. Zool., vol. ii., 1850, p. 97.