61a RUMINANTIA. LL 2 apophyses are very short. In Moschus the post-orbitar apophysis is of considerable size— that of the zygoma somewhat narrower (Jig. 330.). In Antelopicte and Cervidae generally, the malars are slender, and have short zygo- matic apophyses: this latter feature is espe- cially noticeable in the Giraffe. They are broad and of great thickness in Q2goscerid£e (^g. 333.), in which family and in Bovidae they are much prolonged upon the cheek, in the latter being a little bifurcate anteriorly at the maxillary line of suture {fig. 327.). The palatines (6) are largely developed. In Camelidae, where the roof of the mouth is very long, the palatal laminas have a great longitudinal diameter ; in the Llamas the transverse suture extends to a level with the anterior border of the first true molar; the central palatal cleft, which is angular, reaches the front margin of the middle or second true molar, while the lateral notches proceed as far only as the anterior border of the last molar. In Cervidae the palatals occupy a large square space at the inner and lower part of the orbit, but this is not the case in the Giraffe, where this part of the bone is rather smaller and lies partly concealed by the shelf-like process of the lachrymal and the molar prominence of the maxillary bone. The lateral fissures at the guttural margin of the palate are very wide in this family and extend deeper into the roof of the mouth than does the mesial cleft. These three clefts are placed in the Giraffe nearly on the same level, the central fissure having a semi- circular outluie. In the Muntjack deer the two lateral notches are much in advance of the mesial cleft. The guttural portion of the combined palatines in Qigosceridae is of great breadth, and the fissures, which are not very deeply notched, are all very nearly on the same level {ri, Jig. 336.) : the orbitar or Fig. 336. Base of the cranium of the Sheep. (From Loud. Coll. Surg. Museum.) ascending plates are large and square, but deficient at the upper part, where there intervenes a space or hole analogous to the spheno-palatine foramen. This opening is particularly capacious in the Sheep. In Bo- vidae the palatines occupy about a fourth part of the oral roof: the ascending or suborbitar portions, which are of enormous bulk, are almost entirely hid by the lateral overlapping of the posterior border and supra-molar prominences of the upper jaw ; the palatal notches are very deep, especially the two lateral, which are remarkably broad and somewhat in advance of the mesial. The vomer and ossa spongiosa sen turbinata, in consonance with the general extension of the facial bones in ruminants, are chiefly particularised for their longitudinal develop- ment. In the orbits the wings of the vomer are represented by very small laminae, which appear at the upper border of the opening corresponding to the spheno-palatine fora- men. In certain of the Stags the azygos portion descends between the pterygoid apophyses of the sphenoid to a level with the palate, dividing the mesial fissure in two and contributing to form in this region a backward expansion of the oral roof The spongy bones will be referred to when de- scribing the organ of smell. The inferior maxilla or jaw-bone proper is of great length ; in which respect it follows the course of the bones of the upper jaw. Between the canine and first premolar of either side there is in the typical ruminant, an extended interval, at which part the body is constricted ; and immediately in front of the mental foramen (r, Jig. 337.) it again ex- Fig. 337. Jaw-hone of the Sheep. (From Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) pands toward the alveolar margin to give support to the teeth. The angle of the jaw is prominent and rounded posteriorly; in this situation also it is comparatively thin and broad, as in Solipeda. The coronoid pro- cesses of the rami (g. Jig. 337.) are particu- larly long curved backward, and a little hooked at the summit. The glenoid apo- physis is short, and the facet flat and slightly concave, to admit of free lateral motion on the wide convex articular surface of the temporal zygoma. The sigmoid notch is