326 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. omentum ; until, arriving nearlj' at tlie upper extremity of this cavity, it turns forwards in a slight projection or fold of the serous mem- brane. In this fold, it has a very brief and somewhat arched course, which brings it to the left end of the smaller curvature of the stomach. Here it passes between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. From hence it continues, in a very tortuous course, along this curvature ; lying close to the stomach, and diminishing in size by giving off frequent branches; until, towards the right or pyloric extremity of the organ, it is lost by anastomosing with the branches of the hepatic artery. Its larger or named branches are the ceso- phagcal and the gastric. The first are given off from the highest point of the vessel, or where it enters the gastro-splenic omentum. They run upwards to the oesophagus, and take a longitudinal course ; so as to pass, with this tube, through the opening in the diaphragm. And they anastomose with the thoracic vessels distributed to this tube from the aorta. The gastric ramifications {h,fg. 250.) run down- wards from the coronary artery on both surfaces of the stomach. They inosculate, on the left, with small branches from the splenic artery ; towards the midille of the organ, with the gastro-epiploic branches ; and at the pjlorus, with the superior pyloric artery. Thearteria hepntica (c, figs. 250,25l.),which is the next largest branch of the coeliac axis, passes for a short distance outwards, and slightly forwards, from the axis or common trunk, to reach the commencement of the duodenum. It now runs almost vertically upwards between the two layers of peritoneum that form the gastro- hepatic omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow (though still with a slight incli- nation towards the right side), to end l)y being distributed in the liver. In this course, it gives off'two branches, — the gastro-duodenal and the pyloric — both of which take an important share in supplying the stomach vf\t.\\ arterial blood. Fig. 251. Arteries of the stomach. The cceliac axis, as seen bt/ raising the stojiiach, so as to expose the arterial branches behind it. a, arteria coronaria ventriculi; c, arteria l)epatica ; rf, arteria gastro-duodeiialis; e, arteria gastro-epi- Ploica dextra; f, arteria pancreatico-duodenalis ; cj, arteria pylorica; h, arteria splenica; /, arteria gastro- e jiploica sinistra. The gnstro-diwdowlis {(!, Jigs.250,251.) is the first and largest artery of these two. It leaves the hepatic vessel behind tlie duodenum, passing vertically downwards across the intestine to the lower border of its first portion. In this course, it gives off' a few small branches to the neighbouring parts of the stomach and in- testine ; some of which twigs have been dis- tinguished as the inferior pi/loric arteries. And at the inferior margin of the bowel, the gastro-duodenal artery bifurcates into two : — a large gastro-ejjiploic, and a small jiancrea- tico-dnodenal branch. Thegastro-cpip/oica de.vfra (e,^g5.250,251.), the large vessel which continues the gastro- duodena/is, is so named from its situation be- tween those layers of the great omentum which descend from the stomach to form the " epi- ploon " or apron-like fold that covers the greater part of the intestinal canal. Beginning at the lower border of the duodenum, the artery runs from right to left, along the lower margin or great curvature of the stomach, and at a little distance from it, with what is usually a wavy or tortuous direction. In this course, it gives off' branches which pass upwards on both surfaces of the organ ; as well as others of less importance, both upwards and down- wards, to the fiitty and serous tissues of the omentum itself. And rather be\ond the middle of the stomach, or towards its cardiac pouch, it ends by uniting with a corre- sponding branch, of smaller size, from the splenic artery. The pajia-cotico-duodenalis branch (f. Jig. 251.) has precisely the situation and distri- bution which its name would imply. It runs between the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, lying in the concavity formed by the horse-shoe curve of the canal, or around the convexity by which the gland fits into this hollow. It gives off'ramifications to both these structures, and ends by anastomosing with a branch, which comes upwards from the su- perior mesenteric artery and also occupies the same interval between the pancreas and the lower portion of the duodenum. The arteria pylorica (g, Jigs. 250, 251.), which is sometimes distinguished by the title of the pylorica superior from the smaller branches of the gastro-duodenal above allu- ded to, is generally given oft' from the trunk of the hepatic artery opposite to the upper border of the duodenum. More rarely it is derived from the commencement of its gastro- duodenal branch. In either case, it enters between the la3 ers of the gastro-hepatic omen- tum, and runs in this fold, from right to left, along the upper margin or lesser curvature of the stomach, to join the coronary artery from the cardiac extremity of the organ. It gives oft' numerous branches to both surfaces of the organ. The arteria splenica (h. Jigs, 250, 251.), or second branch of the coeliac axis, has no direct.connection with the alimentary canal, until near its division into the terminal trunks by which it enters the spleen. Here it gives off a left gastro-cjiiploic arterj' ; and