588 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. from the yet visible riuliment of an umbilical cord. That embryo, however, is not now to be seen." The female from whom this was taken was unmarried, but acknowletigeJ her- self to be pregnant. The uterus was larger than in the unimpreguated state. The Fallo- pian tulje was not in the least involved in the enlargement. The finibri;e were free. A case which, in the opinion of Dr. Camp- bell*, "in so (ar as anatomical accuracy is concerned, ought to satisfy those who are still sceptical regarding the reality of ovarian gestation," is recortled in the Transactions of the College of Physicians.f From the descrip- tion and drawing which accompanies it the following chief particulars are learned. The uterus, from a woman aged 30 who had com- mitted suicide, was larger than the ungravid organ ; its body somewhat globular ; its sub- stance, except the cervix, spongy. A decidua nearly thick, soft, pulpy, and of yellowish- white appearance, lined the interior of the uterine body. The cervix was filled with gelatinous matter, but not sealed up. The vessels of the broad ligament and appenilages were remarkably distended ; on the posterior part of the left ovary, which was consiilerably larger than the right, was a round prominence distinct from the general fulness. The tunics of the ovary at this point were numerously furnished with tortuous blood-vessels; and from careful exammation it was clear that there had not been any aperture in the exter- nal membrane; its surface was perfectly smooth. On dividing the membrane which covered this prominence, a distinct cyst was exposed, which contained an ovum. The in- ternal surface of this cyst was smooth and polished, its external firmly adherent to the substance of the ovary. The ovum was sim- ply in contact with the cyst in two-thirds of its circumference ; in the remaining third it was united to it so closely as to be inseparable. The chorion and amnion were perfectly dis- tinct, and by the aid of a magnifying glass, vessels filled with blood were seen ramifying on the former. A yellowish honey-like mat- ter filled the amnion, but the embryo could not be distinguished. Around the ovum for some distance the ovary was loaded with blood effused into its substance. Except for the statement regarding the de- cidua there is nothing in this account which would be considered significant of pregnancy at the present time when a more |)eifect knowledge has been obtained of the various conditions of the ovary in health and disease. Changing the names employed to designate the cysts, this description would apply either to a follicle preparing to burst J, or to an in- cipient stage of cyst formation. To the lat- ter it approximates more nearly. The smooth and polished inner surface of the containing c\st ; the union, ".so close as to he insepa- rable," of the cyst termed the ovum by a third * Memoir on Extra-Uterine Gestation, p. 33. t Vol. vi. p. 414. 1820. j See atite, p. 557. of its base to the larger one ; the presence of a honey-like matter filling this inner cyst, which is represented in the engraving as not larger than a pea, and the vessels ramifying on the cyst wall, are all conditions commonly ob- served in early stages of the morbid follicle. On the other hand, the following are among the conditions which oppose the conclusion, that the ovary was in this case the seat of im- pregnation, viz., the absence of all trace of an embryo ; the so-calletl chorion, entirely want- ing villi, which, in all known cases of the early ovum, more or less cover its surface ; the firm adhesion by a third of its circumference, at a time when the ovum naturally lies free and unat- tached even by any part of its little flocculent villous coat ; the impossibility of accounting for chorion-vessels, without an embryo to form them, and still more of explaining how the seminal fluid could reach the ovum through a membrane which is described as " perfectly smooth," and in which, " from careful exami- nation, it was perfectly clear that there had not been any aperture; " the absence of all mention or representation of any of those conditions of the walls of the ripe follicles which in an earlier part of this article have been shown to be always present in the fol- licle preparing for or soon after rupture, and which must have been present in some degree if this had been a Graafian vesicle containing an impregnated ovum. These together con- stitute insuperable objections to this case being received as one decisive of impregnation in the ovary, and justify its being regarded rather as an example of cystic formation, which, ac- cording to the engraved representation of the parts, it very accurately resembles ; notwith- standing that the description of the uterus and decidua woulil give a strong bias and in- deed wish to receive this as a case in which impregnation had obtained, if the state of the parts found in the ovary had corresponded with what is now known to be characteristic of the structures formed in the earliest stages of pregnancy.* * I am enabled to add in a note the following particulars relating to two of the four cases quoted above as examples of supposed ovarian gestation, and of which it may be remarked that neither are of recent date, the one having occurred tliirty-eight years ago, and the other at least as early —at a time, therefore, when ovarian gestation had not been questioned, and the ovarian ovum in man liad not yet been discovered. The preparation, de - scribed and figured by Dr. Granville as belonging to the late Sir 0. M. Clarke, is now in the possession of Mr. Stone, by whose kindness a more particular examination of it has been permitted. For this pui'iiose, the preparation was recently placed in the liands of Professor Owen, by whom it was removed from the bottle, and minutely examined under spirit. At this investigation, I was also present, together witli Mr. Stone and Dr. John Clarke, and I had the oiiportunity of making repeated microscopic exami- nations of every portion of the ovarian structures. The result of the investigation showed that the structure supposed to be an impregnated ovum con- tained in the ovary, although it had such a general appearance as might without this examination have borne the interpretation which had been originally put upon it, was nothing else than an ordinary ova-