STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 329 Physical Properties.—Pure gastric juice is a structureless, limpid, and transparent fluid, of a pale straw colour. Its taste is slightly saline, and distinctly acid. And it has a pe- culiar faint odour, which is probably charac- (De Prima Coctione, Geneva, 1692), Brugnatelli (Crell's Annilen, 1787), and John Hunter (Animal (Econoni}-, 2nd ed. p. 205. 1792) —had found that the stomach contained an acid. Macquart (Me'moires de la Soc. Roy. de Me'deeine, 1786) stated this acid to be phosphoric in the paunch of Ruminants. Treviranus extracted the proventriculus of Birds ■with water: he thus, amongst other results, was able to confirm Hunter's conjecture, and regard it as lactic acid (Biologic, vol. iv. p. 358. 1814). Chevreul (Magendie's Physiologic, 1st & 2nd ed. 1825, vol. ii. pp. 11, 12.) analyzed a fluid obtained by volun- tary vomiting. He not only contirmed the presence of lactic acid, but announced the presence of the muriates of ammonia, potash, and soda; together with an animal substance soluble in water, but not in alcohol. In 1824, Prout led the way to a better knowledge of this fluid by an analysis of the contents of the sto- mach in Rabbits during digestion, in which he found hydrochloric acid and chlorides (Philosophical Trans- actions, 1824, pt. i. p. 45.). Dr. Children contirmed this statement from the gastric fluid of a dyspeptic patient (Annals of Philosophy, 1824, vol. viii. p. 68.). Leuret and Lassaigne, however, using this latter method, confirmed Chevreul as to the presence of lactic acid (Recherches physiologiques et chemiques pour servir h. I'Histoire de la Digestion. Parig, 1825.) Tiedemann and Gmelin excited the secretion of gastric juice by introducing stones into the stomachs of animals, and found hydrochloric acid on examin- ing the contents of the stomach after death (Die Verdauung nach Versuchen. Leipzig, 1831). In 1833-4, Beaumont's unique case afforded specimens for three analyses; by Dunglison, Silliman (Beau- mont, Op. cit. pp. G9. et seq.), and Berzelius (An- nuaire des Sciences chemiques, p. 282.). They all essentially corroborated Prout (Annates de Chemie, t. lix. p. 348.) ; as did Braconnot in 1835, with gastric juice from the sponged stomach of animals. VVas- mann, in 1839, made some excellent experiments on artificial digestion with an infusion of pig's stomach ; but added little or nothing to our knowledge of the gastric acid (NonnuUa de Digestione. Berolini, 1839). Huenefeld, adopting Prout's method, obtained lactic acid (Chemismus in der Thierischen Organi- zation. Leipzig, 1840) ; a result in which, as well as in the cause of Prout's and Dunglison's view, Leh- mann either preceded or contirmed him (Physiolo- gische Chemie, 1840. Bd. i. p. 284.). Enderlin, however, who examined the digesting stomach of a beheaded criminal, and repeated Dunglison's process, reasserted its results (Liebig's Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, 1843. Bd. xlvi., p. 122.) In this year, Blondlot imitated Beaumont's case, by instituting fistula; in the stomachs of dogs; and announced biphosphate of lime as the acid principle (Traite Analytique de la Digestion. Paris, 1843). Lassaigne (Journal de Chemie, 1844, pp. 73. 183.) ; and Bernard and Barrcswil (Comptes Rendus, 1844, t xix. p.l286.) made use of the same method ; but denied the accuracy of Blondlot's chemical results in detail, and affirmed the presence of lactic acid. Pelouze corroborated some of their statements (Comptes Rendus, t. xix. p. 1227.); as subsequently did Thomson also (Philo - sophical Magazine, 1845, p. 419.). Schmidt next asserted that the active principle of the gastric juice was hydrochloric acid, modified by combination with the digestive principle but did not detail the analyses on which this view was based (Annalen der Chemie u. Pharmacie, 1847, Bd. Ixi. p. 311.). Lehmann, in 1849, corroborated the lactic acid view, by examinations of gastric juice from tistuloe (Be- richte der Gesell. der VViss. zu Leipzig. Bd. i. teristic for each of the difTcrent* species of animals, like the smell of the blood from whence it is no doubt derived. Where, as is often the case, the gastric juice is mixed with saliva, mucus, or relics of the food, its appearances will of course differ from those above described. The froth of the saliva sometimes distinguishes this admixture. The mucus thus added is ropy or viscid, and ge- nerally presents scaly epithelium, which, toge- ther with its neutral or alkaline character, betray its origin from the mouth or oesophagus. Both it and the fragments of food are frequently deposited from the gastric juice, as a dirty flocculent sediment. And they may always be removed from it by careful filtration ; when the fluid loses its greyish, brownish, or turbid character. The specific gravity of the gastric juice was observed by Silliman to be about lOOo'O. But from the condition of thespecinien heexamined, and the mode of weighing")" he adopted, very little reliance can be placed on this state- ment. Lassaigne \ also made direct obser- vations with the same view, and found that the irritated empty stomach poured forth a fluid of sp. gr. 1001'O ; while that secreted on the contact of flesh was lOO.^'O, and with bread 1010 0. But it must obviously be very difficult directly to determine the specific gravity of such a fluid, in the small quantities in which it is generally obtained. The per-centage of solid contents is more easily estimated.— Tiedemann and Gmelin rated it at 1"95 in the gastric juice of a dog who had been made to swallow small pieces of limestone; and at 1"6 in that of a horse. Berzelius gives it at 1"27 in the specimen sent him by Beaumont; Lassaigne at P32, and Blondlot at I'O, from the gastric fistulte of dogs; Frerichs (appa- pp. 100. et seq.; and Op. cit. Bd. i. s. 97.). And Frerichs about this time came to the same conclu- sion (Wagner's Handwoerterbuch der Physiologic, vol. iii. p. 815.) from similar experiments. But this comparative unanimity in fiivour of lactic acid was not destined to last long. In 1851, Huebbenet for the first time found a simple method of preventing that admixture of saliva which had hitherto rendered the gastric juice obtained in such experiments with fistula; an impure secretion. This he did by obliterating the ducts of the larger salivary glands. And the researches which Bidder and Schmidt instituted upon the gastric juice thus pro- cured seem at length to have established, that it is the hydrociiloric which constitutes the proper acid of the gastric juice. [In preparing the greater part of this essay for the press, the author found it impossible to procure a copy of Bidder and Schmidt's valuable Essay; and was hence only acquainted with such portions of it as are mentioned in Lehmann's (Physiologische Chemie, vol. iii.) recent work; in the reports given of Huebbenet's Dissertation by Scherer and Valen- tin, in Canstatt's Jahresbericht (1852, Bd. i.) ; and by Funke in Schmidt's Jahrbuecher (1851, p. 275.).] At any rate the author's observations tend to show that this is the case in Man and many animals. Human gastric juice is stated by Dun- glison (Physiology, vol. i. p. 503.) to smell of hydrochloric acid. And Beaumont (p. 76.) asserts, that it tastes like this acid in a state of dilution. f Beaumont, Op. cit. p. 72. j Loc. cit. pp. 183. et seq.