441 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. so that he believes each of them is connected with one of these bodies. Invertehrata. — The ganglionic corpuscles in the ganglia of the invertehrata appear to be the same in their essential characters as those of the vertebrate animals. Will* re- cognises two kinds of ganglion-corpuscles in the lower animals. The one he describes as consisting of a membrane and nucleus, the space between the two being occupied by a clear transparent fluid, which becomes granular on the addition of water ; in the other variety there are imbedded in the clear transparent fluid numerous small round cells in which no nucleus is visible. The cells belonging to the former variety have always but one process attached to them which consists of a single tube, presenting no division so far as it can be traced, and thus corresponding to the uni- polar variety of corpuscle. In the second kind of corpuscles there are several such pro- cesses present ; the processes attached to some of these cells all run in one direction ; in others they pass off at either extremity and run in opposite directions. In the leech, according to Bruchf, there are also two kinds of ganglion corpuscles. The one variety are round and are apolar ; the others are con- nected with nerve-fibres. The latter are situ- ated towards the lower part of the ganglia, and are more numerous than the former: they are more or less pyriform, their wider ex- tremity being directed outwards; their nar- rower, terminating in a process, is directed towards the ganglia and the nervous cord. Peripherical ganglia, consisting of from one to six or seven cells, are always found at the points where the branches of the nerves di- vide. Ganglionic corpuscles were also seen by him in the interior of the nerve-tubes, and corresponding to the view taken by Bidder J of the constitution of the bipolar ganglionic corpuscle. Apolar and unipolar cells have also been described by Hannover and Leydig in several other invertebrate animals. From the fact that in such animals as the torpedo and ray, where the ganglionic cor- puscles are easily isolated from each other, they are all found to belong to the bipolar variety, Wagner, Robin, and Bidder believe that all the ganglionic corpuscles in other animals are also bipolar. Kiilliker, on the other hand, while he admits that the bipolar cell is most frequent in the fish, maintains that the opposite is the case as regards the higher animals, most of the corpuscles in them belonging either to the apolar or uni- polar varieties; and so far as actual observa- tion goes, the views of Kolliker seem to be perfectly correct, inasmuch as, while apolar and unipolar cells are very frequently seen in these animals, the bipolar variety has been seen very seldom. It is possible, however, that many of these unipolar and apolar cells may, as Wagner and Bidder, &c. hold, be really bipolar cells, one or both nerve-tubes * Mtiller's Archiv. 1844, p. 76. also in Canslatt's Jahresbericlit, 1847. t Ibid. X Ibid. having been broken off during the manipula- tion required for submitting them to examina- tion. In the spinal ganglia of the ray the cells are very easily isolated from each other, whereas in the abdominal ganglia it is very difficult, owing to the amount of surround- ing fibrous structure, to isolate them. Now in the former only bipolar cells are seen, whereas in the latter, most of the cells, when isolated, appear to be unipolar and a])olar, although it would appear from the observa- tions of Wagner and others, that they are all bipolar, like those in the spinal ganglia. In the higher animals, especially in the mam- malia, the ganglionic corpuscles are isolated from one another with as much difficulty as those in the abdominal ganglia of the skate ; and hence the probability that many at least of the unipolar and apolar cells which are seen in them, belong to the bipolar variety in I'eality. On the other hand that apolar and unipolar ganglion-corpuscles really exist, and that too in considerable numbers, in the gan- glia of the higher animals, and also in those of the invertehrata, seems to be shown by numerous observations on the smaller gan- glia, where no preparation is required, and where, consequently, the above source of fallacy cannot intervene. In the sympathetic cord of the frog, according to Valentin *, groups of ganglionic vesicles may be observed, without a single nerve-fibre connected with them: Ludwig-j- has also observed in the au- ricle of the frog's heart small ganglia in which there were eleven ganglionic coi puscles, and only four or five nerve-tubes ; in a nerve passing to the bladder of the frog, and con- sisting of only two nerve-fibres, Valentin counted as many as seven ganglionic cor- puscles, \ while another, consisting also of only one or two nerve-fibres, was surrounded by twenty-four ganglionic corpuscles. In accordance with the view adopted by Wagner, that all the ganglionic corpuscles are bipolar, the nerve-tube connected with either extremity of the cell running in opposite directions, one towards the centre, the other peripherically, Robin believes that all nerve- tubes arise exclusively from the brain and spinal cord ; neither the spinal ganglia nor those of the sympathetic give origin to nerve- tubes; the ganglion-cells are merely organs developed upon the nerve-tubes, between their central and peripherical termination, and several such may be present on a single nerve- fibre during its course. From what has been already stated, however, it seems probable that unipolar as well as bipolar cells exist in the ganglia, and consequently that nerve- tubes do originate in them. That nerve-fibres arise in the ganglia, is further shown by the accurate measurements of Volkmann and Bidder of the nerves passing to and those leaving the ganglia. The ciliary, Gasserian, and spinal ganglia in the frog were found by them to give off a far greater number of fine nerve- * Lebrbuch der Physiologie; Braunscliwcifc, 1848 ; band ii. p. 602. t Muller's Archiv. 1848, p. 142.