426 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Krause describes branches as passing across the bodies of th-e vertebra, forming a com- munication between the ganglia of opposite sides. IV. Sacral portion of the Gangliated Cord. — The sacral portion of the sympathetic cord is situated towards the inner side of the sacral foramina. The ganglia are commonly four in number, are smaller than those in the lumbar region, and decrease in size from above downwards : the cords of opposite sides con- verge as they pass to the lower extremity of the sacrum, and unite together in front of the coccyx, there being frequently present at their point of union a small ganglion, from which one or two filaments of communica- tion pass to the fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves. The branches connected with the sacral ganglia are communicating brandies with the spinal nerves, commonly two in number for each. Several delicate filaments are also sent to the inferior hypogastric plexus. PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC. A. In the Head. — The chief plexuses of the sympathetic which exist in the head are the internal carotid plexus, cavernous, and external carotid. There are also present in dilferent parts of the head several ganglia: the principal of these are the ciliary ganglion, spheno-palatine, otic, and submaxillary. These ganglia have been already described in this work in the articles on the different nerves with whose branches they are connected. 1. Internal Carotid Plexus. — The internal carotid plexus is formed by the ascending branches of the superior cervical ganglion, and surrounds the internal carotid artery during its passage through the carotid canal. The as- cending branch of the superior cervical gan- glion, as was already stated, divides into two portions, one of which passes along the outer and anterior aspect of the artery, while the other lies on the inner and posterior aspect of the same vessel. The external portion is chiefly concerned in the formation of the carotid plexrs, the inner in forming the cavernous plexus, The carotid plexus is thus situated chiefly on the outer side of the artery between its second and third bends. The branches connected with the plexus are,— (a) Two or three filaments of communica- tion with the sixth pair of nerves; they join the nerve as it passes along the cavernous sinus. One of these, stronger than the others, was formerly regarded as one of the roots of the sympathetic nerve. One filament is said sometimes to run only a short distance with the sixth nerve, when it leaves it ami passes to the ciliary ganglion, or to the spheno-pala- tine. (i) Great or deep Petrosal Nerve. — This branch, commonly termed the deep branch of the Vidian nerve, may be regarded as passing from the fifth pair to the sympathetic, or i^ice versa. Regarding it as the latter, it may he described as passing out by the superior ori- fice of the carotid canal, traversing the car- tilaginous substance which occupies the an- terior lacerated foramen to reach the pterygoid canal, where it becomes associated with the cranial division of the Vidian, along with which it traverses the canal from behind I'or- wards, and terminates in the ganglion of Meckel. In the interior of the pterygoid canal, the two nerves are merely placed side by side with each other, and after leaving the canal are connected separately with the gan- glion. The greater or deep petrosal nerve was formerly regarded as the second of the two roots by which the sympathetic was sup- posed to begin. (c) From three to five delicate short branches pass through the outer w;ill of the cavernous sinus and join the Gasserian ganglion on its inner surface. One or two of these have been described as passing backwards to the ten- torium cerebelli, and have been traced by Arnold to the walls of the transverse sinus. The filaments to the Gasserian ganglion are sometimes supplied by the cavernous plexus. 2. Cavernous Plexus.— This name is applied to the plexus formed around the internal carotid artery as it lies in the cavernous sinus; it is situated rather towards the inner surface of the vessel, at the point where it makes its highest turn. The branches which leave the cavernous plexus are the following: — (a) Filaments ■which join the third nerve; they are two or three in number, and become united with the nerve before its entrance into the orbit. Hirzel regards the communication as rare, having found it only in ten bodies ; in some cases he found that the supposed nerve filaments con- sisted merely of cellular tissue. Bock, Longet, and others regard it as constant. (6) Branches of communication to the fourth nerve; they are either derived from the cavernous plexus or from the carotid, and join the nerve as it lies in the cavernous sinus, (c) Commimi- cating filaments with the ophthalmic ganglion, one or two in number, emerge from the an- terior part of the cavernous plexus, and enter the orbit on the inner side of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, either ending di- rectly in the posterior border of the ophthalniie ganglion, or joining the long root derived from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Occa- sionally one filament enters the posterior bor- der of the ganglion, the other along with the long root derived from the nasal branch. ((•/) One or two delicate filaments have been observed by Fontana, Hirzel, and Arnold to pass from the cavernous (ilexus to the pituitary body. As this body is said to receive filaments fi-om the sympathetic cords of either side, it has been supposed to hold the same rela- tion to these as the ganglion impar or coccy- geal ganglion at the opposite extremity of the trunk. Bock regards the filaments, however, which have been described as entering the pituitary body, as solely destined for its ves- sels, terminating in their coats. Weber states that he has examined with the greatest care