PELVIS. 173 usually contiibuteJ to by thcpubes andischia. two in number, flat and of an elongated tri- In Fishes, a su|)porting arch from the spinal angular shape, with the base directed pos- column fo the posterior limbs* is not wanted, teriorly, an<l supporting the ventral fins (see but rather a free and unimpeded motion for 7%. 111. c). In the Haddock, ihereis a single the caudal extremity, used in propelling the bone, presenting a central oval opening with body. the shorter diameter transverse. In the In the Angler there are two pelvic bones, Ci/priinis, Scomber, and Zeus, they present each consisting of a vertical portion, which, in backward spinous projections. In the llhonihus this instance, seems to represent the and and Loiicaria there is seen an ankylosis of a horizontal one, which meets in a symphysis the anterior caudal vertebras, forming a sort of with the one on the opposite side, and is the sacrum, and presenting the first indication of homologue of the pubis, the pectoral rays the formation of this bone in the animal being attached to the angle of union of the kingdom. two portions. In the Kays and Sharks, Subjoined is a table, showing the compara- where the pelvic extremities are better de- tive pelvic angles in Man anil the principal veloped than in other fishes, the pelvic bones genera of IVIammalia, Birds, and Reptiles. The consist of one piece, ()laced transversely, measurements were principally taken, with resembling that which supports the pectoral great care to insure correctness, from the fins, and suspended loosely, like it, by a specimens in the Hunterian Museum, through liijament to the spine. In the Sharks and the kindness of Professor Owen. The rela- Chimerce are found, articulated to it, by means tive size or total disappearance of the verte- of an intermediate cartilage, two club-shaped Iro-iUac, sacro-vcrtcbral, and the iUo-puhic bones, called clampers, which are used to em- and ilio-ischial angles in the difi'erent tribes, brace the female in the generative act. In will be here seen at one view. It may be the Torpedo, and also in the Ci/clobatcs oligo- observed that the two former may vary some- daclijlus, an extinct Ray, the pubic bone sends what through inaccuracies in articulating the forward two processes, somewhat resembling skeleton, or with the variations of the ver- marsupial bones. In the Sturgeon, the pelvic tebral curve, and that the results here given bones are almost entirely separated from each are to be taken in this particular, as approxi- other, and consist of small triangular pieces, mative only. But the ilio-pubie and ischial with their apices directed forwards, and sup- angles cannot, from the ossific union ol" the porting the cartilaginous fin rays. In the bones, be subject to such accidental variations. Cod-fish there are two sub-triangular bifur- The accompanying diagram is intended to cated bones, connected to each other by liga- show the absolute lines of direction or axes ment, and suspended from the coracokis, the of the pelvic bones antl spine seen in profile, rays of the ventral fins springing directly from with the angles above referred to, in the prin- them. In the Trout, the pelvic bones are also cipal pelvic types. Fig. 112. Lines of directum and. prnjilc an(/Ies of tJte pelvic hones. 1. Human type; fac, vertebro-iliac angle; facj, sacro-vertebral angle ; acd, ilio-ischial angle ; acb, ilio-pubic line, forming an angle in all other animals. 2. Orang type. 3. Monkey type, no ilio-isehial angle. 4. Edentata type, ilio-pubic angle reversed. 5. Carnivora tj'pe, ilio-ischial angle reversed. 6. Pachyderm tj pe. 7. Kviminant type. 8. Rodent type, no ilio-ischial angle. 9. Kangaroo type. 10. Bird type, no ilio-ischial angle. 11. Raptores type, ilio- ischial angle 7-e!ic)'sc'(/. 12. Chelonian type. 13. Saurian type, ilio-pubic angle reversed, and remarkably acute iliu-ischial angle.