RUMINANTIA. 542 by the inferior thyroideal only, the superior being distributed to the larynx. In the fore- . Imib, a vascular twig, corresponding to the interosseous artery, is present both in the Ruminants and Solipeda; it is very voluminous in the former, and but faintly marked in the latter. The common carotids are remarkable for their length in certain individuals ; the most interesting peculiarity, however, obtains in the presence of numerous anastomising branches given off by, and tortuously inter- communicating between the internal carotids. It is this plexus which has been long known under the name o( rcte mirahile, being situated within the cavernous sinus on either side of the sella turcica, and occasionally extending backwards to join the vertebral artery. Simi- lar appearances are found in Carnivora, and in Cetacea where they are are not confined to the region of the cranium ; many other ano- malies of the same kind occur in other fami- lies, the most striking being seen in the Sloth, where the brachials and femorals are split up, as it were, into numerous hair-like capillaries. The spermatic artery is exceedingly large in the Bull and twisted into a multitude of con- volutions. In regard to the venous system of ruminants we have only to remark that, ac- cording to Weigel, valves are developed in the jiortal vein.* Organs of respiration. — The structural modifications observable in this system de- part so slightly from the ordinary mammi- ferous type as scarcely to call for a separate notice. The organisation of the larj/n.i- is simple, its anterior ligaments and ventricles being absent ; in many species the thyroid cartilage is comparatively narrow. The tra- cheal rings are for the most part incomplete, and vary numerically in accordance with the length of the neck. According to Meckel there are fifty in Moschus ; sixty in the Stag; seventy in the Chamois, Ox, and Sheep; eighty in the Llama; and upwards of a hundred in the Dromedary. We have counted ninety- two in the Giraffe, where the length of the trachea is between four and five feet ; in this genus the epiglottis is short and thick, and the arytenoid cartilages are remarkably large and prominent, as in Ruminantia generally. Occasionally there are three primary bron- chial subdivisions ; when the trachea is simjily bifurcated, the right bronchus is paramount. Most ruminants have the lung of the right side separated into four lobes, and the left into two; in the Camel the right pulmonary organ is double, while the left is single, and exhibits no subdivision. The thymus gland is extensively developed in this order and pro- longed forward on either side of the trachea. Nervous system. — The hi-ain is elongated, and more or less oval-shaped ; it is narrowed anteriorly in the Sheep, and somewhat abrupt in this direction in Cervida; {fig. 3C3.). Con- Fig. 3G5. Brain oftlie Giraj sidered in reference to the bulk of the animal the brain is significantly small in this order, as in Pachydermata and Solipeda. Its weight in the Ox is only one-fourth of the human brain, although the body of the fornier is six * Weigel, de strato muse, timicse veiiarum me- dias, etc., p. 31. Leips. 1823. fe. (From Owen.) times larger than that of the latter"; virtnallj', therefore, the brain in Man is twenty-four times greater than in the Ox (Monro). The proportionate weight of the cerebrum as com- pared with thecerebellum and mcdullaohlongata, is likewise less considerable in ruminants ge- nerally than in the human subject. The cere- bral convolutions are numerous and tolerably