RUMINANTIA. 520 {Jig. 344.). The atlas in the Camels is not thus modified. In all other ruminants, in- cluding the Giraffe, an opening exists in this bone, which is placed at the fore part of the superior ring. The odontoid process of the axis or dentata is well marked and prominent in the short-necked ruminantia, but the Giraffe and Camels have it very small and incorporated with the articular end of the body ; in them, also, very slight traces of transverse " apophyses " are detectable. The dorsal vertebree are distinguished for the great length and development of their spinous processes. The latter have an ex- traordinary elevation in the Giraffe, for the attachment of the powerful legamentum nu- cha, which is broadest at this point {fg. 343.). The spinous " apophyses" are large in Fiff. 343. Skeleton of the Giraffe. (From Pander and D'Alton.) the BovidEE, and still more bulky in Camelida. The transverse processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae in the first-named family are extremely prominent, and have a straight lateral di- rection. In tiie swift-bounding Stags and Antelopes they are shorter, and a little curved forward. In Camelidse 'hey are largely de- veloped, slightly bent downward, and abrupt at their extremities, the last pair being com- paratively short and narrow. The sacrum consists of three, four, or five pieces consoli- dated together, to the anterior of which the ossa ilea are articulated. The spinous pro- cesses form a single continuous crest. The caudal vertebree vary in number, and, in the foregoing table, eighteen are assigned to this region in the Giraffe. Prof. Owen has counted as many as twenty in the Nubian variety. The Llamas, Stags, Goats, and certain of the Antelopes have the tail short, with a proportionate diminution of bony segments; this appendage is of considerable length in the true Camels, the Gnus, the Oxen, and some of the Sheep. The ribs vary chiefly in respect of their size. The Giraffe has seven directly united to the sternum, and an equal number un- attached. Eight are true and five false in the Stag, and the same division occurs in the Ox. Tiiey are strong in the true Camels and in the Giraffe, being particularly broad to- ward the sternal ends. The same peculiarity holds good with most of the bovine species. In the Camel seven pairs are connected to the sternum, the anterior ones being straight and short; five remain unsupported. The ribs are very narrow in the Bison, and particularly slender in the Antelopes and Deer. The sternum is flattened in ruminants, its first bone being rounded in front, and somewhat attenu-