STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 355 A A 2 which immediately succeeds death. And their duration is rarely protracted beyond a few minutes. Changes in the villi during digestion. — Dur- ing the act of digestion, the villi undergo cer- tain noticeable alterations. At this period, j they receive an increased afflux of blood ; j and become both larger and softer. They ac- ,■ quire a greater opacity ; so as to appear whiter by reflected, and darker by transmitted, light. The nuclei and cells which occupy their in- terior are greatly increased in number and dis- tinctness. And, finally, after the ingestion of food containing the usual fatty ingredients, a portion of these may be found occupying the interior of the villi themselves. The process by which fatty matter pene- trates the villus to enter the lacteal in its centre, deserves our special attention, from the fact that it constitutes the origin of the chyle. At present we shall limit ourselves to a description of the appearances actually observed, in connection with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The first step towards the absorption of the fatty matter, consists in its entry into the epithelium which invests the exterior of the villus. Each columnar cell of this covering is gradually filled by a large oil globule; which occupies the whole of its cavity, with the ex- ception of that small portion devoted to its nucleus. This change first implicates a few scattered epithelia; and, by rendering them Fig. 263. Villus of the dog about two hours after feedinrj : shoiv- ing the entry of fatty into scattered epithelia on its surface, ilagnified about 400 diameters. a, a, outline of the villus formed by epithelia with their ordinary contents; b, b, epithelia rendered bright and refractile by their fetty contents. more refractile, often causes various parts of the surface of the villus to offer a curious con- trast of bright spots {b,Jig. 265.) and darker intervals.* Gradually, however, all the cells become similarly afitcted; so that the entire villus assumes the altered appearance just alluded to. The next step towards the absorption of the fatty matter consists in the minute subdivi- sion of the single oil globule {c,Jig. 266.) which occupies the epithelial cell. The way in which this process occurs is unknown ; Fig. 266. Isolated epitJielial cells f rain a villus, as seen during the absorption of fat into the lacteals. (^Altered from Koelliker.') Magnified 360 diameters. a, columnar epithelial cell, occupied by fatty .molecules; b, similar cell, containing several small oil-drops; c, similar cell, enclosing a single oil- drop ; d, similar cell completely filled by a larger oil-drop. The upper or free end of the cell (at d) js concave. but the result of the change is to give the columnar cell a darkly granular appearance («, Jig 266.), in which we may often distin- guish separate, though minute, fatty mole- cules. These molecules are next found in the substance of the villus itself, though chiefly towards its surface and free extre- mity ; — to the apex of which latter part they are ot'ten limited.f From the sub- stance or matrix of the villus, the molecules of fat are then transferred to the lacteal trunk occupying its centre; which, in the most fa- vourable instances, they define as a slender column of dark fatty granules. How far the above process constitutes a mere act of physical imbibition, it is difficult at present to determine. But that it is so, at least in part, can scarcely be doubted. For the experiments of Matteucci \ (which are con- firmed in all their essential particulars by Valentin^) prove that, when a dilute alkaline solution and a faintly alkaline fatty emulsion are separated from each other by an animal membrane, difflision occurs between them. And the circumstances actually present in the intestine are even more favourable to such a transit than those which obtained in the experiments of these observers. The lymph and blood are sometimes more alkaline than the solution which they made use of. The degree in which the tenuity of the delicate cell-wad of the villus exceeds that of the * These appearances, alluded to by Frerichs ( Op. cit. p. 854.) and detailed by Koelliker {Op. cit. p. 167.), were noticed by me eight years ago in the human subject. t The larger drops sometimes seen in this situation are, I believe, the result of accidental violence to the specimen. Le(;ons sur les Phe'nomfenes, &c., pp. 104, 5. Op. cit. vol. i. p. 379.