23 OVUM. c 4 on leaving the parent body they become deve- loped into a ciliated embryo, which, for a time, moves freely about, tlien becomes fixed, un. dergoes farther changes in being developed, Fig. 19. j4 series illnsfratinff fin: ducchipmcnt hij ova of Pcdi- cellaria. (^After Van Bcucden.) and now from its own body in some, and in others only from the spreading part of the stem or base which supports it, |)roceeds the gemmation of other individuals of the colony, all of which apparently are capable of sexual generation when they arrive at maturity.J The Ascidian Tunicata present another mo- dification of the reproductive process now under consideration. Two forms of these animals exist, both perfect, viz. the simple and the compound: but these are not related to each other in the same manner as the two kinds of Salpians; for each kind is cii[)able of propagating its like by generation. The soli- tary ones rarely multi|)ly by gemmation, and when they do so the individuals separate from the stock; but the compound animals always undergo this mode of multiplication, and the multitude of individual Ascidi:ms are in this form collected together in a mass of various shape, in which the circulation of fluids is for a time common among the different indivi- duals. The individual animals |)roduced from the stock by gemmation attain to sexual com- pleteness, and propagate by means of ova, in the same manner as the solitary or distinct Ascidias do. The young of these animals undergo a re- markable metamorphosis : they are first ex- cluded from the egg in the form of a moving tailed body, somewhat like a minute tadpole; and this caudal organ of motion is lost pre- vious to their becoming fixed, and the deve- lopment of the more complex organisation.-]- Although the changes to which both the Bryozoa and Ascidian Tunicata are subject in * Van licneden, in Blt'm. de Bruxelles, toni. xviii. See the Article Polypifera, for an account of these researches. t See Mr. Kupert .Jones's excellent Article Tuni- cata for an account of these phenomena, and the special Memoirs of Milne-Edwards, sur les Ascidies Com]]os<'cs, iSic, Paris, 1832; Liiwig and Kolliker, in Ann. dcs Sc. Nat. April, 1846; Van Bcneden, sur les Ascidies Simj)les, Brussels, 1847. their early state present some very striking phenomena of metamorphosis, yet there is nothing in either which fully deserves the name of alternate generation, for all the individuals of which these compound animal structures consist are alike sexually perfect, and there does not appear to subsist any necessary con- nection between the nonsexual process of multiplication, and the subsequent exercise of the sexual function. There are,in fact, scarcely any intermediate stages of non-sexual exist- ence such as are described in the true in- stances of alternate generation. It is deserving of notice, however, that Lowig and Kolliker are of opinion that in some of the Botryllidae numerous embryoes are at once developed from a single oviim by its division, these indi- viduals subsequently multiplying by geiunia- tion into the perfect sexual animals. Fig. 20. h, a similar animal completely retracted. £•, an innnature animal. f/, one of the gemma; in its earliest state. SalpidcE. — The most marked example of alternating generation among the Tunicata is that which, since its first discovery by Chamisso, in 1819, has been known to occur in the Salpida;. This process has been so well and fully described in the article Tunicata, that it is not necessary to give more than a short outline of it in this place. These animals are known in two states, viz. solitary and ag-