PANCREAS. 107 But these views, so neat and complete in themselves, and so nicely put forth by Ber- nard, have of late been vigorously assailed by the German school, and their fiilelity and conclusiveness altogether inipugnet!. Frerichs, and Bidder and Schmidt, have, by a repetition of Bernard's experiments, as well as by many ingenious and well-devised ones of their own, failed to verify any of his results, but have been led by them to conclusions with whicli they are altogetlier discrepant. These experimenters state that they carefully followed all Bernard's directions — they tied the pancreatic duct, and, having previously kept the animals on short food from twelve to twenty-four hours so that there might be no remains of the se- cretion in the intestine, fed them with fatty aliment, and killed them in from four to eight hours. They always found the lacteals "most beautifully injected, and the recep- taculum chyli distended with milky chyle." Frerichs found on tying the small intes- tine some distance below the opening of the pancreatic and bile ducts in cats and puppies, and injecting into the bowel below the ligature olive oil and nnlk, that after two or three hours the lacteals were filled with white chyle. He, however, believes that he has found the extreme comminution of fat, and hence in some measure its resorption, pro- moted by the bile and pancreatic juice; for when in cats that had long fasted, he cut through the small intestine near the middle, injected olive oil into both halves, and tied the two cut extremities, he found the lacteals springing from the upper part of the intestine ahvajs far more injected than those proceed- ing from the lower, which he attributes to the bile and [)ancreatic juice having access to the fat in the upper portion. With regard to the permanence of the emulsion produced by the mixture of pan- creatic juice and fat out of the bod^', Fre- richs and Bernard are quite at issue; for while Bernard states, that on being examined fifteen or eighteen hours afterwards, it was found to be perfectly maintained, Frerichs affirms that the particles of oil soon separate again on the surface. There certainly are some circumstances which detract from the conclusiveness of Ber- nard' s experiments : one is, that the chyle contains far less fatty acids than the ordinary neutral fats; another, that other animal fluids, as soon as they begin to putrefy, cause a siuiilar decomposition of the neutral fats ; another, that Bernard's experiments merely had reference to the production of this change out of Ihc hndij. This lahit deficiency has been filled up by Lenz.* He fed healthy cats with fresh butter, or, if necessary, injected it into their stomachs, and killed them in from six to fourteen hours afterwards. Although all the lacteals and the thoracic duct were dis- tendeil with milky chyle, no trace of butyric acid could be detected in the stomach and intestinal canal, or in the thoracic duct, the * Do Ailipis Concoctionc et Absorptionc. Inaiig. Diss. Dorp. Liv. 18D0. portal vein, or gall-bladder. By further ex- perimental investigation, he found that the metamorphic action was hindered 'oy the acid gastric juice in proportion to the amount of free acid present, that a similar action might be artificially induced by other acids, as di- luted lactic, tartaric, and acetic acid, and that it might be overcome by neutralising the free acid by bile, or by an alkali. Hence he con- cluded, that it is only in exceptional cases that the pancreatic fluid decomposes the neutral fats into acids and bases in the living body. The argtunent derived from the experiment on rabbits has been thus explained away by Bid- der andSchniidt. They say that if the rabbit is killed two-hours after the fat has been given it the lacteals given off between the jri/lorus and the moidh of the pancreatic duct, are fully distended with white chyle very rich in fat; if not till four hours after the injection, the lacteals situated about three or four inches above the mouth of the duct are still filled ; if at six hours, those only below the duct con- tain white chyle ; and if not till eight or ten hours after, the first lacteals well injected with milky chyle are found to be situated ten or twelve inches belov/ the duct. Hence it must have been by always killing the animals six or eight hours after feeding them with fat, that Bernard was able apparently to maintain his view. The facts of the case, say they, were simply these. The ch^ le had already passed on- wards from the lymphatics proceeding from the first portion of the duodenum, and there was no more fat to be absorbed in that portion of the intestine when Bernard began the investiga- tion. I cannot admit the correctness of this explanation given by Schmidt and Bidder, because some of the rabbits on which I re- peated Bernard's experiments and verified his results were killed within four, or even three hoiu's after the injection of the lard. It was formally maintaineil by MM. Ber- nard and Barresvvill, that the pancreatic juice when acidifietl had an equally solvent power on the precipitated protein compounds with the gastric juice, and that its acidity or alka- linity alone determined whether it should act on albuminous or amylaceous matters. This opinion has also been refuted by Frerichs. Lastly, this phj siologist ascribes to the pan- creatic fluid a peculiar power of hastening the conversion of the bile into insoluble products, and so favouring its more perfect elimination. This view has been completely overthrown by the experiments of Bidder and Schmidt, v/ho have shown, first, that the greater [)art of the bile is not thrown off with the fasces, as Frerichs believes; and, secondly, that the lime, to which Frerichs especially ascribes this power, only exists in very subordinate quantity in the pancreatic fluid.* In taking a review of all that has been done with regard to the functions of the pancreatic secretion, we must admit that the only one that has been established beyond dispute is its sugar-making action on amylaceous matters. * Britisli anil Foreign j\Ic(l. Chir. Review. On tlie " Chemistry of Digestion," by Dr. Day.