REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 223 which the term " germ " may be applied in the sense of the definition given at the outset, may be included in one of two classes. The first comprises zoospores and zoosporoid bodies ; the second, all those forms of germ which re- quire for their development a previous combi- nation of two parts or organs, complementary to each other as regards their reproductive functions. 27. Zoospores.—Of zoospores we recognise two kinds, simple and aggregate. The simple zoospore is a pear-shaped or ovoidal body : it is composed of transparent, colourless homo- geneous plasma, throughout the whole of which, with the exception of the smaller end (rostrum), granules of colouring matter are scattered. It possesses no investing mem- brane, but is provided with a pair of cilia, the directions and positions of which differ accord- ing to the class. Every zoospore possesses a single granule of a red or reddish-brown colour, which is always placed in the immediate neighbourhood of the colourless rostrum. Its characteristic motion is a constant progression in the direction of its axis, around which the whole zoospore at the same time revolves, the transparent rostrum being always directed forwards. As regards the chemical composition of the zoospore, the transparent and colourless plasma is a nitrogenous compound, coloured brown by iodine. The cilia, as far as their reactions can be ascertained, resemble the plasma from which tiiey emanate. As to the constitution of the coloured granules which are scattered throughout the plasma, we iiave as yet no direct observations ; but from the form which they exhibit being that which is always assumed by starch, not only among the Alga;, but also in the green Infusoria, there can be little doubt that they are composed of that principle, in mechanical combination with colouring matter and a fat. 28. In passing from the condition of motion to that of repose, or, in other words, in germi- nating, the zoospore is not subject to any sus- pension of its vegetative activity. From the moment that it is set free from the parent plant to that at which it begins to develope from itself a new plant similar to the parent, it continues to grow uninterruptedly. 29. Of the aggregate zoospore, the best- marked example is that which has been fully described in Vaucheria. In comparing the termination of a fructiferous filament of Vau- cheria, with the sporangium of Saprolegnia, we can at once satisfy ourselves that these are corresponding structures ; the distinctive dif- ference being, that in the one the whole pro- toplasma contained in the termination of the tube is collected together to form a single large zoospore, while, in theother, it is subdivided so as to form a multitude of small ones. In other words, the single zoospore of Vaucheria takes the place of the collection of zoospores con- tained in one sporangium of Saprolegnia. This fact is all that we mean to imply by the use of the term aggregate. 30. Zoosporoid bodies.— Among these we in- clude the antherozoidsot'Cutleria, of the Fu- cacGEe, of the Floridese, and of the Characese. Of the relations of the first two to the true zo- ospore in form and development, we have al- ready said enough in theprecedingpages. Those of the antherozoid of Charaare not so close; and the structure of the organs in which they are developed, differs so essentially from any structure met with in any other family, that it is inexpedient to found any notions of their nature or formal relations upon such slender analogies as may exist. In the case of the Floridete, the correspondence between the antherozoids and the zoospores of other Algae, is still less trace- able ; but the peculiar arrangement of the bodies in question — their being always deve- loped in different individuals, though in similar positions as regards the organs of vegetation- leads us irresistibly to the conclusion that they have a mutual relation, or are in some degree complementary to each other in function; and as we know the production of germs to be the function of the one, it is reasonable to assign their fecundation to the other. Germs, whose develojiment is dependent on the combination of two organs the reproductive functions of which are complementary each to each.—Of these it is the leading characteristic that they do not necessarily pass at once, as soon as they are set free from the parent, into active development. If the necessary condi- tions of temperature and moisture are absent, they are capable of remaining in a state of re- pose, without losing their power of germina- ting. This state may last for weeks, or even for months. Their second characteristic is connected with the first; viz. that they are always provided with a distinct investing mem- brane, on the strength of which their power of resistance to external agents may in part de- pend. This is well seen in the spores of the Desmideag and ZygnemaceEe. 31. There remain a few examples of germ- like bodies of uncertain signification, which are included in neither of the above tlivisions. Such are the various forms which occur among the Florideae, the stationary spores of Sapro- legnia, and others, of which, as they are still imperfectly known, sufficient has been said in the preceding pages. 32. Fungi and Lichens.—While, on theone hanel, the Fungi and Lichens present an endless variety in the organs which constitute their reproductive system (rece|)tacle), their vege- tative system (^mycelium, stroma, flocci, hijpo- IhaJlus, Sfc.), on the other, preserves a remark- able degree of uniformity. It always consists of a network of cylindrical hollow filaments, usually divided at irregular intervals, but some- times simple. In the latter case the whole network, however com[)licated it may appear at first sight, is in fact only a ramified cell. This structure, which, in its simplest form is the iumiediate result of the germination of the spore, is the most permanent portion of the plant, inasmuch as, although every part of it, considered separately, is transitory, the vege- tation of the whole is continuous, and "its duration unlimited. It is fioni it that the organs which constitute the reproductive sys-