PANCREAS. 85 G 3 monly receives a large tributary branch, often nearly as large as itself, coming from the head of the pancreas. This occasionally remains permanently distinct, and opens into the in- testine by a separate orifice (see ^g. 55. b, c), a condition always present, according to Fig. 55. Dmr)ram of tlic prhiripnl Varieties to whieh the ter- iiLiiiatioii (i/'llic pniineatic duct and its relation to the bile-duct is liable in the human subject, arranged in their order of frequencxj. A. The normal arrangement, showmg a, the bile- duct, and b, the pancreatic, terminating by one orifice. B. Sliowing the separate termination of c, the ac- cessory duct from the head, or lesser pancreas. c. The main duct, h, terminating by an oriiice distinct from tlie choledoch. D. Two parallel and equal ducts b, c, are here seen joining the bile-duct at its orifice. This is a case of " double pancreatic duct." Meckel, in the early fcetus, so that this irre- gularity is essentially nothing but an exten- sion of a foetal condition into adult life. When this duplicity of orifice exists, the separate duct from the head of the pancreas has its own little papilla, proportionately smaller than the normal one, and separated from it about aths of an inch or an inch. It is usually lower down, though sometimes higher up, than the main orifice. It has been ob- served by Cruveilhier, that when there is one duct opening by a distinct orifice appropriated to itself alone, there is always another open- ing into the duodeuum in the normal way in common with the ductus choledochus. Ac- cording to other authorities*, however, the jjancreatic duct and the bile duct will some- times open on the mucous membrane of the duodenum by two entirely distinct orifices, when the former is single and there is no secondary one, as seen in Jig. 55. c. Oc- casionally the pancreatic duct is double throughout its whole length, the two running side by side and communicating, just before * Soemmerring, Corp. Human. Fabrica. their junction, with the ductus choledochus, as shown in Jig. ,55. d. Scemmerring asserts tiiat there are sometimes three ducts dis- tinct throughout and opening separately. All the varieties of method of termination of the pancreatic duct have been collected and ar.a- lyscd by Tiedemann* ; antl he has come to the interesting conclusion that they all have their analogues in the different arrangements found in the various species of the lower animals. The method of termination of the pancre- atic duct, and its relation to the ductus cho- ledochus, is rather curious. The duct, unlike the ducts of the salivary glands, which have a long course after leaving the gland before they terminate, passes at once from the gland to the intestine at a point where the former is closely applied to the latter, so that it is quite covered u|) and has no peritoneal in- vestment. At this situation it comes into contact, at an acute angle, with the ductus choledochus, which has descended to this point either in a groove of the pancreas, between it and the intestine, or in a complete channel through the gland substance. The pancreatic is placed to the left of the choledoch duct; and, maintaining this relation, the two perforate obliquely the duodenum about the middle of its second portion and at the left side of its posterior wall. Side by side they perforate in succession the muscular, the fibrous, and the mucous coats, which they elevate into a ridge when injected or when a probe is passed into them, and after an oblique course of about eight lines, they open into the bottom of a little papilla situated in a transverse fold near the junction of the middle with the third portion of the duodenum.f In their transit through the walls of the intestine they are separated by a valve-like process, composed of the tissues that constitute their walls, which gradually gets thinner and thinner till it terminates at the base of the little olive-shaped ampulla about two lines in depth, into which the cavity of the papilla is dilated ; and since the mucous membrane lining this ampulla is of the same structure as that lining the intestine, and unlike that lining the ilucts, these latter must be saiil to open by two distinct orifices at the base of the papilla, and not by one at its apex, as is usually described ; in fact the lining membrane of the cavity of the papilla is part of the general mucous surface of the * Sur les differences que le canal excreteiir du pancre'as pre'sente dans Thomme et dans les mam- miferes. Journal Compl. des Sciences Me'dicales, torn. iv. p. 370. t The point of immergence of the pancreatic duct ia variousl}' stated by various authors. Scem- merrinei gives it as from three to twelve fingers breadth below the pylorus; Meckel, from three to four inches, but possibly amounting to ten ; Quain, three to four inches ; Cruveilhier, at the lower part of the second portion of the duodenum ; De Graaf, c(uatuor digitis traiisversis sub pj'loro; Gavard, five fingers breadth from the pylorus ; and so on. That given in the text, which coincides with Cruveil- hier, is the normal one; the extremes are very ex- ceptional.