UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 696 enlarged muciparous follicles*, which in three different conditions or stages correspond with three varieties of pseudo-ulcers of tlie aph- thous kind. In the first variety the follicles are closed and project like millet seeds above the general level of the cervix. They contain a little glairy fluid, and may be compared to the distended closed follicles described at p. 640., as occurring within the cervical and uterine cavities. They are almost always placed at such regular intervals apart, that they must be regarded as natural structures enlarged, rather than as pathological new for- mations. The second variety consists not of closed but open follicles similarly arranged. Within and at the bottom of many of these may be seen the filiform papillae enclosed, cup-like, and resembling the stamens in a half opened flower. Similar follicles to these occur some- times within the cervix under ordinary circum- stances. When these papillee become hypertrophied and sprout out above the cup-like level of the contauiiug follicles they form florid-looking and elevated spots resembling granulations in appearance, and these constitute a third va- riety— the "granulations simples sans ulce- rations" of Pichard.f The foregoing examples have been here passed in review for the purpose of illustrat- ing the |)rinci[)al anatomical and pathological conditions of the uterine cervix, which when viewed by the speculum during life exhibit appearances that are regarded by many ob- servers in the present day as affording un- mistakeable characteristics of ulceration. With this object they have been here grouped to- gether, but they do not form a class ; many of them indeed have no pathological relation- ship, anil to few can the term ulceration be regarded as appropriate. In order, therefore, to eliminate from the category those condi- tions which have no title to be considered as ulcers, it is needful to apply to them the test of a definition. With this view, and also for the purpose of avoiding the confusion which from the time of Hunter downwards has at- tended the employment of various terms for the designation of ulcerative processes, of those at least by which the particles of open or exposed surfaces are removed, it may be well to adojn some such distinction as that proposed by Mr. Paget, namely, to regard as abrasions or excoriations those conditions in which the epithelium or ejiidermis of an in- flamed part is alone removed, and those only as ulcerations m which the removal extends further to the vascular or proper tissues be- neath the e[)idermis. J Judged by this test, there may be excluded, first, all those apparent sores which, begin- * See p. 640. f Excellent representations of the varieties de- scribed above will be found in Boivin and Duges' Atlas, pi. 2.5. 27. and 33., and in Pichard, Mai. des Femmes, pi. 3. J Surgical Pathology, vol. i. p. 419. ning invariably from within the margins of the OS, and appearing to spread outwardly more or less over the cervical lips, present a florid and often granular aspect, and being on a level with surrounding |)arts, and without de- finite edges or raised bonier, fulfil all tlie con- ditions commonly assigned to ulcers of the uterine neck. These, almost without excep- tion, consist of the inflammatory conditions already described as hypertrophies and ever- sions of the cervical mucous membrane. The apparently raw surface exposed to the eye is not usually any portion of the outer cervix, but the swollen inner siu'face of the walls of the cervical canal now everted and brought into view, just as the interior of the lip is brought into view in common strumous thickening about the mouth. The margin of this apparent ulcer is the normal boundary of the OS, or line of demarcation between the vaginal and cervical mucous membrane, now disturbed and thrown out of its natural place. The granulations upon this surface are the thickened and inflamed papillae, follicles, and rugae of the cervical canal. The edges are not raised beciiuse they simply form the boundary between the vaginal and cervical epithelium, and the centre is not depressed, because there is no erosion nor any loss of tissue. These conditions of the uterine cervix in respect of their true pathological relations are exactly allied, in their different degrees, to the inflammatory conditions of the eyelid termed respectively Lippitudo, Ectropion and granular lid. Both are attended by like hypertrophies of structure and corresponding depravements of their healthy secretions. Both are reduced to their normal condition by similar or even identical methods of treat- ment, and both are alike entirely removed from the category of ulcers. Next to these may be enumerated the con- ditions of the uterine neck which are distin- guished by loss instead of hypertrophy of tissue. When this loss consists solely in de- tachment of epithelium the term "epithelial exfoliation" appears to be a more appropri- ate designation and preferable in many re- spects to " excoriation or abrasion," — terms which seem to imply something of I'iolence in the mode of production of these conditions. Exfoliation of the tesselated epithelium covering the vaginal portion of the cervix ap- pears to take (ilace under some circumstances with great ease. In uterine catarrh for ex- amj)le, this shedding of epithelium com- mences at the borders of the os, and extends outwardly. Or it may involve the entire epithelium of the vaginal portion of the cervix together even with that of the vagina itself, these being sometimes thrown off like a cast. In such cases, a fresh epithelium is formed beneath the old one tliat has been detached.* But if the epithelium is not renewed the villi remain denuded. This condition may be precisely imitated after death by macerating the part for a few days, and then peeling off * See also page 707. and note.