509 RUMINANTIA. is attenuated and compressed. Throughout the whole order there prevails considerable disparity as respects the cranium and face; the bones of the latter occupy fully two- thirds of the entire length of the skull, and the area of the face on section is nearly double that of the cranium. Bones of the cranium. — Eight bones enter into the composition of the adult cranium; viz , an occipital, a parietal, two frontal, a sphenoidal, an ethmoidal, and two temporal; and, in addition to these, some species are provided with two ossa triquetra or inter- parietals. Fig. 326 Skull of the Ox viewed from heliind. (From a spe- cimen in Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) The occipital bone (1 \,fg. 326.), as in most of the mammalia, is originally divided into four, one superior, one inferior, and two lateral pieces {\V,,fig. 326.). These become early consolidated, and in the calf at the time of birth they are firmly united together and to the parietal and interparietal bones lying immediately in front. The occipital crest is prominent in the Llamas, and still more fully developed in the true Camels. In Bovidse the crest corresponding to the occipital is formed by the junction of the parietal and frontal bones, the superior occipital remaining flat. In ruminants generally, the paramastoid pro- cesses {I Jig- 326.) are much elongated, falci- form, and curved inwards, and between these and the occipital condyles (i) a very deep fossa intervenes. In Camelidfe, at the angle formed by the union of the petrous portion of the temporal with the lateral and superior occipitals there is a large opening on either side. In this family the anterior condyloid foramina are of moderate capacity, but in Cervidae they are of great size and some- times four in number, in which case two remain small. In CEgosceridae and Bovidae they are also large and occasionally double. The jmrietal (9*) is single, and with a few trifling variations, is articulated to the cranial bones in the usual manner. The lambdoidal or parieto-occipital suture lies considerably in front of the crest, except in Bovidae, where it lies below, and is separated from the frontal suture by the intercalated and narrow wedge-shaped parietal bone. The Qigosceridse have the parietal in the form of a flattened band, encircling the cranium and extending between the orbitar wings of the sphenoid on either side (b,Jig. 333.). It is broader in the goats than in the sheep. In Bovidae the parietal does not extend so far forward (b-,/ig- 327.). In the Giraffe the lateral processes of the parietal are narrowed Fig. 327, SliuH of the Ox, viewed to a mere point, but the body of the bone which reaches from between the horns as far back as the occipital crest has a longitudinal diameter of fully six inches. The coronal or fronto-parietal suture in this species and a few other genera is situated in a line with the osseous protuberances which support the horns. It is most frequently placed behind ; in the Gazelles, however, it appears in front. The frontal bones (8) are of large size and great breadth ; this latter feature being more especially manifest in the Camels, the Sheep, and certain bovine species. In the Came- lidae they extend backward between the anterior divisions of the parietal bone, and in front they are articulated to the lachrymals lateraltij. (From Spix.) by a transverse suture, which is less extended in the Llamas than in the true Camels. In the Llamas and in the genus Moschus a small part of the frontal is connected to the superior maxillary. There are several supra- orbital or frontal foramina (cj with rounded orifices, which in the Camels are placed near the middle line and at the centre of the fore- head. In the Llamas these openings are placed rather farther back and united by a longitudinal groove. The frontals are ele- * The numerals here refer to all the subjoined figures of crania with the exception of figa. 327. and 335.