PELVIS. 178 Translation ; — Osteologie and S)'ndesmologie, par M. Scemmcrring; Mechanique des Organes de la Lo- comotion, par G. and E. Weber, vol. ii.—Devcloppe- ment de rHorame et des Mammiferes, par Bischoff, vol. viii. BoreUo, de IMotu Animaliiini. Weber, W. and E., Meclianik der Menschlichen Gehwerk- zeuge, Gottingen, 1836. Memoirs de I'lnstitute, torn, vi., 1806.— Tenon, Memoir sur les Os du Bassin de la Femme, p. 149. Sandifort, De Pelve ejus in partu dilatatione. Naegele, Des principaux Vices de Conformation du Bassin, traduit par i'anyan, Paris, 1810.—Das weibliche Becken, Carlsrulie, 1825. J)r. W. Hinder, on the Synipliysis Pubis, London Medical Observer and Inquirer, vol. ii.. No. 28. Levret, I'Art des Accouchnients, Paris, 1753. Bolvin, Madame, Memoir de I'Avt des Accouchments. Marphij, Lectures on Parturition, lS-15. Rams- bntham. Obstetric Medicine and Surgery. Churchill, Theory and Practice of MidwiCer}', 1842. Rudiments of Civil Engineering, by H. Law, Civ. Eng. Grani's Outlines of Comparative Anatomy. Cams, —Introduction to Comparative Anatomy,—by Gore. jyagner''s Elements of Comparative Anatomy,— by Tulk, 184.i. Cuvier's Ossements Fossils; Regne Animal; Leoons d'Anatom. Comp. Oweii's Hunte- rian Lectures, vol. ii.; Homology of the Vertebrate Skeleton ; Osteography of Pitheci, and Anatomy of Apteryx and Mylodon in the Transactions of the Zoological Society, vol. i. and ii. Blainville's Oste- ographie Compare'e. Knox, in Lancet, 1839-40, and in Medical Gazette, 1843. Ohen's Physico- Philosophy by Tuik. Carlyle, Report of British Association, 1S37, p. 112. Duges, Recherc.lies sur les Batraciens, Paris, 183o. Le Gallois, Experiences sur la Vie (Ajipendix). Pritchard/s Physical Hi.s- tory of Mankind, 1S3G, 3rd ed. Pelvis, Atjnorjial Anatomy of the.— From the close relation of this structure to the processes of chikl-bearing, the most im- portant of the alterations to which it is liable by disease, are such as produce defonnily and obstrnction of the passages, and occurring in tlie female subject. In the ex[)erience of Dr. Robert Lee, about one-sixth of all the cases of difficult p;u'turitii)n in London, depend upon contraction of the pelvis from arrest of development or distoi tion. In the male sub- ject, they are interesting mainly as to the light they may throw u|)on the processes and me- chanisms of the abnormal changes. On reviewing a good collection of abnor- mal pelves, we find them susceptible of the following classification, of which the prin- cipal pai t are iiiteresting chief!}' to the obste- trician, but, in a great degree, to the surgeon and general pathologist also. Pklvic Deformities and Orstructions. — Dcformii'ws oi the pelvis, properly so called, are all such tlepartures from the adult " sian- dard," in size, build, and conformation, as are sufficiently marked to influence child- bearing. They have been variously arranged, but seem to fall best uniier two heads: viz.— ]. Normal irrcgn/ariiics—including all those ■which present the slia[)c and [)ro[)ortions pro- per to the healthy pelvis at some period of its development ; and,—2. Dis/uiiions,—inclutling all such peculiar alterations of shape and size as are conseciuent u[)on disease or injury. I. Normal irregularities may be subilividcd into,—Equable deviations, in which the general form and appearance are similar, and the dia- meters proportionate to those of the " standard'" pelvis ; and,—Irregularities from imjierj'eel de- velopment, in which the shape deviates from, and the diameters are not in proportion to, those of the " standard.''' Equable deviations.—" Pelvis equabililer Justo major."—The irregularity in this pelvis con- sists in all the diameters being in e.vcess. It is not uncommon. Durns records one ex- ample. Dr. Murphy has another in his pos- session, and there is in the Museum of King's College a third, the brim of which measures 6 inches transversely, by 3 inches antero- posteriorly. The largest hitherto recorded is one by Giles de la Tournette, who gives in. The distance between iliac crests - - 12^ „ Antcro-posterior diam. of brim - 3^ „ Transverse diam. of do. - Both the diameters of the inferior outlet - 5^ The d'lsadvantages of this ])elvis are said to be prolapse and displacement of the viscera, sudden expulsion of the foetus, inversion of the uterus, and want of the proper impress of rotation on the head. Retroversion of the uterus and its [)rolapse in the impregnated state, are said by some to be most commonly ob- served in large pelves. " Pelvis equab 'diier justo minor. "— In this pelvis, all the diameters are proportion- ately diminished. The diminution is said, by Churchill, to be generally about one-fourth. Ntiegele thinks it to be more common than had been supposed by Bandelocque and other writers on midwifery. Velpean gives two cases of " Etroitesse absohie " (^•Journal Com- j^lemcntaire'), in which the diminution was so great that one woman died undelivered, and the other underwent the Ccesarian operation. It was considered by Alexandei' Shaw *, that proportionable contraction of the pelvic di- ameters is vei'y common in rickety sulyects, from vi ant of proper osseous development, and that it is genei'ally accompanied by cori-espond- ing diminution of the size of the bones of the lower extremities. The experience of Rokitan- sky also favours the opinion that this propor- tionate contraction, without distortion of the pelvis, may be produced by rickets. Naegele, however, records three female pelves aflfeeted with this deformity, wiiich presented no ap- pearance whatever of rickety change, neither in strength, weight, nor texture, one being even heavier than usual; nor were there anj' rickety sym[)toms in their history. Tvv-o of the subjects died after severe instrumental labour ; and the third, after one miscarriage, died undelivered of the second conception, from rupture of the uterus; comparison with the child's head afterwards showing, that de- livery of a I'wing child would have been im- possible without the Cajsarian section. The diameters were generally above an inch less than the standard measurement. Tiie ages of these subjects were from tvventj-three to thirty-two years, showing that the contraction was an adult deformity. They were also about or above the average height. Women of low statm-e, intleed, have most commonly large pelves as well as large heads, and are not more liable to this deformity than those * Jled. Chirurg. Transaciipns, vol. xvii.