REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovubi). 827 Q 2 composed of polygonal, tabular cells ; it is lined by an inner layer, formed of the com- mencements of the paraphyses and thecae, and of the filaments with which they are con- nected. The thecae are obovate cells, the Fig. 146. TheccE and parapht/ses of Sphceria, about 300 diam. membrane of which is of extreme delicacy. When fully formed, they contain from three to eight oval spores, the epispores of which are in the early condition delicate and pellucid, but by degrees become brown and opaque. Fi(r. 147. The contents of the spores, as is observed throughout the higher Fungi, consist of a fluid loaded with oily granules. The thecae are arranged with their long axes perpendicular to the inner surface of the perithecium from which they spring, and are intermixed with a greater or less number of slender, cylindrical paraphyses. The whole perithecium is usually enveloped in the filamentous stroma or my- celium, from which it takes its origin. The Discomycetes are represented by the Pezizte; between these and the Sphoerise there are dif- ferences of external form, which, though they strike the superficial observer as important, are in reality trivial. While the receptacle of the Sphceria is a cyst with an apicial aperture, that of the Peziza is a cup-shaped disc, the concave surface of which looks upwards. This surface is lined with an ascophorous mem- brane, which resembles in every respect that of a Sphceria. 39. Along with the PezizEe and Sphcerice and those allied genera which resemble them in producing their spores enclosed in thecae, there are other forms also included in the Pyrenomycetes and Discomycetes, which, while they resemble those last named in the general outline and structure of their recep- tacles, differ from them completely in the mode of origin of the spores. The simulta- neous occurrence of some of these forms, along with their ascophorous analogues, or, in other instances, the successive develop- ment of both kinds of receptacles in the same position, had been frequently observed, and had given rise in the minds of some my- cologists to the suspicion of the existence of a relation more close than was generally ad- mitted. This suspicion did not, however, take a sufficiently distinct form to lead to observation until the MM. Tulasne, in a series of researches scarcely completed, showed that the genera in question, hitherto con- sidered as distinct, were in fact identical, and that receptacles containing thecffi and para- physes, are produced on the same stroma, or, in other words, on the same individual plant, as those which contain acrogenous spores. 40. The earliest researches of MM. Tulasne* were directed to the Pyrenomycetes. In some species of Sphceria, they found not only that the same stroma protluces receptacles with acrogenous spores, wliich are followed by others bearing thecae; but that, under cer- tain circumstances, it may give rise to spore- bearing organs, of a much simpler character; viz. branching filamentous pedicles, bearing at their terminations single spores, and rising directly from the mycelium filaments, with which they are continuous. In this condition the plant cannot be distinguished from a thread Fungus, and has been hitherto described as such. 41. The later observations of MM. Tulasne f which are much more in detail, refer almost entirely to Discomycetes. In a species of Rhytisma, a genus of Discomycetes, which inhabits the epidermis of the leaves of plants, the stroma at first presents the ap[)earance of a black spot of various extent on the surface of the leaf. In the substance of this stroma the first receptacles are formed ; they are cushion-shaped capsules, furnished with api- cial apertures, like those of Sphceria, and are entirely occupied by a jjulpy nucleus, which con- sists of slender branched filaments, often so long as to project considerably beyond the aperture. These filaments bear at their extremities innumerable minute linear sporules, which are enveloped in an abundant mucilage, and are expelled from the ripe capsules in the form of a long cirrhus. After the capsules wliicli are developed during the early summer months have discharged their contents, they are succeeded by the lirelliform discs of the perfect Rhytisma. These do not arrive at maturity until the following spring, and bear * Notes sur I'Appareil reproducteur dans les Lkheris et les Champignons, Ann. des Sc. Nat. .Sme. S. t. XV. p. 370. t Nouvelles Recherches, &c. Comptes rendus, Se'ance du 13 Dec. 1862.