REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). S35 a quantity of granular mucus. Soon this last arranges itself in two masses, at opposite Fig. 160. Original parent-cell oj spores of the same, 500 diam. sides of the central nucleus. Each of these masses is transformed into a new nucleus, from which radiating threads of mucus stretch to the internal surface of the corresponding half of the cell. Each new nucleus is, when fully formed, vesicular, possessing a membrane of extreme delicacy, and is surrounded by a layer of protoplasma. At a later period its contour becomes cloudy and indistinct ; this change being preparatory to a second division, which results in the formation of four new nuclei similar to the first two; these Fig. 161. T/ie same, containing four vesicular nuclei, soon place themselves in such a manner, that each would occupy one angle of a regular tetrahedron contained in the parent cell. Up to this point the original central nucleus has remained ; it now disappears, and six septa are formed simultaneously, which radiate from the centre to the circumference, one between every two nuclei, in such a manner as to divide the parent cell into four compartments, which are the special parent cells of the spores. Fig. 162. TTie same, divided into four compartments. (The above, from 165 to lfi2, inclusive, are after Hofmeister.) In each new cell, after this wall has become thickened by the deposition of a gelatinous material on its inner surface, a spore is formed, which, even at the first appearance of its membrane, occupies the whole cavity. As it approaches maturity, it assumes a brownish yellow colour, its external surface remaining perfectly smooth. In those of the cells of the middle layer of the half-ripe fruit, which are destineii to the formation of the so-called elaterft, the tubular form is permanent. In each cell the nucleus disappears, and is re- placed by two others, between which a per- pendicular septum is formed. From a repeti- tion of the same process, there results a cylindrical body consisting of a series of four cells, the fully formed elater. 64?. No sooner are the spores of the upper part of the capsule ripe, than it splits into two valves; dehiscence commences at the apex, leaving, as it proceeds, the columella with the loosely attached spores and elaters. 65. Jungermannicefrondosee.—From Antho- ceros we pass to a group of plants, which, while they resemble it in their mode of growth, differ from it considerably in the form of their antheridia and archegonia, and still more in that of the organs in which they are contained. Here as in Anthoceros we follow the descrip- tion of Hofmeister (Pellia epiphylla).* 66. First peiiod.—Germination of the spores. —The spore is an ovoid cell, divided into four by three transverse septa, and enclosed in a finely granular external membrane. Of the four cavities, one of the terminal ones dis- tinguishes itself from the rest by the small quantity of chorophylle which it contains. This cavity, or rather the cell which it represents, develops in germination, to the first hair-like roots; while the others, by successive divisions by septa in the direction of the long axis of the spore, form the rudi- mentary flattened stem of the young plant. 67. The antheridia. — The rudiments of the antheridia make their appearance as club- shaped projections of the upper surface of the young spring shoots. Each such projec- tion originates from a single cell of the super- ficial la} er by a mode of division which cor- responds in every respect with that described in Anthoceros (§ 59). The completely formed antheridium consists of a globular mass of very small four-sided tessellar cells, which is surrounded by an outer layer of about twenty flattened cells, containing chlorophylle granules in contact with each other by their margins ; the whole is supported on a very short stalk, consisting of only four cells. Each of the small cells contains a lentil-shaped vesicle, within which a spiral fibre is rolled up. This fibre moves with great activity for about ten minutes after its escape, revolving round its own axis, and at the same time progressing rapidly. The posterior extremity is slightly thickened, while from the anterior which tapers oft' gradually to a point, there ema- nate two long and delicate cilia, like those of the antlierozoids of Chara. These, as well as the slender prolongation of the tail, mani- fest an active " winding screw-hke " motion. These phenomena remain in perfection only for about ten minutes after the escape of the filament. 68. Archegonia.— The rudiments of the ar- chegonia make their appearance as oval cellular boilies (from four to twelve in number) in the notch, which in Pellia, as in other fron- dose Hepaticffi, is found in the anterior margin * Hofmeister, loc. cit. pp. 10—20.