353 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. statement excludes the possibility of a net- work, such as has been affirmed to exist by Kj-ause and others. Koelliker, in who^e ail- mirable work * the reader will find a copious analysis of the latest observations on this subject, sums them all up very impartially by acknowledging, that, altiiough he has never been able to see a trace of such ramifications, still he cannot venture altogether to deny their existence. On the contrary, he thinks it pos- sible that the above simple mode of commence- ment,— which certainly holds good for the cy- lindrical villi,— maj be exchanged,in the larger of these processes, for one involving the pre- sence of a greater number of lacteal canals, or the absence of such blind extremities. But in conceding this much, Koelliker points out — what Valentin f seems previ- ously to have suspected, — the facility with which a striated arrangement of the dark fatty molecules within the chyliferous villus may be mistaken for lacteal vessels. Nay more, even the chyle of the central canal sometimes separates by coagulation into strias, which closely imitate a branched network. We may add, that, in the various observations which have been made on executed criminals, the possibility of error has probably been in- creased by the distended state of the vascular and lacteal canals contained within the delicate stmcture of the villus. Whatever be the case as regards these conjectures, it seems to me that the large simple tube, and the minute network, are far too unlike to be regarded as mere degrees of development of the same structure in differ- ent villi. In like manner, the simple loop of lacteal seen by Henle just beneath the base- ment membrane is suspicious, not only from its situation, but also from a fact noticed by Valentin and Remak, — that the central canal sometimes coexists with it. And when we add to the foregoing remarks, that the majority of observers have been unable to see any such ramifications, it will seem difficult to avoid concluding, that each villus probably contains a single large lacteal, which occu- pies its centre, and ends by a blind extremity. Tlie muscular constituent of the villus was first discovered by Bruecke, and has since been verified by Koelliker in many Birds and Mammals. Its shape is that of a thin hollow cone, which closely imitates the form of the villus enclosing it. Hence, from whatever side it is examined, it may be seen as a double lon- gitudinal layer; which is placed immediately around both sides of the central lacteal ; and lies so deepl}' within the villus, as to be beneath its vessels, as well as much of its granular basis. It is more distinct in the lower part of the villus, and in the larger flat specimens; but is easily obscured by oil globules, nuclei, or pig- ment. The nuclei of its fibre cells are best seen on the addition of dilute acetic or nitric acid, when they assume their ordinary charac- teristic appearance. * Op. cit. p. IGO. et seq. t Op. cit. p. 68-1. Siip2y. The action of this contractile apparatus during life is at present unknown. Derived, as it no doubt is, from that general expanse of Fig. 262. Vilhis denuded of epithelium, treated with acetic acid. From a yoini'g kitten. Magnified 350 diameters. (^Af:er Koelliker.) a, outline of tbe villus; h, nuclei beneath this; c, nuclei of the unstriped muscle ; d, roundish nuclei in the centre of the vilkis. unstriped muscular fibre which pervades the whole mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, one can hardly avoid ascribing to it a function which is more or less similar, — if not indeed co-ordinate, — with that of the general stratum. That this function is in some respects related to the static or passive mechanical cir- cumstances of the mucous membrane, has already been conjectured (p. 325.) in speaking of the stomach. And the little we know of the ordinary action of the analogous unstriped element in the skin, rather confirms than con- tradicts such a supposition. But its pecu- liar position with respect to the end of the lacteal trunk in the centre of the vilus,— to which it forms a kind of muscular and contractile envelope — has given rise to the suspicion, that it effects the propulsion of the chyle contained in this canal. How far such a process really obtains must be determined by future research, v\hich ought especially to notice the precise con- nection of this muscular stratum with that of the mucous membrane generally. In the meantime, we may notice that, as Koelliker justly remarks, an active propulsion by these longitudinal fibres would imply their alternate contraction and relaxation.* But, absun)iiig * He also adverts to their apparent want of nerves, and to the essential independence of organic muscle of all but mechanical irritations. However A A