246 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). increases by the repeated division of a ter- minal cell by alternately inclined septa. The Tlie same after imjjregnation, 150 diam. The papilla has been broken off in making the preparation. direction of growth of this structure, vifhich is the first leaf of the embryo, is obliquely up- wards. In its axil is formed the primary axis^ Fig. 183. of the vertical series of sporangia which cor- responds to each valve, one only of the ori- ginal central cells continues its development, the rest becoming abortive, and finally disap- pearing. The four spores, which are formed just as in Selaginella, at length become free by the absorption of the cell in which they are enclosed, and for a time continue to en- large equally, while their walls are thickened by internal gelatinous deposition. Soon, how- ever, one begins to exceed the rest in growth, and finally occupies the whole cavity of the sporangium, which is subsequently burst by the swelling of the exospore, which is pro- duced when it is subjected to the influence of moisture. 101. The microspores are developed precisely as in Selaginella. The exosporal membrane Embryo of PUularia (ilobnlifera, 10 diam. The embryo is still enclosed in the prothallium, the tissue of which has expanded so as to form an investment for it. a, remains of papilla of archegonium with its canal; b, first root; c, iirst leaf; d, primary axis; e, cavity of macrospore. and soon after, as a lateral development from this last, the second leaf In the meantime the first root makes its appearance as a rounded projection, which grows from the upper sur- face of the embryo, in a direction opposite to that of the first leaf Both of the last-men- tioned organs finally burst through the remains of the prothallium, and become free. 100. Sporangia and spores.—The organ in which the sporangia of Pilularia are contained is an egg-shaped body, supported on a short, curved pedicle, which springs directly from the creeping stem, in the axil of one of the awl-shaped leaves. It presents a tough, cori- aceous, cellular coat, which encloses a cavity, which is divided into four compartments by vertical septa, and subsequently dehisces in four valves. The middle of the internal sur- face of each valve is, from the first, marked by a ridge of gelatinous cellular tissue, from which the sporangia take their origin as a vertical series of projections. Their development re- mains up to a certain time the same, whether they are to produce large or small spores. All are found to exhibit at this period a central mass of cells, containing nuclei and grumous fluid, which is surrounded by a double capsular layer. In each of the central cells, the nucleus soon after is replaced by four others of smaller size, around which are formed four tetrahedral secondary cells, which are the im- nifcdiate parents of the spores. In the lowest Microspore of the same, 600 diam. The inner membrane projects through the outer, which has given way. A few of the cellules containing spermatozoids have escaped. dehisces in three valves, the proper membrane of the spore at the same time giving way irre- gularly, to allow the escape of numerous little globular cellules. These cellules contain, in addition to starchy and mucous granules, pa- rietal lenticular vesicles, each of which en- closes a delicate, spirally coiled antherozoid, which moves actively in water. 102. Phanerognmia.—Between the higher vascular Cryptogamia, and the simplest forms of flowering plants, there exists, as has been already noticed, a wide chasm of obscurity. The researches, however, of Hofmeister, have shown that in the Coniferae the embryo is formed upon a plan which presents the most striking analogies to what is observed among theRhizocarpeae and Lycopodiacese ; and that, in fact, their development stands intermediate between that of the plants just mentioned and the angiospermous Phanerogamia. 103. Pha)ierogamia gymnospermia.—Follow- ing the same plan of description that we have adopted intheprevioussection,weshall confine our attention to the Abietinew, of the deve- lopment of which Hofmeister has furnished us with a most complete account. The so-called ovule consists, at the time of the scattering of the pollen, of a short and thick nucleus of delicate cellular tissue, which is enclosed in a single, somewhat fleshy integument, leaving open a wide micropyle canal.* In the centre * For the origin and signification of botanical terms in common use we refer the reader to any of the elementary works on Botany.