143 PELVIS. the line a, b; b being placed in the diagram upon the sacral projection. By measuring in eight sacra, the distances between the upper extremities of the auricular facets on each side, at the point d, marking them off on paper, and then taking the distances in like manner at c, which corresponds to the lateral notch opposite the second sacral vertebra {see Jig. 78. A, /;.), I found the line d, c to coincide pretty nearly with the mean direction of the superior vertical limb, and with the superior half of the central curved groove d, e ; and to fall in a plane which was inclined to the one on the opposite side, so as to form with it an angle varying from 13'^ to 23°, and in all cases directed downwards. Now, the sacrum is so placed in regard to the cotylo-sacral arch, and the line of pressure from above, that the angle formed by the surfaces of the base and anterior face is the narrowest point of a rapidly-expanding arti- cular wedge placed antero-posteriorly. This is better seen by a lateral view of the auricu- lar facet, with the bone in the natural oblique position, as in 88. a. The facet will then be seen to have its angular projection pointing downwards and forwards in the direction of the cotylo-sacral arch in the line a h, and its two limbs diverging so as to pre- sent a broad surface of articulation with the ilia in the lines b d, be, forming with d e, the triangular " voussoir " d b e. The depth of the keystone is the greatest distance between the anterior border of the superior limb, d, and the inferior extremity of in- ferior limb, e (Jig. u), and is about 2^ inches in the adult male. The wedge shape formed by them is well seen in the posterior view of a transverse section along the sacral axis, as in _fig. B, where the lines a c, b c show the obliquity of the wedge,and form an angle «cZ>, of from 20° to 33°. In a direction downwards and backwards, then, the sacrum has, like an artificial " voussoir," or keystone, its broad end (Wrectedupivards towards the point of pressure. But, as Crnveilhier has justly observed, forces acting in the curve of the luml)ar vertebrae are partly counteracted by tiie elastic spring-like yielding of the lumbar and sacro-lumbar fibro cartilages; and by the lumbar curve they are, at the same time, di- rected backwards as well as downwards (viz., — at first in the direction of the liner/,/(Jig. 88. a), and then in that of / e, which latter, produced to meet the vertical line d, b, at g, forms an angle d g c, of about 117°, coinciding ■with the average sacro-vertebral angle in the direction of the sacral axis),—'.thus tending to drive the broad end of the sacral " voussoir" between the narrower iliac intervals; and so, in relation to the direction of the /Jn«- cipal forces acting on the pelvic arch, the sacrum becomes a true keystone. Another arrangement which would tend, from the obliquity of the bone, to counteract any forward displacement, is the sudden in- version of the vertical sacral wedge at the ex- tremity of the lower limb of the auricular surface (Jig, b, e), opposite the third sacral bone, at which point, we have mentioned in the description of the sacrum, the anterior surface becomes suddenly broader from above downwards; so that here the sacrum by an- other "joggle" again bites on the iliac. A third disposition preventive of this displace- ment has been pointed out by Mr. Ward, in the superiority of breadth of the posterior over the anterior surface of the sacrum, op- posite the point c. ( fig. a.), the middle of the inferior articular limb in many instances. Behind and above the angidar projection on the sacral facet is an elongated depression or groove, which passes along the centre of both limbs of the auricular surface, and re- ceives a "reciprocal elevation on the iliac articular surface (fg. 89./) Now this ridge on the iliac surface evidently bites in its turn on the sacrum, and presents another obstacle to anterior displacement in the superior limb, as well as to downward displacement at the inferior limb. The surfaces thus applied to each other, being so curved, give a greater extend of apposition than if they were plane, and, at the same time that they allow of a limited yielding of the sacrum to pressure, keep the surfaces continually in contact. And we shall find that, although the general shape of the articular surface is rendered angular by the "joggle" b (Jig. 88. a), the groove and corresponding iliac ridge form a regular cres- centic curve, or segment of a circle d.f e, of which, in fact, the central internal projec- tion of the tuberosity of the ilium above at a is the centre. Now it is to this prominence that the powerful deep posterior and interos- seous sacro-iliac ligaments are mainly fixed above; and it is by being suspended by and moving on them in the radius a,f, that the sacrum slides on the ilia downwards and back- wards in the direction of this groove on the reception of force from above. That this motion, though limited, does take place, and in this direction, may very readily be proved, on the detached pelvis, by striking directly downwards on the upper extremity of three or four lumbar vertebrse cut off with it. The impulse will be almost entirely felt at the tip of the coccyx, in a direction upwards and backwards. That portion of it which is directed immediately downwards is checked by the powerful liga- ments above mentioned, and is but little felt at the sacral promontory. If a section of the whole pelvis, in the direction of the cotylo-sacral arch is made, as in the next figure, a very important element in the mechanism of the sacro-iliac articula- tion is brought to view; viz., the deep pos- terior and interosseous sacro-iliac ligaments, (d, e.) These ligaments are continuous one into the other, becoming shorter down w.irds, as the distance between the bones becomes less. They narrow also antero-posteriorly, so as finally to be received into the retiring angle formed by the limbs of the articular facet, at which point they are seen in the transverse section in the sacral axis in Jig. 88. B, /. They are attached, externally, to the central