PELVIS. 139 paneled than the shaft in most of the order. They form with the spine an angle of about Fig. 98. Pelvis of the Hare, anterior view. 163° in the Hare, and 150" in the Porcupine. Ill the Copyrus, Rats, Mice, and Guinea-pi,!,', they are nearly parallel with the spine ; but in the Jerboa they cms.? the spine at an angle much less than in others, being about 140°. In the Jerboa the iliac wings are curved out- wards superiorly and projected much on the dorsum of the spine, reaciiing beyond the elongated s[)ines of the last lumbar vertebra. The ilia of the Beaver, and, in a less degree, in the Hare, are cx[)anded, with prolonged and irregularly curved crests (c), a little everted at the spinous processes (g), and propor- tionally short in the shaft. The isc/iia in Rodents are generally long, especially in the Beaver and Jerboa. In the latter animal they are directed much outwards, with tuberosities large, nuich expanded, and everted posteriorly, to give firm attachment to the strong sacro- sciatic ligaments. They are placed in a right line with the ilia, the ilio-ischial angle being wanting as in the Carnivora {see Jig. 112. 8.). In the Hare the tuberosities of theischia are large, and present well-marked lateral |)ro- cesses (c), which are everted, and rise above the level of the coccygeal vertebrae. The2)iibes are long and slender, and generally join with the ischia in a long median symphysis projecting in a sharp, anterior, vertical, ridge (/); except in the Porcupines, Rats, and Mice, which have a short symphysis jjubis. In the Jerboa there is a slight jmhie spinous process, very externally placed ; this is better marked in Hares (d). Rabbits, and Beavers. The i/io- pitbic angle in Hares and Rabbits is about 120° to 130°. In the Jerboa it is more oblique, 145°; and still mure so in Rats and Mice, 150°. The sciatic notch is generally long and nar- row, especially in the Jerboa; and the obturator foramen very large, particularly in the Beaver. The pelvic cavity and outlets are large and capacious,especially in the Jerboa, in which, by the outward direction of the ischia, the poste- rior outlet is much larger than the anterior. In the Beaver also the transverse pelvic diameter is large, and separates widely the hinder ex- tremities of these animals, to aid their swim- ming habits. In the Capybara however, the pelvis is of little capacity. In the Guinea-pig it is compressed so much lalerallij, that the anterior opening is of a triangular shape, with the apex at the [)ubic symphysis. According to Le Gallois, it measures only 11 millimetres transversely in a full-grown female, while the foetal head measures 20 millimetres across. Three weeks before labour begins, the clastic liga- ment uniting the symphysis pubis becomes thick, soft, and moveable; and eight to ten days before, the pubes, turning on the sacro- iliac joints as on a hinge, bes'in to separate rapidly, till the time of parturition, when they admit one or two fingers between them. After accouchment, the symphysis quickly returns to its original condition, and in a few days presents only a little thick- ness and mobility, the process being delayed only by age and sickness. Le Gallois found the sacro-iliac symphysis also very moveable, so as to allow of the retreat of the sacrum, and the increase of distance between its ex- tremity and the pubic symphysis when the fostal head pressed upon it. In this manner the pelvis of the Guinea-pig is widened, during labour, in all its diameters. Its young are produced in a very advanced state of de- velopment, and are able to run about and eat as soon as they are born. In the MarsnpidHa the pelvis is also much develo[)ed, both to afford attachment to the powerful muscles of the tail and hinder legs, and, in some of the oriler, to support the ab- dominal viscera in their sitting posture and leaping movements It is remarkable for the development, in most of the genera, of two extra bones { Jiif- 99. «.) characteristic of the order, which are attachcti to the pubes in the site of the crests and spines of these bones in other anima's, and support the abdominal pouch peculiar to them and destined for the reception and more mature development of their young, expelled immature from the pelvic cavity. They are directed obliquely forwards and a little outwards, in the direction of the fibres of theaponeurosisof the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; in which, according to Owen and Laurent, these bones are de- veloped by ossification of the fibrous tissue. The free extremities are a little curved, and over them the cremaster muscles in the male animals play. The pelves of the Marsupials differ considerably, according as the mode of progression is (juadrupcdal, or by a succession of springs from the tail and strong hinder ex- tremities. The Wombat may be taken as an example of the former, and the Kangaroo of