FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Normal Anatomy). 599 termed the middle wing. The Fallopian tube occupies the entire upper border of this wing, and receives from it a complete perito- neal investment, except along the lower bor- der or line of junction of the two surfaces of membrane composing it, at wtiicli line the ves- sels and nerves enter. Thus the tube resembles an intestme in the mode of its investment, but with this difference, that the peritoneal coat is more loosely applied, especially in young subjects ; where the convolutions of the tube are more distinctly marked, and lie free within the sheath, which does not follow their windings {Jig. 418.).* The tubal mesentery ( /??. 404'./) is tri- angular, or somewhat falciform in shape. Its narrow pointed end is directetl towards the uterus, where the tube has scarcely any ca- pacity for independent motion ; but as the depth of the mesentery increases outwardly Fig. greater freedom of inovement is permitted. The greatest breadth of the mesentery is found at a distance of two thirds of its lengtii from the uterine extremity, and here it measures 1^". From this point a slight nariowing occurs, and the membrane ter- urinates in an abrupt margin \\'' m length, which extends from the lower border of the mouth of the tube to the bulbous extremity of the ovary. This border, which is thickened by the addition of a layer of mucous membrane de- rived from the mouth of the Fallopian tube, constitutes the tubo-ovarian lii:ainent {fig. 404. d). Separrite ports and diviaions,— The full ex- tent of the Fallopian tube cannot be ascer- tained until the entire canal, in its interior, has been laid open. The tube which, ex- ternally viewed, appears to spring from the 403. liight. Fallopian tube laid open. From an adult who had not home children. {After Richard.) a, fannel-shaped canal leading from tlie uterus to 6, uterine portion of the tube ; c, point at which the large plica; commence ; d, infundibulum covered by plicse, continuous with those lining the canal; e, tubo- ovarian ligament and fringes; /, ovary ; a, round ligament. superior angle of the uterus, is thus seen to commence by a small orifice, ostium uterinum, upon the inner surface of the uterus. This orifice conducts to a narrow canal (figs. 405. b and 406.) which, after traversing the walls of the organ, and constituting the pars uterhia, expands into a gradually widening tube (fig. 403. c), whose form nearly cor- responds with the external configuration of the part. Towards the extremity of this canal, a sudden contraction occurs, consti- tuting the external orifice of the tube, ostium abduminale {fig. 404. c). But this does not form the termination of the oviduct, for the latter immediately widens into the trum[)et- like orifice {infundibulum), whose margin, split up into numerous fringed processes, *^ For a fiirthor account of the reflections of peritoneum, which enclose the uterine appendages see "Ligaments of the Uterus," in this article. {fimbruB), {fig. 404. a a) give to that part the torn and jagged appearance sugi^estive of the idea that it has been bitten or torn, as expressed in the name, morsus diahnli, applied by ancient writers to this part. Each of these parts exhibit peculiarities of struc- ture, requiri g a special description. Infernal, ar uterine orifice, ostitim uterinum. — This orifice, which ought to be regarded as marking the termination rather than the commencement of the tube, is found at the extremity of a short, funnel-shaped conduit, {fig. 403. a) which leads from the general cavity of the uterus into the upper and outer angle on either side of that organ. Here, while there is no abrupt line of demarcation to indicate the point of commencement of the canal, the characteristic structure of the uterine mucous membrane gradually ceases. The peculiar arrangement of its capillary vessels and the orifices of the uterine glands, a u 4