701 UTERUS — (Abnormal Anatomy). Upon the question of the nature of this form of ulceration Foerster gives a useful hint. After describing a case which fell un- der his notice, and where he could find no traces of either encephaloid or epithelial can- cer in the base of the ulcer, he mentions another which also to tiie naked eye ap- peared to have no cancerous basis, and yet on microscopic examination the entire base of the ulcer, to the depth of a line, was found to consist of cancer structure.* May not the thinness of this layer, by limiting the pabulum which feeds the progress of the ulcer, explain the slow advances of the latter ob-iervable in some cases of corroding ulcer ? Tubercle rarely effects the uterus, and still more rarely is it a primary disease of that organ. Tubercle of the uterus exhibits the follow- ing peculiarities. The tuberculous deposit is limited in the first instance to the mucous membrane of the body of the organ. Here it occurs either in the form of tuberculous granulations, isolated or collected in groups, or more often as a uniform infiltration, limited at first to the mucous membrane, but ulti- mately penetrating more or less deeply the sublying uterine parenchyma, and accompa- nied by hypertrophy of the muscular coat. In the subsequent metamorphosis of the tu- bercular formation the infiltered membrane softens and melts down, so that the cavity becomes filled by a purulent pulpy fluid. The tubercular infiltration terminates abruptly at the inner uterine orificef ; or if rarely it penetrates the cervical canal or appears upon the vaginal portion, it is then only in the form of isolated tubercular granulations, which latter may probably pass into tubercular ul- cers. Tuberculosis of the uterus is usually as- sociated with a corresponding condition of the mucous membrane lining the Fallopian tubes. These latter are foimd distended and their canals filled by caseous tuberculous matter. Solutions of Continui/i/. Laceration of the walls of the uterus occurs under various circumstances. It happens rarely in the unimpregnated organ, more fre- quently during pregnancy, and most commonly during labour. Rupture of the walls of the unimpregnated uterus can only occur under abnormal condi- tions of the organ, as from considerable growths of fibroid, ar from great distension of the cavity by watery, puriform, or sanguineous fluids, such as occur in hydro- and husma- tometra. See p. 097. Rupture during pregnancy may happen at almost any period, but chiefly during the latter half, although it may take place even as early as the second month, as from vo- miting.| Or it may be occasioned by violent * Handbuch der speciellen pathologischen Ana- tomie, 1854, p. 318. f Koivin and Duges' Atlas, pi. xvi. X Case by CoUineau. Journal Gen. de Me'd. 1808. spasmodic contraction, or from contusion or sudden concussion. It is most likely to happen in the case of the imperfectly de- velo|)ed uterus, as in the uterus unicornis, of which a desci-i|)tion has been already given (p. 679.), or in the case of gestation in the uterine portion of the Fallopian tube (gra- viditas iiiterstitialis, p. 621.). Ru|)ture of the uterus may occur upon only very slight exertion, as in the act of stooping*, or even without any obvious cause, as during sleep.-j- Most of the recorded cases, however, of spontaneous rupture of the uterus have occurred during labour, under violent uterine action, combined with some unusual resistance to the passage of the child, such as is occasioned by a distorted or fractured pelvis, a tumour, an unyielding state of the os and cervix uteri, or by some malposition or unusual bulk of the child. It may also occur from violence in instrumental delivery, or from injudicious efforts to turn the child. The seat of rupture is most commonly the neighbourhood of the cervix, the laceration extending very often through the os to the vagina, or ujjwards, so as to involve more or less of the body of the uterus. It occurs oftenest at the sides, less frequently in the anterior or posterior walls, and least of all at the fundus. The course of the laceration is generally oblique, rarely in the horizontal direction. It may, however, extend round the whole circumference of the cervix, the lower seg- ment of the uterus being forced off in a sin- gle piece, before the presenting ijart of the child.t The length of the rupture may be such as to admit of the child escaping into the ab- domen, among the intestines, or it may be only very slight. All the coats of the uterus are not necessarily involved. The peritoneum alone may be torn, numerous rents (40—60) occurring in this coat, without extending to the mu^cular tissue.^ These lacerations occur in most instances where the uterine tissues are perfectly healthy. In some cases the walls of the uterus have been apparently attenuated, the attenuation being attributed to pressure upon the spine or pelvic bones, or there has been more or less evidence of antecedent inflammation near the seat of the accident. Perforation of the uterine walls occurs in cancer, {fig. 479.) followed by the establish- ment of fistulous communications with the blatlder and rectum ; or from penetrating abscess at the surface of the uterus ; or as a consequence of adhesions formed between the uterus and an ovarian cyst, the contents of * Mr. Glen's case in the eighth month of gestation, related by Dr. Meniman, Synopsis of Difficult Parturiticin, 1826, p. 208. t Mr. llott's case, sixth month. Med. Repository, vol. vii. X Mr. Scott's case. Medico- Chirurgical Transac- tions, 18-21. § Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Surg. Knowledge, vol. iii.