PANCREAS. 99 it is irregular. In the Carntmra it is always large in proportion to the size of the animal*, both the duodenal and gastro-splenic portions being liighly developed. In the ox, from the tlistinctness of the two portions, the organ has a bilobed appearance. In the horse, from the giistro-splenic portioti being double, it has a trilobed form. But the most remarkable pan- creas is that of the RodenU; it is spread out in an arborescent manner, in an extensive mesen- tery that imparts free movement to the long duodenum, and extends towards the left in a sort of omentum, which underlays the stomach. (Fig. 74.) Confined thus between the two layers of a mesentery, the ramified lol)esof the pancreas lie all in one plane. Although tlieir distribution is somewhat irregular, they more or less radiate in their general direction from the [)oint at which the duct enters the intestine, wliich in the rahhit is nine inches or a foot from the pylorus. That part of it which occu- pies tlie duodenal mesentery must be consi- dered the representative of the duodenal por- tion, and that spread out in the omentum underlaying and attached to tlie stomach, as the gastro-splenic. Altogether, this arbores- cent pancreas of the Rodents is very volumi- nous, particularly in the rat, from which the drawing was taken. The pancreatic duct has in ISIammalia gene- rally the same branched character as in man, the greater and lesser branches corresponding to the lobes and lobules; usually there is but one orifice, rarely more, and most conmionly it enters the intestine near the pylorus, although sometimes a great way removed from it. In most of the Carnivora it is, as a rule, united with the choledoc duct: in some cases it pre- sents at the point of its immergence into the intestinal canal a sort of ampulla, in which the secretions probably mingle before their entry into the intestine. There are, however, con- siderable varieties of insertion — in the lion two pancreatic ducts join the choledoc sepa- rate!y, one near the other. But whether the ducts enter by a common orifice, or by two neighbouring ones, or whether there are one or two pancreatic ducts, has, probal)ly, no physiological import whatever, as it cannot make any diflerence whether the secretions are brought into contact just before or just after entering the l)owel; and this belief of the non-essential character of these varieties is strengthened, or ratlier proved, by their oc- currence in closclj' allied species of the same genus, and even in different intlividuals of the same species. Cuvier says that he has ob- served, although very rarely, in the domestic cat, a lateral reservoir for the pancreatic seci'e- tion, analogous to the gall bhulder. Its duct, about the size of the cystic, was an inch and a half long before it united with a trunk formed by the union of two pancreatic ducts, a prin- cipal and an accessory, and, together with this, formed a common duct analogous to the ductus coiiinumis choledochus. Tiedemann has de- tected a similar pancreatic reservoir in the * See the physiological portion of tliis article, pn^i; 1(!1. common seal. The greatest distance from the pylorus at which the pancreatic duct enters the intestine occurs, I believe, in the Rodents. In the rabbit this distance amounts to a foot or upwards; and this arrangement, by giving a considerable length of small intestine whose contents are not acted on by the pancreatic secretion, has afforded special facilities for ex- periment. III. Physiology. Anatomy always imjilies physiolcgy, — structure, function ; and the mind passes from the one to the other by a ready and almost irresistible transit. In fact, organisation is but the accumulation, in certain parts, of certain material agents, the sum of whose common action gives as its result the func- tion of the organ, and both the nature of the elements so accumulated, and the method in whicli they are built up, are deternuned by, and have sole reference to, the v.ork to be done. Physiology invariably stands to anatomy, even in its ultimate and minutes^t details, in the relation of final cause. Noiv, there are certain anatomical conditions that always indicate physiological importance ; among these are volume and constancy,— constancy in existence, and constancy in structure. In all these respects we should be led to infer from the consideration of the anatomy of the pancreas that it possesses essential functions; for it is always of con- siderable size, has a very wide range of exist- ence, throughout the whole of Vertcbrata, from the lowest fish to the highest mammal, and is analogically represented in many In- vertebrata; and, lastly, in structure it exhibits with very few exce[)tions, throughout this wide range, a remarkable sameness. The opinions entertamed by the old ana- tomists with regard to the office of the pan- creas were many and various. The earliest anatomical writers do not seem to have been aware of its existence*; some thought that its object was to underlay the stomach as u cushion or pillow, and to serve for the dis- tribution of vessels; others, that it admitted the chyle from the intestines ; others, that it purified the dregs of the chyle ; others, that it served for the spleen a pui'pose ana- logous to that of the gall bladder for the liver ; others, that by it were thrown off the gross and used-up dregs of ihe blood ; others, that the organ was formed for the reception of the excretion of the nerves ; othei-s, finally, taught that the pancreatic secretion was not only useful, but [dayed a vital and essential part in the organism. The first o])inion, which was of very ancient date, was held by Vesaliusf ; but it is at once refuted by a reference to those animals, birds and fish, for example, in which the pancreas is frequently remote from the stomach. The second view, that the pancreatic duct admitted the chyle from the mtestines, is assigned to Baccius and Folius, who both maintained that it * Hippocrates nowliere mpiitions it. f De Humani Corporis Fabi'ica, i. 5. cap. 4. De Oiiifnto.