PELVIS, 171 isosceles triangle, downwards and inwards, uniting in a median symphi sis (/), and much resemble the coracoid bones of the shoulder. The acetabida of the crocodile look di- rectly outwards, have strong inter-articular ligaments, and are formed only by the ilia and ischia, the latter presenting, just below the acetabulum, anterior apophyses which support the pubes. The puhes (rf) are directed much forwards, downwards, and towards each other, but do not touch in the median line, being united only by the abdominal aponeu- Fig. 109. Pthis of the Gangetic Crocodile (_side view). rosis (h). They are connected by the anterior border with the posterior abdominal ribs (g). The Lizards have, like the crocodiles, two sacral bones, as in the Iguana and Great Monitor. In many Lizards the sacral trans- verse processes {Jig- 110. a, a) are very long, and, being articulated by suture to the bodies of the vertebrae, appear, at first sight, like additional ilia. This is particularly the case in a fossil specimen recently dis- covered by Sir Charles Lyell.* The i/ia {/>) are directed forwards and downwards, and the su- perior extremity projects backwards in a trun- cated point (c). The ischia (c) are larger, and directed backwards at a great angle with the ilia, uniting in a truncated median sympliysis, which is separated from that of the pubes ; so that the ohturaior foramina are divided only by ligament {g), and communicate in the dry bones. In some Lizards the ischia present posteriorly a spinous |)rojection. The ■puhcs participate, with the ilia and ischia, in the for- mation of the acetabula, present a spine at their cotyloid extremity (rf), curving down- wards and outwards, and unite in a very narrow symphysis; but in the Monitors and Sauve-gardes the pubic symphysis is distin- guished by its greater breadth and truncated form (/). The i/io-jmbic angle is about 160°, retiring poslcrior/i/ in the Great Monitor Lizard, and the ilio-ischial ansle is very acute, being 60° only {see fig. 112. 13.). In the Mcnepoma alieghani the sacral trans- verse processes are directed backwards, and support apophyses to which the ilia are at- * Lecture at tlie Koyal Institution. tached. The pubes and isc/i'ia are short and oblong, and so approximated as to leave no obturator opening. Upon the pubic spine, in the Cameleon, are two cartilages, which have been stated by Duges to be of a marsupial character, A Fig. 110. A, pelvis of the Great Monitor Lizard. B, ilium, ischio-pubis, and marsupial cartilage of the Salamander {after Duges), seen from below, and twice the natural size. From the pelvis of the fossil Pterodaclyle Cuvier concludes that the forward directiorj of the ilia, the anterior position and pointed extremity of the pubis, and the separation of the pubic and ischiatic symphysis, ally this animal to the Saurian reptiles. In the tailed Batrachia and Iclitliycic rep- tiles there is but one sacral vertebra supporting rib-like transverse apophyses which connects them to the ilia. The Uia are long and slender, and tiie pubes and ischia are blended together in one large, squarish, cartilaginous [ilate, not perforated, and loosely connected by ligament with the one of the opposite side. In the Proteus the ilia are small, and the whole pelvis very little ossified. In the Salamander, also, the ilia are small {see Jig. 110. B, a). A cartilage, of a Y shape (rf), is ])laced at the anterior margin of the ischio-pubic plate (6), which Duges looked upon as marsupial, but which Meckel has considered as part of tlie sternal elements,and which is a bifurcated pro- longation of the cartilaginous ischio-pubic sym- physis (c). There is also a very small obtu- rator opening in the ischio-pubic plate (i). The ossification of the pelvic bones in these animals, according to Duges, takes place in the same order as in man. The pelvis of theyl.ro/o// is, like that of the Salamander, not quite ossi- fied. In the Siren, according to Cuvier, there is no vestige of a pelvis. In the ()p>hisaurus, Ca'cilice, and ArnphisbcBna, there arc only rudi- mentary vestiges of the ilia and ischia ; and in the apodal Saurians, as in the Ophidia, a single bone only is found, under the skin near the anus. In Pseudoj)us unguis and Aconfia are simple elongated pelvic bones, articulated by ligament to the last dorsal transverse processes. In Eryx boa a pair of elongated bones lie parallel to the rectum, fiee from the spinal colunm. They are sometimes found in several distinct pieces. In the Sauroid reptiles the acetabida are di- rected horizontally outwards, and the inflex- ions of the feet are made perpendicularly to the rachis or plane of motion, the thigh being