RESPIRATION, ORGANS OR 258 RESPIRATION.—ORGANS OF. I. Hu- man and Mammalian.—The respiratory S3 stem of organs in man and mammalia comprehends the larynx, the trachea, and the lungs ; embry- ologically, the thyroid and thymus glands should be included in this cateirory. The em- bryonic apparatus of the branchial arches falls under the same denomination. In this article the trachea, bronchi and lungs only will be studied, in their general and minute anatomy. These parts in the human subject will be described at length. In mammalia the pro- minent varieties of structure occurring in some of the commoner genera will be incidentally noticed. The LuNfis (weu/fou/, Gr. ; Pulmo, Lat.; Pnumon,Fr.; Lungen, Germ. ; Lungs or Lights, Engl.) coincide typically in structure with the compound grape-like glands. The lobules and air-cells constitute the glandular paren- chyma. The larynx, trachea and bronchi represent the excretory apparatus. They differ from all other glands, however, in the mechanism of their action. They simultane- ously eliminate and absorb. In the lungs two diametrically opposed functions proceed in the same place at the same time. This mechanical paradox occurs in the example of no other gland. Secretion and excretion are successive steps of the same process. They are not contrary functions. The whole mass of the blood passes through the lungs : other glands receive only a part. The air-passages and cells are far more capacious than the corresponding parts of other glands. This characteristic results from the aeriform nature of the compounds emitted and received. Aeriform bodies are subject to rapid varia- tions of bulk ; fluids imdergo no material changes of volume, through fluctuations of temperature; thence, in the instance of the lungs, results the necessity for mechanical pro- visions, which in ordinary glands would exist to no purpose. The elastic tissue and resilient cartilages so abundantly introduced into the structure of the air-passages and cells realise the required provision. The excretory ducts of all other glands are membranous, the opposite sides of which are capable of collapsing into contact. Fluid in motion readily forces its way through a collapsed tube : air can only traverse a patulous channel. In man the lungs are two in number. They are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on either side of the spine, and embraced by, but still exterior to the pleura. The pleura piilmoiialis and 2}/curaparictalis are everywhere and always in actual contact. It follows that the space of the thorax must be at all times perfectly filled by the lungs and other organs. In figure each lung is conical. The right is wider and shorter than the left, a difference which results from the position of the liver on the right side and the heart on the left. The right lung is cut by deep fissures into three lobes; the left only into two. The base of each lung presents downwards, and rests on the diaphragm ; that of the right is more concave than that of the left. On the right side the liver bulges upwards, encroach- ing upon the chest. The anterior edge of the right lung slopes off obliquely downwards and backwards, so that it projects much lower by its posterior than by its anterior border. On tiie left side the heart occupies the space which, in the absence from this place of this organ, might have been engaged by a third lobe. The apices of the lungs project above the level of the first rib. The right is higher than the left. The dorsal aspect of the lungs, thick, round, and vertical, is received into the hollow of the ribs near the vertebriE. It is longer than the anterior. The posterior and inferior margins descend into the angular space between the ribs and the diaphragm. The anterior border is thin, irregular, and oblique. That of the left extends forwards over the pericardium. The inner surface of each lung |iresents towards the mediastinum. That of the left Is hollowed out to receive the heart. The 7-oot of each lung is attached to the posterior edge of its inner surface. Each lung is divided into lobes by fissures, which commence near the apices, and descend ob- liquely forwards, to end in the anterior border near the base. The fissure divides the lung, on either side, into an upper small lobe and a lower large one. In the right lung a second small fissure is directed downv^ ards and back- wards from the anterior margin, to end in the great fissure—it cuts off a small triangular piece from the upper lobe, and gives three lobes to the right lung.* From Malpighi to Reisseissen, compre- hending the first historical period of Ana- tomical Science, the structure of the lungs formed a constant ground of controversy. From Reisseissen (1803) to Rainey, Addison, Rossignol, Schultze, Moleschott, and Adriani, the most recent authors, differences on this subject have continued to divide the opinions of anatomists. This question, which involves so much that is historically interesting in anatomical science, divides itself naturally into two primary departments : 1st, the de- scriptive and structural; and 2nd, the historical bibliography. The Trachea in man extends from the larynxf to the bifurcation of the tube into the right and left bronchi ; its first superior ring, which is attached to the cricoid cartilage, coincides with the upper border of the body of the fifth cervical vertebra: the point of its bifurcation in the thorax is level with the superior edge of the body of the third dorsal vertebra: it averages in internal diameter from ^ of an inch to 1 inch, and in length from 4 inches to 4^ inches, if Variations in the length of the trachea are due to the great * For a full account of the relations of the lungs to tlie thorax, and to the neighbouring viscera, see art. Thorax. f See Art. Larynx. X " Trachea, SJ"—4^" longa, 8"'—12"' lata, et e pariete anteriore ad posteriorem, 7"'—9"' ampla est."—Disquisitiones de Structura et Textura Cana- lium aeriferum. Scripsit Ernestus Schultze. Mi- tavitc et Lipsite, 1850.