RUMINANTIA. 512 its base to the tympanic bulla (Jig. 334.). The latter is much compressed, and also firmly connected above to the paramastoid apophyses of the occipital, leaving a con- spicuous cavity between. In the Llamas, at the root of the zygomatic apophysis, there is a large round foramen immediately above the external meatus. In Cervidas and Antelo- pidae the post-glenoid apophysis is feebly developed, and the base of the zygoma is flattened and prolonged backwards toward the occipital crest; the squamous portion is rather extensive and the tympanic bulla of large size. Similar arrangements obtain in the Giraffe, but the zygomatic apophyses are more curved than in the Stags. The base of the zygomatic process in many of the Ante- lopidte is pierced by an oval opening, which is situated midway between the external auditory meatus and the glenoid facet; and from it there sometimes proceeds a fissure, which takes an upward direction, to join the parieto-temporal or squamous suture.* This foramen occurs in the Muntjack deer (,fig. 331.), and, as we have before stated, in the Fig. 331. Cranium of the Muntjack. (From Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) Llamas also. In ffigosceridas the squamous portion of the temporal is comparatively small (e, fig. 333.), and the tympanic bulla, which is moderately large and somewhat flattened, terminates by a sharp styloid pro- cess anteriorly. The post-glenoid apophysis is represented by a very narrow ridge of bone, leaving only a slit-like cavity between it and the nieatus. In Bovidae the temporals (e, fig. 327.) are partially hid by the overhanging frontals : they develope short and strong zygomatic apophyses ; their buUee {e',fig. 327.) * F. Cuvier. are much narrowed, and their styloid pro- cesses are divided at the tip into several needle- shaped points. Bones of the fare. — These are more nu- merous than those of the cranium, and we shall only notice the more important of them in detail. The nasals (7), which vary much in size, are long in the true Camels, a little spread out at the base and deeply notched in front, forming together three salient points : in the Llamas we find them very short and broad posteriorly. In Cervidae generally, the na- sals are much extended lengthwise and bifur- cate anteriorly {fig. 329.) : in the Muntjack (C. Muntjac) and in the Giraffe they are par- ticularly wide apart at the upper or posterior border (fig. 331.) ; and in the latter species they exhibit a gradual but marked rising towards the central eminence of the frontals (7%. 328.). The naso-frontal suture in the genus IVToschus is much denticulated. The nasals are very short in the Eland or Canna (^A. oreas, Pallas), and in the Moose-deer (C. alces. Linn.) In CEgosceridee and Bo- vidae the bones of the nose are moderately long, and slightly convex above in the former (f,fig. 333.) ; in the latter family and in the Goats they are divided in front (f, fig. 327.); but in the Sheep they form together a single V-shaped process (7, fig. 332.). Fig. 332. Slmtt of the Sheeji, front view. (From Loud. Coll. Surg. Museum.) The infermaa-illaries (1) are usually much prolonged, but they do not develope incisive teeth except in the Camelidfe, and a few other species. In the Camels properly so called, and in the aberrant cervine genus Moschus, the outer rami of these bones incline at the supe- rior part almost vertically upwards (fig. 334.); but in the Llamas they maintain through- out an oblique direction as obtains in rumi- nants generally. In both genera they are com- pressed laterally, and brought round in front, so as to resemble in some measure the beak of a bird ; the incisive foramina are remarkably