[95] OVUM. Fig. 65 *. Formation of the ovarian ovum in the Frog. A, and B. Blagnilied representations of an ovarian follicle and its contents in an early stage of the formation of the ovum. The follicle is ^IJ' in diameter: in A the follicular membrane and its epithelial lining are cliiefiy brought into focus; in B the parts of the ovum within are represented when the microscope was adjusted so as to place them in focus. The wall of the ovarian follicle con- sists of a structureless membrane or ovicapsule, and an external covering of thin flattened cells; the epithelial cells of the follicle within are seen in pro- file towards the margin, and full towards the centre (in A) where their granular contents and nuclei are distinct. In the centre of is the large germinal vesi- cle with numerous maculie is seen ; around it a clear space which is a part of the basement substance of the primitive yolk, and between this and the wall of the follicle there is seen superiorly the dark granular mass which has been called yolk nucleus. The clear primitive yolk is also surrounded by a finely granu- lar vitelline substance which has begun to be de- posited. line of the clear part remains remarkably smooth and well-defined for a time, and there appears to be some fluid or different sub,stance interposed between it and the inner surface of the ovicapsule. The homoge- neous membrane of the latter is found at an earl\' period to be lined by a single layer of very distinct largely nucleated cells, which lie flatly applied against its inner surface, but bulge or project roundly on their other sides towards the ovum. This layer of cells no doubt cor- responds to the tunica granulosa of the ovisac in other animals, and lias a similar destina- tion. There is as yet, neither in the earlier ova nor in those half-grown, any zona or other proper vitelline niembi ane; and it is obvious that what some authors* have described as such could be nothing more than the distinct surface of the primitive yolk. Whether this surttice becomes condensed into a membrane, or at what time this may occur, has not yet been determined by observation. Besides these parts in the early Batrachian ovum, there is another which has frequently been seen by various observers from Von Baer downwards, and which, as it is different from anything that has been observed in the ova of other Vertebrata, deserves some atten- tion ; I refer to a dark mass of granules situ- ated excentrically or towards the side of the clear primitive yolk-substance, and between it and the tunica granulosa of the ovisac, and which, from its supposed connection with the formation of the 3 oik-substance, has been called the yolk-nucleus. This mass may easily be seen in ovisacs of the common frog of from Y37T '^o of an inch in diameter. It is then about one-tenth of the diameter of the ovisac. It is very opaque as compared with the other parts, being composed of ag- gregated heaps or small balls of finer granules. The opaque granules of the yolk have been supposed to be derived from this body, and it lias been alleged that, as the yolk-substance increases, this yolk-nucleus gradually disap- pears or spreads itself round the germinal vesicle, f Leuckart, however, states that this bod}' is not invariably present, and that it is subject to considerable varieties, and he is not inclined to attribute to it any important function in connection with the Ibrmation of parts of the ovum. 1 have in general found it present, and think it more |)robable that it may be destined to form the external and larger corpuscles of the yolk, while the clearer part immediately surrounding the germinal vesicle may contribute to the production both of these and of the finer substance in which the germinal vesicle is found imbedded. But farther observations vvdl be required for the determination of these points. As the growth of the ovarian ova proceeds, the deposit of fine granules in and around the primitive albuminous yolk-mass increases rapidly ; and the yolk-nucleus, becoming less distinct, finally disappears at an early but somewhat variable period. The yolk-sub- * As Cramer, loc. cit. p. 21. J See V. Carus in Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool. vol. ii. p. 103.; and Ecker in his new edition of K. Wagner's Iconea Physiolog. descript. of Tab. xxiii.