2U REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetadle Ovum) of which a structure is formed composed of a series of cylindrical cells placed end to end. The growing extrem.ity of this body, the so-called siispensoi-, penetrates the single layer of cells which separate it from the in- ferior surface of the prothallium, and buries itself in the cushion-like mass. A new deve- lopment now commences in the terminal cell, which is divided by a succession of septa Jnclined alternately in opposite directions. Fiff. 176. is occupied by a large cell, which is enclosed by a single layer of others, and supported Fig. 178. Egg-sliaped rudiment of embryo of the same attached to the suspensor, from the terminal cell of which it has originated, 300 diam. From this results an egg-shaped body, the primary axis of the embryo, which, as it en- larges, causes the absorption of the cells by which it is immediately surrounded. Soon after a new (secondary) axis is developed, Sectioji of contents of upper part of macrospore of the same, 120 diam. a, prothallium, coutinuous at its periphery with b, the original inner membrane of the spore; c, cellular body subjacent to prothallium, which projects into the cavity of the spore; a, com- mencement of secondary axis of growth of the embryo ; below p are observed the remains of the archegonium within which the embryo origi- nated. Several other unfructified arehegonia are seen in section. the direction of which (obliquely upward), is nearly opposite to that of its predecessor. It finally makes its escape from the cavity of the spore by penetrating the prothalliLun near its centre, bearing upon its summit the first p iir of leaves of the young plant. 9i. Sporangia and spores. — The sporangia of Selaginella denticulata are formed in the axils of the leaves of the fertile branch, in the following manner. A superficial cell of the stem, the position of which is always imme- diately above the middle of the line of in- sertion of the leaf, is developed to a nipple- shaped projection. The centre of this body Two germ plants of Selaginella Martensi, which have taken their origin from a single macrospore, 5 diam. on a short pedicle. As it advances towards maturity, the spore-case consists of a capsule of three layers. Of these the external or epidermic, is composed of narrow prismatic cellules containing only a transparent fluid. The cells of the middle layer are tabular, and contain starch granules, vv-hile those most internal are narrow and somewhat columnar, with very delicate walls. Within this capsule is enclosed a central mass of larger cells, which exhibit central nuclei and granular contents. These, which are the parent cells of the spores, are at first intimately united, but afterwards lie loose in the cavity of the spore-case. Up to this point the development of all the sporangia is uniform. In those in which macrospores are to be produced (oophoridia), one of the parent cells, in no respect different from its fellows in struc- ture, continues to increase in size while they disappear. Its nucleus is soon replaced by four others, which arrange themselves, as in Eqnisetum, towards the four angles of a regular tetrahedron. Septa are afterwards formed, which divide the cell into four com- partments, in each of which a spore is de- veloped. The spore at first exhibits only a delicate membrane, but as it approaches maturity the three converging ridges, and, finally, the external tegument, the structure of which has been already described, are formed upon its surface. No sooner is this process completed than the membrane of the parent cell disappears, the four spores retaining their relative position, however, to each other, apparently attached by the remainder of the septa. It is at the point at which the spores are in relation with the centre of the mother cells, that the three ridges converge, as well as the three lines by which the valves of the external tegument give way to allow of the growth of the pro- thallium. 9.'3. In those sporangia in which microspores are to be formed, all of the orii^inal parent cells exhibit a development which corresponds with that which is above described as occur- ring in one only in the oophoridium, with this exception, that they do not attain the same dimensions. Hence results a large number of microspores which resemble the macrospores in the structure of their internal membrane, and external three-valved tegument, but differ