TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 484 they are coincident; that soft membranous separation therefore, which exists between the two layers anteriorly, is far less developed posteriori}' ; and the soft continuation of the scale which is flat anteriorly, is inflected pos- teriorly ; the process of addition being other- wise the same. Suppose, now, that each detached calcareous centre of ossification as it is added to the posterior margin of the scale, instead of being flattened, were produced into a spine as in the Rays, then it is perfectly clear that instead of a cycloid scale, the result would be a serrated ctenoid scale. And this appears to be exactly what takes place in tlie scales of the perch, according to Prof. Williamson's description. From all this, I think, we arrive at Prof. Williamson's conclusion, that fish-scales are essentially tegumentary teeth ; that like the latter organs, they result not from the calcifi- cation of the cellular ecderon covering those folds of the integument, upon which they are developed and which correspond with the dental pulp, but by a calcareous deposit taking place beneath this, in what represents a deep layer of the ecderon; finally that it is, for the present, an open question whether the deep layers of all scales are produced by a con- tinuation of this process, or whether in some cases a deep truly enderonic structure may be added to this superficial ecderonic constituent to constitute the perfect scale. A process of the latter kind would, at any rate, find its parallel in the eventual union of the teeth of many fishes with their jaws, and in that of the plates of the chelonia with the vertebral elements. § 3. Histology of the tegumentary organs. — Having thus arrived at a general idea of the mode in which the various forms of integumen- tary organs are produced from the primary morphological constituents of every integu- ment, we have now to consider their minute histological elements and the mode in which these proceed from the indifferent tissue of which all organs are primarily composed. The tegumentary tissues, like all others, are produced by the metamorphosis of the pe- riplast of the protomorphic or indifferent tissue from which they take their origin, the endoplasts, to all appearance, taking but little share in the metamorphic processes. The chemical metamorphosis of the periplast may be either into horny, chitinous, calcareous, or cellulose matter; in form it may become fibrous, laminated, vacuolated, bony, prisma- tic, &c. As a general rule, the endoplasts tend to disappear,^jaW p(75«;(, with the metamorphosis in form and composition of the periplast; but the differences presented by different tissues in this respect have given rise to the esta- blishment of a distinction between what is called the process of conversion and that of excretion. For instance, in the development of a hair or of a nail, the elements of the pro- tomorphic layer evidently pass, as such, into the perfect substance of these organs; the periplast simply becoming horn}', and the endo- plasts remaining for a long while, or even always, visible in the cornified tissue. This is therefore a process of "conversion'" of the protomorphic tissue. On the other hand, the chitinous coat of the lov/er Annulosa and the shells of the lamellibranchiate and gasteropod Mollusks arise in a totally different manner. The elements of the protomorphic layer do not pass into them entire, but they are formed, like the cuticula of a plant, or like the den- tine and enamel of the teeth, by the successive outgrowth of layers of the outer portion of the periplast. No endoplasts, therefore, are ever found in them, and there is no conversion of the protomorphic tissue, but a process of excretion. * At first sight this distinction would appear to be very decided, and likely to afford a good ground for the formation of definite sub- divisions of the integumentary organs into classes. Unfortunately, it is often difficult in practice to assure oneself in what way a given tegumentary organ has been formed. While the presence of endoplasts in a meta- morphosed tissue is good eviilence of its having been developed by conversion, their absence is no proof that the tissue has been developed by excretion; inasmuch as it may simply be due to their very early disappear- ance. In fact, if any one affirm that the shell of a Unio or of a Crustacean, notwithstanding the impossibility of detecting endoplasts in its youngest laminje, is in reality formed by the successive apposition of entire layers of the protomorphic tissue, in which the endoplasts disappear so early that they cannot be de- tected, it would be very difficult absolutely to dispi ove the assertion, though we might ask for evidence of its truth. Disbelieving in the doctrine of the special vital activity of the endoplasts, I confess the question does not seem to me to be of much importance, and I have only enlarged upon the subject because great weight has by high authorities been laid upon these distinctions. It appears to me that the processes of conversion and of excre- tion grade one into the other, and that no real subdivisions can be based upon the oc- currence of either to the exclusion of the other. I will, hovpever, take care to indicate what appear to me to be clear instances of each. I shall now proceed to consider the histological structure of the integuments of animals in the following order : — 1. Hydroid and Actinoid Polypes and Beroidae. 2. An- nulosa, including the Worms and Echinoderms. 3. Mollusca, including the Ascidians and Po- lyzoa. 4. Vertebrata. 1. Hydroid and Actinoid polypes.—In these animals the integument consists either of a simple cellular and vacuolated ecderon, or the outer layer of this is developed into a structureless coat, which may become thick- ened by repeated additions, and thus attain considerable dimensions. In the common * Using tlie word in the sense of " growth out," not in the common perverted signification of fluid transudation and hardening.