OVUM. 7 Some recent observations appear to throw additional light on this subject, and to make it probable that in some circumstances this process is in some sort analogous, or at least equivalent, to one of sexual reproduction. The first accurate observation of the de- velopment of a progeny of young ceils within the body of a polygastrian was communicated by Focke in 1844 to the meeting of natu- ralists at Bremen, and the fact of the pro- duction of internal germs or bodies resembling ova or spores within the body of these ani- malcules has recently received full confir- mation from the observations of Stein and of Cohn.* In Cohn's observations, which were made on a paramaecian polygastrian, the Loxodes Fig. 4. Formation and extrusion of ova or tjerms in Lo.rodcs hiirsaria (^from Cohn). a, animalcule, containing two young; h, contain- ing six; c, one of tlie embryos escaping; d, e, two ciliated embryos. bursaria, which is usually multiplied like the rest, in the fissiparous niotle, sometimes by longitudinal, at others, by transverse division, it was found that at certain periods there were formed within the bodies finely granular colourless cells, in some only one, more fre- quently several, and occasionally as many as six or seven, nearly of a uniform size, and ferredto nndertliehear] of 'sporiferous reproduction,' by Prof. Rymer Jones, in tbe article Polygastkia. * Stein, Untersucli. lib. die Entwicli. der Infuso- rien, Wiegmann's Arcljiv., 1849, vol. 1. p. 134. in Actinophrys, Acineta, and Chilodon uncinatus. Cohn, in Zeitsch. filr Wissensch. Zoologie, Nov. 1851, p. 2.37. each presenting two contractile vesicles like the parent. The escape of these bodies, by their passage through an aperture temporarily formed in the wail of the infusorian, was carefully observed; the exit of each embryo occupied about twenty minutes. Soon after their escape they exhibited active ciliary mo- tion, and moved about with all the appearance of embryo-infusoria. Although the farther development of these bodies was not traced, the observations on this animal, and on an- other, the Urostyla grandis, afford sufficient proof that the infusoria may be propagated by minute separate germs, as well as by division of their bodies. A similar production, but more numerous, of an internal progeny, has been observed in the microscopic parasitic animalcule termed Gregarina, which infests the intestinal canal of a number of insects, earth worms and some other invertebrate animals.* The simple Gregarina consists of a single cell filled with granular substance, and con- taining a distinct nucleus. It has no intestinal canal, nor other internal organisation ; is gene- rally of an elongated shape, and creeps about by motions of slow contraction of its substance. The formation of the progeny or smaller bodies within the Gregarina is attended with a remarkable change in the parent animal, which has been carefully observed by Stein. This change, in which the animal appears double for a time, had been j^reviously no- ticed by Kolliker and others, and had been interpreted by Kolliker as the conversion of a single animal into two, by a process analo- Fig. 5. Gregfirincc (from KijlUlicr.) a, single; h, c, d, united ; e,f, </, tlie formation of tlip navicella-like progeny; h, three of these na- vicella; (I'rom Stein). * These animals were first accurately described by T^con Dufour in 1837 (Ann. des Sc. Nat. vol. \di. p. 10.). They have since been studied with great li i