TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 475 as it might be termed, external and internal to which, is a zone of indifferent tissue, while, still more remote again, is a zone of meta- moi-phosed tissue. The absolute structure of the two hiyers thus produced is very similar*, so much so, that, as is well known, either may perform for a time the function of the other. The distinction between the integument and t1ie nmcous membrane in a morphological point of view, however, is as strongly marked as in the most complex animal. The integu- ment, in fact, grows from within outwards—it is endogenous, its youngest portions being internal: the mucous membrane, on the other hand, grows from without inwards — its youngest portion is external, and it is, therefore, exogenous. We have here, I believe, the fundamental, and the only essential distinction, between true integumenlarj/ or " epidermic " structures and all others. An integmnenturij or epidermic organ forms or has formed a jmrt of the external surface, and grows endogenousli/ ; its tjonngest portion and plane of no differentiation being directed inwards. If, for instance, we compare the young skin of a mammal with the body of the H} dra, we shall find precisely the same planes and zones. Fig. 303. B, represents a perpendicular sec- tion of the integuments of a foetal lamb 3i inches long, (a) marks the position of the line of no differentiation separating the epidermis from the derma; on the outer side of that line lie the close-set endojilasts of tlie deepest layer (rete) of the epidermis, which are dis- posed somewhat perpendicularly to the sur- face. On the inner side are the less approxi- mated endoplasts of the outer youngest layer of the derma, more or less parallel to the sur- face. From a to b, lies the epidermic area of metamorphosis, the inilifferent tissue becoming gradually converted into flattened horny cells. From a to c, on the other hand, is the dermic area of metamorphosis, the indifferent tissue gradually changing into connective tissue. It will be observed here, that as the whole serous layer of the germ corresponds in struc- ture with the epidermis only, of the fully formed animal, so the whole integument of the Hydra corresponds with what is usually considered as only a portion of the integu- ment— the epidermis—of the mammal. The derma, or true skin of the latter, would not come at all under our present definition of integument, since it has all the morphological characters of the mucous layer of the Hydra, or of the germ ; i. e. its youngest layer is ex- ternal, its growth is exogenous, and the me- tamorphosis of its tissue takes place from within outwards. In fact, in all animals higher than the Hydroid Polypes (possessing therefore a vis- ceral cavity) we find a complication of struc- ture, corresponding with that which is pro- duced in the germ, when the "memhrana in- termedin''' divides into its parietal and intes- tinal laminae, ('ompared with the Hydroid * Though not, as it is commonly said, identical. Polypes, the higher forms are double animals, and a section of their bodies is, morphologi- cally speaking, like a section of two Hydra2, one contained within the other. Both the intestinal parietes, and those of the body, pre- sent the same distinction into a central j)lanc of no differentiation, from which growth and metamorphosis proceed inward and outward on the two respective surfaces, as that ob- served in the parietes of the Hydra. The formation of this so-called membrana intermedia, in fact, appears to result from a repetition of the process which gave rise to the two primary layers of the germ. The previously central plane of no differentiation is replaced by two others, from which growth and metamorphosis proceed in the same way. The result is, of course, the division of the germ into three layers — a central and two superficial (inner and outer) planes of meta- morphosed tissue — and two planes, whence growth and metamorphosis proceed. It results from all this, thai, among the higher animals, the true homologue of the integu- ment of the Hydra is the epidermic layer alone. But it would be exceedinglyinconvenient to change the accepted meaning of " Integu- ment " on this ground ; and, therefore, I shall, throughout the present article, consider as integument — the outermost plane of indif~ fcrent tissue in the animal body, with its external and internal area of metamorphosis collectively; these being simply the expressions of two jn-o- ccsses of growth in ojjposite directions, and their line of contact. It must not be supposed that this phrase- ology involves any hypothetical views: the fact that any integumentary organ consists of these three i)ortions will be found to be either distinctly stated or implied by all writers, and is indeed obvious enough on inspection. But though the facts be old enough, this ex- pression of them is unfortunately so new, that I know of no existing terminology by which it can be properly enunciated. The term " Epidermis," for instance, at present, though it denotes the important character of the direction of growth to which I refer, implies even more strongly the simple cellular struc- ture of an organ; so that to speak of "Epi- dermic" bony or fibrous tissue would sound almost contradictory. Again, all these distinc- tions, which have been shown to exist between the two elements of the integument, equally hold good with regard to the mucous mem- branes. Now we have a term " Epithelium " for the epidermic element of the latter ; but there is, as far as I know, none for the ele- ment which corresponds with the derma. Nor have we any word for the boundary line be- tween the endogenous and exogenous areas of growth — the term "basement membrane" expressing only an accidental character of the tissue immediately on one or the other sides of that line. Although with great reluctance, then, I feel compelled to propose two or three new terms, which may have general application, not only to the integumentary organs, but to all othej'