[I07J OVUM. Fiff. 71 *. Jenital Organs of PlujlUrhoe hucephalum, one of the. Hermaphrodite Gasteropoda. {From H. MuUer and Gegenbaur.) A. The compound or hermaphrodite organs dissected out and represented several times magnified; 5 t, the two productive organs eacli composed of ovigerous and seminiferous parts; v d, the common Bxcretory ducts for both kinds of organ; v s, the seminal vesicle; u, the uterus; p, a part of the penis; c, the common external vent. B. One of the lobes of the common productive organ laid open and more highly magnified. Towards the surface o o, tlie ova are seen in different stages of development in the ovarian stroma; in the interior t t, the substance of the testis with spermatic cells and spermatozoa in various degrees 3f advancement; some of the filaments being very long; v d, the common excretory duct for ova and spermatozoa. snclosed in the liver, the nature of which was 'or a long time involved in obscurity, and occa- sioned much doubt and difficulty to naturalists. The explanation of this peculiar structure we owe first to H. Meckel*, and Leuckartf; and more recently H. Meckel and Gegenbaur have described this organ particuhu-ly in one of the beteropodous Moilusca,viz. Phyllirrhoe buce- ihalum.J The outer part of this curious organ constitutes the ovary, the inner the testis ; and the products of these respective organs, in eaving the seat of their first formation, pass together into an inner common cavity, and thence downwards in the excretory duct. There is, therefore, a common outlet for both. Ihe ova and spermatozoa most frequently lass out at different times ; but occasionally 3oth these reproductive elements are seen to- gether in the passages. It seems probable .herefore that they in general meet for im- pregnation only in the lower part of the pas- sages ; but this apparently is not yet fully de- termined, and the modes of union may be * Miillcr's Archiv. for 1844, p. 483., see plates CIV. and XV. t Zur Morphologie und Anatomie der Geschlechts Jrgan. 1847, p. 1'28. X Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool. vol. v. n. 355. pi. xix. various in different genera or families. At all events, the primitive ova and spermatozoa seem to come into contact with each other previous to the addition of the enveloping membrane. * The ova of the Mollusca are in general of small size. The yolk consists of a viscid al- buminous substance, containing suspended in it minute granules, and a variable quantity of coloured oil globules. The germinal vesicle is proportionally of considerable size ; and the macula is distinct and granular. Leuckart-|- states that he ant! Nordmann have ascertained that in Lynmeus, the first part of the ovum which is formed is the germinal vesicle, that the yolk-substance begins as a clear trans- parent albuminous matter surrounding the germinal vesicle, and, as we have seen in various other animals, the granular yolk matter is gradually deposited in this clearer part of the vitelline substance, occupying at first princi- * The hermaphrodite gland exists in the Ptero- poda, Apneusta, Nudibranchia, Infero-branchia, Tec- tibranchia, and Pulmonata. The Mollusca which have separate sexual organs belong chiefiy to the orders Cyclobranchia, Scut ibranchia.Tubulibranchia, and Cirribranchia, some Hetcropoda, Poctinibranchia, and operculate Pulmonata or Cyclostoma. t Article Zeugung, p. 800.