UTERUS—(Development). T T 2 6+3 the latter is the more considerable, for the body has not yet acquired breadth ; while the cervix, forming a tube of nearly equal calibre with the body, possesses almost twice its length. This greater length of the cervix, as compared with the body of the uterus, is one of the most striking characteristics of foetal life 441.), one also which continues to be observed for many years after birth. b. The uterus from the time of birth to pu- herty. — From the time of birth until the approach of puberty, the internal generative organs undergo but little change. Gradually, but slowly, increasing in size, they still retain the principal characteristics of the fcetal pe- riod. The uterus consists still chiefly of cer- vix, the body being that part which is last developed. Thus in a child of three years {jig. 442.), in whom the entire length of the uterus is 15"', the cervix measures IT", and Fig. 442. Uterus and appendages of an infant, a, cavity of the boJy laid open ; b, of the cervix ; c, anterior lip of the cervix ; d, left ovary opened ; e. Fallopian tube; /, right ovary; g, internal os uteri, marking the division between the body and cervix. \Ad Nat.) the body only 4"'. These dimensions do not materially differ from those of the Uterus in the first year of lile, nor do they much exceed those of the same organ at birth. But as puberty approaches, the relative proportions of the cervix and body of the uterus are found to have changed, and the latter now preponderates over the former. For while the body now equals the cervix in length, the breadth of the former much exceeds that of the latter. The walls of the upper chamber now become thicker from the more rapid development of the uterine muscular fibre, which is their chief constituent. Thi.s not only increases the ex- ternal dimensions of the organ, but, at the same time, causes the parietes to become in- curved, and so to encroach upon the cavity contained by them, which, up to this period, preserves the form of a nearly equilateral triangle {fig. 442.), but now gradually acquires the shape already described as characteristic of the cavity of the adult uterus {fig. 4.31.). The folds or [)lica3 also (fig. 442.), which, in infantile life, are distinguishable upon the anterior and posterior walls of the cavity in the uterine body, resembling somewhat those in the cervical canal, gradually disap[)ear ; their former situation being now indicated by only a slight groove or raphe in the meilian line, and one or two gentle elevations diverging towards either Fallopian tube. These traces in the cavity of the body of its original con- struction out of two symmetrical halves, be- come generally lost after the uterus has been once impregnated, and indeed cannot always be distinctly seen in the nulliparous organ. One peculiarity in the form of the infantine uterus may be mentioned here, although it will be subsequently more particularly noticed. This consists in a curvature or inclination forwards of the upper part of the uterine body {fig. 467,). It is constantly more or less seen in infancy and childhood, and is usually partly retained in the virgin adult, but be- comes lost after one or two pregnancies. In an excessive degree, it constitutes the con- dition hereafter described as antiflexion of the uterus. From the time of birth to puberty, the com- ponent elements of the uterus remain nearl}' unchanged. They consist of granules and cells in various stages of development, from the round granular corpuscle to the elongated and ultimately fusiform fibre-cell; the two latter being often d"awn out, at their extremities, into long filiform threads. These are all imbedded in a semitransparent forjnless matrix, and dif- fer in no respect from the corresponding tissues in the ailult, exce[)t that they are ge-