OVUM. 4.2 spermatic matter derived from detached chains which are frequently floatin^> near them. To this result, no doubt, the currents of water in the respiratory cavity will materi- ally contribute. Since the publication of the first part of this article, the general aspect also of the questions involved in the facts referred to has undergone revision by several authors. The whole doctrine of alternate generation has, it appears, been called in question by Reichert, in a programme entitled Unisexual Reproduc- tion*, which I have not had an opportunity of seeing. In liis recent very able and in- structive treatise on Reproduction in the Handworterbuch der Physiologic, Rud. Leuckartf, though he retains the name of alter- nate generation as designating the phenomena referred to, gives the doctrine little place, and seems still inclined to regard this mode of pro- duction rather as a peculiar modification of growth than as a true generation. He is per- haps right in his remarkj, that physiologists have been too much disposed to separate the phenomena of alternate generation from other forms of production of a non-sexual kind, of which he considers thern as only a variety; the alternation of different forms being, according to him, only a subordinate and not an essential phenomenon. In his recent very interesting work on Animal Morphology, Victor Cams 5 has allowed more importance to the views of Steenstrup, adopting at the same time Owen's term Metagenesis, as most suitable for the designation of this kind of production. This author appears to me to have made the nearest approach to a correct appreciation of the nature of this process in its relation to the whole phenomena of animal reproduction as at present known. Reviewing therefore finally the whole of the facts and opinions on this subject, I am in- clined to adhere to the views expressed in a previous part of this article, that the pheno- mena of alternate generation or metagenesis ought to be grouped together, and to retain their place as constituting one of the general forms of reproduction among animals ; con- sisting, as they constantly do in a certain number of animals, in the combination, alterna- tion, or succession of the sexual and non-sexual production of individuals all proceeding origin- ally from the development of one ovum. At the same time it is to be noted, that this mode of production does not exist in all the species or genera of those tribes of the lower animals among which it has been observed to occur, and that in some it passes by gradual transi- tions into other forms of the generative pro- * Die Monogene Fortpflanzuiig. Dorpat, 1852. t Article Ztugmig, in the 5th and Gth parts of vol. iv. of Wagner's Handworterbuch, 1853. X Loc. cit. p. 979. § System der Thierischeu Morphologie. Leipzig, 1853. cess. It is not on that account the same as them. Metamorphosis and Metagenesis, also, as V. Carus remarks, may be combined, but they are different. " Larvas, the subjects of metamorphosis, arrive at the state of perfec- tion by throwing off provisional structures which belong to their larval condition, but nurses, the subjects of metagenesis, are them- selves entirely provisional structures." Generation, therefore, or the production of new individuals belonging to a species, may be either of the sexual or of the non-sexual kind. It is only in the Protozoa that the distinction of sex has not yet been discovered. In all other animals the production of new individuals of the species is the result of the development of ova fecundated by spermatic matter. In all the Vertebrate animals and in the majority of the Invertebrate, the development of the ovum gives rise to a single new individual; in most of them by a continuous process of formative growth, in some by successive stages, or by metamorphosis. In a few Inver- tebrate animals the development of the ovum gives rise directly to more than one individual by what may be named primary division of the ovum. In a considerable number of Inverte- brate animals the production of new indivi- duals sexually perfect is not immediate from the fecundated ovum, but secondary or in- termediate by non-sexual formation from a preparing stock which is the product of de- velopment from the ovum. In such animals an alternation of sexual and non-sexual for- mation of individuals is necessary for the completion of the act of generation or the reproduction of the species. In a few of these animals only one new individual is formed ; but in by far the greater number the product is multiple, thus leading to a great increase in the number of individuals, either in the distinct or in the aggregate form, which have all derived their origin from a single ovum. It is to be observed however, that in some in- stances the alternating generation may co-exist either with the non-sexual mode of multipli- cation or with direct sexual reproduction. In conformity with these views of the rela- tion of the product of generation to the ovum and its progenitors, there might thus be esta- blished the following modes of reproduction among animals—viz. I. MoNOGENEsis, reproduction without known sexual distinction. II. DiGENESis, bisexual reproduction. III. Metagenesis, alternation of sexual and non-sexual reproduction. In each of these main forms of the repro- ductive process the following varieties might also be distinguished—viz. 1. With single progeny. 2. With multiple progeny. 3. By consecutive development. 4. By metamorphic or interrupted develojj- nient.