REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 833 58. First period.* — From the germination of the sjwre arises a tubular filament, which is converted directly, by successive divisions, into a simple riband-like frond, vpith a notch in its anterior margin, containing a young shoot. At whatever age tiie plant be oli- served, the actively growing portions are shoots which resemble the spore plant in form and structure, and it is at various points of the upper surface of these shoots that the reproductive organs are developed. 39. The development of the antheridia com- mences in the still very young shoot, by the separation "of a circular group of about sixteen of the superficial layer of cells from those of the tissue below it. There results a small lentil-shaped lacuna in the parenchyma, vehich Fig. 153. Section of young shoot of Anthoceros levis, passing through tlie lacuna in. which the antheridia are deve- loped. The rudiments of the untlieridia springing from its floor, project upwards into its cavity. 5(3 diam. is filled with watery fluid, and roofed over by the cellular layer above mentioned." Each of the cells forming the floor of the lacuna, is divided by two septa, one parallel to the axis of the frond, and perpendicular to its surface, the other also perpendicular, but cutting the first at right angles. The membrane of each of the resulting small cells buds out upwards, so as to project into the lacuna, and soon after, the upper projecting portion is cut oft' from the rest by a transverse septum, and becomes the parent cell of the antheridium. A second septum is then formed above the first, and parallel to it. This is succeeded by a third, which is inclined to the horizon at a small angle. Above it is a fourth, similarly inclined, but in the op[)osite direction ; next follows a fifth, parallel to the third, and so on alter- nately. In this manner is formed a cylindrical papilla, consisting of two vertical scries of celLs, each of which is a segment of a cylinder. Each is next bisected by a radiating vertical septum, so that the papilla is now formed of four in- stead of two vertical columns. The penul- timate cell of one of these columns next * The following description is abridged from Hofmeister in loc. cit. pp. 4—9. divides by a vertical septum, parallel to a plane touching, the centre of its outer sur- face. This meets the perpendicular wall last formed at 43°, and divides the cell into an external tetrahedral, and an internal three-sided compartment. The latter divides twice by septa, which cross each other at right angles, so as to form a central group, which, as it rapidly enlarges, causes the four less actively growing cells by which it is sur- rounded to assume a tabular form. In its further development it is converted into a mass of very numerous and minute regularly- arranged tessellar cells, in each of which is found " a lentil-shaped vesicle which occupies the greater part of its cavity." Shortly before the antheridium arrives at maturity, the mem- brane of the cells disappears ; the vesicles float free, and there is now found rolled up in each, a spiral fibre of from 2^ to 3 coils, which is coloured yellow by iodine. The ripe antheridium presents the. general form and ap- pearance shown in fig. 13C. The cellular mem- Fig. 136. a, diagram of antheridium of the same, 250 diam.; h, lenticular cellules containing antherozoids, OOO diam. brane, resulting from successive division of the four cells, which originally surrounded the central mass, gives way at the apex of the organ. In the meantime, the layer of cells which roofed over the lacuna has split open. The escaped spiral filaments (antherozoids), as seen under the microscope, soon after lose the vesicles in which they were enclosed ; " each slowly revolving round its own axis, lazily progresses in the surrounding water." GO. The development of the archegonia in An- - thoceros differs from that of all other Hepaticse in its much greater simplicity. A single row of cells commencing at the upper surface of the young shoot, and directed towards its interior, becomes distinguished from those surrounding it by the quantity of granular mucus which it contains. The lowest cell of the series becomes larger than the rest. In its interior a daughter cell (germ-cell) which nearly occupies its cavity, is formed around a pre-existing central nucleus. The contiguous walls of the cells forming the remainder of the series are absorbed. Hence results a canal which leads from the surface to the cavity of the basal cell. It is difficult to believe that an arrangement so remarkable can have any