461 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. question contains fibres derived both from the sympathetic and also from the pneumo- gastric. Again, such a restraining power must hold an opposite relation to the moving power in the normal condition ; the moving power ■would tlierefore express itself only in part, according as the other is in a latent state or in a state of activity, and consequently sec- tion of the vagus nerve ought, did it exert the restraining power in question, to be fol- lowed by an acceleration in the movements of the organ, which is not the case. Budge, therefore, seems to regard the fibres which are sent to the heart in the frog by the pneu- mogastric, as possessed of motor and sensory properties. Schift' also found that when the heart's action has been made to cease by application of the wires to the groove between the au- ricles and ventricles, this effect cannot be counteracted by a|)plying them to the bulbus arteriosus. The phenomenon of the cessa- tion of the heart's action, produced by the application of the galvanic stimulus to the pneuniogastric, he explains by supposing that its fibres are in a state of activity during the systole of the corresponding part of the heart, but quickly become ex ■ hausted, thus allowing the diastole to take place: thereafter, their activity being again renewed, a second systole results. When therefore, strong galvanic stimuli are applied to the nerve the state of exhaustion continues longer and in the same proportion the dia- stole, or cessation of the heart's action, is also longer. In accordance with the above views, Valen- tin * in like manner holds that the sympa- thetic has no influence over the movements of the heart in the frog, neither giving rise to acceleration nor stoppiige of its action. In regard to the connection between the central masses of the nervous system and the action of the heart, it is evident, from what has been above stated in regard to the effects which are produced by the application of the galvanic stimulus to the pneumogastric nerve, that a certain inflLicncc nuist be exercised by these. By Willis f, and others, it was held that the movements of the heart, as well as of the other inorganic muscles, depend upon the cerebellum. This they believed from the circumstance that the nerves which preside over the involuntary actions were supposed to take their origin from this part of the ner- vous system, and also from observing that wounds upon the back part of the head proved speedily fatal. HallerJ, again, endeavoured to show that the action ot the heart is en- tirely independent of nervous influence, and is due merely to the inherent irritability of the muscular fibres. From the circumstance that sudden destruction of the spinal cord im- mediately produces an interruption of the heart's action, Legallois concluded that its * Loc. cit. p. 604. t Cerebr. Anatomia Nervorumque Descript. et Usus, p. 195. t Dissertat. sur I'lrritabilite, t. i. p. 72. movements are not due to inherent irritability, as Haller maintained, but tiepend upon the spinal cord. The cessation produced in the way just stated, although indicating that an influence may be exercised through the cen- tral nervous masses upon the movements of the heart, by no means implies the conclusion which was drawn from it by Legallois, in- asmuch as the heart may sometiiues in such cases again begin to pulsate. That the heart may be influenced in its action through the meilium of the centJ'al masses of the nervous system is also shown by the effects which are producetl by the ap])lication of the galvanic stimulus to these parts. Thus, in the frog, as shown by the ex|)eriments of Weber *, Budge-f, Valentin J, and others, it may be made to cease pulsating by appl3 ing the wires of the magneto-electric rotation apparatus to either side of the mctlulla oblongata. Unless there has been much loss of blood in exposing the parts the heart becomes dark-red, and is very much distendeil; where the large blood- vessels have been previously cut the heart still ceases to pulsate when the stimulus is appliei.1 as above: it does not, however, pre- sent the dark-red distended appearance, but is more or less colla[)sed and pale. The ex- periment, according to them, seldom or never fails. If the electric stinudus has been ap- plied for too long a time the heart again begins to beat, in the same way as takes place when the stinmlus is applied to the trunk of the pneumogastric nerve. The same stimulus also sometimes produces more or less change in the rhythm of the organ. According to the Webers, the portion of the central nervous masses which, when stimulated in this man- ner, gives rise to a cessation in the action of the heart, is that extending from the corpora quadrigemina to the posterior extremity of the calanuis scriptorius. Budge found, in his experiments, that the corpora quadrigemina were not so intimately concerned in the pro- duction of these effects as the medulla ob- longata. Tiedemann^ appears to regard the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata as the parts through which the cessation of the heart's action may be induced, while stimulus applied to the cor[)ora quailrigemina produces no effect. Valentin believes that while the corpora quadrigemina and cerebellum exercise a certain influence, the medulla oblongata is the part chiefly concerned. In nine mice, which were rendered insensible by cliloroforni, and whose hearts and medulla oblongata were laid bare, Valentin endeavoured to ascertain the parts of the central nervous masses which, when stimulated in the way above mentioned, give rise to cessation of the heart's action, as also the effects which are produced by the same stim.ulus when applietl to the spinal cord. In none of them did he observe any * AVeber, Wagner's Haudworterbueh, baud iii., 2nd Abtlieil, p. 44. t Ibid. p. 415. &c. j Lelirbuch der Pliysiologie, band ii. p. 464,, et seq. § Midler's Archiv. 1847, p. 498.