397 STOMACH AND INTESTINE undigested of indigestible—from the alimentary canal. And the same caution may be applied, with still more force, to that substitution of hydro-carbon, or fat, for hydrate of carbon, or starch and sugar, which some authors have regarded as so easy and natural an exchange. In all probability these substances are not by any means convertible or inter-changeable in any scale of diet. The cell-wall of the adipose tissue is dissolved with great diffi- culty; its liberated contents are next ab- sorbed in but small quantities; and they then pass through glands which apparently have a slow but definite office to execute upon them, before they are admitted into the general circulating current of the blood. And, lastly, the rudest numerical contrast of their final combustive metamorphosis with that of the hydrates of carbon, shows that they require the combination of a much larger quantity of oxygen * before they can leave the body in the form of carbonic acid and water. The total amount of food required by the body is also exposed to circumstances which are just as certain to baffle all such calcu- lations. For this important quantity will evi- dently vary with the rate of waste sustained by each individual :— and hence with the activity of his life ; the nature of his habitual exertion; and the state of his mind ; as well as with the climate, race, temperament, and education, which help to form the microcosm of every man's personality. The degree of variation which may be brought into play by each of these circumstances it is impossible to specify ; though it would often receive no inapt illustration from a comparison of the habits of the various members of a family or other smallest social aggregate. Hence the true value of physiological che- mistry, in respect to the principles of dietetics, is that of being an admirable guide to the general composition of a proper food. In this capacity, it is not too much to say that its veto ought to be absolute. But with this negative function terminates its practical use- fulness. Our choice of the exact quantities and qualities of ahmentary substances neces- sary to construct a perfect scale of diet, may indeed be sometimes explained by chemistry. But it must alwa) s be dictated by experience. And the dietaries of gaols, workhouses, and hospitals, corrected, as they have too often been, by the ghastly hand of Death hmiself, have fixed the limits of the food necessary for health, with an accuracy which, considering the price of human life that has been paid for it, ought surely to satisfy the most rigid economist. From such soiu'ces of information we may deduce, that a healthy athilt male, of active habits, requires daily about two pounds of solid food. Ol' this food, six or eight ounces are, preferably, meat. Whde, if the quality of such a diet be lowered (as, for exam[)le, by the _ * It would not be difficult to point out, how these views concur to explain the preference of fat as a calorific food, by the inhabitants of cold climates. introduction of much potatoes or rice), its quantity ought to be proportionally raised, so as to compensate this diminution of its nutritious characters. IielatW7is of digestion to nutrition gcneralh/, —We have thus specified the various ali- mentary substances which are normally sub- mitted to the action of the digestive canal. And the functions of the different segments and structures of this tube have already, so far as possible, been assigned to each. All these functions, however, together make up but a small part of the complex act of digestion. Nay, more, digestion itself is only a part of a still wider and more complex process of nutrition. And, further, the rela- tion borne by digestion to nutrition is by no means limited to an absorption of new matter into the body ; but also involves a revolution or cycle of much of the existing substance of the organism, between those acts of ingestion and egestion, which mark the respective ex- tremes of its nutritional life. Hence it seems necessary to end this description of the ali- mentary canal by a succinct enumeration of (1st) the series of phenomena which consti- tute the digestive act, and (2nd) the share which digestion itself takes in nutrition generally. We may best review the various stages of digestion generally, by supposing that we could track a mass of mixed food through the whole extent of the alimentary canal, and could observe the changes which it gradually under- went in this course. Such a food must of course be assumed to consist of proper pro- portions of all the alimentary principles, in the states in which they are ordinarily found in any diet suitable for the maintenance of health in the human subject. The entry of such a food into the mouth would mark the end of what is generally de- scribed by systematic writers as the first stage of digestion: — namely, the act oi 2»'eJ>ension. The food having arrived in the cavity of the mouth, is next subjected to the operations of mastication and insa/ivation. Of these two processes, the first effects the mechanical division of the food : — reducing it to small particles ; increasing, therefore, its relative surface; and hence preparing it for the action of all those secretions to which it is exposed in its further course through the alimentary canal. The mechanism of this act is greatly aided by the simultaneous admixture of the saliva. This liquid is added to the food in quantities that vary, according to its dryness and the consequent need of such an addition, from 4 (apples) to 80 (bread) per cent, of the alimentary substance that is undergoing mastication. But insalivatioii also adds an important chemical influence to the preceding mecha- nical advantage. The united secretions of the parotid, sublingual, and submaxillary glands, and the mucous membrane of the mouth, together furnish a liquid mixture, which converts starch into grape sugar with the greatest rapidity and energy. The perfect