179 PELVIS. N 2 of taller stature ; the height of the individual being dependent, chiefly, upon tiie length of the lower extremitj- and spinal column, which in these cases are disproportionate. The pelvis of the true dwarf, however, in common with, and in proportion to, the osseous system generally, is contracted and stunted in growth. In the Museum of the Edinburgh In- firmary, is the skeleton of a male adult dwarf, in which the pelvic pieces and epiphyses are not united by bone, but there is no distortion. The jaws are infantile. The pelvic bones in the well- known skeleton of the female dwarf in the Hunterian Museum are in a similar incom- plete condition. Sudden and universal "ar- rest of dcve/ojmeni," is apparently the cause of this curious immature condition. In Naegele's collection is the pelvis of a female dwarf, aged thirty-one years, whose height was 3 feet Cinches, the measurements of which are given as a specimen of a distinct kind of" pelvis cqiiabiUterjiisto minor''' by that eminent author in the Appendix to his valu- able work —" Das schrag verengte Becken," as follow — in. line.* Between the sacral promont. and tip of coccyx - - - - 3 3 Between the sciatic tuberosity and iliac crest - - - - 5 3 Between sciatic tuberosity and linea innom. - - - - 2 7 Superior op)emng, conjugate diam. - 3 0 „ „ transverse do. - 3 7 Cavity antero-postr. do. - 3 3-^ „ transverse do. - 3 0 Inferior opening, transverse diam, - 3 0 Length of pubic symphysis - - 0 II The pelvis was perfectly regular and nor- mal in symmetry and proportion, presenting all the appearances, in these respects, of the adult " slandard." The sub-pubic arch, the sacral curves, the direction of the ischia and the curvature of the pectineal line were per- fectly regular. The sacral bones, however, and the three pieces of the innominate bones, were united by cartilage only, ossification not having taken [)hice. In this respect only is this pelvis allied to the class of deformities" re- sulting from imperfect development, or to an im- maiure pelvis. These peculiarities may possibly be explained by sup[)osing the " arrest of de- velojment," which dwarfed the vvioman, to have taken place after the age of puberty, and the development of the sexual organs, but before the union of the sacral and innominate pieces, that is, between the fourteenth and sixteenth years. This supposition is moreover sti'ength- ened by the fact, that the isi-hio-fjubic i-ami were firmly united, that the woman had men- struated at the proper period, and that all the limbs were in normal proportion to the body. Neither in the history of the case, nor in the ap|)earance of the skeleton, was there any sign of rickets. The woman had become pregnant, and by the advice of the medical attendants, premature labour was in- duced at the sixth month, and the patient was safely delivered by the forceps, but died ten * Rbinelancl. days afterwards from the consequences of in- discretion in diet. Out of the three cases of pelvis equahiliter jiisfo winor given by Pi ofessor Busch *, and quoted by Dr. liigby, there was a fatal termi- nation in two instances. In one case, the pelvic diameters were universally half an inch below the standard size. In anothei', which resembled that of a ciiild, they wei-e contracted in every direction three quarters of an inch. The last ought, probably, to come under the denomination of an inlantile pelvis. In the above cases, the contraction of the pelvic diameters is marked and absolute ; but there is a considerable class of cases, included among the variations of measurement of normal pelves, in which the diameters are diminished in a much less degree, and yet their relative disproportion to those of a bulky festal head may be so great as to call for instrumental aid in parturition. Naegele, however, concludes that the contraction of the pelvis itself (without any complication with unusual bulk of fcetus) should be con- sidered, in most cases, as the cause of the difficulty of labour, and that this kind of faulty pelvis merits the especial attention of the accoucheur as much as others, and the more, that from the absence of evident ex- ternal symptoms, the difficulty of diagnosis is greater than in rickets or malacobteon. The cai'se of most of the cases of propor- tionably contracted and enlarged (lelves is only to be looked for among those of Nature's abeiTations which result in heads, extremi- ties, &c. disproportionate to the rest of the body. The small pelvis may be considered as one in which the development in shape b.as gone on to completion, but the developirient in size arrested by some cause. This cause has been attributed by Mr. Shawf to a general rickety disease in many cases. In addition to its effect in seriously im- peding the passage of the fcetal head, a small pelvis of this kind is said by Ramsbotham to cause retroversion of the uterus in some cases. Irregularities from imperfect development. Infantile pelvis—This form of pelvis is cha- racterised by the persistence of the form of the pelvis which is normally but transitorily pre- sent under the age of puljcrty. Its appear- ance corresponds, in some degree, with the characters of the infantile pelvis described in the first section of this article, of which, in the respect untSer consitleration, the most im- portant are, the preponderance ol the antcro- 2^osterior diameters, wliich are larger than the trajisverse; the contraction of the sub-pubic arch ; the shallow and diminished cavity ; the approximation of the ischial tuberosities ; the flat, expanded, shallow, and rounded ilia, and the increased obliijuity of the su[)erior plane. Tlie pieces of tiie sacrum and innominate bones are generally incompletely united by ossification. In a pelvis described by Naegele J, taken from an idiot girl aged twenty-one years, who * Neue Zeitschrift fiir Goburtsknnde, t. xv. 1837. t Op. cit. J Op. cit,