TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 491 of the epidermis of the mantle.* The outer laminae retain their membranous nature, only becoming so far altered as to assume the horny aspect of the so called "epidermis;" in the next laminae, which are added to the inner surface of the young shell, calcareous matter is deposited in granules, additions to which are made in such a manner as to con- stitute the cellffiform concretions, and ulti- mately, the process going on in the same way in successive layers, the prisms; in the inner- most laminjE, finally, the calcareous deposit results in an even, homogeneous, folded or striated layer. By scraping with a sharp knife the inner surface of the shell of Anodon, freshly detached from the mantle, I have obtained a distinct tough membi'anous layer, scattered through which were a vast number of close-set irregular granules of calcareous matter. A similar structureless layer without the granules constitutes the outermost surface of the ecderon of the mantle {fig. 313. c, b') and may occasionally be detached as such. Such a layer consisting of the thickened outer portion of the periplast of the ecderon of the mantle is by no means an anomalous structure, as we have a formation of exactly the same kind in the "cuticle" of plants, and in the chitinous lining of the intestine in Insects; and I believe that the shells of moUusks in general consist simply of a multitude of thin layers successively thrown off, super-imposed and coherent, all the peculiarities of their struc- ture arising from subsequent modifications, which are altogether independent of cells. This view is in perfect agreement with all that is known of the nature of the shells of larval Gasteropods and Acephala, which are invariably either of an absolutely structureless, thin, transparent, membranous character, or at most present a delicate striation. It may be added that not the slightest trace of a cel- lular structure is to be met with in the pellucid shells of the Heteropoda and Pteropoda. So much for the two primary forms of shell struc- ture, the membranous and the prismatic. A most interesting variety of the former is the nacreous (mother-of-pearl) lining which is presented by many shells, both of Ace- phala and Cephalophora. The pearly iri- descence proceeds, as Dr. Carpenter has well shown, from the folding of the membranous layer into close plaits, and not, as has been supposed, fj-oni the alternate cropping out of calcareous and membranous layers. Dr. Car- penter proved this by decalcifying with acid a layer of nacre from Haliolis splendens. The iridescence remained; but if the plaits of the layer were pulled out by stretching it with needles, the iridescence disappeared. Another variety of structure usually, but not alone found in the membranous shell substance, is the tubular. " All the different * This is, after all, only a return to the opinion of Poli, whose observations on shell structure are remarkably accurate, and should never be over- looked. See his Testacea utriusque Sicilire. Pars prima "in qua de Testarum natura atque affec- tionibus disputatur." forms of membranous shell structure are oc- casionally traversed by tubes which seem to commence from the inner surface of the shell, and to be distributed to its several layers. These tubes vary in size from about the ttuttoo to the 2^nVo of inch, but their general diameter in the shells in which they most abound is about 4tjV-o of inch. The di- rection and distribution of these tubes are extremely various in different shells; in general, when they exist in considerable numbers, they form a network which spreads itself out in each layer nearly parallel to its surface, so that a large part of it comes into focus at the same time in a section which passes in the plane of the lamina. From this network some branches proceed towards the nearer side of the section as if to join the network of another layer, whilst others dip downwards, as if for a similar purpose " (Car- penter, /. c. p. 14.). In other instances the tubes run obliquely through all the layers. The former structure was found by Dr. Carpenter in the outer yellow layer of Anomia eph'q)- pium ; the outer layer of Lima scabra and in Chama, the latter in Area, Pectunculiis, and Trigonia. In the latter case, the tubules are not continuous, but are seen under a high power to be formed by rows of isolated vacuities, one for each lamina; corresponding, I imagine, with the appearance, " as if they had arisen from the coalescence of lineally arranged cells," pointed out by Mr. Bowerbank and Dr. Carpenter. Having already given what are, I believe, sufficient reasons for denying the existence of cells of any kind in molluscan shells, I need hardly add that I cannot think this to be the true explanation of the mode of development of these tubules. In fact, I con- sider that the tubular shell structure is iden- tical with that of dentine, and has precisely the same origin; its tubuli arising not from cells, but like the canaliculi of bone, by a process of vacuolation in the calcified tissue. I regard the structure and mode of development of the Molluscan like that of the Annulose shell, in fact, as evidence of the strongest and most unmistakable kind in favour of the views with regard to the formation of dentine which I ventured to put forth in my essay " On the Development of the Teeth." Tooth and shell completely represent one another, structure for structure; Nasniyth's membrane is the homologue of the "epidermis," the enamel that of the prismatic structure, the dentine, that of the membranous structure; and all three are produced without the inter- vention of cells by the differentiation of pri- marily structureless laminae. The existence of tubuli in the prismatic substance is not mentioned by Dr. Carpenter, but I have no- ticed them very distinctly in one of the sec- tions of Pinna from his cabinet. Finally in Rudistes and the sessile Cirrho- pods, Dr. Carpenter has pointed out the ex- istence of a peculiar cancellated structure "like that of Pinna on a large scale" only that the segments of tlie prisms arc hollow instead of solid. These hollow prisms arc