128 PELVIS. count of the wavy outline and oblique direc- tion of the innominate bones. It is upon these tuberosities only, consequently, that the trunk rests in the sitting posture, and not upon a tripod formed by them and the coccyx, as has been erroneously supposed by some older writers. The boundaries of the inferior outlet, from the same cause, do not, like those of the su[)erior, lie all in one plane or level, but are bent, as it were, at the ischial tuber- osities, into two |)lanes ; an anterior, termin- ated by, and nearlyin a line with, the symphysis pubis, looking downwards and a tittle for- w.'irds; and a posterior, terminated by and in- cluding the coccyx, directed downwartis and backwards, parallel with the superior pelvic plane, but varying with the extension of the coccyx downwards. The plane of this outlet, however, is usually considered to be marked by a straight line joining the lower border of the symphysis pubis and the tip of the coccyx ; and its general direction to coincide with a line drawn perpendicular to this plane down- wards and backwards. Differences of the pelvis in the sexes. — Of all the bones in the human skeleton, those of the pelvis offer the most distinct characters between the male and female sex. In the female {fig. 83.), the bones are lighter, shorter, and broader, less evidentl}' marked by tuberosities and indentations re- sulting from the attachments of the tendinous structures, and have in a less degree the peculiarities, before described, of the articu- lations, as well as those resulting from their peculiar mechanism. The iliac crest is less arched, and presents less distinctly the »S'-like curve, the iliac wings are thinner and more expanded, and the internal iliac fossa; larger, uiare shallow, and directed more anteriorly, and the iliac ridge extending between the cotyloid and sacro-iliac Joints is less massy, less suddenly arched, and longer. The ischia do not converge so much towards the inferior outlet, and with the tuberosities are less massy, wider apart, and shorter, and the spines are less marked, and directed less inwards, and the transverse diameter of the inferior strait is greater. The ascending branches and the descending branches of the pubcs are thinner, narrower, and more oblique, tiu'n their inner borders more forwards, and at the same time afford a more rounded expansion to the pnhic arch, at the expense of the obturator foramina, which are thereby rendered smaller and more triangular in the female. The si/mphi/sis of the pidns is not so deep, and the fibro-cartilage is wider, thicker, an<l more vertical in position; tlie united angles are more flattened posteriorly, and the horizontal branch is longer, thinner, and directed more tiansversely outwards, rendering the distance between the s) niphysis and the cotyloid cavity, and consequently the jjrojection of the hips greater, and an increased transverse diameter of the brim. The sacrum is wider and less arched trans- versely, and its promontory docs not so much overhang the pelvic cavity, and thus the su- perior outlet has less of the heart shape, being in females more properly termed oval. This difference of shape is also contributed to by the less lateral obhquity of the superior branch of the pubes. Whether the sacrum is less arched trans- versely/ in the female, I endeavoured to ascertain by observations taken from eighteen subjects, of which half were male and half female. A strip of lead ith of an inch thick was made to assume the form of the transverse curve of the sacrum, by being pressed across the anterior surface just below the promontory, and the breadth from one sacro-iliac joint to the other care- fully marked off. From this, a line was drawn on paper, following the curvature re- tained by the lead, the extremities of which line were joined by a straight hne, forming a chord to the sacral arc. The distance of the centre of this chord from the centre of the sacral curve was then measured. In the nine males, the height of the arch thus obtained varieil from six to nine lines ; in the nine females, five to nine lines,— the greatest num- ber of the males being seven lines, and the greatest number of the females being six lines. In the single case of the female where the measnrement was nine lines, the subject was old. When we consider, that in the great majority of instances the breadth of the sacrum measured along the curve was greater by ^ to ^ an inch in the female, these results will yield a still greater relative depth to the transverse sacral curve of the male. Besides this transverse arch, the vertical curvature of the sacrum is relatively much less in the female. This is more apparent in the direction of the three upper sacral pieces, which are generally little curved, and often almost plane in the female, while, in the male, the curve is most apparent in the centre and more uniforndy distributed over the wdiole sacral surface. Upon this point, how- ever, much difference of opinion prevails amongst anatomists ; Meckel and Ward agree- ing with the o[)inion here enunciated, while Cloquet and Cruvcilhier maintain that the curvature of the sacrum in the female is deeper and more regular. The experiments of Mr. Ward, however, correspond more entirely with my own observations on this point. Mr. Ward observes, in addition, that the male sacrum often approaches the form of the female, but the female rarely to that of the male. In old women, however, I have often seen a great vertical curvature of the sacrum. The cocci/.v is more moveable, more fre- quently in several jointed pieces, less pro- jected forwards, and less frequently ankylosed to the sacrum in the female. The sacro-sciatic 7wtchcs in the female are wider and not so deep as in the male ; the dis- tance from the ischiadic spine and tuberosity to the sacrum and coccyx being greater, and the sacro-sciatic ligaments longer and more slender. The peculiarities above mentioned give to the female pelvis a wider, shallower, more