STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 319 instances of the second, we might adduce, not only that ordinary form of vomiting which is brought about by a direct irritation of the stomach itself, but those numerous cases in which it follows the application of various stimuli to similar or different parts. Such are mechanical irritations of the soft palate, intes- tines, or peritoneum ; disgusting smells, sights, or sounds ; prolonged immersion in cold water; or even wounds of the extremities. The path by which these several kinds of peripheral irritation reach the nervous centre probably varies in different cases. Where they are mechanical, it is obvious that they are con- ducted to the central organ by the afferent or sensitive nerves upon v/hich they impinge. Thus, as regards the stomach itself, irritation or section of the pneumogastric or splanchnic nerve often produces vomiting. But some emetic substances, such as antimony*, are equally active when introduced into the blood. And Magendie's experiment-f- shows that — whether the poisoned current of this fluid ge- nerally exerts a local action upon the stomach or not—it is to its influence upon the ner- vous centres that the act of vomiting nmst mainly be referred. The various constituent phenomena of the process sufficiently indicate the medulla oblongata as that segment of the cerebro-spinal centre in vvdiicli the reflection towards the periphery occurs. But the en- suing movement is by no means a simple reflex action. On the contrary, the number of organs linked together to produce it, and the alteration in their ordinary times, modes, and degrees of activity which they exhibit, render the whole process so complex, so truly co- ordinate, that, far from limiting our attention to the mere reflex course which its exciting cause sometimes takes, we ought rather to regard vomiting as an involuntary or physical nervous action of the highest order. The sensations that have been noticed as accom- panying it seem probably due to the cogni- zance taken by different organs, of changes which are perhaps themselves motor. At any rate, we are hardly justified in classify- ing them along with the "reflex sensations" sometimes met with in disease. In some instances, a curious variety of the process of vomiting seems to return diflPerent purely mental emotion, and which is typified in the exaggerated phrase of " being sick " of any thing or topic. * With respect to the vomiting produced by tar- tar-emetic, the author has made an observation ■which tends to show that, whatever the mechanical share taken by the stomach itself in the act, this organ does, in some instances, etl'ect such a local secretion of the emetic from the blood into the gastric cavity, as may tend to remove the drug from the system. On injecting a solution of tartar-emetic into the superficial femoral vein of a dog, the mi- neral was found ten minutes aftenvards in the fluid contents of the animal's (digesting) stomach, in a state of concentration much exceeding that in whicli it must have been mixed with the mass of the blood. And there seem to be reasons for conjecturing that a similar local secretion occurs in the case of the salts of some other metals; and, probably, of ipecacuan. t Quoted at p. 317. parts of the gastric contents at different inter- vals of time; — the expulsion of more fluid and digested portions being followed, after the lapse of a considerable period, by that of crude and undigested masses of food. A small number of such cases perhaps depend on a peculiar hour-glass shape of the organ, aided by a casual constriction due to its nuiscular coat: — conditions which might unite to iso- late a part of the contents of the organ for a longer or shorter period. But most of them might probably be explained by the weight, bulk, and situation of the alimentary masses in the organ ; and by the other mechanical circumstances which favour or impede the act of vomiting itself The last efforts of a prolonged vomiting often bring up a quantity of bile. But from what has already been stated, it is evident, that during the intervals of energetic vo- miting, a portion of the duodenal contents may easily find their way into the stomach, and be subsequently expelled thence. In- deed, it may be doubted whether the pylorus is completely occluded at the moment of the expulsive act:—especially in those cases in which the intestines are themselves distended with fluids exposed to the same violent pres- sure as the contents of the gastric cavity. Rumination.— There are certain individuals who are capable of returning, at will, a greater or smaller portion of the contents of the di- gesting stomach into the cavity of the mouth. This act has received the name of rumination, from its analogy to the ruminant process which forms a stage in the normal digestion of some animals. Like the latter, it is a vo- luntary return of the undigested food, which is often followed by a re-mastication of its more solid portions. Apart from its voluntary character, it might be regarded in either of two points of view :—as a more complete form of regurgitation; or as a peculiar variety of vomiting, akin to that seen in infants, and, like it, especially distinguished by the absence of nausea and of constitutional disturbance. The mechanism of the process appears to be precisely what these analogies would imply. A very deep inspiration is followed by a vo- luntary contraction of the abdominal nuiscles ; and, after a moment during which the trunk is kept motionless, the food rises into the mouth.* From hence, after more or less mas- tication, it is again swallowed in the ordinary way. The abdominal contraction sometimes requires to be aided by manual pressure in the gastric region. The date and duration of the act, as well as the frequency with which it is repeated, vary greatly in different cases. Tlie precise share taken by the stomach itself in this rumination seems just as ob- scure— and is probably as variable—as that by which it assists in the act of vomiting. In many instances an examination of the organ after death has shown no peculiarity of * Magendie's Physiologie, tome ii. p. 162.