659 UTERUS — (Development). small size and dimensions characteristic of the virgin state. JMetamorphosis and restoration of the com- ponent tissues. — The first and immediate re- duction in size of the uterus, after parturition, has been just stated to dejiend upon mere contraction of the uterine fibre. But con- traction alone will not account for those great and remarkable reductions in the dimensions of the organ which have been just described. The true explanation of these phenomena is furnished by a series of metamorphoses affect- ing more or less the entire uterine tissues, by which the greater portion of those structures which have been formed during pregnancy, become disintegrated and removed, while other and new tissues are developed in their place.* In these metamorphoses, the colossal fibre cells, which form the great bulk of the newly added material, play the most important part. These have been traced, during their develop- ment in pregnancy, from the small fusiform cell of the unimpregnated uterus to the fully formed fibre of the organ at term. The growth of these proceeds pari jmssu with that of the foetus, for whose expulsion they are destined ; and this act being accomplished, their de- struction and removal becomes a necessary prelude to the recomposition of the entire organ upon the same type as before impreg- nation. In this respect, the aggregate forn)a- tion of fibre cell is comparable to the deer's horn, the placenta and other structures which, having served the purpose of their formation, and being incapable of suffering retrogression, become caducous, with this difference, how- ever, that the one class of structure being thrown oft' in a mass, the act of separation is striking and obvious ; while the deciduous process in the other is gradual and fragmental, and can only be discovered by the most pa- tient and careful scrutiny. The disintegration and removal of the ute- rine muscular fibre is effected, first, by the transformation of each fibre into molecular fat. This process does not commence earlier than the fourth or sixth day after labour, and not later than the eighth day. Certain dif- ferences arc observable in the order of retro- gression. Thus the process begins somewhat later in the inner than in the outer laminae, while the cervix remains unchanged a few days longer than the body. In the individual fibres, the process of decay begins at many points simultaneously. The fibres lose their sinuous outline, and become paler; while within them appear yellow oil granules, commonly arranged in rows. The nucleus of the filire is pale, but distinct, until it becomes obscured by the increase of the oil grannies ; while the extremities of the cells, on account * On this subject the following ma}' be eonsultod with advantage:—Dr. R. Heschl, " Untersuchun- gen liber das Verhalten des nienschlichen Uterus nach der Geburt," in the Zeitschrift der kais. kon. Gesellschaft der Aerzte zu Wien. 1852. B. ii. p. 228.; F. M. Kilian, " Die Structur des Uterus bei Thieren," loc. cit.; Schroeder van der Kolk, loc. cit. of their tenuity, are the first to suffer disin- tegration. Fig. 455. Process o f involution or disintegration, and renewal of tlie uterine Jibre a fter parturition. (^After Hescld.) a, the old fibres filled with fat granulations 2 — 4 weeks after delivery; b, development of new fibres in ditiPerent stages, about the fourth week. During the second and third week, the process of disintegration continues ; and it is probable that a considerable absorption of effete material now takes place, since it is not easy to explain otherwise that rapid diminu- tion in bulk, especially in the second week, which the entire organ undergoes, as shown by the calculation of weights already given. As a result of these molecular changes, the uterus now loses its reddish colour, and be- comes of a dirty yellow, and is at the same time more easily lacerable. In the course of the fourth week, and pos- sibly sometimes during the third, there ap- pears, in the midst of the now degenerated fibres, the first traces of a new formation of uterine substance. These occur first in the form of cell nuclei, which arc concurrently developed at several points ; and gradually, while the last portions of the old muscular coat are being disintegrated and absorbed, acquire the character of the new muscular fibre cells (jig. 455. h). So that, by the end of the second month, the reconstruction of this portion of the uterine substance is often com- plete. The disintegration of the remains of the decidua, and the reconstruction of the lining membrane of the uterus, which had been re- movetl during the act of birth, is effected by a process verj' similar to that just described. With regard, first, to that portion of the inner uterine superficies, which had been co- vered by the placenta, it is observeil that this undergoes a somewhat slow retrogression. The veins, filled by thick clots in the normal state in consequence ot the progressive invo- lution of the intermediate uterine substance, occasion here a marked protrusion; so that very often, after four or six weeks, the pla- cental space forms an elevated spot of twice u u 2