RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 271 point. Carpenter, Qiiain and Sharpey, Kirkes and Paget, Kolliker, S. Van der Kolk, Harting, Adriani, and Schidtz describe a ■pavement cpi- thelium. on the interior of the air-cells of the lungs ; and the author who has devoted many special examhiations to this particular point is now convinced that a fine pavement epithe- lium does cover tliese parts which he proposes to distinijuish as the hijalinc einthelimn.^^ * Messrs. Todd and Bowman, like Rossignol, adopt the views of Mr. Rainey, and teiich that the air-cells have no epithelium of any kind. The adjoined is the illustration of the epithelium given by Schroeder Van der Koik in Adriani's Essay.f 2^:5.219. Ultimate cells of the human lunci, sliowinr/ the trahi- cular framework formed by the elastic fibres of the walls, and the hyaline pavement epithelium which lines the interior of the air-cells. (^After Schroeder Van der Kolk, guoted by Adriani.^ By this distinguished observer it is repre- sented under the character of transparent pavement epithelium, the cells of which are * In suggesting the word hyaline as a distinctive epithet for this variety of epithelium, I do not wish to be understood as denying, in its component scales, the existence of every form of visible element. The word should be accepted in a com- parative sense, as signifying that their nuclei and granules are less declared than those of any other description of epithelium. t This figure is thus described by Adriani: — " Alveoli constant membrana subtilissima structura carente, qure autem membrana mucosa tegitur epi- thelio pavimentoso {plaat epithelium) admodum pel- hrcido, in quo potissimum ope acidi acetici nuclei conspiciuntur; propter singularem autem pelluci- ditatem s;epe difficile est, illud epithelium rite dis- tingnere; vid. fig. 12. nostram, ubi ad alveolorum parietes conspicitur. Cellula; conicas ciliataj quje in bronchiolis minutis adhuc conspiciuntur, in alveolis penitus deficiunt; ha?c membrana cum epitlielio pavimentoso obtegit vasa sanguifera per alveolorum parietes ducta; propter singularem tenuitatem im- bibitio atque absorptio per banc membranulam facillime perflci posse facile intelligitur."—Op. cit. p. 61. furnished with a nucleus and minute granules They are adjusted accurately, as a single layer, edge to edge. The description given by Kol- liker coincides with the preceding.* Fig. 220. A thin section of a few air-cells from the human lung, viewed by transmitted light. {After Kolbker.') a, epithelmm lining the air-cells; b, elastic tissue arching over and between the cells; c, the flat wall of a cell, showing the scanty distribution of elastic fibres over this part of the cell. By Kolliker the cells of this e|)ithelium {a, fi<i.2:i0.) are stated to consist of polvuonal par™ "tides of from 1 —1 GOOlli to I —->Jj{)th of an null in diameter, and Irom 1—28()0th to 1 —.3«()()th of an inch in thickness. They repose imme- diately upon the fibrous layer. They are normally shed; though not readily detected in health, it is easy to discover these epithelia in disease. This epithelium lines every part of the air-passages and cells except the bronchi. These latter tubes are furnished with a thick layer of ciliated epithelium, which, as formerly stated, terminates abruptly at the commence- ment of the intercellular passages. It may * The following passage in the Microscopic Ana- toin}' of Kolliker refers to the figure cited in the text. " Das Epithelium der Lungenblasclien ist kein flimerndes, wie man friiher ziemlich allge- meinc annahm, sondern ein gewohniiches Pflaster- epithelium, das mit polygonalem Zellen von 0-005 —0-007'" Durchmesser und 0-003—0-004"' Dicke in einfacher Lage unmittelbar auf der Faserhaut der Luftblaschen aufsitzt. Die Zellen sind alle kern- haltig, und haben meist ausserdem der Trachea und der Bronchien anzunehmen, dagegen konnen allerdings mehr zufallig oder dann in Krankheiten der Luftwege einzelne Elemente desselben dem Bronchialsciileime sich beimengen. Beim Menschen fallen diese Zellen ungemein leicht ab und liegen dan frei in den Luftblaschen und feinsten J3ronchien, doch kann man fast in jeder Lunge, wenigstens in einzelnen Alveolen dieselben noch in situ sehen und bei ebon getodteten Thieren bietet bei Beobachtung der Lagerung derselben nicht die geringsten Schwie- rigkeiten dar."—Op. cit., p. 316.