328 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 5 aVo^li of an inch), but also in its meshes being nearly twice as close (or about 3-^(jth to gg-o'^h of an inch). But the two plexuses inosculate so freely, as to be quite continuous with each other at the upper apertures of the tubes. As Fig. 253. Superficial capillaries of the mucous membrane of the humatt stomanh, from an injected specimen. JUag- 7iijied 70 diameters. a, ridges intervening between the stomach-tubes; 6, capillaries occupying the ridges; c, orifice of a stomach-tube. regards the form of the superficial network, it may be stated to correspond exactly with the intervals of the primary tubes. For the ridges which occupy the surface of the organ are all, as it were, moulded upon capillaries, the union of which forms what we may tlistin- guish as a primary network, that surrounds tiie aperture of each tube with a capillary loop. In Man, * however, this comparatively simple network is complicated by the addition of other meshes, which lie on either side of it, and just within the orifices of the tubes. In their shape and size, these closely resemble the loops beneath the ridges, and are, indeed, no way distinguishable from them except in their situation. Below, their diameter di- minishes, their loops elongate, and they finally merge into the general network which surrounds the tubes. It is from the large capillaries which com- pose the superficial network that the radicles of the veins almost exclusively arise. They begin as small vessels of about t-jVo*^'^ of an inch in diameter; and by one or two suc- cessive unions of these and their resulting larger branches, they soon attain a width of about -j^oth of an inch. They now pass vertically down the intervals between the tubes, to open into the flattened venous plexus which occupies the submucous areolar tissue. The general result of this arrangement on the circulation in the stomach seems to be, that the blood which has already traversed the capillaries of its tubes is passed on to its surface. Hence in respect to their situation and size, these superficial capillaries of the gastric mucous membrane offer a distant re- semblance to veins. This fact, as well as their connection, both with small arteries on the one hand, and with confluent capillaries on * In many animals the superficial network appears limited to this simpler form ; especially in the cardiac region, where the intervals of the tubes are smaller. the other, renders it probable that the velo-* city of their contents exceeds that of the blood which circulates in the ca[)iliaries of many other tissues. Such a peculiarity would admirably adapt them to that absorptive office which their mere situation on the cavitary surface of the organ indicates as one of their chief functions. Changes in the sfomach during digestion.— The introduction of food into the healthy fasting stomacii gives rise to two chief altera- tions in the organ. Its muscular coat is ex- cited* to movement. And, at the same time, its mucous membrane deepens from a pale to a bright pink colourf ; and begins to pour forth a liquid secretion—the gastric juice. Gastric juice.—An inquiry into the cha- racters of the gastric juice is opposed by many difficulties. For it is obvious that the properties of this or any other secretion can only be established from its examination in a state of perfect purity. While the situation and functions of the stomach are such that, under natural circumstances, its secretion is necessarily mixed with many other substances. It is true that the bile often found J in the stomach during fasting is shut out from its cavity, during digestion, by the closure of the pylorus. But, on the other hand, the saliva, which generally covers the mucous surface of the empty organ, as a thin viscid layer with a superficial alkaline reaction, is swallowed at this period in much larger quantities; while the food itself forms an equally constant impurity. To such less avoidable sources of error are often added the alterations pro- duced by disease in the unhealthy individual, or by putrefaction or digestion in the healthy subject after death. And though even the most careful study of all these circumstances will scarcely explain the discrepancies and contradictions of numerous (and apparently faithful) observers in their accounts of the gas- tric juice,—still they evidently constitute con- ditions which, according as they are obviated, or noticed, or neglected, will respectively render any particular observations valid, or comparable, or utterly useless. § * See ante, p. 312. t Beaumont, Op. cit. pp. 94. et seq. j See ante, p. 315. § The above remarks form a key to the following historical summary of the more important observa- tions which have been made on this fluid; as well as a reason why the author has reduced it to a mere enumeration,—such as will not, however, preclude a fuller subsequent reference, where this is required. Reaumur, in the year 1752, obtained an artificial digestive fluid from the stomachs of animals by means of sponges attached to strings (Mem. de I'Academie, 1752. i)p. 705. et seq.). About 1780, Spallanzani (Ueber das Verdauungsgeschaeft. Leip- zig, 1785) adopted the same method; and also ex- amined matters which had been vomited. He thus determined the gastric juice to be a neutral, anti- septic solvent. He quotes Scopoli and Gosse to the same effect. Carminati (Untersuchungen ueber die Natur des Magensaftes, 1785) also deduced his results from substances vomited ; and found that it was cnly the acid fluid secreted after eating which possessed antiseptic and digestive powers. Several observers, however, — among whom were Viridet