156 PELVIS. are inclined from the perpendicular about 70° in the elephant, being about 3° more than in the fossil Megatherium and Mylodon. The pelvis of the Elephant is altogether remarkable for its perpendicular position, the himbo- ilitic angle being about 120° only, and the pubes being advanced as far forvs^ard as the iliac crest, at an angle of 100° with the ilia. Thus the posterior limbs are brought more under the weight of the animal. The superior outlet is roundish, but broader at the pubes than at the sacrum, and the antero-posterior diameter is but little larger than the trans- verse. In the fossil Elephant, however, the antero-posterior diameter is greater in pro- portion. The female Elephant has the pelvis more open than the male, and the bortlers more trenchant,according to Cuvier. Blumen- bach states that the round ligament, as well as the cotyloid depression, is wanting in the Elephant. The pelvis of the fossil Mastodon is much less depressed and expanded than that of the Elephant, according to Cuvier, and its outlets smaller, showing that its abdomen was of less size. The Rhinoceros has four sacral, vertebrEE, three articulating with the ilia, and supported by articulation with last lumbar transverse processes ; and the caudal vertebrae numerous. The ilia are large, massy, short, and ex- panded, though much less so than in the Elephant; with the anterior iliac fossa well marked, and the dorsum also generally con- cave from side to side, from the backward curvature of the inner border to be applied to the sacrum. The crest is large, and the anterior superior spine turne<l forwards, as in the Elephant, and forked at the end. The ischia are longer than in the Elephant, with thick tuberosities, turned much outwards. Puhes long, and united at a sharper angle, with prominent ischio-pubic symphysis. The lumho-iliac angle in the two-horned variety is 125°, the ilio-ischial 145°, and the ilio- jmhic 150°, making the pubis nearly at right angles to the spine. The whole pelvis is shallow, with the ischio-pubic portion placed more backward than in the Elephant. The anterior outlet is large and oval, with the longer diameter antero-posterior. In the fossil variety there is no fork on the anterior superior iliac spine, and the obturator fora- mina are more elongated. In the Hippopotamus ihesacrum is very broad and flat from side to side, though arched con- siderably longitudinally ; with a considerable angle, and articulated with last lumbar ti-ans- verse processes. The iliac wings are almost plane with it, forming a lumbo-iliac angle of about 150°, and are less expanded, smaller, and more slightly convex, with the two su- perior spines directed much dorsally, espe- cially the posterior. The ischia are long and comparatively slender, and directed dorsally, forming a large angle with the ilia, and sup- porting large and massy tuberosities, which are parallel to each other, and project by a prominent tubercle dorsally above the coccy- geal vertebrae, a peculiarity which causes this pelvis to look altogether like that of the Ox. The pubes are elongated, and the i.schio-pubic s) in|)hysis also long. The obturator foramen is large, and the plane of the acetabulum looks downwards and outwards, and is placed at an angle of about 50° from the perpen- dicular, being 20° less than that of the Ele- phant. The whole pelvis has an open, light, oblique, and flat appearance, with the ischio- pubic portion placed more backwards than either the Elephant or Rhinoceros. In the Hog the sacrum is narrow, the ilia and ischia more elongated, and the latter closer to each other, with prominent and parallel tuberosities. The whole pelvis is elongated and approaches the Carnivora type, as is particu- larly seen in the ilio^pubic angle (120°). The lumbo-iliac angle is about 145°. In the Ta[)ir are three sacral vertebrse, the two upper articulating with ilia, and forming a sacrum arched considerably, both transversely and longitudinally, and with an imperceptible angle. The ilia are remarkab'e for theirlong and somewhat rounded shafts, and the sudden ex- pansion of the wings on each side, so as to form a T shape, of which the branches are directed obliquely antero-[)osteriorly, the posterior branch being articulated to the sacrum, into which they bite well. The crest is thus made slightly concave instead of convex. The sacro- iliac facet, which in most mammalia is lunated in shape, with the convexity directed to tlie acetabulum, and the concavity to the spinal column, is in the Tapir of a peculiar shape, narrowing suddenly between the two sacral vertebra, and then again expanding, forming two distinct sacral " joggles." The ischia are long, with tubers projecting dorsally ; 2)ubes directed inwarils. The lumbo-iliac angle is comparatively very acute (125°) ; the ilio- 'pubic large (14.5°); and the ilio-ischial well pronounced (140°). The whole pelvis is very like that of the Horse, but is distinguished by the greater breadth and curves of sacrum, and by more massy proportions, and more distinct T-shaped, and greater expansion of the ilia. The pelvis of the fossil Paleotherium has some resemblance to that of the Tapir, but the ilia are longer and more prismatic, and the ischial tuberosities less developed. That of the Anuplolherium is a link between the Tapir and Camel. The Solidungula form a connecting pelvic link between the foregoing and the Rumi- nants. The sacrum of the Horse is flat, not curved longitudinally so much as in Ruminants, and placed in the line of the dorsal curve. It is moderately broad between the ilia, but narrows suddenly posteriorly, and reaches as far backwards as the middle of the ischia. This is the same position as in the Pachyderms proper; but in the Ruminants, whose pelves are more oblique, the sacrum scarcely reaches to the symphysis pubis, as is seen in the pelvis of the Ox {Jig. 97.). The sacral pieces are six in number, two only articulating with the ilia, and the sacral spines