RUMINANTIA. is quite distinct, being connected with tiie sion of "tear-pits," or suborbital sinuses, is not spheno-palatine canal at about half an inch shared by all the Antelopidae, and in those from its orbitar orifice. In Moschus the species in which they do occur the degree of lachrymal bone is large; it does not articulate depression in the lachrymal bone is very vari- with the nasal, and there is no facial cavity : able, being in some comparatively shallow, in the foramen is close to and within the orbi- others well marked : the same observation tal ring {fig. 330.). In Canielopardalis the applies to the open space situated imrae- bone is moderately large and is separated diately above. Respecting the absence, pre- from the nasal in front by an interspace {fig- valence, or coexistence of these morphological 328.), which, in the single specimen we have peculiarities we may, according to M. F. dissected, is of a triangular form, and measures Cuvier, divide this family into three groups : an inch and a half in length, and five-eighths in the first are to be reckoned those which of an inch in breadth. According to the have both a lachrymal depression and a facial experience of Professor Owen this vacant interspace, such as is seen in the Gazelle {A. space is invariably present, though not always dorcas, Pallas), the Stein-boc {A. tragulus, equally conspicuous. At the orbital ring, Licht.), and the Grys-boc {A. melanotis, midway between the frontal and maxillary Licht.) ; in the second, those possessing lines of articulation, there juts out a small the " tearpit," but having no vacant space tuberosit}', which is bounded on either side such as occurs in the genus Catoblepas, the by a shallow groove ; and from this point the Koba {A. hoba, Ogilby), the Cambing-outan bone is carried downwards and backwards to {A. Sumatrensis, Uesm.), the Chickara {A. form, in conjunction with the molar protuber- quadricomis, De Blainv.), the Caama {A. ance of the maxillary and the inner border of caama, Cuv.), and the Bubale {A. bubalis, the malar bone, a shelf-like floor to the an- Pallas) ; in the third, those having the inter- terior half of the orbit. In the specimen space, but no depression, such as takes place just mentioned there exists but one lachrymal in the Reh-boc {A. capreolus, Licht.), the foramen, which is of large size, infundibulilbrm. Chamois (A. nipicapra, Pallas), the Canna and situated nearly an inch distant from the (A. areas, P. ), and the Nil-ghau (A. picta, anterior border of the orbital ring. In the P.). The CEgosceridae have the lachrymals Stags the lachrymals are hollowed out on very large and of great length, this being es- the cheek for the reception of the special pecially the case in the Sheep, where they ar- suborbital glandular apparatus, and they are ticulate with the bones of the noseO'._/%. 335.). of large size, but do not touch the nasals. The Goats have usually a small open space being separated from them by a very ex- on the cheek, both of the above genera being tended membranous interspace (fig. 329.). provided with a small tubercle at the anterior In the orbit these bones exhibit relations margin of the orbit. The foramina are placed similar to those indicated in the Giraffe; but within the ring and are remarkably large in there are two foramina, one placed on each the Sheep. The lachrymals in Bovidas are of side of the lachrymal tuberosity, beneath still greater size, and very conspicuous (fig. which they intercommunicate. The posses- 327.); they develope prominent antorbital [ Fig. 335. Skull of the Sheep, viewed laterally. (From Cuvier.) tubercles and have the connecting sutures on The malar or jiigidar bones (4) do not the face marked by deeply toothed inter- offer any very striking peculiarities. They lineations. There is no membranous inter- are bulky and strong in the Canielidae, and of space, and the foramen, which is funnel- great breadth below the orbit: in the Llamas shaped, is situated at the margin of the they advance further forward upon the cheek orbital ring immediately behind the tubercle. than in the true Camels, and the zygomatic