PELVIS. 117 lowed, rough, and broad in front, for the attachment of some muscles of the leg. There are numerous nutritious openings on this sur- face of the ischium and pubis, which are chiefly directed loimrd-i the cotyloid cavity. Fig. 77. The internal or pelvic surfnce presents for examiniition a superior or iliac portion di- rected forwards, upwards, and iuuards, and an inferior ischio-pubic portion directed in- wards and backwards. The iliac portion is rough at the posterior third, and is marked by a thick, massy, irre- gular prominence, just below tlie posterior extremity of the crest, which is continued to the jiosterior superior spine, and serves for the attachment of powerful ligaments which connect tliis bone to the sacrum. This may be called, for brevity, the iliac tubcrosilij (1). An inch and a half below this is an angu- lar or semilunar arliculnr snrface, the sacral, or auricular (y), to which the sacrum is at- tached in the complete pelvis. This surface is generally more or less rough and irre- gular, for the more firm attachment of the articular cartilage. It is composed of two elongated portions placed at right angles to each other, of which the inferior is the longer, and is directed horizontally backwards to the posterior inferior spine, parallel with and close above the upper boundary of the great sciatic notch {m, n), while the supeiior is directed vertically upwards towards the crest of the ilium, to which its raised anterior border is prolonged by a well maikeil ridge (.'5). At the angle of junction of these two limbs is gene- rally to be seen a deep hollow, while the ex- tremity of the inferior limb is bevelled off to correspond to elevations on the opposed sur- faces of the sacrum. In the retiring angle formed by the auricular surface is a very rough depression for the attachment of inter-osseous ligaments (7). The anterior two thirds of the internal iliac surface forms a coni|)lcte smooth and regular hollow called the internal iliac fossa (4) for the reception of a muscle, which is continued downwards and forwards into the groove before described, below the anterior inferior spine of the ilium {^/ toe). At a small distance in front of the articular surfcce, is a large nutritious opening, directed down- wards and forwards towards the cotyloid cavity, for the passage of the principal nu- tritive artery of this bone. Many others of less calibre, all directed downwards, also exist on this surface. Passing downwards and for- v/ards from the angle of the sacro-iliac arti- cular surface is a thick, rounded and arched ridge of bone (3), which serves to transmit the weiglit of the s[)ine fi'om the sacral arti- cular surface to the femur at the cotyloid articulation. Just behind the ilio-pectineai eminence, before described, this line becomes niore salient, and [)asses from this point to the spine of the pubes as a well marked pro- jecting crest, the itiu-pectineal line (G), which serves for the attaclnnent of a muscle of the Jeg, and some strong faseias. The internal surface of the pubis and ischium, an<l the , small inferior, or true pelvic portion of the ilium, are seen below this line, which separates them from the iliac fossa. Posteriorly is ' seen a broad, flat surface (j^), to which is op- posed the cotyloid cavity externally, and the rough lines, marking the junction of the three component bones, are repeated more strongly and more extensively here than in the coty- loid cavity itself. They foiin a Y shape, tlie posterior limb of which is directed backward to the top of the great sciatic notch ; one branch terminates at the pectineal eminence ; and the other at the obturator opening, where it passes into the commencement of the sub- pubic groove (/), the termination of which was described with the external surface. An- teriorly is seen the inner aspect of the obtu- rator foramen (o). and the posterior surfaces, and slightly marked line of union of the branches of the pubis and ischium (;•, ,v), which are smooth, rounded off", and laterally convex for the apposition of the pelvic viscera. Below is the inner aspect of the great tuber- osity of the ischium (/), which is also smooth and concave for the like jiurposes. Jnlerjial sfriicliire of the innominate bone. — Like other irregidar bones, the haunch- bone is comi)osed of cancellous structure, encased in layers of laminated bone, more or less thick, as strength and tenacity are re- quired. The thickest and strongest part of the haunch-bone is the arched, rounded rib, ex- tending from the cotyloid cavity to ihe au- ricular surface and tuberosity of the ilium, which is the direct line of pressure from the spine to the legs, A cross section of this part of the bone is nearly an inch in diameter, generally, at its narrowest point. The de- scending rami of the ischia are the next in point of strength, for supporting the body 1 3