349 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. impossible — that the juice carried onwards into the intestine is there concentrated by the partial absorption of its watery part, some of the strange quantitative results obtained by Bidder and Schmidt cease to be altogether in- explicable. It may indeed be urged, that the alkaline character observed in the intestinal juice sufficiently proves that its digestive pro- perties are not derived from the stomach. But although the addition of a caustic alkali destroys the efficiency of gastric juice, still such a process seems very different from that absorption of acid, or that grathial admixture of a ililute alkaline solution, by which a similar reaction would probably be communicated in the living intestine. And, finally, is it like the ordinary economy of Nature, that an elaborate secretion should pass the pylorus, to be at once annihilated, and then replaced by a second and equally complex antagonist juice ? On such a supposition, indeed, there are many animals in whom almost all the gastric juice would be wasted. For example, there is great reason to suppose that the sojourn of food in the Horse's stomach is so brief, that anything like the stomach digestion of Carnivora is impossible. But are we therefore entitled to assert that this organ is utterly useless? Such considerations appear to render it more probable, that the gastric juice may retain its digestive efficacy after passing through the pylorus ; and that the presence of this secretion in the small intestine suffi- ciently explains the solvent powers of the juice which is found in this situation. But we are not left to such arguments alone to disprove the solvent powers ascrii)ed to the intestinal juice by the above observers. They receive a still more direct contradiction from the experiments made by Frerichs* and by Lehmann.f These authorities concur to state, that neither in nor out of the body can it dissolve the protein compounds. And Leh- mann's case may be regarded as affording much more than an ordinary negative re- sult ; since in it, all communication between the stomach and the fistulous apertiu-e made use of, seems to have been excluded. Fmally, we may recall to the reader that close parallel which was observed in the action of the gastric juice and the infusion of sto- mach ;—how, allowing for dilution and im- purity, we found the latter behaving just like the former. Now, in striking contrast to this significant fact, numerous observers J agree in representing the infusion of intestine as utterly incapable of that solvent action attributed by Bidder and Zander to its secretion. Indeed, Koelliker and Goll have found the capa- city of digesting protein-compounds so inti- mately connected with the structure of the ])ropcr gastric tubes, as to be almost lost in the pyloric extremity of the Dog's stomach ; where these begin to assume the characters * Loc. cit. I Lnc. cit. X Kotlliker, Valentin, Todd and Bowman, and others. of intestinal tubes by losing their oval gastric cells. Hence all these circumstances throw great doubt on the alleged solvent powers of the in- testinal juice ; and render it impossible for us at present to decide what is the exact digestive office which it fulfils. And we are almost as ignorant of its quantity as of its quality. But it is probably secreted by the small intestine in much greater amount than by the large. According to Bidder and Schmidt, it is poured out most freely about five or six hours after a meal. And drinking soon increases its amount, without causingany converse diminution of its concentration. Its strongly alkaline reaction may be conjectured to have some relation to that large quantity of acid, which is appa- rently withdrawn from the chloride of sodium contained in the blood of the stomach, in order to furnish the gastric juice. Indeed, a liberation of soda or some other alkaline base, appears almost implied in that of the hydro- chloric acid. But hitherto no exact analysis has informed us to what particular substance the alkaline character of the intestinal juice is immediately due. And it is only after a careful comparison of the composition and quantit}' of this secretion with those of the less alkaline bile and pancreatic fluid that we should be entitled to conjecture, how far the neutralization* of the acid peptone constitutes a special function of the intestinal juice. Still, from the great extent of secreting surface which yields this juice, we can hardly doubt, that it takes a large share in this neutralizing process, which was formerly attributed chiefly to the bile. It probably thus forms part of that e3cle of alternate decomposition and recomposition, which appears to be under- gone by the chloride of sodium. The vascular arrangements by which these intestinal tubes are supplied with blood, so closely resemble those of the stomach-tubes, as to render any special description of them superfluous. Like the tubes themselves, the vessels are chiefly concerned with secretion. But while we are left in doubt as to the pre- cise degree or kind of that absorptive fimctioii which the vessels of these tubes possess, in common with those of all such mucous sur- faces, we are perhaps justified in attributing a special capacity of absorption to the plexus of large capillaries, which here, as in the former organ, lies inmiediately beneath the epithelium, around their open extremities. The loops of this superficial plexus are generally more simple than in the stomach. They encircle the mouth of each tube with what is often only a single ring of capillary (6 Jig. 258.) ; except in the neighbourhood of the solitary or agminate follicles, where they resemble the analogous gastric vessels in forming more complex meshes (« Jig. 20.) They communicate very freely with the capil- * It is impossible to state whether this neutra- lization of the gastric acid takes place during the sojourn of the gastric juice in the intestine, or al'ter its absorption into the capillary veins around the canal.