OVUM. fnto the cavity behind, in which an increased growth of substance round the ova and within the shell gives rise to the production of a two- valved case for containing the ova. Accord- ing to S. Fisher of St. Petersburg *, the for- mation of the ephippial ova may be noticed during the whole season, from the middle of July onwards ; and it may therefore be inferred that these ova have for their object the pre- servation of the species in the heat of summer when the ponds are liable to be dried up, as well as by resisting the cold of winter. Von Sieboldf states that these hybernating ova contain no germinal vesicle; and Dr. Burnett, in his translation of Von Siebold's work, has adduced various arguments in fa- vour of the view that this is an instance of "internal gemmiparity" (as he regards the corresponding phenomenon in Aphides) rather than the production of true ova. Sufficient data are still wanting, however, to form a de- cided opinion on this subject, as we cannot at present distinguish between the ova of the Entomostraca which are the result of fecun- ^dation, and those which are formed and de- veloped independently of the concurrence of the male J Annulata.—In the class of Annulate Worms, including the Leeches, Earthworms, Nereids, and Amphitrites^ , although considerable va- rieties present themselves in the modes of reproduction, there is yet a greater degree of uniformity in the structure of the ova than in some of the classes previously referred to. In the greater number the ova are nearly spherical in form, of rather small size; the yolk-substance is generally finely granular, and segmentation is complete; the germinal vesicle is clear, with a distinct single macula, or one which is elongated or only slightly divided into subordinate particles. In most ova of Annulata there is, in addition to the inner transparent vitelline membrane, a cho- rion or external membrane of considerable strength, and not unfrequentiy a superadded layer of albuminous substance, which unites the ova in groups or cocoons, or serves to attach them to other bodies. || In Clepsine, among the Hirudinea, the yolk- substance differs from the common form above described, being composed rather of larger- sized globules ; and in another genus belong- ing to the same order, Piscicola, according to Leydigf, there are peculiarities of structure * Mem. of the St. Petei-sburg Acad., 1848, torn, vi., p. 1G2. t Compar. Anat. X See Burnett, loc. cit., p. 353; Zencker, uber die DaphiioidiE in MuUer's Archiv., 1861, p. 112; and Leydig, liber Arteinia salina und Brancliipus stagnalis, in Zeitsch. fiir VVissen. Zool., vol. iii. 1851, p. 297. § Suctoria, terricola, errantia, and tubicola. 11 For a clear and comprehensive account of the reproduction of the Annelida in general, and with special reference to the genus Hermella. one of the suctorial Annulata, the excellent memoir of Quatre- fages, in the Annal. des Scien. Nat., 1848, vol. x. p. 153, in which, in addition to his own researches, are duly recorded those of previous observers. K Zeitsch. fiir Wissen. Zool., vol. i. p. 123. which have not as yet been referred to any general law. In the ova of these animals the covering is double, consisting of a delicate in- ternal vitelline membrane, and an external envelope or chorion, to which a layer of dis- tinct flattened and nucleated cells is adherent; and within the vitelline membrane there is a collection of nucleated cells which displace and partially surround the usual finely granu- lar or formative yolk-substance. Leuckart* informs us that the same peculiarity exists in Pontobdella; but the nature and destination of this inner cellular part of the ovum does not appear as yet to be understood in either of the animals mentioned. In the Piscicola, Leydig observed the ovum, while within the ovarian cavity, to be com- pletely surrounded for a time and enclosed by a consistent mass or covering of spermato- zoa ; and it has been observed that in this animal the germinal vesicle has not in general disappeared till some time after the ovum has thus encountered and been enveloped by the mass of spermatic substance. In the Lumbricus, Meissnerf has made the novel and interesting observation, that pre- vious to the encounter of the spermatozoa with the ovum, the latter loses the vitelline membrane which before covered it, and that the spermatozoa then penetrate, in great numbers, the whole surface of the exposed yolk. Fig. 82*. Ova of the Lumbricus during fecundation. (^From Jtlcissner.') The figures represent three views of the ova of Lumbricus agricola, a. §■ h. on their flat sides, c. seen edgeways. Over the surface spermatozoa are seen penetrating the vitelline substance, giving to it on a large scale the appearance of a ciliated surface. The ovum which has now reached the receptaculuni seminis is without vitelline membrane, the yolk being thus directly exposed to the action of the spermatic masses; but the vitelline membrane ex- isted at an earlier period and disappeared by solu- tion in the course of the descent of the ovum. The development of the ova in Hermella has been minutely described by Quatrefages ; and this may be taken as an example of the general nature of this process among the * Article Zeugung, p. 809. t On the penetration of spermatozoa, &c., in Zeitsch. fUr Wissen. Zool. vol. vi. [. 3]