PLACENTA — (Functions). Fig. 487. 721 Tlie formation of the fixtnl ciiatnher more advanced than in fig. 480. The ovum is still evenly covered by villi, the ends of icliich, about this time, begin to be attached to the walls of the chamber iyi which the ovum is contained. o, ovuin ; d r, decidua reflexa, foriiiiiig the foetal chamber; d v, decidua I'cra; v, uterine walls. ing the formation of a subcutaneous abscess; wliile in proportion as the base of the chamber becomes extended by the gradual retiring, from the centre, of the hne of reflexion of the de- cidua, like waves receding from a central point, so, at the same time, an increasing surface is produced by the expansion of the uterus itself; and the layer of decidua here formed, com- monly termed the decidua serotina, is simply the mucous membrane reproduced to supply the place of that which had been consumed or pushed off in forming the decidua reflexa. The fourth or final stage consists in the partitioning of the permanent placenta into smaller portions or lobes by the extension of the layer of decidua (serotina) which lies op- posite to the developed villi inwards at vari- ous points towards the chorion. In this way are constructed the dissepiments already de- Supp. scribed as bounding the several lobes or co- tyledons. This partitioning of the placenta commences about the fourth month. Thus, during these several stages in the formation of the placenta, two processes may be said to be concurrently carried on which tend in opposite directions — a process of positive enlar:;ement and growth combined with one of relative retrogression or limita- tion. For while the bulk of the placenta is progressively increasing up to the completion of pregnancy, the relative amount of surface of the ovum appropriated to it is, on the other hantl, diminished. The entire surface of the chorion being, in the first stages of develop- ment, employed as a placenta; while in the latter half of gestation, one third of it suffices for that purpose. Functions of the placenta, — By means of 3 A