STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 306 sion of intestine ; a liver ; a pancreas ; and, finally, a compound ciiaracter of mucous membrane, by virtue of which the vifhole tube might be compared to one vast expanse or aggregation of glands. Some of these par- ticulars will again force themselves upon our attention. Hence we may here limit ourselves to the remark, that the main elements of this advance con:sist in the evolution or separation of accessories, and the increase and subdi- vision of surface: — and that both of these conditions imply a division of labour which, here as elsewhere, enhances both the quantity and quality of its product. 2. Respecting the homologies of the intes- tinal canal, scarcely anything can be said. As might be expected, form seems always subordinate to purpose: — in other words, neitiier general nor individual development offers us any permanent or temporary organs of digestion, from which we can deduce a shape that can be considered as a common pattern or archetype.* In rare instances,—as in the Earth-worm and Arachnidan,—the form of the internal canal approaches that of the body and limbs respectively. But even this peculiarity of ibrm is probably teleological. 3. Sufficient allusion has alreaily-|- been made to vegetative or irrelative repetition, as a pos- sible explanation of the complex canal seen in many of the lower Invertebrata. Some of these ramified canals — such as those of the Acalephse, and, with less probability, of the DistomjE— may be conjectured to represent a vascular, rather than intestinal, system. But there are others—^such as those of the Leech and Spider—which seem to be true processes of the digestive canal, used as reservoirs of food. 4. Some complications seem mainly de- pendent upon circumstances which may be termed collateral or subordinate to digestion itself. Thus, the crops of many animals, like the cells of the Camel's stomach, are connected with the more or less necessary habit of gorging large quantities of food at distant intervals. While the gizzard, which is possessed by such very different orders as Polyps, Molluscs, Fishes, and Birds, appears to be closely related, not only to the food, but to the mechanical conditions of the animal. This is especially the case with the Bird, whose long neck, and habits of flight, could scarcely be rendered compatible with a heavy masticatory organ occupying the or- dinary position. 5. The import of some of those numerous blind tubes or pouches which we have so often noticed as opening into the intestinal canal, has already been suggested in the preceding remarks. They are generally, and * In this respect the intestinal canal may probably be contrasted with both the vascular and nervous systems. At least the author feels sure that tlie latter of these will ultimately be found rediiciljle to that serial homology of the skeleton which (ho researches of Professor Owen have done so much to elucidate. t See p. 295. no doubt correctly, regarded as earlier developmental forms of the various conglo- merate glands which are appended to the canal in higher animals. But as regards the j)rinciples of their diagnosis, and the limits of its application, it seems important to remind the reader, that, in the present state of organic chemistry, the situation of their apertures, and the order of their appearance, often constitute our only guides. Thus, for in- stance, tubes which open into the commence- ment of the canal, especially in connection with a higher development of the masticatory organs, are probably salivary. In like man- ner, those which empty themselves in the neighbourhood of the pylorus are supposed to be biliary. And any which, by communi- cating with the anus and exterior of the body, appear to aim at an inmiediate and direct extrusion of their contents, naturally remind the physiologist of the highly poisonous characters of the urinary secretion, and so far entitle him to suspect that they serve to expel this important product of animal life. Here, however, chemistry would often assist his de- cision. The colour of the bile sometimes affords a less certain aid to the diagnosis of this secretion. The order of appearance only helps our conjectures by showing, that, of the two glands which open into the median por- tion of the digestive tube, the liver is the more constant and important:—and hence, that it is probable a solitary set of tubes are chiefly hepatic. But it is obvious that, in many in- stances, all tiiese aids to conjecture may leave us in doubt as to the true nature of a set of secerning tubes. 6. In many of the Vertebrata — such as Birds and Edentata—there are casca to which, as to the smaller vermiform appendix of man, the above explanation cannot apply ; since the ordinary accessory glands are also present. And some of the tubes seen in Insects are probably quite as supplementary. The struc- ture of all these tubes seems to indicate that they are true organs of secretion. But whe- ther this is their main function—or if so, what is the nature of their product — is utterly unknown. The supposition of their possess- ing a special absoqjtive function only increases this obscurity, by leaving it doubtful whether the lower parts of such tubes reclaim a por- tion of the secretion poured out by the upper —just as the intestine absorbs the bile after its entry into the duodenum — or whether they absorb materialsderived from the general cavity of the intestine. But that increase of surface which facilitates mere absorption is effected by folds and projections so much better than by tubes, that, even supposing this latter re- absorption to obtain, we ought at least to concede some modifying power to the secret- ing surface. The ordinary situation of their, apertures — near the junction of the small and large intestine — scarcely assists our spe- culations. It may, however, indicate an ex- posure of their secretions to the long and energetic absorption effected by the large in- testine.