STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 365 For not only are its shape, size, and direc- tion such as admirably adapt it to this pur- pose, but its development in different species and individuals closely corresponds to the degree in which such a delay is advantageous to digestion. Thus the large caecum ot' the Herbivora is contrasted, in the Carnivora, by one of but inconsiderable size and development. While there are grounds for conjecturing, that the habitual use of a vegetable diet is capable of increasing its size in the human subject. In all of these respects, however, its develop- ment does but parallel that of the remainder of the large intestine. We may therefore defer considering the nature of its secretion, and the changes undergone by its contents, until these segments of the bowel have also been noticed. The vermiform appendix (g,Jig. 275.) which is so named from its resemblance in shape and size to a worm, is a small, smooth, cylindrical tube ; that opens into the caecum below (and rather posterior to) the aperture of the small intestine. Its length varies from one to four or five inches : its diameter from about a fourth to a third of an inch. Its attached end of course shares the situation of the contiguous part of the csecum. Its distal extremity is usually free; and may hence be found in almost any situation which its length, and that of the short mesentery that bimls it down, together allow it to take. Its opening into the C£ecum is often partially occluded by a kind of trans- verse fold or valve. As regards its structure, the vermiform ap- pendix exhibits all three of the ordinary coats. Its peritoneum is derived from that of the caecum, and often forms a short fold or me- sentery which is prolonged up a part of its length. Its muscular stratum is of uniform and considerable thickness, and is continuous with the three longitudinal bands which give the cascum its sacculated shiipe. Its mucous membrane is occupied by tubes and follicles, like those of the colon. And the latter structures are often present in such extra- ordinary numbers, as to constitute almost a continuous layer of these minute closed sacs. The calibre of the tube, which is in general disproportionately small, is occupied by a sparing quantity of glairy mucus ; and occasionally, by small fragments of the ordi- nary intestinal contents. The use of the vermiform appendix is un- known. It has been suggested to be a mere relic of the umbilical duct of the foetus :— an erroneous view, to which allu^ion will hereafter be made in speaking of the development of the intestinal canal. It is almost peculiar to Man ; in whom its situation often causes it to receive small solids in their transit through the caecum, with the result of their becoming im|jacted in its narrow cavity. This accident is some- times followed by inflammation and perfora- tion of the tube, causing fatal peritonitis. The colon* (formerly Great gut. Eng.; * This Greek word, which has been adopted into most of the modern languages, is derived inditi'e- Grimmdarni, Germ.), which forms by far the greater part of the large intestine, extends from the ilio-caecai valve to the rectum. Starting from the right iliac fossa, it passes vertically {a. Jig. 274.) up the posterior wall of the belly, and on the right side of the spine, until it reaches the under surface of the liver. A sudden turn at a right angle marks the end of this ascending portion, and the beginning of its transverse part. The latter segment, though tolerably horizontal, forms an arch it,fig. 274.) with the convexity forwards, so as to pass around the projecting spine and aorta. Below the spleen it merges, by another rectan- gular bend, into the descending colon (d,Jig. 274.) This takes much the same course on the left side of the abdomen as the ascending colon does on the right; and opjjosite to the crest of the ileum, it ends by becoming continuous with the sigmoid flexure {s,fig. 274.), The latter portion is attached by a short mesen- tery to the left iliac fossa; and it terminates in the rectum, at a point corresponding to the left sacro-iliac symphysis. The relations of each of these segments to the adjacent textures and organs may be easily deduced from their course as described above. Thus the ascending colon lies on the right kidney and quadratus lumborum muscle, from which it is only separated by loose areolar tissue. On its left side, is the psoas muscle ; and above it, the vertical portion of the duo- denum. In front, it is covered by coils of in- testine ; or, if sufficiently distended to thrust these away, by the anterior wall of the belly. The transverse colon is almost always in contact with the omentum and abdominal pa- rietcs, which it touches in the horizontal line that marks the mutual limit of the umbilical and epigastric regions. Above it, is the first portion of the duodenum ; with the stomach, liver, gall blaihler, and spleen. Below it, are the coils of the small intestine. Behind it, lie the second and third portions of the duo- denum,— the latter covering the aorta. To its posterior surface is attached the transverse mcso-colon; which connects this part of the in- testine with the wall of the belly, by a double fold of peritoneum, that sphts to enclose the tube. The double lamina formed by the re- union of these two layers of serous membrane in front of the bowel, is continuous, at the lower border of the great omentum, with the similar process that descends from the great curvature of the stomach.* The descending colon, like the ascending, lies on the left kiilney and the left quadratus lumborum muscle, and is covered by a va- riable quantity of the small intestine. The sigmoid^/lexiire is much more frequently in contact with the abdominal wall than the preceding portion of the colon. And its freedom of movement, to which this contact is partly due, also allows the bowel to deviate considerably from its ordinary curvature and rently from xilXev, membrum, and xikov, alvus {^xio. r>„ KOlXOT/iTCt). * See Art. Pekitoneum.