RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 262 extremities, and sometimes two or more be- come united. The internal aspect of each ring is thickened into a rounded form. This dis- position of material exhibits an advantage- ous mechanical adaptation to the chief purpose which these cartilages are designed to fulfil. It confers upon them a powerful stiriig/iteniiig tendency. To this continuously-acting me- chanical force the trachea owes its patency. If the membranous interval of the tube be sud- denly cut longitudinally, the rings will rebound almost into straight lines. The tracheal muscles {li. Jig. 207.) extend transversely between the free ends of the ring-cartilages, and also in part between these rings in form of oblique fasciculi, a disposition which enables them to influence both the transverse and longitudinal movements of the tube. The fibres of each muscle do not extend in a regularly parallel direction from one ex- tremity of the ring-cartilage to the other. They interweave frequently and irregularly. They are also intermixed with elastic tissue. They form a layer of 0'3"' in thickness. The ele- ments of each fascicle are 0"03'" long, and from 0-002 to 0-004-'" broad. Along the course of the fibres, at long intervals, are observed nu- clei of very elongated figure. The tendon of each muscle is attached to the internal surface of the ring cartilage, at some distance inwards from its extremities. This arrangement confers upon the muscle great mechanical advantage in the act of nar- rowing the tube. In the horse, this disposi- tion of the tendons is still more marked. In man and mammalia the tracheal muscles be- long to the unstriped variety. In birds they are striated : this is also the case in the muscles of the snake. The layer formed by these muscles is perforated by the ducts of the tracheal glands, which are thickly dis- tributed over its posterior surface in form of reddish granules (/, Jig. 207.). The musculo-membranous portion of the trachea in man is narrower at the laryngeal end of the tube than at the thoracic. Above, less than one third of the circumference of the cylinder is membranous; below, more, except at the actual point of bifurcation. The tra- cheal glands are more numerous at the tho- racic than at the laryngeal end. At the former point, both the vascularity and sen- sibility of the tube are greater than at the latter. It is the innermost and immediate inlet into the organs of breathing. Here, in man and mammalia, the excitability and high organisation of the larynx are repeated, and in birds a second larynx is developed. The presence of mucus at this point excites inuuediate cough. The trachea is to the lungs as the apex of a rapidly-expanding cone is to its base. The arteries {i,Jig. 207.) of the trachea are chiefly derived from the inferior thyroid, and the nerves from the sympathetic and the l ecur- rent of the pneumogastric. By injection it is easy to demonstrate the existence of a sub- mucous capillary plexus. The meshes of the web are considerably larger than those of the true pulmonary plexus, A network of lymphatics also exists in the submucous tissue of the trachea. The meshes of this web are larger and more round-angled than those formed by the blood- vessels. The Bronchi are the primary divisions of the trachea. They consist of two single tubes, one on either side, leading to either lung. Immediately on entering the substance of the lung, they undergo divisions into as many branches as there are lobes. The bronchus on both sides is posterior to the vessels at the root of the lung, and is surrounded by the bronchial vessels and glands and by the pul- monary nerves. The right bronchus presents a greater diameter than the left; it is shorter than the latter, and passes almost horizon- tally outwards above the right pulmonary artery, and the vena azygos arches over its upper part. The left bronchus, nearly double the length of the right, passes obliquely down- wards through the arch of the aorta, and, in its extension to the lung, lies on the oeso- phagus, thoracic duct, and descending aorta, being below the level of the pulmonary artery. The right and left bronchi, bejore they pene- trate the pulmonary substance, exhibit the same structure as the trachea. The cartila- ginous rings are imperfect behind, Hke those of the trachea; the interval being completed by a musculo-membranous structure. These cartilages on the right bronchus vary from six to eight in number, being shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. Those of the left amount to from nine to twelve. The mem- branous posterior space is thickly interspersed with glands like those of the trachea. After entering into the substance of the lungs, the bronchial tubes become modified in structure. The cartilages are no longer parallel ly dis- posed semi-rings. They are arranged in irregular curved pieces over every point of the circumference of the tubes. They do not exist in the corresponding part of the bird's lungs. Thus the bronchi may be classified as the extra and intra pidmonary.* Com- pressed at every point of their circumference by the surrounding pulmonary substance, it is evident that the tubes ivithin the lungs should be constructed such as to be capable of resisting external pressure. This pro- vision is adroitly realised in the manner in which the cartilaginous pieces are disposed over the walls of the tubes. Each piece of cartilage, having a main circular arrangement, is a small segment of a large circle. They are tied together by muscular and elastic fibres. Thus they form a patch-work, cylin- drical frame. The diameter of the tubes is diminished by the approximation of the sepa- rate pieces under muscular agency. The patency of these tubes, unlike that of those of which the walls are exclusively membranous, * By some authors the air-tubes within the kings are distinguislied as the hi-oncliia and broncliiola, after Haller, who thus alludes to them:—" Eos ramos Veteres l/roticliia syringes et aortas clix- erunt."—Elem. Phya.