208 PELVIS. sial surfaces forwards, by the action of the adductors and obturator exteriius. The lateral curvature of the sacrum is consider- ably flattened out, and also the cotylo-sa- cral rib of the iliuiii. The sacro-iliac joints are each opened in front, for the space of about half an inch, stretching the anterior ligaments. The great space between the pubes is evidently obtained by the flattening of the linea inno- minata, as well as by the shortening of the innominate bones, in breadth, and their abnor- mal vertical or wall-sided position. The resulting dinmeters are;—antero-posterior, from the sacral promontory to the inter-pubic ligament, 4 inches ; the inter-cotyloid, 6^- inches ; and between the sciatic tuberosities, inches. This condition, according to Meckel, is rarely met vvith without an analogous con- genital fissure in the bladder and walls of the abdomen. Walter, however, mentions one case.* Other congenilal abnormalilies of the pelvic bones are mentioned by Otto and Rokitansky. In the siren formation, the coccyx and lower extrejnities are entire'y wanting, and the lateral parts of the pelvic bones are fused together, the outlet of the pelvis being nearly completely closetl, and the parts presenting the appearance of the pelvis as we have seen it in the Cetaceans and Fishes. Their deve- lopment seems to have been arrested at that period of fostal life in which this condi- tion is normally, though transitorily, present. In some monstrosities, the sacrum also is wanting, or one or both the innominate bones, with the correspondig lower extremities ; or these parts may be stunted or coalesced. Injiiicnce of liip-jo'tnt disease uj]Oii ilie pelvis. — Caries and necrosis of the pelvic bones, although sometimes re>ulting idiopathically, or from bedsores and abscesses in the muscular sheaths or lymphatics, yet chiefly occur as the consequences of eoxalf(ui, and have a tubercu- lar origin. The formation of false acctabula and the other patholo;iical results of this di- sease or accidental malposition belong n)ore especially to the pathology of the Hip-joint. A preparation of one of these in the Him- terian iVIuseum may be, however,appropriately described in this place, inasmuch as it would |jroduce,ifoccurring in a partiuient female, an obstruction to the ftetal head, analogous to an exostosis. The head of the femur has become displaced into the obturator foramen, and about it an osseous deposit has taken place, apparently in the obturator membrane, which forms a smooth dome-like projection into the pelvic cavity, corresponding in size to the head of the femur. The subject is a male one, and the carious and light condition of the bones and the irregular ossific projections, indicate the results of disease. An interesting change in the position of the pelvic bones after hip-joint disease, is de- scribed by Rokitansky.f * Von der Spaltung der Scliambeine. Berb'n, 1782. \ Pathological Anatomy, p. 259. Sydenham SociBtv's translation. The dislocation of the femur upwards, which is commonly the result of coxalgia, is followed by a wasting of the innominate bones, especi- ally of the ilium. They assume a more ver- tical direction, and, at the same time, their inclination to the spine, as well as the lumbar curve, is considei'ably increased. If this condition be present on both sides, there is general enlargement of the pelvic cavity, due partly—to a general attenuation of the bones, causing the dis.ippearance of the projections at the pectineal eminences, the sacro-iliac joints and the cotyloid walls, and partly to a flattening out of the linea in- 7iominala. The ischia become dragged out- wards and separated, the pelvic cavity shal- lower, and the sub-pubic angle more obtuse. The last result is attributed by Hiilshof to the dragging of the rotator muscles, from the displaced lemur on the sciatic tuberosities, upon which the support of the trunk mainly falls in this condition of the joint. In the pelvis of a woman mentioned by Dr. Hull, however, in whom both the femurs had been dislocated backwards, the transverse diameter of the brim was diminished to 4i inches, and the antero- posterior diameter of the outlet was diminished to only 2 inches, from the tilting forward of the lower part of the sacrum, or rather pro- bably', from the turning of the lower part of the innominate bones backward by the dis- placed femurs, acting on the axis of the sacro- iliac joints. If the disease be one-sided only, as is most commonly the case, and the diseased joint be much used, the tidier isc/iii of that side becomes everted, the innominate bone bent outwards, the distance from the pubic sym- physis to the anterior superior iliac spine lessened, and that side of the pelvic cavity enlarged. The pelvic cavity is, on the other hand, contracted on the sound side, towards which also the spinal curvature inclines, from the principal support of the body falling on that side. When ankylosis has taken place, the innominate bone is bent outward at the acetabulum, in the osseous cicatrix ; the ilium is placed more inwarils and forwards, and the ischium inwards and backwards ; and while the pubic symphysis is drawn towards the diseased side, the sacral promontory is turned to the healthy side of the pelvis. In some instances, the pelvic incjjnation is less, instead of greater, on the diseased side, which is also raised higher than the other. This variation is attributed by Guerin to the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles, which sometimes in these cases impress a deep furrow upon the iliac wings, over the edge of which they play. There is no doubt, that the posture to which the patient may have been most ac- customed, has a great efl^ect in producing such diflJerences, as already explained in the fore- going pages. Fracturfs and Dislocations of Uiepelvic bones.—The saeriim, according to Boyer,is less frequently found fractured than the other pelvic bones, because of its thickness, strength.