OVUM. [103] In D. -fjjj", although the number of maculas has greatly increased by endogenous multiplication, the germinal vesicle has not now undergone an enlarge- ment proportional to that of other parts of the egg and ovisac : the granules of the yolk, especially to- wards the surface, are much increased, and a narrow clear marginal space on the surface now indicates the commencement of the formation of a zona or vitelline membrane. This appearance is also slightly perceptible in Jig. c. The dimensions of the several parts in these dif- ferent specimens were as follows: A. Ovisac - - '0025 Yolk - - — Germinal vesicle - '001 Macula3 - - -00015 B. C. T>. •004 -0056 -007 — -0042 -005 •0016 •00-25 ^0026 •00018 -00025 •OOOS he found the funnel-shaped aperture to re- main for some time after the completion of fecundation, and in none of the fishes he has observed does he conceive the aperture of the micropyle to be closed. The ova of osseous fishes appear to take their origin within the rudimentary folHrles or ovisacs of the ovary much in the same manner as those of the Batrachia. The ear- liest part of the ovum that can be distinctly seen within the follicle is a vesicle of about half the diameter of the primitive follicle it- self A little later this vesicle is seen to be surrounded with a clear, jelly-like substance, in which some small dark granules are depo- sited chiefly towards the surface of the vesi- cle. There is as yet no enclosing membrane, but the follicle is seen to be lined by a layer of extremely delicate hyaline cells, often dif- ficultly perceptible. The earliest recognisable part of the ovum, therefore, is the germinal vesicle ; which, as in other animals, has soon deposited round it the clear gelatinous base- ment-substance of the yolk, in which the opaque yolk granules soon make their appear- ance. There is not at first any vitelline or other membrane enclosing the primitive parts of the egg, and indeed it is a considerable time before any such membranes are formed. The deposit of vitelline granules increases ra- pidly, so as to give the yolk considerable opa- city ; afterwards larger globules a|)pear, and seem to increase by endogenous multiplica- tion. * The oil globules are at first small, and equally difiused through the whole yolk ; it is only in the later stages of for- mation that they unite into fewer and larger globules.f The granular or primitive yolk- substance continues to surround more imme- diately the germinal vesicle till the period when this vesicle is ruptured, and is probably spread over the germinal disc of the egg. Si- milar granules also occupy, however, in a layer the surface of this part of the egg pre- vious to the rupture of the germinal vesicle ; so that it is not probable that the germinal disc owes its origin, as Coste states J, entirely to the effusion of the contents of the germinal vesicle. * Lereboullet, loc. cit. t lietzius, loc. cit. t Hist. gdn. et part, du Ddvelopp. des Corps organ, torn. i. The ovum receives its firm porous mem- brane while within the ovarian capsule, but only in the latter part of the time of its forma- tion. This membrane lies very close to the inside of the ovisac, is at first comparatively thin and destitute of apparent structure, and gradually increases in thickness towards the time of its approach to maturity. At the same time a remarkably thin pellicle may be distinguished close to the surface of the granular yolk-substance, scarcely meriting the nanie of membrane. As already remarked, it is difficult to determine what is the true homo- logical signification of these membranes. The inner one might by some be regarded as a re- presentative of the zona pellucida, or a conso- lidated pellicle on the surface of the yolk, though it must be admitted that Ransom's ob- servation, that it follows the segmentation, is opposed to this view, and makes it more probable that it is only a part of the yolk itself. The origin of the external porous membrane I am inclined to connect rather with the interior of the ovarian follicle ; but whether by exudation from it, or by amalga- mation of the innermost la\er of epithelial cells of the follicle, I have not yet been able to determine. I am inclined to regard the latter as most probable, and that this is the true vitelline membrane. The manner in which the micropyle takes its origin has not yet been ascertained. It will afterwards be shown, that in a consider- able proportion of those invertebrate animals in which this aperture in the egg coverings is found, it has existed from a very early perioti, and proceeds Irom the remains of the pedicle by which the ovum is originally con- nected with the ovarian substance. Such a pediculated connection has certainly not yet been observed by most of those who have in- vestigated the ovarian ovum of fishes.* Ratlike, indeed, observed the appearance of the remains of a pedicle in the detached ova of the Blennius viviparus-(-; according to Ransom the micropjle in the Pike is not a depression, but projects from the surface like a trumpet-shaped process; and in the earliest stage of development of the ovarian ovum of Trigia hirundo, according to Ley- dig J, the shape is somewhat pyriform or pediculated, in the same manner as in some of the invertebrate animals. On the other hand. Ransom expressly states that he has never been able to observe the slightest connection in Gasterosteus be- tween the pedicle of the ovum by which it is attached to the ovary, and the mi- cropyle. This aperture he says is always situated at that side of the ovum towards which the germinal vesicle and the germinal disc are placed; but these parts have no regular connection with the pedicle. The pe- * The pedicle here spoken of is not that of the ovarian capsule containing the ovum, but of the ovum itself within the capsule. t Abhandlung. zur Entwick, part. ii. p. 4. t Muller's Archiv. for 1854, p. 37C. fig. 6. [II 4]