OVUM. 13 the ova were produced. This is the " Alter- nating deneration" of Steenstrup, or what we might with Mr. Owen, in contrast to Me- tamorphosis, call a process of Metagenesis*; and of which the single and multiple varieties might be distinguished according as the inter- mediate progeny consists of one or of suc- cessive new productions. In the two first and best known forms of sexual generation, the term Development has been usually given to a gradual process of changing and advancing growth by which the new animal is formed out of the ovum, till the period when it leaves it, or is said to be born ; and the term Metamorphosis has been generally applied to certain more marked and sudden changes of growth, apparently depending on the circumstance of the embryo or young animal having left the ovum, or having been born, at an early period in a com- jiaratively incomplete state of growth. But ill establishing such a distinction between these terms, it is not meant to be affirmed that the changes which a young animal sub- ject to metamorphosis undergoes are indi- vidually or on the whole greater than those which occur in an animal which attains to its full growth by a process of development; but merely that the one series of changes is less gradual than the other; and that the more marked changes which accompany metamor- phoses are related to certain conditions neces- sary to enable the animal which is born at an early period immediately to perform those acts which belong to its independent existence. It would indeed not be dilRcuit to show that the changes which a mammal or a bird under- goes during its viviparous or oviparous de- velopment, are quite as remarkable anil com- plete as those which occur in the change of a Batrachian rejitile from its aquatic to that of its air-breathing condition, or of an insect from its larva to its complete form. In both of these instances one individual only is developed from the ovum, and that intlividual itself at last reaches sexual com- pleteness, and as being well understood they need not be longer dwelt upon here. But in the varieties of the reproductive process which are now to be more particularly noticed, the individual that proceeds directly from the ovum does not itself pass through the whole series of clianges which are necessary to bring it to the form of the fully developed animal; but before it possesses any sexual organs, or has attained to sexual maturit}', it produces from a minute germ formed in its body by a non-sexual process, a new indi- vidual, or a succession of individuals, the last of which only attains to the specific resem- blance of the parents, and acquiring sexual organs propagates the species by means of ova. This is the modification of the repro- ductive process already termed Metagenesis, and which has received so much attention under the name of " Alternate Generations" since the publication of Steenstrup's cele- * Adopting a term which has been used by Mr. Owen in his Lectixres. Med. Times, vol. xx. 1849. brated treatise under the title of " Generations- Wechsel" in 1842.* No examples of this peculiar modification of the reproductive process have been known to occur in the Vertebrata, and with one ex- ception they are confined to the lower and simpler of the classes of Invertebrated animals. They are not, however, entirely confined to the very lowest classes of these animals as dis- tinguished by the Zoologist, but rather to the snnpler and less developed members of each of the several classes in which instances of them have been hitherto observed. The essential nature of this form of repro- duction consists, then, in the development from the ovum of an individual which is dis- similar from the parent or parents producmg the ovum, and in the succeeding production from that individual, by a non-sexual process, of a progeny of one or more, or a succession of individuals, of which the last of the series resumes the parental form. While in animals, therefore, reproduced by the ordinary form of generation, the species is composed of entirely similar individuals, or of individuals differing only in sex ; in those animals which are sub- ject to the alternate or intermediate genera- tion, the species includes a variety of indi- viduals usually of dissimilar form; of which some are without sex, and others are com- plete as regards the development of sexual organs. It has appeared to some authors that the phenomena in question are to be regarded as no more than peculiar modifications of the processes of development or metamorphosis, of such a nature that the product of the ovum becomes multiple instead of, as is more usual, remaining in its single individuality. But to admit the correctness of this view, it would be necessary to em[)loy these terms in a sense widely different from that commonly given to them ; and, indeed, to modity the ideas of these processes of embryological development in a greater degree than seems warranted by what is at present known of their nature. The name of tarva is usually given to the imperfectly developetl animal that is born or leaves the egg at a comparatively early period, and fitted for independent existence in that state; and in the changes of metamorijhosis by which that larva attains to the complete specific form, great as these changes may in some instances be, we recognise that it is the iiuljviilual produced from the ovum which itself undergoes these changes; whereas in the various kinds of alternate generation, it is always by the formation of an entirely new individual, arising from a minute germ con- nected with the first, but to be distinguished from its parts, and without a sexual process, that the species is at last completed. The new inilividual may be single or there niav be a multitude of them; they n)ay remain con- nected with the one producing them or they * A work wliich appeared originally in the Danish language, and in German in 1842, and of which an excellent translation into English has been pub- lished by the Kay Society in 1815.