[109] OVUM. the nature of this structure in the mature ovum of Anodonta. In this family of MoUusca the micropyle forms a small but very apparent funnel-shaped projection from the surface of the outer mem- brane ; and its hollow nature may easily be ascertained by the fact that the fluid and granular yolk-substance may be forced through it from within. The yolk ball is placed ex- centrically within the vitelline membrane, the inner surface of which it touches just at the place where the micropyle is situated. From a variety of observations, it has been Fig. 73*. Structure and Formation of Ona in Acephala, (^From Lecaze Duthiers.') a. Portion of the ovary with three pediculated ovicapsules and contained ova from Cardiun) rusti- cuni, magnified 400 diameters; the micropyle is afterwards formed at the place where tlie pedicles are detached from the secreting coeca of the ovary. h. Unripe ovum of Spondylus gasderopus magni- fied 170 diameters, showing the remains of the cap- sule at the upper part, and the projection of the vitelline membrane at the same place where the micropyle is situated. c. Ripe ovum of the same burst by pressure, showing the escape of some yolk granules through the micropyle and into the space between the yolk and the outer membrane. In'this and the previous figure the double state of the macula is represented. shown that the micropyle of the Acephalous Mollusca owes its origin to the early pediculated attachment of the ovum. This has been fully brought out by the observations of Hessling in Unio and Anodonta, of Leydig in Venus, and of Lecaze Duthiers in Cardium and some other genera.* From these observations it appears that the ova first arise in the ova- rian stroma by the formation of the ger- minal vesicles, as in most other animals, each vesicle possessing a distinct single macula. These vesicles come very soon to be surrounded by some of the primitive or finely granu- lar yolk, which gradually increases in quantity. These parts are from a very early period en- closed by a membrane which may be regarded as vitelline, but which is differently disposed from that in any of the animals previously re- ferred to ; for, instead of having a regular and complete spheroidal or vesicular form, this membrane is elongated at one part into a pedicle, so as to give the whole of the early ova a pyriform shape, and so as to attach them to the ovarian substance by the pediculated parts of the vitelline membrane. In Venus de- Fig. 74*. Ovarian ova of Venus decussata. (^From Leydig.') a. A group of five ova in their earliest stage projecting from the ovary in their pediculated capsules: the germinal vesicles with single macula, the vitelline granules, vitelline membrane, and ovicapsule are all distinct. b. Two ovicapsules within which at a more ad- vanced stage the ova have become detached from their pedicles, the remains of which at tlie upper ends of the ova form the micropyle. A considerable amount of allnuncn has been deposited between the ovum and the ovicapsule. * Annal. dos Scien. Nat. 1851, ii. p. 155,