OVUM. 43 PART SECOm Of the Ovum previous to the Com- mencement OF FcETAL Development. I. Anatobiical Structure, Chemical Composition, Origin and Formation of THE Ovum in Man and Animals. ยง I. Preliminary and General Comparison of the Ova of Animals. At a time when the analogy and difference in the structure and functions of the ova of various animals were less known than at present, and especially before the discovery of the true maramiferous ovum, the pheno- mena of development were almost exclusively observed in the eggs of birds ; and conse- quently in the progress of investigations on this subject, and their extension to other animals, the nomenclature of parts of the egg, and'the interpretation of the phenomena of development, came naturally to be founded on those which had previously been ailopted in the study of the egg of the common fowl. In more recent times it has been found that the egg of birds presents in some measure excep- tional characters, as compared with that of the greater number of animals; and it has thus become apparent that the close limitation of our observations to the class of birtis, fruitful as they are universally acknowledged to have been in most important and interesting in- formation on our subject, might tend even to retard in some degree the establishment of the more general laws of tyi)ical structure and formative change, which constitute so remark- able a feature of the result of modern em- bryological researches. Still, the convenience of being able to ob- tain the egg of the bird without trouble in all stages of advancement, the familiar knowledge that has so long been possessed of the pheno- mena of incubation, the proportionally large size of the embryo, the tlifficulty, on the other hand, of making serial examinations of the ova of manmialia, and, though nume- rous and important, the comparatively frag- mentary nature of the observations in this class, and especially in the human subject, make it desirable that we shoulil not too soon depart from the practice, which has so long prevailed, of making the bird's egg the main foundation of our description of the ovum and formative process in general. But, at the same time, the exceptional structure of the fowl's egg alluded to renders it proper for me to present here, in a connected form, some account oF the principal differences among the ova of various animals ; so that we may, in some measure, avoid drawing false analogies, or deducing supposed general laws, which may be premature, or may be rendered inad- missible by the existence of ascertained in- dividual peculiarities, or more extensive dif- ferences among various classes of animals. In the commencement of this treatise (p. 3.), the ovum of animals has been described as consisting in general of two sets of parts, of which the one is formed in the ovary of the female, and the other is superadded to the first after it has left the place of its forma- tion. The first, constituting the ovarian ovum (or ovulum of some authors), consists essen- tially of, 1, the external vesicular covering, or vitelline membrane, 2, the yolk or vitelline substance, and 3, the germinal vesicle, with, 4, its nucleus or macula. As being the most con- stant in their structure and relations, and the more immediate seat and agents of the forma- tion of the embryo, these parts may be re- garded as the essential and most important structures of the egg. The other set of parts, which are subject to great variation in dif- ferent animals, and are only remotely con- nected with the formative process, consist chiefly of external coverings of more or less density, either membranous or calcareous, within which often is enclosed some portion of albumen or albuminous fluid along with the ovarian ovum. They serve the {)urpose, in oviparous animals, of protecting the ovarian egg from the hurtful influences of external agents, and, in rarer instances, of supplying ad- ditional nourishment to the embryo ; in vivi- parous animals these parts (as in the chorion of mammalia) serve more important ends, being the more immediate means of establish- ing that intimate organic connection between the parent and embryo, by which a continual supply of materials for the growth of the latter, is transmitted into its body. From analogy, the outermost covering of the ovum of all animals has generally been termed the chorion. In thus stating the general structure of the ovum of animals, a certain amount of uni- formity, analogy, or correspondence in their several parts has in the meantime been as- sumed ; and the best ascertained facts seemed for long, indeed, to have warranted such an assumption. It will be for after consideration to determine how far the comparison of the several parts of the ova of different animals proves their uniformity of structure and rela- tion. In some instances it may appear difficult or impossible to discover the correspondence; and we must therefore be careful not to be led by the attractive nature of a great genera- lization, to confound a merely functional or physiological analogy, with an anatomical, a structural and relational identity. Without entering at present into a detail of the observations bearing upon the foregoing view of the general analogy in structure and function of the ova of animals (which in truth would involve the history of almost all the more recent researches on the subject), it seems proper at this place to call the at- tention of the reader to the most prominent modern discoveries which have laid the found- ation of a more accurate acquaintance with the structure of the ovum, and have also led to the application of improved histological views to the study of ovology.* * It is not intended at this place to refer to the history of discovery in the department of our subject wliich includes embryological development, in which