PELVIS. tlorsally (/). Tlie pubes (d) are directed obliquely backwards with very short sym- physis (/), and the ilio-pectineal s|)ine (//) is very large. The pelvis is altogether massy and large, with long sciatic notches and con- siderable obturator foramina. i^'Ajx. 102. Pelvis of the Cape Ant-eater, side view. In the great American Ant-eater, both the ilia and ischia abut closely on the sacral trans- verse processes, presenting a faint suture at the line of junction. The pelvis is proportion- ately smaller and lighter, and the processes and spines much less marked than in the Cape Ant- eater. The himbo-i/iac angle in the Ant-eaters is 140°, the Uio-iscJdal 140° ; and the ilio-jntbic is reversed, and about 153°. The Manis possess pelves of the same ge- neral heavy appearance as the American Ant- eater. The i/ia and i.sc/iia are closely approxi- mated, but not ankylosed to the sacrum. The symphysis pubis is short and not joined by the ischia, and the pelvic openings comparatively small. In the foregoing Sloths and Edentata, and in some of the Rodents, we have remarked the tendency of the anterior symphysis to become shorter and more imperfect by the absence of median union of the ischia, and that this is accompanied by a corresponding increase of the bond of union between the sacrum and ilio-ischian elements of the pelvis, by a closer approximation or ossification of their uniting ligaments, to give greater firmness to the pelvis as its anterior connection fails. In the Insectivora and Bat tribe, this separa- tion of the innominate bones is increased, and the pubes also fail altogether, in many in- stances, to meet in the median line. By the classification of animals according to their pelvci development, which is here adopted, these tribes are placed much lower than their general osteology allows, in the general classi- fication commonly given by authors, and are allied more closely to the Bird type in their pelvic formation. Of the Inseclwvra, the Hedgehog presents the least pelvic departure from the common mammalian type. The sacrum is narrow and triangular,and composed offour vertebras, three of which articulate with the ilia. The ilia are thin and elongated, and placed on the spine at an angle of 1.30°. The isc/tia are slender, projecting above the level of the sacrum, but not touching it ; and the rami are long and slender, and enclose with the pubes large obturator foramina. The pid?es are long, slender, and obliquely directed, making an ilio-jmbic angle o£ about 150°. The symphysis is very short, and the pelvic outlets large, with the long diameters antero-posterior. In the Tupaia, one 4-«fen/vertebra only, out of three, unites with the ilia, and there is a good sized symphysis pubis, as is also seen in the Tenrecs. In the genus Desman two sacral ver- tebrae articulate with the ilia and one with the ischia; and thejmbcs are very obliquely placed on the ilia, and, according to Blainville, are placed, anteriorly, rather in contiguity than in symphysis, giving to the pelvis very much of the appearance of that of the Ostrich. In the Macroscelides there is a short and rudi- mentary pubic symphysis. The Mole (^Falpa) and the Shrews {Sorex) are remarkable for a very narrow sacrum, com- posed, according to Blainville, of four ver- tebrae, but, according to Cuvier, of seven in the Mole and three in the Shrews. In the Mole the ilia are solidly ankylosed to nearly the whole length of the sacrum. In the Shrews the two first only of the sacral pieces are united with the ilia. The spines in both are coalesced into a prominent sacral crest. Caudal pieces numerous. The i/w are cylindrical, much approximated, and parallel to the spinal column. The iscliia are much elongatetl, and elevated posteriorly above the sacral vertebree. The pubes are very short and slender, and though they unite with the short ischial rami to enclose a small obtu- rator foramen, do 7iot meet in a symphysis, but present an anterior interval, said to be wider in the female than the male, and causing the whole pelvis to assume very much a bird-like appearance. The pelvic cavity and outlets are so strait that the sexual and urinary organs and rectum pass altogether in front of it. In the Bats (^Cheiroptera) the sacrum (Jig. 103, e), is very narrow, compressed posteriorly into a straight continuous bone, with no lateral foramina, and composed of three to four ver- tebrae, which are joined by ankylosis to three or four upper coccygeal vertebrEe, or to more in the tailed species, 'i'here are six to twelve caudal bones, sometimes absent, as in Pteropiis and Vampire. Fig. 103. Pelvis of the Tcrnate Bat {natural size), anterior view ; showing the inter-puhic separation (</, rf'). The ilia (a,) are narrow and subcylindricai, with a thick anterior spine, placed parallel to the vertebral column, and anki/loscd to the anterior sacral vertebra. The ischia (c) are in the same right line with the ilia, and are