STOMACH And intestine. 321 Their diameter is about a^^o^h of inch, but is also increased towards the p3dorLis. Thus their length has to their breadth a pro- Fig. 246. Stomach-tuhe from the middle of the human stomach. Magnified lit) diameters, a, wall of the tube, lined with large oval nu- cleated cells; 6, the same oval cells isolated, and magnitied 800 diameters; c, nucleated cells of co- lumnar epithelium, occupying the upper parts of the tubes, and the intervening ridges; d, blind ex- tremity of the tube. portion of about 10 to 1. Their form fre- quently so far deviates from that of a simple cylinder as to present slight constrictions or undulations. And occasionally they even exhibit a kind of caecal pouch or blind offset of greater or less length. These pouches usually spring from the lovi'er extremities of the tubes, which generally have a somewhat increased diameter in their neighbourhood.* But with these exceptions, the gastric tubes form simple, straight cylinders, which only widen where they open on the inner surface or cavity of the stomach.-|- * These appearances are generally more marked in the separated fragments of a specimen, or on its exposed edges and surfaces, and are certainly often absent. From this and other reasons I have long entertained the suspicion that they are chiefly due to mechanical violence. I A widening of diameter which obviously cannot exceed the thickness of the matrix around each tube, and may therefore be easily estimated from the amount of this latter tissue seen in looking at any vertical section of the mucous membrane in situ. Su])p. The Ibmtary or basement membrane which forms these tubes precisely resembles this delicate homogeneous layer of the mucous structures generally, except perhaps in the fact of its possessing an even greater tenuity. It is usually seen only as a dark outline, bounding some part of a tube that happens to have been isolated entire. Rarely, iiowever, it may be identified as a delicate, floating, and collapsed fold, which, on the addition of a dilute alkali, first swells up, and then alto- gether disappears. On the ridges which unite the tops of the tubes it is quite im- possible to separate it from the subjacent structures;—an intimate adhesion which forms a striking contrast to the ease with which we can often isolate the tubes themselves. The contents of these tubes appear to be every- where alike. In the upper fourth or fifth of their length, they contain a single layer of columnar epithelium i,c,fg. 2-i6.), Seen as isolated cells, the particles of this epithelium have a cylin- drical shape, and enclose a very distinct nu- cleus near their attached extremity. But when we look at them in their natural situation, from the free side of the mucous membrane, we see that they are rather hexagonal prisms than C3linders; and contain nuclei, which appear to lie so near to their lower ends, as to be separated from the basement membrane by little more than by the cell-wall at this part. The remainder of the tube is occupied — and under normal* circumstances api>ears to be filled — by oval or somewhat angular cells (« rf, and i, _/%. 246.) of considerable size. The largest of these oval cells are about -^Voth of an inch in diameter. They have a more or less distinct membranous wall. The nucleus they contain is usually in contact with that side of their parietes which is attached to the base- ment membrane of the tube ; and it some- times exhibits a nucleolus. Their contents are finely granular, with here and there re- fractile dots that have a close resemblance to oil globules. And the author has been able to establish the fact, that a large proportion of these cells enclose, beside the above granu- lar material, numerous (3—15) pale, flat, and extremely delicate cytoblasts. Whether the centre of the layer formed by these cells constitutes a distinct calibre or cavity of the tube, — or whether it is merely an in- terval occupied by granules or cytoblasts — he is unable at present to decide. As has already been hinteil, the gastric mu- cous membrane is distinguished from most other parts of the body, not only by the great delicacy of its structure, but by the com- plexity of its arrangement; and above all, by the remarkable facility and rapidity with which it undergoes disorganization and de- * It is very common to find portions of the tubes quite devoid of these cells, and occupied by a gra- nular substance, with nuclei and cytoblasts in vary- ing proportion. But I believe that this appearance, which is especially frequent in the blind ends of the tubes, is generally the result of mechanical injury of the original cells. (Compare p. 324.) , Y