705 UTERUS —(Ligaments of). the (perhaps efflisecl) fibrine. The centre of these coagLila may be found softened, and containing the creamy pus-like fluid wiiich results from the molecular disintegration and liquefaction so commonly observed in fibrinous clots. Frequently the clots are of a less consistent texture, being of a dark brown or chocolate colour, or reduced to the con- sistence of a soft pulp. The coats of the veins may be thickened and adherent to the contained coagula, or covered by fibrinous laminae or merely blood-stained, or pre- senting no deviation from the natural state. LIGAMENTS OF THE UTERUS. These terms are applied to several dupli- catures of peritoneum, containing variable quantities of fibrous and muscular tissue, which serve to connect together the uterus and its appendages and to limit the motions of these parts within the pelvis. They are dis- tinguished as the broad, the round, the utero- sacral, and the vtero-vesical ligaments. The broad ligament.— The fold of perito- neum in which the uterus is contained, after investing the fundus and anterior and posterior walls of the organ, passes off laterally in the form of a double lamina that extends from each uterine border horizontally outwards as far as the sides and base of the pelvis, to which it is attached. Thus a vertical septum is formed, which divides the cavity of the pelvis transversely into two chanibers; the anterior and shallower one containing the bladder, the posterior and deeper holding the rectum and a portion of the small intestines. The uterus occupies the middle of the septum, while the lateral extensions of it form the broad liga- ment of either side. Figs- 368. and 404. y.. Attached to the upper border of the broad ligament are three folds, termed lesser wings. The central and superior of these, which is the largest, contains in its free falciform edge the Fallopian tube, and at its base a portion of the parovarium. It has been alreaily described as the mesentery of the tube. The smaller pos- terior fold invests the ovary together with its proper ligament; while the third or anterior fold is inclined obliquely towards the body of the uterus, and constitutes the covering of the round ligament. Between the lamina; which form the principal or lower portion of the broad ligament, as well as within the ahe, are found the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves which su[)ply the uterus and its appendages, together with a variable amount of fibrous and un- striated muscular tissue that serves to connect the alminae together. This structure should be regarded as a me- sentery rather than a ligament of the uterus. It serves to invest the uterus and its appen- dages with a common peritoneal covering, and to protect these parts and attach them to the pelvis, as the mesentery attaches the intestines to the spine ; while the interspace of the fokis suffices for the conveyance of vessels and nerves. The resemblance to a mesentery is more obvious in the bicorned and intestiniform uterus of the manunalia generally, as well as Supp. of many other vertebrata in which it forms the mckomelrium. The utero-sacral ligaments.— From the pos- terior wall of the uterine neck two falciform folds of peritoneum proceed towards the rectum. These are most easily seen when the parts are stretched. Between them lies the depression of variable depth known as the retro-uterine jjouch, or space of Douglas. When the peritoneum is removed, these folds are seen to be occasioned by two correspond- ing bands of fibrous tissue, extending from the substance of the cervix backwards towards the sacrum, to which they are attached. Their strength varies considerably in different sub- jects ; so that when not much developed they may be overlooked. The importance of these ligaments, or rather fibrous bands, has perhaps not been generally sufficiently ajjpreciated. From their position and connections it cannot admit of doubt that they are intended to re- strain the motions of the uterus, — to prevent it from being forced upwards in the act of con- junction, and especially to limit the descent of the organ in erect postures of the body. The utero-vesical ligaments.— Opposite to the point of junction of the body and neck of the uterus, where the peritoneum is reflected forwards on to the blatlder, are connnonly observed two slighter lateral folds, containing bundles of fibrous tissue. These constitute the anterior or utero-vesical ligaments. The round, or sub-pubic ligament: ligamen- tum rotundum, ligarnentum uteri teres. — This ligament consists of a flattened chortl or band of muscular and fibrous tissue, which, traced from below upwards, proceeds from the in- ternal inguinal ring in a curved direction to- wards the superior angle of the uterus on either side, where it is inserted in front of and a little below the conmiencement of the Fallopian tube. {Figs. 404. and 418.) The ligament of the right side is conmnonly shorter than that of the left: hence it hap- pens that in pregnancy the uterus more often inclines to that siile. According to INIr. Kainey*, the round ligament arises by three fasciculi of tendinous fibres : the inner one from the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles near the symphysis pu- bis ; the middle one, from the superior column of the external abdominal ring, near its upper part ; and the external fasciculus, from the inferior column of the ring, just above Gim- bernat's ligament. From these attachments the fibres pass backwards and outwards, soon becoming fleshy : they then unite into a lounded chord, which crosses in front of the ejiigastric artery, and behind the lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, from which it is separated by a thin layer of fascia continuous with the fascia transversalis; : it then gets between the layers of peritoneum forming the broad ligament, along which it passes backwards, downwards, and inwards to the point of insertion already described. * On tlie Structure ami Use of the Ligamentuni Rotundum Uteri, Phil. Trans, p. 515. pt. ii. 1850. z z