PELVIS. 199 Of the pelvis, retain a sufficient degree of hard- ness to resist the bending, then the inward pressure of the heads of the femurs remains in its full force, associated with the upward and backward pressure, and the deformity is increased by the upright position {Jig. 122. c, ab, a c). The same result is also produced in an increased degree, if the leg bones yield outwards, so as to direct the pressure of the heads of the thigh bones more towards the median line. This will be better understood by referring to the diagram {Jig. 122. v,ab,a c). Naegele observes, that vvhen the lower extre- mities are curved and distorted the pelvis will generally be deformed ; and that such a con- dition more especially, or where one hip is higher than the other, with an unsteady gait, a projecting abdomen and lower jaw, and re- traction of the arms and thorax, diminutive stature, &c., should lead the accoucheur to suspect deformed pelvis.* Tlie adult pelvis, softened by malacos- teon, appears to undergo greater distortion than is proportionate to that of the leg bones. In that upon which the experiments before mentioned, to ascertain the proportions of the osseous constituents, were performed, the bones of the lower extremities were almost entirely symmetrical and well formed, and the proportion of earthy matter contained in the lemurs much greater than in the pelvic bones, especially in the pubes (at one point of which it was entirely deficient) and the sacrum. Tlie pubes, as they are also the thinnest pieces of the innominate bones and sustain a great amount of the inward pressure, which exists, in these cases, to its full extent, seem to he the first to give way in the more complete and rapid softening of " mollities ussiiim aditllonim." The consequence is, the approximation of the acetabular extremities, and increased curve of the cotylo-sacral arch, so as almost to touch the sunken sacral key-stone ; and the starting forward and upwards of the crown of the \m- bic counter-arch, so as to produce the rostrated symphysis. The nuiscles'before enumerated, which sup- port the erect posture, as they are in the adult more powerful and developed, have a corre- sponding effect in increasing the contraction of the diameters consequent on the distortion. The bones yield between their contracting dis- tances in the direction already impressed upon them. The acetabula are pressed backward by the psose and iliacus muscles, and the ischial tuberosities and trochanters approxi- mated by the pressure of the great glutei, which, aided by the pyriformes, will also draw for- ward the lower part of tiie sacrum and coccyx. The powerful influence of the adult nuiscles upon the pelvic bones partially softened, and especially that of the great glutei upon those bounding the diameters of the inferior outlet, will produce many of the pa tial deformities before treated of, as the influence of mechan- ical posture in a limited extent, or short dura- tion of the softening disease, will produce others, principally those of the [lelvic brim. * Lohrbucli, § 114. The peculiar variety of the partial deformity will depend upon the frequency of the use of one particular posture or set of muscles ; and this will depend chiefly, in the child, on the concurrent ailments which usually affect it, and in the adult on the nature of his or her habits and employment. The degree of the backward curvature of the cotylo-sacral arch seems to depend upon the degree of anterior lumbar curvature, which necessitates a forward [)rqjection of the femurs to keep the line of gravity between the feet (see fig, 122. e, a b). The rostrated pelvis, with elongated antero- posterior diameters, apparently results from the coincidence of the softened pubes with the causes of oblong deformity before adverted to, as produced by a backward spinal curve, causing the line of gravity to fall considerably behind the acetabula, and dragging backwards the superior [)art of the sacrum. The mechanism of these important pelvic deformities has been entered into more in detail because of the evident practical infer- ences which may be drawn from it with re- gard to the treatment and position of children, especially females, afflicted with rickety dis- ease. Degree of obstruction. — Pelves affected by the foregoing distortions are usually arranged by British obstetricians, according to the de- gree of obstruction at the brim, into three classes: — 1st. Those which will sufilr the full-sized foetal head to |)ass entire. 2nd. Those through which delivery may be accomplished "yjtr vias uaturale.s" by means of premature labour, craniotomy, or mutilation of the foetus. 3rd. Those in which the degree of defor- mity is so extensive as to call for the Caesarian section, or the very early induction of abor- tion. The limits of the first class have been va- riously stated by different obstetricians,accord- ing to their o|)inions regarding the obviou variations in size of the fijetal head, and its de- gree of ossification. The following list conveys the ojjinions of the most eminent authorities upon the lowest limits through which the foetal head can pass entii'e : — R.'imsbotham, Churchill, Lee, ami 7 most obstetricians • - S Aitlten and Oabonie . - - Josh. Clarke liurns, Davis, and Le Roi Barlow (Essays) .. - - , r.usch (Berlin) _ _ - - Uitgun DiAMFTKRS Conjugate . Transverse, ins. by 4 ins. „ „ stilficient. 2i <2l to 3 2 The lowest limits of the second class of pelves involves a great difference of opinion as to the lowest space required ibr the safe performance of craniotomy : — Ramsbotham Conjugate. Transverse. If ins. by 3h ins. Osborne, Hamilton, and Gardien - 1^ IJavis and Barlow - - - I3 Baiidelocque Burns, Hull, and Churchill Dewces . . . ■ ■ ^ - ^ 3 „ U at inf. outlet. uis. 4.