270 RESPIRATION, ORGANS OR from a calculation of the individual dimensions of the air-cells. It should be observed that the orifices, by which one cell communicates with another, are of the same shape and dimensions as those which exist between the first set of cells and the bronchial tubes ; they can be very distinctly seen by looking down upon the air-cells from the intercellular passages, focus- sing the microscope at the same time. Since these openings are not necessarily in a straight line, the exact number of cells which com- municate cannot in this manner be determined; but the number will depend upon the dis- tance which intervenes between any given part of the bronchial passage and the surface of the lobule: so that when a bronchial passage arrives nearest the surface it will be separated from it only by a single terminal cell. The (hmensions of the cells in diiFerent animals present many diversities. In the lung of the kangaroo, especially in those parts remote from the surface, the air-cells are very small, and disposed with the greatest irregularity. The lining membrane is also proportionally imperfect, being perforated in many places opposite tiie areolae of the plex- uses, so as to admit the air passing through them to come into contact with the coats of the vessels, as in the lung of the bird. In this mammal the minuteness of the air-ceil is such, that it is too small to contain a single ciliated epithelium {Rainri/). In the lung of the rat and mouse the air-cells are still more minute, and certainly many of them are not of a sufficient size to receive even an indi- vidual particle of the dimensions of the bron- chial ciliated epithelium. The air-cells are disposed with the same kind of irregularity, and the pulmonary membrane is deficient, as in the lung of the kangaroo. In the lung of the hare, the air-cells are very small, but perhaps not so much so as in the preceding species. The lung of the rabbit resembles that of the hare, but its air-cells are rather larger. In the lung of the dog the air-cells are larger than in the rabbit; but still in the more central parts of tiie lung they are very minute, too minute, indeed, to be capable of having a lining of ciliated epithelium without being wholly unfitted for the purposes of respiration. In the monkey, the air-cells are large, and resemble those in the human lung. In the hlngof the sheep and ox they are, upon the whole, about the same size, and very minute in both.* The diameter of one of the intercellulai * As the following passage expresses the views of S. van der Kolk, Ilarting, Kolliker, as well as that of the writer, Adriani, I append it here at length: — " Has cavitates antea cellulas dictas, nunc Dr. Kossignol alveoles nuncupavit, quod admitti potest, si nemo tantum huic nomini regularitatem mathe- maticam adjungat, quo3 in alveolario apium inve- nitur; in pluiibus locis enim alveoli infandibulorum ant rotundi sunt, aut magis polygonam figurara referunt; eorum parietes vasis cinguntur minutis- simis, confertissiinis, saipe optimfe materia colorata impletis, et tunc rete subtilissimum constituenti- bus. Fibrse autem elasticas potissimum ad mar- passages ranges from -i-g- to -^^^ of an inch, and that of the cells from ^ to {Todd and Bowman). In the lung of the calf these cells do not exceed jr^-^ By Dr. W. Addi- son they are stated, in the human lung, to measure from ^^to -^i^ of an inch. Minute Structure of the Air- Cells. — Three anatomical elements enter into the composi- tion of the air-cells : the epithelium, the blood- plexus, and the elastic tissue. The inter- lobular tissue is not here considered. 1st. The EjMhcUum of the Air-Passages and Cells. — It was first surmised by Dr. Thomas Addison, from the phenomena of the dif- ference between pneumonia and bronchitis, that the air-cells of the lungs must be desti- tute of epithelium. Dr. W. Addison contends that the air-cells "possess an epithelium in form of large round nucleated scales, and from one to fifteen or more nuclei may be counted in a single scale. A great many nuclei without any epithelial envelope may be seen upon them ; but I have never satisfied myself that they possess the ciliated cylinder epithelium so abundant in the trachea and bronchi."* Mr. Rainey denies the presence of epithe- lium of ani/ description on the interior of the air-cells, the vascular plexus being lined only by a " pulmonary membrane." Rossignol is the only subsequent writer who has sup- ported this view: — " Neither does the ciliated epithelium lining the bronchial tubes extend into the intercellular passages, and from thence into tlie air-cells, or rather air-spaces (speak- ing of the bird's lung), but it ceases where the bronchial membrane terminates. In the mammal, but especially in man, in whom the air-cells are very large, the fact of their, having no epithelial lining can only be proved by a careful examination of the parts with the microscope, and therefore, with no other means than those of deciding this question, it might always remain sub judice, so long as persons are found who are more ready to confide in the assertions of others than submit to the pains and difficulty of examining the point for themselves."f Rossignol says: " Les parois alv^olaires sont formees : 1° par une charpente de fibres qui laissent entre elles des espaces vides ou areoles ; 2° par ime mem- brane transparcntc, qui n'offi'e aucune trace de fibres, qui recouvre la charpente precedente, et remplit les espaces vides." In this passage M. Rossignol has evidently adopted without inquiry the conclusion of Mr. Rainey, with whose writings he seems well acquainted. The opinion of all German and English anatomists is now finally formed with reference to this gines septornm, quibns alveoli constituuntur, de- currunt, tamen uti jam monuimus, nonnuUa; per parietes ipsos etiam deeurrunt. Vasa capillaria majoi-a hac tela sustinentur. In ipsis parietibus infundibuloi'um alveoli inveniuntur, in ipsos bron- chiolorum ramos sese ostendentes; Rossignol, qui etiam illos vidit, eos alveolos parietales vocavit; nos autem, antequam ejus commentatio fuerat edita, cellulas parietales vocavimus."—P. 43. Op. cit. * Phil. Trans. 1842, part i. p. 1C2. t Kainey, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxii. 1849.