STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 412 of variable thickness. It is almost always the result of a rapid or acute inflammatory process. Hence it is for the most part found connected with an intense retiness and vas- cularity of tlie whole depth of the mucous membrane. And this appearance, which often extends to all the other tunics of the bowel, in some instances rapidly merges into a sloughy or even gangrenous state. The exsudation of this croupy lymph occurs in a variety of morbid conditions. As an idiopathic disease of the canal, its effusion is very rare. In some of the exanthemata, and especially in scarlet fever, it is occasion- ally poured out over a very large extent of the inflamed mucous surface of the alimentary tube. In the tuberculous cachexia it is also now and then effused. In the inflammation pro- duced by mechanical injuries, we may gene- rally observe it; mingled, of course, with blood, ■where there has been any lesion of the blood- vessels. Finally, in cases of poisoning by irri- tant substances, its presence is by no means uncommon. Here, however, it is important to distinguish it from the false membrane which is often |)roduced by the chemical effect of the poison on the membrane itself, and on the exsudation it subsequently pours out. The morphology of the proteinous mass poured out under these very different morbid states, seems to be even more variable than its physical and chemical properties. The observations which the author has hitherto been able to make, would lead him to infer the following conclusions :—(I.) The croupy ex- sudation of the intestinal mucous membrane generally contains a considerable proportion of a cell-growth; which is an abortive epithelium, homologous with that of the healthy struc- ture. (2.) The amount of this constituent attains its maximum in the tough white lymph thrown out during the acute inflanmiation of a previously healthy organism ; for example, in the lymph of the inflammation that follows mechanical injuries of the bowel, or in the croupy casts of the intestine, sometimes voidetl in the earlier stages of scarlet fever or cholera. (3.) The form of this constituent is never that of the columnar cell proper to the healthy membrane; but, even when best developed, rarely exhibits more than its cytoblast, devoid of an outer cell-wall. (4.) The degeneration of these cytoblasts, as marked by the disap- pearance of their distinct inicleus, and the appearance of more refractile and granular contents, mark their transition to the charac- ters of true pus-corpuscles; which thus be- come admixed with the croupy substance, and communicate to it the softer consistence and yellower colour of pus. (5.} The minimum of this modified cell-growth is found in the chronic forms of inflammations of the mucous membrane, and in the cachetic states of the system;—for example, in the exsudation as- sociated with the tuberculous state. (6.) The bulk of such deposits is a mass, which generally has a yellowish colour, and is rarely mixed with small masses of black pigment. This mass possesses a soft friable consistence. and presents an amorphous granular appear- ance under the microscope. In exceptional cases, it varies from this description :—in the firmer deposits, by offering an indistinctly fi- brillated texture; in the softer, by exhibiting numerous highly refractile (and probably fatty) molecules of variable size. (7.) The applica- tion of re-agents under the microscope, seems to indicate a corresponding variety of compo- sition in these various forms of the croupy exsudation. At any rate, this very imperfect mode of examination pei mits us to conjecture that these exsudations consist in great part of protein-compounds, which possess very dif- ferent degrees of solubility in different cases, and are capable of undergoing a partial de- generation into a fatty material. The ncule and chronic varieties of inflam- mation, like the preceding, merge into each other by infinite shades of resemblance. But they are contrasted by a number of cir- cumstances, all of which seem more or less dependent on the rate and duration of the process. Thus the acute inflammation presents a maximum both of hyperasmia and effusion ; the latter having usually either a croupy ap- pearance, or a more or less purulent compo- sition. It involves a greater depth of the mucous membrane ; and often spreads to the subjacent muscular and peritoneal coats, so as to cover various portions of the latter with lymph. In its most intense form, it may even convert the whole of the intestinal parietes into a comparatively uniform mass, of a dirt}'- red colour, and a rotten (or almost friable) consistence. The chronic variety of inflammation chiefly testifies to its duration by the presence of some one or other of the following pecu- liarities : — Its colour varies from pale red to dark brown or blackish red; variations which are due to the exsudation being mixed with more or less of blood or pigment, as be- fore alluded to. Its consistence is less re- gularly affected, but is often increaseil by a kind of hypertrophy. The exsudation is, on the whole, in smaller quantity; and of a less croupy or albuminous quality. And finally, it is ex- ceedingly prone to pass into ulceration. Concerning the inflammations of the various microscopic constituents of the mucous mem- brane, it must be confessed that our knowledge is at present very limited. In most instances, the villi and tithes appear to share pretty equally in the dihease. Ol the two involutions of the mucous surface, how- ever, the villi seem the most liable to suffer; a fact for which it would be easy, though scarcely justifiable, to assign a mechanical ex- planation. In some instances, the blind ex- tremities of the gastric or intestinal tubes appear to suffer disproportionately, as com- pared with their upper extremities, and with the general surface of the canal. In such cases we may often see the capillaries around these blind extremities deeply injected, or their blood extravasated into the cavity of the tube; and in other instances, their natural cell con-