PREFACE. Of not less promise, in a still wider field of research, was John Reid, who for a few years before his early removal under a painful and tedious disease, filled the chair of Medicine at the University of St. Andrew's, a position in which his great powers had but a limited scope. Reid was one of those men who are content to take nothing for granted which it was at all in their power to examine for themselves. His admirable investigation of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Eighth Pair of Nerves is a model of anatomical and physiological research, scarcely equalled and not surpassed by any similar essay of recent or remoter times. His articles, Heart and Respiration, in this Cyclopaedia, bear ample testimony to his scientific character, and well sustain the high reputation he had acquired even at a very early age. The late venerable Dr. Bostock, who died at an advanced age, belonged to a different school of Physiologists from those already referred to. No man was more remarkable for the patience and depth of his literary researches. Conscientious almost to a fault, he has left a scrupulously faithful record of all that was done in Physiology up to the time at which he wrote, affording to those who take an interest in that bi'ancli of inquiry an impartial historical review of the progress of science. From the great erudition and sound judgment of this excellent man, the Editor derived many valuable hints in the first stages of the Cyclopaedia, in the plan and early progress of which he was pleased to take a lively interest. Born a British subject, the late W. F.Edwards (also a veteran in science although he had by no means attained a great age) had spent most of his life in France and followed his Physiological pursuits there. His principal re- searches were directed to the observation of the influence of various physical agents upon the phenomena of Life, and the investigation of the chemical changes which occur in some of the most important and recondite vital pro- cesses. Many of his Essays, which were at first published as detached Papers, were afterwards collected, and formed his well-known work on the " Influence of Physical Agents upon Life." * Dr. Edwards's researches, whilst they determined many new and highly interesting facts, Avere especially valu- able as promoting more philosophical views of life than those which referred all vital phenomena to the influence of a hypothetical entity. * Translated into English 1)}' Drs. Hodgkin and Fisher, an. 1832.