PELVIS. 158 make snch a change of position more evident in the Ox tiian in other domestic animals. Fig. 97. Pelvis of the Ox, sliowing the It is somevphat interesting, that, in most animals with flat sacral bones, the axes of the anterior and posterior pelvic openings, as well as that of the tubular cavity, coincide in the same straight line. In the Cow, however, and in some other Ruminants, these axes form a considerable angle one with the other, on ac- count of the greater curve of the sacrum. This will, doubtless, have considerable in- fluence in producing the more laborious par- turition of these animals, which usually re- quires artificial assistance. In the Ox the planes of the acetabula are inclined about 40"^ from the perpendicular. The pelvis of the gigantic Irish deer also presents markedly this arrangement. In the American elk, the pelvis is rather elongated and narrow, being small and weak in comparison with the rest of the skeleton. There is the dorsal projection of ischial tuberosities; and the ischio-pubic symphysis is long, and diverges slightly from the spine posteriorly. In the Camel the sacro-vertebral angle is well marked ; the sacrum is much curved, and composed of four pieces. The ilia are long, strong, and blade-like, with the anterior spine prolonged downwards and the aliE convex anteriorly. The ischia are compa- ratively very short and feeble, set at a larger angle on the ilia, and present a feebly marked spinal ridge, and a well-marked outward projection at the tuberosities. The puhex are broad and moderately long, with a better marked ilio-pubic an^le (150°) than in the preceding, and the ischio-pubic symphysis is long and divergent anteriorly from the spine, as in the Ox, the centre being opposite the last sacial bone. The foramen obturatorium is small, and the anterior outlet large and oval. The liimho-iliac angle is about 140°, and the lumbo-pubic is rather less than a right angle. In the Giraffe the sacrum is nari'ow, and its angle with the spine indistinct. The ilia are not very long, and the crest, unlike most Ruminants, is convex insteatl of concave, the wings being expanded and concave in- ternally. The iscliia are long and curved upwards, with everted and laterally flattened tuberosities. The piibcs short and very thick, with long symphysis, forming a thick tube- rositj', and much diverging from spinal column anteriorly. Ilio-pubic angle large, 140°; lumbo-iliac, 150°. In Sheep and Goats the sacrum is broad, and its angle indistinct. The ilia are long and . blade-Hke, with scanty wings; lumbo-iliac ^'nglc, 143°. Ischia broad and short, with large later- ally projecting tuberosities ; and a rudimentary spine in the Ram. The pubes are longer than in Deer, and directed horizontally inwards. The pelvic outlets are large, as also are the sacro-vertebral and ilio-ischial angles. A very distinctive pelvic peculiarity is seen in the Meminna, or Pigmy Chevrotain. The ilia and ischia are, in this curious animal, anliijloscd to the sacral vertebrse. The osseous ridges in the site of the oblique posterior ilio-sacral ligaments are very prominent, and the ossified sacro-sciatic ligaments are distinct and well marked. The sciatic notch is thus converted into a foramen, and the pelvis re- sembles in this respect that of the Sloth. In the Musk Deer, also, the last sacral transverse processes nearly abut on the short and dorsally projecting ischia. In the heavier Ruminants, as the Camel, gigantic Deer, and Ox, the pelvis has somewhat of the heavy appearance and overhanging acetabula of the Pachyderms, but in the lighter Deer and Goats it becomes gra- dually more slender and elegant in form, and more oblique in direction. In the Rodentia, the pelvis is largely de- veloped for the support of the powerful hinder extremities in leaping, the most usual mode of progression of the generality of these animals. The sacrum is generally continued in a line with the lumbar curve in the long-tailed species. In Hares and Rabbits, however, the sacrum is considerably arched, longitudinally as well as transversely {^g. 98. o), and its angle with the spine marked 160°. There are generally four sacral vertebrte, but the first is much larger than the others, especially in its lateral masses (h), to articulate with the ilia. The Rabbit and Jerboa, however, present only two; and the common Rat and Beaver three; while the number in the Marmot is as many as six. The spines are not coalesced except in some Rats. The caudal vertebree are more or less numerous, and are remarkable in the Beaver for the great length of the transverse processes and anterior spines, for muscular hold on,this its useful appendage. In the Squirrel and Jerboa also, the tail is long and strong, and in the habitual sitting posture of these animals it forms, with tlio ischia, the third leg of a tripod, on which the body is sustained. In the short-tailed Rodents, the caudal ver- tebrae are curved dorsally, in an opposite di- rection to the coccygeal bones in Man and the Simian. The ilia are long, prismatic, and slender in the shaft, having a central ridge passing up- wards from the cotyloid cavity, with a groove on each side of it externally, and continued forward into elongated ala", little more ex-