TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 503 K K 4 and of irregular more or less stellate masses which are not enclosed in cells. The silvery lustre of the skin of fishes is due to minute rods which constitute a layer at this surface, and should probably be regarded as a peculiar form of pigment granules. In the Cephalopoda and some Gasteropoda among the Invertebrata, the integument undergoes during life the most extraordinary variations of colour, becoming overspread with successive clouds of the most vivid hues. These are produced by the contraction and expansion of peculiar sacs — the chromato- phoia—containing masses of pigment granules. According to H. Miiller, (whose observations I have recently had the opportunity of re- peating,) these are sacs attached to whose walls are contractile fibre cells arranged ra- dially, and frequently anastomosing with those of other cells. They do not always contain pigment, but frequently present a distinct nu- ekus. Several layers of these chromatophora of different colours are frequently disposed, one over the other, in a given portion of the skin, and produce by their different states of contraction, relatively to one another, suc- cessive changes in the colour of the spot. Among the Vertebrata the Chameleon, as is well known, presents similar phenomena. PajyiUce of the enderon. — The enderon is frequently produced into conical or cylin- drical processes, which either merely contain a vascular loop, or are supplied, in addition, with special nerves. In the Invertebrata, we find, in the processes of the mantle into the shell of the Brachiopoda described by Dr. Carpenter, organs which, I have no doubt, must be regarded, like the corresponding pro- cesses in the Ascidians, as vascular papillae. Among the Articulata like processes extend, in the Crustacea, through the whole thickness of the integument to its surface, giving rise to the colourless spots observable on the shell of the crab, for instance. I imagine, however, that these spots were usually occupied by a hair when the shell was thin. In the Mollusca, the marginal processes of the mantle of the Lamellibranchs and Gasteropods, the papillae of Onchidium, &c. and those of Tremoctopus (H. Mliller) are very probably both vascular and nervous papillae like those of fishes. Among the Vertebrata, fishes present large projecting papillce, particularly about the region of the lips and operculum, which are both vas- cular and nervous. Simple papill£B (nervous'?_) are scattered over the surface of the body in Plagiostomes and some Ganoid fishes. I am not aware that papillae have hitherto been observed on the integument of Birds and Reptiles. In most Mammals, they are very small, if they exist at all, upon the general sur- face of the body, attaining a considerable size only in such organs as the ball of the foot (Cat, Dog), or on the muzzle. The Cetacea, however, appear to make a remarkable excep- tion to this rule ; it is stated (Heusinger, Breschet, and Roussel de Vauzenie) that the very thick integument of these animals is tra- versed by vascular and nervous papillae, four or five lines long, which extend as far as the outer horizontal horny layer of the ecderon, so that a horizontal section of the ecderon is like that of a horse's hoof. In man, again, the papillae are, as is well known, so abundantasto have given rise to the term pais ptqji/laris, for the superficial layer of the ecderon. The structure of those which appear to possess special nervous functions will be considered below. Sensory appendages of the enderon. — Very little is known of the ultimate distribution of the nerves to the integument in the Inverte- brata, but we are indebted to Leydig for showing that in certain Crustacea, Insecta, and Mollusca, it is very similar to what occurs in the vertebrate classes. Thus in Argiilus /b/if/t eiw the peripheral nerves become pale, and divide, and at the point of division there is a ' nucleus' as in the embryonic fibres of the frog. In Artemia salina, Branchipus slagnalis, and in the Heteropod Mollusk Carinaria, the termination of the tegumentary nerves is es- sentially similar. The larva of the Dipterous insect Corethra, presents even peculiar sensory appendages, in the delicate plumed hairs which beset the sitles of the body. These are articulated in the ordinary way, and have an internal ligament, a sort of spring, attached to their base, which is enlarged and receives the enlarged and cellaeform termination of a nervous twig. It will be obvious that this arrangement is peculiarly fitted for commu- nicating the slightest vibration to the nerves. In the Vertebrata (fishes, reptiles, man), the ordinary mode of termination of the integumentary nerves is in one or two plexuses, whence the fine terminal branches proceed, and end by dividing into minute branches indistinguishable from the imperfect elastic fibrils of the enderonic tissue. Loops have also been observed, but it is impossible to say whether, in any case, these are real ter- minations or not. Gerber and KoUiker have also described " nerve coils" in animals, and in the conjunctiva and lips of man. The simplest form of sensory appendage in the Vertebrata is presented by the large papillEe of fishes, into which a bundle of nerve fibres enters, some of which terminate in the papillae, while others, whose looped bands may be readily distinguished, probably pass out again. In certain fresh-water fishes (Barbus, Leu- ciscus), Leydig has described papillae of this kind, which have a cup-shaped depression at their extremities, lodging a globular mass of what he describes as modified epithelium. Special modifications of the tissue of the papilltc for sensory purposes in the fingers, tongue, lips, &c. of man have lately been dis- covered by Meissner and Wagner, and de- scribed by them, under the denomination of the Corpuscnla tactfis. KoUiker, who doubts their special relation to the tactile function, on the other hand, prefers to call these bodies, a.vi/e corpuscles. They are simply ovoid masses of im-