513 RUMINANTIA. small. In CEgosceridae (g,fig- 335.) and Cer- vidae, for the most part, the ascending rami in- cline at a very oblique angle, and in Camelo- pardalis they exhibit a slight concavity at the upper margin. In this last named genus the in- termaxillary bones are very long and extremely J''^.l333. Front view of the slmll of an Ox, with the ripht horny sheath detached from the core. (From Loild.' Coll. Surg. Museum.) attenuated at the tip {fig. 328.) ; in Bovidae, on the other hand, they are of diminished length (g, fig. 327.), straight, of great thick- ness and broad in front, giving to the muzzle an aspect characteristic of the group (!,_;%•. 333.). The incisive openings are elongated, capacious, and widely separated in the Giraffe {fig. 328.), they are still more so in the Stags {fig. 329 ) and Antelopes (/g. 34-2.) ; and in CEgosceridae and Bovidae they form enormous clefts, especially in the latter {fig. 333.). Several genera have a small free space be- tween the converging points of the inter- maxillaries; and this is particularly noticeable in the Giraffe (fig. 328 ). The bones in question are of great length in the Eland or Cape Elk, and in the Moose-deer. The maxillaries (2) usually carry six molars and premolars on either side ; excep- tions, however, occur in the Camelidae where one of the premolars is absent, and in this family, as also in the aberrant genus Moschus and in the male Cervus Munfjac, canines are developed {n, fig- 331.). In all ruminants they send processes of greater or less extent to the inner and under part of the orbit, in the situation where these bones lie partly concealed by the jugular or malar bone. As regards the bones themselves there are few other peculiarities worthy of notice ; but we may remark, in passing, that in the Giraffe the maxillaries project more than two inches beyond the tips of the nasals. The sub- orbital foramina (6) are placed in the Came- lidae a little before the orbits and above the alveolar ridge, at a point corresponding with the line of juxta-position of the middle and third premolars (7?™. 334.). In the Giraffe and in other Cervidse the infra-orbital aperture is seen further forward, on a level with the Siipp. first premolar: in CEgosceridae it is on a line with the second (/;, fig. 335.). The Bovidee have a long suborbital canal opening above the first premolar {h', fig. 327.), as in the Stags and Giraffe. Fig. 334. Lateral view o f the skull of the Camel. (From a spe- cimen in Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) The lac/iri/nials (3) are directed forward, and occupy a considerable extent of the cheek ; at their point of union with the frontal, nasal, and intermaxillary bones there is usually left a vacant space more or less patent. This space in the true Camels is stated to be of large dimensions ; but, out of four crania we have examined in reference to this particular, in one only was this opening distinctly visible ; in the others the extension of the periosteum, which closes the cavity in front, had ossified, leaving only a few small foramina, irregularly disposed. In the Llama the opening is significant and communicates with numerous sinuses. In regard to the true lachrymal passage in Camelidae this is represented externally by a single foramen placed directly behind the orbiiar ring; but there is in the Camels a second hole which L L