OVUM. [112] Fig. 77*. Ovum and Micropyle of Dipterous Insects. (^From Leuckart.') A. Ovum of Melophagus ovinus (Muscida). 1. The entire ovum, presenting at its upper part the adherent mass of spermatozoa close to the micro- pyle. 2. This upper part more higlily magnified, showing a section of the micropyle, above which the point of the conical mass of spermatozoa glued together by an albuminous substance is inserted, while externally the filaments float free. 3. The micropyle apertures seen directly from above. B. Side view of the upper part of the ovum of another insect of the same order, showing a single micropyle aperture and the dotted structure of the chorion. small mass, formed of the spermatozoa which have met with the ovum in its descent through the female passage, comes to be lodged in the depression of the micropyle, and is fixed in that situation by a lid or covering of albu- minous matter. It is somewhat remarkable that the greater part of this mass remains for a long time apparently without any change, even when embryonic development has ad- vanced to a considerable extent; but he as- certained that a few of the spermatozoa be- longing to the mass, usually not more than three or four, really enter the ovum and effect the change of fecundation. We are, however, as yet at a loss to conjecture what farther purpose may be served by the mass of per- sistent spermatozoa near the micropyle. Leuckart has also made the novel and interesting observation, that the depression and aperture of the micropyle become at a later period converted into a deeper funnel, which is connected directly with the mouth of the embryo, and undoubtedly serves, ac- cording to this author, to convey nourishment from without to the embryo. The head of the embryo lies, according to Leuckart and other observers*, in all instances, at that end or pole of the ovum which is uppermost in the oviduct, as may be most easily observed in ova of the cylindrical form, such as those of the common house-fly ; but according to Leuckart, the micropyle is not, as Meissner had stated, always at that end, being some- times at one, sometimes at the other, and oc- casionally at both poles. The provision for the escape of the embryo, however, is usually at the upper or anterior pole, while the lower or hinder pole more generally serves to fix the ovum, as it is often pediculated or other- wise modifi.ed in its form in connection with this purpose. In some Insects, as is shown in the accom- panying figure of the ovum in Pulex irritans, the micropyle consists of a number of foramina nearly of uniform size. Fig. 78*. Ovmn of Pulex irritans. (From Leuckart.') A. Entire ovum, magnified, showing the micro- pyle apparatus with a number of foramina at both poles. B. Portion of the chorion with the micropyle foramina, more highly magnified. In a previous part of this article allusion has already been made to the great facility with which the development of the ova of in- sects may be traced, in their successive stages, as they lie in different parts of the tubular ovaries and oviducts. According to tlie In- teresting observations of R. Wagner f, the upper end of the fine ovarian tubes are filled with a number of germinal vesicles. Wag- ner supposed indeed that these were at first nucleoli or germinal maculsE, and that a vesicle was developed round each macula; but Leuck- artj and Stein^ were never able to detect the germinal vesicles before they already possessed the macula. The primitive yolk arises as in most other animals—first, by the collection of a clear substance immediately round the germinal vesicle, and by the subsequent de- posit in this matrix of the fine granules of the vitelline substance ; later still the deli- cate vitelline membrane is formed, perhaps by the consolidation of a film of the primitive yolk-substance. As the ova attain a larger size, each one being situated in the lower part of its compartment * See Kolliker, de prima Insector. Genesi, 4to. Turici, 1842. t Prodromus, Hist. Gener. p. 9., and BeitrUge zur Entwickel., &c. p. 42. See fg. 40. Append, of Cyclop. Anat. and Physiol. I Zeugung, p. 803. § Vergleich. Anat. und Physiol, der Insecten, Berlin, 1847.