PELVIS. 125 anterior or internal surface are blended the fibres of the ischio-coccygeus muscle, v/hich exclude it from the ischio-rectal fossa, and render it rough when dissected. Soemmering describes the lower part of the powerfid lumbar fascia as a ligament connect- ing the ilia to each other posteriorly and to the lower spines of the sacrum. This fascia does, doubtless, act powerfully in clasping the ilia upon the sacrum between them. He calls it the litci-al sacro-Uinc ligament, or the poslcrior lateral iliac ligament. The important part which these three ac- cessory ligaments play in the mechanism of the pelvis will be hereafter shown. The mnvements of the sacro-iliac joint are very limited indeed, its principal characteristic being compactness and strength, with just sufficient sliding motion downwards and back- wards to break the shock of concussion pass- ing from the lower extreniities to the trunk. This is said by some to be increased in preg- nancy and by parturition. The pubic symplnjsis {Jig. 80. 2) is an azygos joint uniting the innominate bones by their pubic portions in front. The osseous surfaces composing it are oval, with the long diameter directed downwards and backwards, and ge- nerally an inch and a half long, by three quarters broad. The planes of these sur- faces not being directly opposed to each other, leave a larger interval of se|)aration in front than behind. This interval is filled by a fibro- cartilaginous disc, which is correspondingly thicker in front, where the fibrous components are so numerous and strong as to constitute almost an interosseous ligament, and pass from one bone to the other in an oblique and concentric ilirection. Towanis the central and posterior part this disc is generally mainly cartilaginous in structure, and is oi'tcn, in females, separated in the middle by a chink forming two smooth, plane, oval contiguous articular surfaces, of various dimensions, souic- times irregularly laminar, at others with a de- licate investing membrane. In parturient wo- men these surfaces often extend over nearly the whole of the articulation, and are well marked in a figure given by Dr. Hunter, in the second volume of Alcdicnl Ohserrafinus and Iwjuirirs. In males, this separation is seldom present. The whole of the disc may, however, by maceration, generally be sefiarated into two plates {fg. 82. a, a), of a denser and more cartilaginous structure than the rest, each strongly adherent to the bone by viammil- liform fibrous processes (h), which pass into rorresponding depressions in the osseous sur- faces (f), and are connected to each other on opposite siiles, by continuation of their fibres, arranged in oblique and concentric layers, which interlace obli([uely with each other, (r/) Dr. W. Hunter remarks, with Sandifort and Albinns,that the two cartilaginous plates (a,a), covering the opi)osed surfaces of theossa j)ubis, are usually connected by a structure rather liga- mentous than cartilaginous ; and in a memoir on the pubic symphysis, gives an engraving of this arrangement. In several instances I have seen the fibrous processes which connect the plates with the bone very well marked, leav- Fig. 82. Si/mph>/sis put/is after maceration. a, cartilaginous plates of Dr. Hunter; 6, niatn- millary processes on their osseous surface; r, cor- responding osseous depressions to receive tlicm ; d, inter-laminar concentric fibro-cartilaginous tissue divided vertically in the centre. ing on the bone, after maceration, deep conical pits. The above figiu-e was taken from a ma- cerated preparation of this joint. According to the observations of Tenon, these processes are directed into the bone downward and backward, as well as outward, anti tend to prevent displacement of the cartilage in that direction. The inter-laminar fibro-cartila^in- ous tissue is very elastic and yielding, swelling out on the cut surface when lateral j^ressure is made on the bone, somewhat in the manner of the intervertebral discs. It often evinces a tendency to split in a lamellar direction after maceration. Around the circumference the concentric fibres become much more numerous and strong, and are continued into the peri- pheral ligaments. These are an anterior, pos- terior, a superior, and an inferior ligament. The anterior pubic ligament (fg. 80. f/) is a thick layer, passing between the anterior sur- faces of the bones, strengthened by and blended with the oblique fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique nuiscle continued to the opposite pubic bone in Iront of the joint. The posterior pubic ligament is the most feeble. It is composed of transverse fibres, somewhat scattercil, and is remarkable in being raised by the posterior border of the pubic fibro-car- tilage into a vei tical ridge, in old pei'sons often very evident to the touch. It gives attachment to the superior true ligaments of the blatider, and the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle. The superior pubic ligament (e) is formed by a thicl<, smooth layer of fibres often raised bv a central ridge like the posterior, passing between the crests of the pubes, the super- ficial fibres extending over the greater part of the crests, and giving origin to the recti ab- douiinales and pyramidales abdominal muscles, ami linea alba.