FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Abnormal Anatomv). 617 Fig. 420. 77(6 Fallopian tubes tied down by false menih-anes to the ovaries and adjacent stniclures. {After Hooper.^ a, uterus; b, Falloi)ian tubes (the infundibula obliterated); d, ovaries; ee, bands of ftilse membrane. tarrhal inflammation along the lining mem- brane of the tube, which, spreading to the fimbriated extremity, gives rise to peritoneal inflammation in the vicinity of the orifice, so that the free terminations of the tube are bound down to the adjacent parts, seems to offer the truest explanation of the nature and origin of this pecuhar condition of the parts. See Jig. 409. In some of these cases, however, there ap- pears to have been something more than a mere process of exudative inflammation at work. The parts upon examination appear to have become blended by a combined pro- cess of absorption of the fimbrise, and at tlie same time of firm agglutination of the infun- dibular base to the surface of the ovary ; so that it may be difficult to find any precise line of demarcation between these parts, except that which a difference of colour may furnish. Hyperemia or congestion of the tissues of the tube is very commonly observed. It is apparently a normal state during healthy menstruation, but may be regarded as morbid when associated at other times with deep congestion of the uterus and ovaries. A state of hypersemia of the tube has been found associated with effusion of blood into its canal, and the escape of a portion of this fluid into the abdomen through the inlinidi- btdar orifice. Hypersemia of the tube occurs as a semi- normal condition in cases of tubal pregnancy. Inflammatori/ lesions of the tube may pre- sent the characteristic conditions of acute or of chronic inflammation. The former is com- monly seen in cases of puerperal metro-peri- tonitis, where the inflammation attacking usually the uterus first has extended to the ovaries and tubes. " The tubes are tumified and infiltrated ; their mucous membrane is variously reddened, discoloured, excoriated, softened and everted at the fimbriated ex- tremity. The passage of the tube is dilated, especially at its outer end, and filled with various products, purulent and sanious fluids, and in uterine croup with coagulable lymph, assuming the shape of a tubular concretion, the exudative process having extended from the uterus to the tube." * But more comznonly the traces of inflam- mation are found in the peritoneal coat, which highly congested and covered by flakes of lymph, partakes in the general inflammatory condition of the adjacent serous surfaces. In the non-puerperal state, or as a sequel of puerperal affections, inflammation usually takes the form of catarrh or blennorrhcea of the mucous membrane of the tube. The usual evidences of such an affection are, a certain amount of tumefaction of the mucous lining, with thickening of the delicate plica; covering it, and dark congestion of the capil- lary vessels. Within the tubal canal are found collections of mucus variously coloured, being sometimes viscid, or occasionally creani-likc, yellow and purulent (fg. 421.). The chronic inflammations of the serous coat of the tube, which result in various ad- hesions of this part to surrounding structures, have been already noticed. Collections of Jluid within the tube result fi'oni a coniliination of two or more of the foregoing conditions. These fluids consist of blood, menstrual fluid, mucus, serum, or pus, and sometimes of these in various states of ad- mixture. Collections of blood, or of a bloody fluid with- in the tube, are occasioned by byperaemia of * Rokitaiisky. Patholog. Anat. Vol. II. p. 326.