OVUM. [89j avoid injuring the ova, and that the examina- tion must be made at first in the dry state. Origin and Formation of the Mammiferous Ovum. — This subject has already been ad- verted to in the previous section in connection with the history of the Ibrmation of the bird's egg. Dr. Martin Barry was led, by his numer- ous observations, to form the conchjsion, that tlie germinal vesicle is the first part whicli makes its appearance in tlie ovarian stroma at the commencement of the formation of the ova. Ail observers seem now to be aj;reed, that of the parts belonging strictly to the ovum itself, the germinal vesicle is the first formed ; but the observations of Valentin, Bischoft'and others ajipear rather to support the view, which is op[)osed to that of Barry, tiiat the Graafian follicles may be detected in the ovarian stroma before any part of the ovule is distinguishable. Tlie ovules are formed at a comparatively early period in the ovary. Carus was the first to point out * that in the ovary of the human female child the follicles con- taining distinct ovules are perceptible at birth. Vallisnieri had long previously, it appears, made a similar observation. Bis- choff has, with more precision, pointed out, that there is considerable variation in dif- ferent children of the same age as to the degree of advancement of the germs of ova within the ovarium ; in some nothing more than a perfectly uniform ovarian stroma is perceptible at birth, while in others the follicles are ilistinctly tbrnietl, even at an earlier period. By the age of ten or eleven years a number of the vesicles are found to be ap|)roaching ma- turity, and almost all have leit their earliest condition. Both Barry and Bischoff", how- ever, are of opinion that new sets of Graafian follicles and ova may continue to arise within the ovaries during the whole child-bearing period of the human female; and there can be little doul)t that this takes place in most of the lower animals. Bischofi'describes the Graafian follicles as taking their origin from minute heaps of granules in the ovarian stroma; but he has not been able to confirm the statement of Valentin that the earliest follicles proceed from primitive gland tubes stretching fioni the attached border towards the surface of the ovary.-f- In various animals the follicles and ova begin to be formed at an earlier period than in the human female : according to Bischoff" they arise very early both in the cow and pig. When the |)rimary follicle can be perceived, it consists of a small vesicle scarcely more than To'ijo" in diameter. To this primary vesicle Martin Barry has given the appropriate name of Ovisac. Soon afterwards, when the vesicle has expanded somewhat, it is found to con- tain the rudiment of the ovum ; first in the shape of the very small germinal vesicle, gene- * MUller's Archiv. for 1832, p. 379. t Handbucli der Kntwickelungsgeschichte, 1835, p. 389.; and Miiller'.s Archiv for 1838, p. 629. Fig. 62 *. Develnpment of the Ovarian oi^um of Mammalia. {From Binclioff.) A represents a very small portion of the ovary of a foetal dog. The commencing Graaliun follicles are visible in the granular or cellular stroma of the ovar\-, constituting dark heaps of more opaque granules or small cells. B, fragment of the ovary of a dog three weeks after birth. The Graafian follicles are now seen in the fibro-granular ovarian stroma, each surrounded by a homogeneous and fibrous covering, and filled with granules. c, fragment of the ovary of a pig three weeks old. The Graafian follicles are now seen to be formed of a fine transparent vesicular membrane, and round the larger ones fibres are beginning to be deposited. The wall of the follicles are lined internally wiUi delicate epithelial cells. The ger- minal vesicles now visible within consist of a tine clear cell with a nucleus or dot, and a few vitelline granules have begun to be deposited round the germinal vesicles. ff, one of these Graafian follicles burst with a needle, showing the contents of the follicle; there being as yet no zona or vitelline membrane. rally surroimded by a small quantity of granu- lar fluid. Soon afterwards the outer follicle is lined with a few extremely delicate or hya- line hemispherical cells, which have somewhat the appearance of those of epithelium, and which thus give rise to a clear space between