SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 455 At least, in embryos near the full time, tliey observed little change in the sympathetic nerve-fibres. It has been already stated that in the sym- pathetic of embryos of 18 or 19 inches in length there are some tubular fibres present ; these, probably, are to be regarded as fibres sent from the cerebro-spinal system. Physiology.—The actions which take place ill the animal body may be divided into two classes. Those which are included in the one class are entirely under tlie guidance of volition ; those which belong to tlie otiier not only take place independently of any effort of the will, but are also more or less completely removed beyond its control. The movements which occur in the muscles of the limbs, and in most of tlie muscles of the trunk, form examples of the former; while the movements of the internal nniscular organs, such as those of the heart, intestinal canal, and genito-urinary organs, afford ex- amples of the latter. To the latter also be- long tiie acts of nutrition, secretion, &c., commonly termed the vegetative processes. Several of the latter, as the movements of the heart, go on without interruption during the entire life of the inilividual; while others, as the movements of the intestinal canal, take place at irregular intervals, depending ap- parently on the application of external stimuli to the free surfaces of the organs in which they are manitested. The exercise of the former class of actions is moreover attended by sensation ; that of the latter, in the normal condition, not. The impressions which are constantly being maile by the blood upon the inner surtiice of the heart and vessels never reach the sensorinm ; we are also insensible to the impressions made iiy the food upon the free surface of the intestinal canal, as well as to the contractions thereby induced. In like manner, the acts of nutrition and secretion take place entirely without our knowledge. The feeling of weariness also which ensues after exertion of the voluntary muscles, is never felt so far as the heart is concerned, although its action is constant, and just as little in re- gard to the other organic muscles. The organs in which the former class of actions takes place are supplieil with nerves which proceed directly from the brain and spinal cord ; those whose actions belong to the second class derive their nerves chiefly from the sympathetic. Guided by this difference in character be- tween the vital phenomena, Bichat divided life into animal and vegetative ; the former characterised by the circumstance of its phenomena coming within the range of sen- sation and volition; the latter including those acts which are more or less completely re- moved beyond the sphere of the will and of the consciousness. In accordance with this division, he also separated the nervous system into two portions: the one corre- sponding to the cerebro-spinal system, pre- siding over the functions of animal life; the other corresponding to the sympathetic, pre- siding over the involuntary movements, and over the processes of nutrition and secretion, or functions of vegetative life. The sympa- thetic and its ganglia are, according to the views of Bichat, entirely independent of the cerebro-spinal system of nerves. The various ganglia of the sympathetic he regarded as so many distinct nervous centres, each presiding over the actions of the parts to which it sends nerve-filaments, and each discharging its func- tions without any relation to the brain or the spinal cord. The involuntar}' nature of the processes which take place in organs supplied by the sympathetic, as well as the circum- stance that the normal impressions which are made upon the free surfaces of these do not reach the sensorium, rendered the views of Bichat highly probable. In diseases of the brain and spinal cord, as in tetanus and chorea, where the muscles supplied by cerebro- spinal nerves are all thrown into a state of more or less violent contraction, the muscular organs which derive their nerves from the sympathetic, such as the heart, continue their movements as before. So also a stimulus ap- plied to the brain or spinal cord, causes con- tractions in the muscles which derive their nerves from these parts, but does not, ac- cording to Bichat, produce any effect on the movements of [)arts wiiich are supplied by the sympathetic. The fact that embryos in which the central masses of the nervous system are wanting may reach an advanced staire of development, showed that the pro- cesses of vegetative life might go on perfectly, indejiendently of the influence of the cere- bro-spinal system, while the circumstance that in these the sym[)athetic system of nerves was always present, and in a high state of develop- ment, seemed at the same time to indicate the connection subsisting between it and the processes in question. The views of Bichat were generally adopted by physiologists until comparatively recent times, when they were ably combated by Valentin, who endeavoured to establish the doctrine, commonly held before the time of Bichat, that the sympathetic and cerebro- spinal nerves do not constitute two distinct and independent systems, but that the former is dependent upon the latter for all its pro- perties, and is in this respect to be regarded as one of the cerebro-spinal nerves. The in- voluntary and apparently spontaneous nature of the movements which take place in oi-gans supplied by branches of the sympatlietic, affords no argument, according to Valentin, for supposing that their action is not regu- lated by the brain and s[)inal cord, or that the sympathetic is independent of these parts of the nervous system, inasnuich as the same character is also presented by the movements of certain! organs which are undoubtedly supplied by cerebro-spinal nerves. This, for example, is the case with the rhythmical movements of the muscles of respiration. Again, there are organs which are supplied by nerves of cerebro-spinal origin, and which notwithstanding resemble the organs snp[ilicd G (i 4