98 PANCREAS. pancreatic secretion is the first poured into the intestines, and tiie cystic bile tiie last: and always when there are three pancreatic ducts, the secretion reaches the intestine early by one of them, and the others have their openings close to the bile ducts, either before or between them. It is not safe, however, to draw any physiological conclusions from these relative positions, even supposing them to be constant; for the ducts are so close to one another, that the mixture of the fluids must take place immediately, and their action on the food be simultaneous. In one instance, however, this is not the case ; in the ostrich the bile duct opens close to the pylorus, while the pancreatic is three feet removed from it; this is the greatest separation of the two ducts of any with which I am acquainted in the. animal kingdom. It would present, if ostriches were commoner birds, great facilities for ex- periment, and implies an action in both the secretions entirely independent and auto- cratic. Mammalia.—The chief differences between the pancreas in other mammalia and man re- late merely to its colour, its consistence, its more or less marked division into lobes, its form, its volume, its union into a single ma-s, or its separation into two distinct parts, lastly, its position and relations with different por- tions of the peritoneum. Its form is generally more or less that of a narrow band, divisible into two portions ; one, the duodenal, following the curvature of the duodenum, and placed vertically or obliquely; the other, gastro- splenic, extending transversely, and therefore opposite the other, from the duodenum to the spleen, against whicli it always abuts; the latter is alway s developed, the former is often incon- siderable or suppressed, and must be con- sidered merely as an accessory portion. The various forms and arrangemcMits of the pancreas do not appear to have anything to do with its essential structure or function, or the parti- cular exigencies of the animal ; they seem to depend entirely on the relations of the neigh- bouring organs, the presence or absence of an abundant mesentery, the free movement of tiie duodenum, &c., and to be influenced by con- siderations of package. In the Onraiig the form very mucli resem- bles that of man ; in most other Quadrunucua Fiff. 74. Pancreas nf the Rat {natural size), shown by throwing up the duodenum, together with its proper niesenterj/, and the free process of peritoneum extending thence to the left, in which the gland ramifies. Its arborescent form and great extent are well shown.