675 UTERUS — (Functions). X x 2 force, for, it is beyond question a healthy ne- cessity which, for tlie purpose of advancing the process, demands tliis graduated change of the uterine rythm throughout labour. Rythni plainly does not, like peristaltic action, depend upon the structure of the organ which displays it, for the three examples hei'e taken, viz., respiratory muscles, heart, and uterus, differ from each other materially in composi- tion. The first consists of striated voluntary fibre ; the second of striated involuntary fibre; the third of unstriated involuntary fibre. It may therefore be concluded, that something else than structure determines rythm. This appears to depend rather upon the manner in which the contractions are evoked, and hence upon the mode of innervation, which is dif- ferent for each organ. The heart and respi- ratory muscles each admit of more easy ob- servation than the uterus, and referring to them for aid in the elucidation of this ques- tion, we find that each of these organs, or sets of organs, is provideil with a nervous rythmic centre, upon which its rythm depends, and upon the injury or destruction of which the rythm immediately ceases, — the rythmic centre of respiration being in the medulla ob- longata, and that of the heart in its own pro- per ganglia. Which of these divisions of the nervous system furnishes the rythmic centres of the uterus has not been determined, but from the analogies just quoted, we may select by preference the heart, because its actions most nearly resemble those of the uterus, in being purely involuntary, while the case of the respiratory muscles constitutes an ex- ample of mixed movements wherein volitional can be superadded to unconscious rythmic motion. If therefore the rythmic action of the uterus is regulated in like manner with that of the heart, we must, upon the strength of this analogy, look for its rythmic centres among the sympathetic ganglia which lie nearest to the organ. And this view does not necessarily exclude a certain influence of the spinal nerves over the rythmic action of the uterus. For just as under emotion or bodily excitement both the cardiac and respiratory rythms are accele- rated, so, as labour advances, and more parts become irritated, the uterus appears to receive an addition of nerve force which may be pos- sibly acquired from other and more distant centres than its own proper ganglia. The heart's rythmic centres have been re- garded by some physiologists as so many "magazines" of nerve-force, whence at regu- lated intervals this force is discharged, causing the muscular structure to contract in accord- ance with the rate of supply of the stimulus. The influence of these nerve-centres is best shown by placing a ligature upon them, or by cutting them away. When hindered in their operation by tying, the ri/tkm ceases, though the motor power is not lost. When they are cut away, together with certain portions of the heart, the other portions cease to have rythmic motion, though they may still be arlifitially excited to repeated single ac- tions.* But an inconstant stimulus thus furnished to the muscular structure being powerless to produce a permanent or tonic contraction, the effect after a short time passes away to be reproduced upon a fresh application of the excitement. In this way rythm, so far as it is dependent upon nervous supply, is ap- parently determined. But in the case of the uterus we observe that the rate of the rythm must be to a cer- tain extent limited by the peculiar nature of the uterine fibre. For this, as already shown, is of a kind which cannot be excited to rajndly repeated action like the heart. In this form of fibre the response to the stimulus is slow, and often does not take place until after the excitant is withdrawn. Hence the meaning of that slow repetition of uterine action which is observed in ordinary labour. When this point is further examined, it will be found that, according to the degree or kind of excitement employed, the uterine rythm may be merely accelerated, or a rythmic may be converted into a more continuous action. The influence of the passage of the child during labour over successive surfaces in quickening uterine action has been already shown. Another example may be di awn from the effects of ergot. When ergot is given by the stomach some time usually elapses before the ergotine mixes with the blood sufficiently to excite the rythmic centres, but that being done, the action is simply augmented, or else occasionally it becomes so violent that the in- tervals are obliterated, and one contraction becomes merged in another, so that an inter- mittent is converted into a continuous uterine action. But that which more certainly demonstrates that the rate of the motions, whether rythmic or constant, is dependent on the kind and ex- tent of irritation, is the variation in the results obtained by different modes of inducing pre- matiu-e labour. If, according to the method of Kiwisch, water is injected simply against the cervix, after several repetitions, rythmic action is slowly excited. If the cervix is dis- tended by the introduction of a sponae tent, rythmic action ensues more quickly and cer- tainly. But if the first proceeding is so varied that the water, instead of being merely thrown against the cervix, is introduced between the membranes and the uterine walls for a very short distance, so as gently to effect their sepa- ration from the inner surface of the uterus, labour is induced with greater certainty and speed than in any other way ; but should the separation be carried still further, some such tumultuous form of labour results as ergot pro- duces when acting in the manner just specified. The uterus acting continuously and very ener- getically rather than intermittingly. Influence of the different nervous centres ttj)on the uterus 171 parturition.— In the present un- settled state of neural physiology, especially in * Paget, Croonian Lecture; Proceedings of Eoy. Soc. vol. viii. No. xxvi. 1857.