547 OVARY — (Normal Anatomy). N N 2 a much earlier period than that at which the power of procreation ceases in the other sex. In a physiological sense, therefore, the uterus, as well as every other part of the generative apparatus, must be regarded as an appendage of the ovary ; and the title " Ute- rus and its Appendages" is employed, in ac- cordance with ordinary usage only, as the heading of this Article, in which it is pro- posed to consider the structure and func- tions of the entire female generative organs as they exist in Man.* J* OVARY. Normal Anatomy. (Syn. Ovarium, Testis MuUebris, Ovaja, Ital. j Ovaire, Fr.; Eierstock, Germ. ; Eijerstok, Dutch.) The ovaries {Jig. 368. h,b) constitute two follicular glands appropriated to the formation of the female generative element. They are perfectly closed, resembling in this respect the ductless glands. Each, however, is furnished with its proper excretory duct, {Jig. 368. c, c) between which and the gland a temporary connection is established, at certain intervals, during that period of life over which tiie re- productive faculty extends. Form. — The ovary is not usually fully de- veloped until some time after the establish- ment of puberty. It is then of an oval form superficies anteriorly ; body ; two two border Of the anteriorly ( t Vertic The postei anterior, e; a gg. Graafian ■ between tlie convex thai rounded an respect the posterior s than the a Fig. 369. c ■Ovary of a T/ouiif) adult vi?'<jin before the surface has become scarred by repeated discharges of ova. (^Ad Nat.) a, distal, and 6, proximal extremit}'; c, superior, and d, inferior border. In the centre is laid open a Graafian follicle from which an ovum had recently escaped bj- spontaneous rupture. ifig. 368. 1), and fig. 369.), flattened on its sides, and somewhat resembling the testis in figure, but rarely or never, in a state of health, attaining to the full size of that organ. The following division may be made of its * For the comparative anatomy, as well as for the general treatment of the subject of generation, the reader is referred to the articles, Generation, organs of ; Generation ; and to those descrip- tive of the dift'erent classes and orders of the animal kingdom throughout this Cyclopaedia. The oc- casional introduction here of illustrations from com- parative anatomy and physiology is employed for the purpose of elucidating those questions which cannot be clearly explained by observations made only upon the human subject. : viz., into two sides, situated md posteriorly with regard to the extremities, outer and inner; and s, superior and inferior. ;wo sides, that which is directed fig. 370. e) is both shorter and less Fig. 370. / al section of ovary. {Ad Nat.) •ior surface,/, more rounded than the it /( are numerous blood-vessels divided ; vesicles; d, place of entrance of vessels layers of the broad ligament. n the posterior, which is generally d gibbous {fig. '610. f). In this ovary resembles the uterus, whose urface is always more rounded nterior; by attention to this pecu- liarity the right ovary may be readily distin- guished from tiie left after these organs have been detached from the uterus. Of the two extremities, the outer or distal (/g.369.and/^'. 37:i.rt) is usually rounded and bulbous, whilst the inner(369. and372. b) becomes gradually attenuated until its outline is merged in the proper ligament {fig. 368. m) by which the ovary is attached to the uterus. The upper and lower borders also differ from each other. The former {fig. 369. c) is con- vex, and forms a segment of a circle, whose diameter is continually diminishing as age advances. The latter is straight or slightly concave, constituting the base of the ovary, or the line by which it is connected to the posterior du[)licature of the broad ligament {figs. 369. and 370. d). Dimciisiui/s and Weight. — The ovary of a healthy adult measures from \" to 2" in length, from 6'" to 12'" in depth or perpen- dicular diameter, and from 3"' to C'" in width or transverse diameter. These dimensions, which vary consitlerably in different intlividuals, exhibit a much wider range when the observations are extended to different epochs of life. The organ is then found to undergo far more remai kahie changes in bulk and figure than are observable in the corresponding male organ. The following table, giving the highest, lowest, and mean dimensions of twelve healthy ovaries, taken indiscriminately from women in various conditions during the period of fer- tility, will serve to exemplify the first of these variations : —