122 PELVIS. the innominate bone posteriorly; and a single joint in front, uniting the innominate bones to each other. The three latter joints are of the kind usually denominated " syvi- pht/sis,'" and considered by many as included also in the class " ampki-artlirosis." The sacro-iliac joints, however, most fre- quently presenting two contiguous surfaces and two separate plates ofincrusting cartilage, ought rather, as Albinus remarked, to be considered as " arthrodial''' forms of articulation, while the pubic symphysis occupies an intermediate or transitional position between the fibro-carti- laginous or mixed, and the arlJirodial joints. The sacro-cocci/geal joitit is composed of a fibro-cartilaginous disc, and an anterior and posterior ligament. The fibro-cartilaginous disc is a miniature of the intervertebral, inter- vening between and adherent to the opposed articular surfaces of these bones, being, how- ever, less evidently pulpy in the centre. Ac- cording to Cruveilhier, there is sometimes found a synovial membrane in the centre of this joint. The anterior sacro'coccygeal liga- ment consists of a thin laj'er of fibres passing from one bone to the other in front of the joint, and spreading over the whole coccy- geal surface. . The posterior sacro-coccijgeal ligament is much stronger and more developed. It springs from the edges of the notched in* ferior opening of the sacral canal by a thick band of fibres, which includes also, as an in- vesting capsular ligament, lined by a synovial membrane, the articular extremities of the sacral horns, and, gradually narrowing down- wards, is attached to, and extends over, the whole posterior surface of the coccyx and its articular processes, covering in the inferior aperture of the sacral canal, and connecting the several pieces of the coccyx vi'hen they remain separate. In the latter case also are found intra-coccygeal articulations, small fibro- cartilaginous discs intervening between the several bones. This, according to Levret, is most constant between the first and second pieces of the coccyx, where it is sometimes met with in advanced age. The motions of this joint, and those of the coccygeal bones, are simply antero-posterior flexure, and are sometimes, especially in females and young subjects, very extensive, forming, Cruveilhier says, a complete anterior projecting angle. This anatomist also mentions having seen many times anterior sacro-coccygean mus- cles ; other anatomists also mention posterior sacro-coccygean muscles blended with the fibres of the ligament. The sacro-iliac joints (^fig. 80. 1.), one on Fig. 80. Anterior view of the fuU-grotvn ale pelvis with its ligaments. 1 sacro-iliac symphyses; 2, pubic symphysis, a, superior sacro-iliac ligaments; 5, anterior sacro iliac ligaments; c, ilio-lumbar ligaments; d, anterior pubic ligament; e, superior pubic ligament; /, subpubic or arcuate ligament; g, obturator membrane; li, sacro -sciatic ligaments; sacro-lumbar fibro-cartilage, forming the sacral promontory. each side, are composed of an anterior or inferior portion, in which the opposing bones are covered with cartilages of an auricular or angular shape, and a posterior or superior portion where they are united by powerful inter-osseous ligaments, which fill up the re- tiring angle left by the cartilages. These are inclosed by anterior, posterior, and superior sacro-iliac investing ligaments. The cartilages lining these articulations difTer