2G5 RESPIEATION, ORGANS OF. fend the theory of Malpighi.* Willis f came next in the list of ilisputants. By him it was argued, that the extreme bronchi deprived of their cartilages bulged on all sides into the "vesicles" described by Malpighi, and that they communicated among themselves. After Willis came Borel J, and Diiverney. § By the former it was denied that muscular fibres exist in the walls of the vesicles ; by the latter it was maintained that the extremities of the bronchi in man's lungs, as in that of the bird, communicated amongst themselves. Helvetius (1718) II now sought to modify the views of Malpighi as developed by Bar- tholin and Duverney. He also admits that the pulmonary tissue consists of a cellular or spongy tissue, of which the cells open the one into the other. HallerU now entered the arena. This illustrious anatomist doubted the existence of a system of air-cells in the lungs, because he could not see that those of one lubiile were connected with those of the adjacent, llaller, at this period, was followed by Hales, Volelfart, Hamberger, Hildebrand, each in his turn advocating some modification of the opinions already stated. A new epoch now occurred in the history of this controversy by the publication of the far-famed "Dissertation^' of Reisseissen.** In the judgment of the Berlin academicians the researches of Reisseissen overthrew, by un- deniable fact and experiment, the theories of Willis, Malpighi, and antiquity. It was taught by Reisseissen, that the air-cells form the real terminal extremities of the bronchial tubes, each vesicle being independent of the others, and having its own separate bronchial peduncle.ff In 1823, Magendie published opinions with reference to the structure of the lungs, which were essentially a reproduction of the views of Helvetius.The facts adduced by Magen- die did not, however, satisfactorily overthrow the theory of Reisseissen. In England, Home and Bauer jjji, attempted at this period to show that the pulmonary vesicles did not consist of dilated air-tubes, as supposetl by Willis and Reisseissen, but of polygonal cells of deter- minate form. They declared a preference for the theory of Mal[)ighi. M. Bazin, in the year * Bartholin, De Pulmonum Substantia et Jlotu Diatribe. S. 1. p. 355 of the e<litioa added to the •works of Malpiglii, Op. Om. &c. 1G87. t Willis, Thomas, Opera omnia, " De Respira- tione et Usu," p. 8. Genev. 1(580. X Borel, De Motu Animantium, pars secunda. HagEe, Com. 174.3. § Me'raoire de I'Academie des Sciences, 1718,quoted by Reisseissen, De Pulmonis Struetura. Argent, 1803. II Me'moires de TAcademie royale des Sciences, anne'e 1718, p. 22. torn. i. f Elementa Phys. Corp. Ilumani. Laus. etBern. 17G1, t. 3. et p. 178. Op. cit. tt" Kxtrenii surculi cylindii sunt ut relirjui rami, sed brevissimi, nec spbajricas vesiculas nec poly- edras, nec cubicas refcnmt." XX Legons sur les Phe'nomenes Physiques de la Vie, ii. 37. §§ Phil. Trans. 1827. 18.32*, reproduced the opinions of Reisseis- sen. In 18.39, M. Sereboulletf followed on the same side. About this period, M. Bour- gcry in France, and Dr. W. Addison in Eng- land, combated severally the views of Willis and Reisseissen. To the theories of these anatomists, more especial reference will be afterwards made. Dr. Addison J, from a re- petition of the method adopted by Reisseissen, concludes, " that the bronchial tubes, after dividing into a multitude of minute branches, which take their course in the cellular inter- stices of the lobules, terminate in their in- terior in branched air-passages and freely communicating air-cells." Mr. Rainey, whose excellent memoirs have rendered great service to the cause of the minute anatomy of the lungs, more clearly defines the distinction be- tween the inter-cellular passages (the lobular passages of Drs. Todd and Addison) and the true bronchi.^ M. Iliischke jj in 1844 pub- lished researches which tended to support the views of M. Bourgery. At this time Dr. Eichholtz 1 contributed to anatomy the re- sults of careful investigations into the structure of the lungs. The dissertation of Dr. Mole- schott** was also added to the rich list of works on the organisation of these jiarts. The views of this excellent writer differ in no essen- tial respects from those of M. Rossignol f-f-, who describes the extreme bronchi as termina- ting in infuiidihula, which sacculate into lateral and terminal alveoli (air-cells). In the year! 848, Adrius Adriani J J published a dissertation of considerable value. It is illustrated by draw- ings taken from their own preparations i)y Schrosder van der Kolk and Harting. To this admirable essay, special allusions will be afterwards made. An inaugural dissertation, also, by Ernest Schullz devoted chiefly to questions of structural an;itomy, now appeared to enrich the literature of this subject. The standard writings of the English ana- tomists issued at this period express chiefly the views of the continental authors above quoted. In Carpenter's Principles of Human Physiology, and Messrs. Todd and Bowman's Physiological Anatomy, excellent chapters * Comptes rendus de I'Acade'mie des Sciences, la vStructure intinie du Poumon. Paris, 1832. t Sereboullct, Anat. Comp. de I'Appareil Respir. Strasbourg, iHliX. X Phil. Trans. 1842. § See his Rlemoirs "On the Minute Structure of the Lungs," 1845 ; " On the Minute Anatomy of an Emphysematous Lung," 1848 ; and " On tlie Minute Anatomy of the Lung of the Bird," in vols, xxxii. and xxxiii. of Medic. Chir. Trans. II Siimmering's Lehre von den Eingenweiden (etc.), p. 268. If In Mullen, Archiv, fur Anat. und Phvsiologie, IleftV. ** De Malpigliianis PulmonumVesiculis. Ileid. 1845. tt Reclierches sur la Structure intime dn Poumon de rilomme et des principaux Blamniifcres, &e. 1S4(;, iiriixclles. JJ Disscrlatio Anatoniica Inauguralis de subtiliori Puulmenum SUuetiira. Trajecta ad Rhenum, 1848. §§ Disipiisitiones de Slructura et Tcxtura Cana- lium aeriferorum, &c. 1850, Mitavas et Lypsioj.