591 OVARY — (Abnormal Anatomy). cyst, or in which the tissues of the healthy organ are entirely expanded and lost in the walls of the sac. And lastly, the occurrence of these cystic formations is limited to that period of life when the Graafian follicle is in a state of activity. They are not found as new for- mations after the usual time at wiiich the follicles have ceased to be discoverable in the ovaries as natural structures, nor do they occur before the period of puberty has arrived, except in cases much more rare than those of an unusually early development of these follicles, or of precocious puberty. These arguments apply more particularly to cysts with fluid contents. How far they may also serve to explain those which con- tain more highly organised products is less obvious. But it must still be remembered that cystic formations of all kinds occur far more frequently in the ovary than in any other part, whilst there is nothing peculiar in the stroma of the ovary, or that portion which is external to the follicles, which would render it more peculiarly liable to cystic for- mations arising out of dilated areolar spaces, than similar fibrous structures occurring in other portions of the body where cysts occur. Solid Enlargements of the Ovary. — These consist of formations of fibrous, and occa- sionally of imperfect cartilaginous tissues, and of osseous concretions, but more frequently of cancerous growths, formed at the expense of, or deposited within, the tissues of the ovary. Of formations of fibrous tissue some ac- count has been already given in the description of the growth of cysts. The new formations of fibrous tissue which take [ilace in the ovary occur chiefly in the cystic parietes, where they are deposited for the purpose of strengthening the walls and enabling them to resist the increasing weight and pressure of their growing contents. But as fibroid tu- mours, or solid growths of the entire ovary, such formations, except those of very small size, are certainly rare, unless they are of a cancerous or cancroid nature. It is probable, indeed, that, excepting the cancerous and cancroid cases, most, if not all, of the specimens which have been described or preserved in museums as examples oi' large fibrous tumours of the ovary, have been formed at the expense of the proper tissue of the uterus, and have had nothing to do originally with the ovary, although the latter may be so involved in the mass that its proper tissues can no longer be distinctly traced. Such I had no difficult}' in determining to lie the case with a specimen preserved in King's College Museum as an example of fibrous tumour of both ovaries ; each sup- posed ovary being of the size of an ostrich's egg, and presenting all the characteristics of the ordinary fibrous tumour of the uterus. It was rendered evident, by dissecting the parts and opening the uterus, which had not been done previously, that these large tumours which hung on either side of the uterine body had been formed at the expense of the latter, for the natural tissues of the fundus and corpus uteri were in great part absorbed into and had evidently contributed to form these masses ; and out of the apex of one of these sprang the uterine end of the Fallopian tube; a clear proof that this was not an ovary. In this way may be explained the remark of Cruveilhier, that fibrous tumours of the ovary are so perfectly identical with those found in the uterus, that it is sometimes im- possible to determine to which of the organs they have originally belonged ; and also the remark of Dr Baillie, that they resemble in texture the tumours which grow from the outside of the uterus. The absence of the muscular element fron) the natural tissues of the ovary, and the now well-known fact that the uterine fibrous tumours contain, as ore of their characteristic constituents, more or less abundantly the smooth or organic mus- cular fibre of the uterus, forbid the belief that tumours of similar composition to those found in the uterus can be formed within or at the expense of the proper tissues of the ovary. Cartilaginous and Osseous Formations, espe- cially the latter, are not rare in the ovary. They are found chiefly in the parietes of cysts, and also intermixed with cancerous deposits. The process of deposition of earthy matter, which should be termed calcification rather than ossification, occurs here under three piincipal forms. In fine sections of the more solid structures, or in the thin walls of cysts which are slender enough to be examined without cutting, may be often seen, with a moderate amplifying power, little aggregations of crystals in the form of clavate spicula, clustered round a centre, and forming groups scattered through a fibrous basis. Such tissues are sensibly rough to the finger, and grate under the knife. In the second form the same calcareous materials, consisting of phosphate and carbo- nate of lime, combined with a small proportion of animal matter, occur as plates or laminae, strengthening the walls of cysts ; or in the shape of grains, or larger aggregations, or layers intermixed with the tissues of more solid tumours. In a third form the calcareous matter may constitute an oval or solid mass contained within a small cyst, and resulting apparently from an entire calcification of the inner walls of the cyst. The condition under which true bony structures are found in the ovary has been already considered in another section. (&<? Dermoid Cysts.) Caneer of the Ovary occurs under the three principal varieties of Colloid, Medullary, and Scirrhous or hard cancer. Most of the large tumours of the ovary, and such of the encysted class as remain still to be described, belong to the variety of Colloid or Alveolar Cancer, generally associated with Cysts.—These might have been classed.