OVUM. 33 arrived at maturity, and acquired the external confii^uration and structure (though of smaller size)'ol'the parent, was found to be possessed of reproductive organs, while the original animal had not acquired any. The first Fig. 29. Myriaiiida fasciata. (^From Milne Edwards.) Twice the natiu'al size. At the posterior part of tlie body are seen six young, produced between the caudal and the next joint in succession, from 1 to 6. formed was situated farthest back, and re- mained for the time attached to the original caudal joint, and the others followed in suc- cession before it, the last produced being attached to the terminal joint of the parent body; and each newer individual presented a less developed structure than the preceding one. In the animal observed by M. Ed- wards, the anterior or youngest individual had only ten rings, the second had fourteen, the third sixteen, the fourth eighteen, the fifth twenty-three, and the last, or caudal one, thirty rings. It would appear, therefore, that the new individuals take their origin from the last joint of the parent Annelide. The observations of M. Edwards farther make it appear that the process of develop- ment and multiplication of the segments in each of the new individuals is the same as in the young Annelide first formed from the ovum ; that is, the embryo is at first without segments or rings, the head and caudal part existing alone, and the joints being gradually formed between them, and in succession, from the posterior of the segments previously pro- duced. These phenomena cannot fail to recal to our recollection the production of sexual individuals by a non-sexual process analogous / y to gemmation from imperfect parents or nur- Supp, sing stocks; and as Mr. Owen has remarked*, " Since the individuals so propagated alone acquire the generative organs, an alternation of generations may here be affirmed of such species; the oviparous individuals producing eggs from which the gemmiparous individuals come, and these, in their turn, reproducing the oviparous individuals."f But it is to be observed, that in many others of the Annelida, the generation is of the ordinary kind, or consists in the produc- tion of sexual individuals, by their direct or metamorphic development from the ovum. Insccta. AjMdes. — A remarkable example of a similar modification of the reproductive Fig 30. Production of Aphides. A. (After Owen.) Diagrammatic representation of the succession of generations of Aphides, from the fecundated ovmn o, the first embryo e, the suc- cessive non-sexual progenies, g to g (of each of which only one individual is represented), to the male and female insects, m and/. B. {After Lex/dig.) Enlarged view of the cham- bers of one of the ovarian oviducts of a viviparous Aphis. In the uppermost chambers are seen the fine nucleated cells, of which one in V and 2', larger than the rest, descends; and in 3, 4, and 5, are seen the changes of this and other granular and cellular blastema, from which the new individual is formed. * Lectures, 1840, Med. Times, vol. xx. p. 83. t At the same time it ought to be mentioned in connection with the above, that, according to some