STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 384- mical affinity on the one hand, and homoge- neous and heterogeneous adhesion on the other; and that while they are sometimes * akin to the formation of hydrates, they oc- casionally resemble those still more recon- dite phenomena which are concerned in the production of isomeric or isomorphous com- pounds :— substances which, though identical in their com[)osition, offer striking differences in their solubility, as well as in many of their chemical properties and reactions. This very limited convertibility of the main components of the food, renders their variety almost as essential, as though each different tissue of the body had required the entry of its corresponding substance from without. In other words, within the range of the chemical parallelism just mentioned, the organism de- mands alimentary compounds containing all the different ingredients necessary to cover its own waste. This fact receives a good illustration from that selection which the instinct of most per- sons would impel them to make. Left to himself, Man always chuses a mixed diet, composed of projjer quantities of animal and vegetable, liquid and solid, matter. Nay more, that almost equally imperious instinct whicii urges him to vary his diet, though often con- fused with the morbid cravings of luxury, is essentially nothing less tiian an expression of the natural wants of a healthy organism. Obscured, however, as these really natural instincts often are by the stereotyped tastes and habits of a highly artificial state of society, we gain a far better insight into the proper composition of food, by examining that store of nutriment which, in the shape of the yolk of the Bird's egg, or the milk of the Mammal, Nature herself provides for the maintenance of the young of these classes. Of these two substances, the milk is justly regarded as forming the very best example of a proper food :—both as regards the nature of its several ingredients, and the proportions in which they are mingled with each other. Milk.— The alimentary properties of the milk are due to the presence of a number of proximate constituents, the more impor- tant of which may be enumerated as fol- lows.— (1) A protein-compound, casein; (2) a hydro-carbon or fat; (3) a hydrate of carbon or sugar; (4) certain salts; and (5) the water in which the whole of these materials are suspended or dissolved. Of these five groups of substances, at least four are indispensable ingredients of every pi'oper food. The hydrate of carbon and the hydro- carbon are, to some extent, capable of forming substitutes for each other. But with this ex- ception, (an explanation of which will be attempted by and by), the absence of any one of these constituents, or even its presence in insufficient quantity, suffices to destroy the capacity of any particular food for maintaining life ; so that an animal limited to such a diet * Compare the remarks on the gastric juice at p. 337. ultimately dies with appearances of inanition. And d fortiori, the ingestion of but one of these alimentary ingredients, — such as albu- men, fat, or sugar,—is soon attended with effects which still more closely resemble those of starvation. Sufh a- diet does indeed essen- tially starve the entire organism, even while it supplies some of the constituents of its lost substance. For although the unchecked waste of the remaining constituents of its mass tells upon certain of its textures with greater rapidity and energy than on others, still it ultimately involves the whole in a common destruction: —a fact which need little surprise us, when we recollect the mixed composition of the simplest tissues, and the intimate mutual dependence of the most distant and isolated parts. Constituents of food.—1. The first group, consisting of what are called the protein- compounds, includes a number of proxi- mate principles, which are derived from both the animal and vegetable kingdoms of nature. The chief of these principles are albumen, fibrin, and casein. By digestion in solution of potash, and precipitation with an acid, either of these yields a substance called ^j) o- tcin : — a name that alludes to the relation this principle is supposed to bear to all the compounds from which it is thus obtained. It is regarded as their common starting-point (TrpwTivM, p7-imaspartes tenco), and most essen- tial component. And the slight differences of composition offered by each particidar pro- tein-compound, are explained as chiefly due to variations in the nature and amount of certain collateral ingredients, the addition of which to protein imparts the specific charac- ters of albumen, fibrin, or the like. Hence the various protein-compounds are supposed to differ, not so much in elementary com- position, as in certain characters which might almost be termed morphological: — namely, outward form, physical properties, degree of solubility, and the like. The exact process by which one of these protein-compounds undergoes conversion into another is still a comjilete mystery. But that such changes do constantly obtain, cannot be doubted. And hence, while the quantity of albumen in the animal body, and the constancy with which it is present, assign to this proxi- mate principle the leading position in the above gi'oup of proteinous substances, it is on its generic, and not its specific, properties that our attention ought chiefly to be fixed. The protein of the food may be regarded as its most essential constituent. The reason why such an importance is ascribed to it becomes sufficiently evident, when we com- pare its composition with that of the body which it is intended to nourish. The highly azotized constitution it possesses (C 54'7 + H 6-8 + N 14-2 + O 24.-.3 = 100) closely approaches that of the solids of the organism generally. And it shows an equally important relation to most of the tissues in detail. It forms a large constituent of the blood; and therefore of the plastic nutritional fluid that