50 OVUM. the product of different successive years be taken together, a fowl may, at the most, bring forth about 1,200 eggs. I have attempted to count and estimate the whole number of ovula in the undeveloped state to be seen in the ovary of the common fowl, and I find it to amount to 30,000 or 40,000. A great many of these ovula must, therefore, be unproduc- tive in the higher oviparous animals, their germs either remaining undeveloped or being absorbed in the ovaries. In mammalia, and in the human species, although only a few ovula approach to maturity at a thne, and a small number only of the ova, as compared vviih the whole of those contained in the ovaries, serve for pro- duction of the offspring, it is known that a considerable number is discharged from the Graafian vesicles of the ovaries in the unim- pregnated state. Thus, in the human female (as will be more fully stated hereafter), one or more ovula are discharged from the ovarian vesicles at every successive four-weekly men- strual period during about 30 years of life, and thus not less than 400 ovula may be ex- cluded from the ovaries ; but this number is probably greatly below that of the whole ovula or their germs, which the human ovai'ies contain ; and the ovaries of many quadrupeds present, undoubtedly, a greater number. External form and relation of the parts.— The ovum, being composed of cellular, gra- nular, and fluid substance, and being enclosed by an entire vesicular membrane, has gene- rally, at least in its early condition, a spherical form. In the mature state, this form is in many instances retained ; but there is also not unfrequently a de|)arture from it, in conse- quence of the addition of the external parts unequally deposited on the surface of the more globular yolk within them. This sphe- rical form of the ovarian ovum points to its isolated mode of production, and its destina- tion for a separate existence, and is character- istic of the elementary nature of its organic structure. In the class of birds, the egg is always covered in by an external hard calcareous shell; and in the greater number the external form given by this is somewhat elongated, and not unfrequently, as in the common fowl, with a difference of the size and curvatures at the opposite ends, caused by the manner of the descent through the female passages. There arc, however, considerable differences among the different families of birds, as in the nearly globular form of the predaceous, the more elongated form with nearly equal ends in some of the ducks, the well-known shape of the gallinae and others allied to them, and tiie greater disparity at the opposite ends, as in the seafowL* In those of the scaly reptiles which ai-e oviparous, there is also a firm external cover- ing ; but only in some of them, as in most chelonia and in the crocodiles, is there a hard * See oil this subject the works of Hewetson and others. calcareous shell. In the greater number of the sauria and ophidia, the external covering is of a tough membranous or parchment-like consistence, formed of sevei al layers of con- densed fibro-albuminous substance, in which either no calcareous matter, or only a small quantity of it, is contained. In those serpents and lizards, again, which are ovoviviparous, the egg, when it descends into the oviduct, is not covered there with the firm external en- velope, but with a thinner and softer mem- brane, similar somewhat to the membrane lining the shell in birds. External forms of different eggs of Birds and lieptites. A. Batracliian reptile, frog or toad; spherical shape, the darlc yollv witliiii, the gelatinous albumen externally; swollen by imbibition of water. B. Triton or Salamander; elongated external membrane, coloured spherical yolk within. c. Oval of unequal curves at the two ends, as in gallinaceous, passerine, and many other birds. D. Very unequal size of the two ends, as common among sea-fowi. E. Equal oval, as among some ducks, the crocodile, lizard, &c. F. Short oval or nearly spherical, as in predaceous birds, chelonia, &c. In the oviparous cartilaginous fishes, a peculiar horny capsule is formed round the yolk and albumen, as they pass through the oviduct at a place where a particular gland is provided for its formation. These capsules are of a fibrous structure, of an oblong, some- what quadrilateral shape, as in the skate and shark, and, at each angle, are prolonged into tubular processes or filaments, of great length in some sharks, which when short and open, may allow of the passage of water to the embryo contained for a long time within the ovum; and serve also the purpose, when long and convoluted, of entangling and attaching the egg capsule among seaweed and floating bodies. I have found that in the Myxine glutinosa the globular yolk is enclosed in a horny cap-