207 RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. tubes terminate." This really coincides with the supposition of Reisseissen : — " trachea rainos ita per pulmones distribui, ut facta par- titione nuiltiplici, singuli quique coecis nec ampliatis terniinentur finibus, quibiis vesiculoe aeiifertE constituantur." Moleschott has slightly modified the views of Reisseissen : — " Jam singulos ductus aeriferos, non uti Fis. 213. they would accurately answer to the descrip- tion of the " intercellular passages " ('a', fig. 210.; 212.). It is, therefore, obvious that two different niinds, contemplating the same Fis. 2U. An imaginary section of a lohiile of the hnma^i Imuj, carried parallel with the plane of distribution of the chie f interlobular divisions of the bronchi. The latter are observed to multiply both on the dicho- tomotis and arborescent plan. ( Original.) c, c, denote the smallest of the true bronchi which contrast by their smootli walls the alveolated intercellular passages a, a, a. The latter exceed the extreme bronchules slightly in diameter. Un- like these bronchules (c), -vvliicli never inosculate, the intercellular passages (a), ramify in every direc- tion and at every plane, and frequently open into one another, establishing tlnis a free communica- tion for the air between all parts of the lobule. b, b, h, indicate the ultimate air-cells of the lungs. They correspond in size with the alveoli (them- selves true cells) on the walls of the intercellular passages, e, e, bottom of the sub-pleural or most superticial air-cells. Reisseissen voluit, coecis nec ampliatis finibus terniinari dicit, verum ad latera parietalibus vesicuiis instructos esse testatiir." Kolliker adopts the views of Rossignol, and constructs an illustration which expresses more perfectly the views of the latter author. * If a series of hollow cells were disposed linearly, the points of contact being converted into foramina, as represented in this diagram, * " Mit denselben stehen dann die letzen Ele- niente der Luftvvege, die Luftzelleu odor Lungeu Diagram of two lobules a, a, of the human lung, {After Kolliker.) b, b, b, b, ultimate air-cells; c, c, the finest bron- chial tubes. (Magnified 25 diameters.) objects under two different preconceptions, would see in them "pasanges"or "iiifiinclih:iki.'' A lung injected with wax readily misleads to the Fh. 215. {A fter Sossignol.) b, extreme bronchial tube of the human lung terminating in the " infundibula ;" a, a, infundibula multiplied into cells on their parietes. error committed by Reisseissen of supposing each cell to be the separate termination of a separate bronchial branch. But it is certaiu bliisehen, in Verbindung, doch nicht so, wie man frilher glaubte, dass jedes feinste Bronchialiistclien terminal in ein einziges Bliisohen ausgeht, soiidern in dem dieselben immer mit einer ganzen Gnippe von Blaschen sich vereinen. Diese Blilschengmp- pen entsprechen den kleinsten Liippchen trau- benfurmiger Driisen, und es ist daher nicht die geringste Nothigung vorhanden, dieselben mit einem andern Namen zu bezeichnen, wie Rossignol der sie itifmidibula nennt, wenn audi zuzugeben ist, dass ihr liau in manchen eigenthiimlich sich ver- hiilt. Wiihreiid namlioh in andern Driisen die Drusenbliischcn, wenn sie auch nicht so isolirt fiir sich bestehen, wie man bisher angenommen hat, doch eine gewisse Selbstiindigheit haben sind, die ihnen entsprechen Elemente in den Lungen, die Luftzellen, in bedeuten Grade untereinander ver- schmolzen, so dass alle einem Lappchen angehori- gen Blaschen nicht in Abzweigungen der zu dem- selben tretenden fcinsten Bronchialastchcn, sondern in einem gemeinsamen ITohlraum einniiiiiilcn aus dem dann evst das Lnftgetiiss sich cntvvickelt." —Mic. Anat., Zweiten Hiilfe, p. 309.