OVUM. [83] Fig. 56*. Ovum of the Rahhit in the tunica granulosa, (^From Coste.') The middle part of one of M. Coste's figures has been here copied to show the peculiar arrangement of the granular cells round the disc and ovum, which according to him are of the same nature with those described by Dr. Martin Barry as retinacula. It may be doubtful whether this structure is constant. and bears no regular proportion in different families of animals to the stature of the whole body. In the mature state this variation ex- tends from T^ig to or t^^^j"- The following are the results of a few measurements made by myself and others of the external diameter of the mature ovarian ovum, viz., man yi^, dog T-60- cat T^jj, rabbit ^i^j, rat ^i^- mouse ^i^, P'g 2ffo. cow ^i^, guinea-pig The external tunic, or zona peliucida (a term founded on the description of Von Baer*, from its presenting the appearance of a transparent ring between the opaque granular yolk-mass within and the granular cells externally), is of great proportional thickness ; viz., from To'nTj to ^joo", or from i to of the whole diameter of the ovum. When entirely freed from the granular cells, its external surface appears smooth ; and the inner surface, which is exactly parallel to the onter, is also re- markably smooth. The substance of this tunic is very tough, and possesses considerable elasticity; so that the ovum and its zona may be flattened by external [iressure to a great extent ; and yet it regains its nearly si)herical form when the pressure is removed. It is of glassy transparency and homogeneous ; neither any laminated, nor fibrous, nor other structure being perceptible under the highest magnify- ing power. It is easy to obtain evidence that it is one thick membrane, and not composed of two layers with intervening fluid, as some have held, by cleaving it with fine needle- points, when the cut edge becomes fully ap- * Epistola de Ovi Mammalium et Hominis genesi, Lipsiise, 1827. parent. It has recently been stated by Reraak*, that in the mature ovarian ovum of the rabbit, when freed from the granular cells, radiated lines may be [)erceived running quite through the zona peliucida ; these linear radiations, he conceives, indicate a peculiar structure of the zona, somewhat similar to the perforated con- dition of the outer membrane of the ovum in osseous fishes. I have perceived some of this radiated appearance ; but I am inclined to be- lieve that it depends not on any structure of the zona itself, but rather on the marking produced by the adhesion of parts of the cells of the tunica granulosa, which become pedi- culated in very ripe ova, and have then a ra- diated appearance on the zona under pres- sure ; as represented by Bischoff'in his view of the ovum of the dog, of which 7%. 53 d. is a copy. I shall have occasion afterwards to state the nature of the fine canals which have been observed in the outer tunic of fishes' eggs. It has been customary among ovologists, till very recently, to look upon the zona as corresponding to the external membrane of the yolk in the bird's egg. But from what has been already said in connection with that subject, the propriety of draw- ing a distinction between these two enve- lopes has been fully shown. I prefer, there- fore, to retain the name of zona pelluciila, though it may not be perhaps the best de- signation, as it prevents all confusion which might be introduced by views of its analogies. It will hereafter be more fully demonstrated that it not only differs in its mode of origin from the true vitelline membrane of birds, but that it also has a different destination in connection with embryonic development, in- asmuch as, though formed in the ovary, it remains and constitutes the basis of, or be- comes incorporated with, the important struc- ture which at a later |)eriod becomes the chorion. In the foregoing description of the mem- brane of the mammiferous ovum, I have adopted the view first advocated by Costef, anil by Thomas Wharton Jones J ; and more fully brought out and established by the re- searches of Bischoff'in his admirable works on the development of the Rabbit and the Dog. ^ It may be properto remark farther, that though the name of zona peliucida has been employed to designate the thick single tough membrane by which, as is now well ascertained, the yolk of the mammiferous ovum is invariably enclosed from an early period of its formation in the ovary, this term is used synonymously with that of vitelline membrane, and as applied to * Miiller's Archiv. &c. for 1854, p. 252. •j- Recherohes sur la Generation des Mammifferes, 4to. Paris, 1834, lig. 2.; and Embryogenie Coni- parce, toni. i. p. 200, Paris, 1837. J In a paper read to the Royal Society of London in 1835 ; printed in the Loudon Medical Gazette for 1838, p. 680. § Kntwickelungsgeschichte des Kanincheneies, Braunschweig, 4to. 1842; and Entwickelungsg. des Ilundeies, Braunschweig, 4to. 1845. [G 2]