PELVIS. 123 from those in the pubic symphysis in being al- most totally wanting in the fibrous elements which are in the latter joint intermingled with them. Under the microscope a section of the sacro-iliac cartilages presents the ordinary ap- pearance of cartilage incrusting tlie surfaces of arthrodial joints. They have been said by many writers to be com|)letely incorporated together so as to form but one mass; but such is not the conclusion I have come to, except in a few cases, after many examinations care- fully made in subjects recently deceased. The cartilages are very strongly adherent to, and follow exactly the shape of, the auri- cular articulating surfaces of the sacrum and ilium before described, their rounded pro- jecting angles being the most depending part of the articulation. That on the sacrum is almost double the thickness of the iliac cartilage, which is somewhat less than one eighth of an inch thick. In the male, in a few instances, the two seem to project into each other by irregular pronsinences, and to be con- nected without the intervention of a regular synovial membrane. In these cases it has been remarked, that on the application of force, the cartilage separates from the ilium, leaving its auricular surface denuded. Much more frequently in tlie male, however, and always in the female and child, I have found, extend- ing between them throughout, a completely smooth surface, apparently lined by a delicate membrane, and containing much thick synovia. The opposing cartilaginous surfaces are, in these cases, wavy or /-shaped, when seen in a cross section, the sacral part being convex, and the ihac part concave in front, the re- verse arrangement having place behind, the greatest depression being in the iliac surface, exactly at the angular junction of the two limbs of the auricular surfaces, at the most de- pending point of the articulation, and through which passes directly the line of pressure here- after to be noticed (see fg. 89. page 144. c,f). At this point also, the breadth of the cartilaginous surface is the greatest, being generally about an inch. Towards the extre- mity of each limb the width gradually becomes less. The inferior or horizontal portion is ionger than the other, generally being about two inches long, the superior or vertical por- tion being an inch and a half long. Immediately posterior to, or rather above, this cartilage-covered surface,and filling up the digital depressions found there on each bone, are firmly implanted the inter-osseous ligaments, composing the remainder of the articulation. These consist of very strong and coarsely interlacing fibres passing almost directly from bone to bone, inclosing large meshes which are filled with a soft loose synovial looking fat, and containing many veins. Behind, these are contioued into the deep posterior sacro-sciatic ligaments. The superior sacro-iliac ligament (^Jig. 80. a) is a strong layer of fibres passing from the lateral masses of the sacral base to the pos- terior edge of the internal iliac fossa. It is continued in front to the anterior mcro-iliac ligament (b), similar in character to the last, but thinner and more feeble, passing from the first three bones of the sacrum to the superior border of the iliac notch. The former of these assist to prevent downiuard and backward displacement, and the latter uj^ward and backward displacement ; the position of the former being more anterior than superior, and the position of the latter more inferior than anterior in the proper position of the pelvis. By far the most powerful of the ligaments of this articulation, and that which must be con- sidered as the chief means of supporting the great downward pressure at this joint, are the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. These are di- vided into deep and superficial layers of fibres, Tlie deep layer (fig. SO. page 144. e) passes from a well-marked prominence on the anterior surface of tiie iliac tuberosity, downwards and inwards, to the superior lateral part of the pos- terior surface of the sacrum, principally to the two upper pieces, external to the foramina; the fibres spreading out in interlacing bundles to- wards the broader surface of implantation on the sacrum, becoming longer as they become more superficial, and leaving meshes for the interposition of masses of loose fat, and the passage of numerous small veins. The erector spinae muscles arise from the surface of this ligament, and cover it. To obtain a good view of these fibres, a transverse section along the brim of the true pelvis should be carried backward through the sacrum, as shown in the figures. This will show the manner in which the tuberosities of the ilium hang over the sacrum, suspended, as it were, between them by these ligaments. It will be more par- ticularly explained when treating on the me- chanics of tlie pelvis. The superficial posterior sacro-iliac ligament (fig. 81., next page, a) has been termed oblique, from the direction of its fibres ; or lo7ig, from the extent of them. It is attached above to the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and passes downwards and ob- liquely a little inwards to be iniplanted^into the fourth transverse tubercle of the sacrum ex- ternal to the hole. To the sides of this liga- ment, which is almost subcutaneous, are at- tached the fascia lumborum and great gluteus muscle. This ligament is described by Cru- veilhier to be attached to the third sacral vertebra. In all the cases I have seen, it is attached to the fourth transvra-se tubercle, which is the most prominent tubercular pro- jection in the dried bone. Bichat erroneously calls it sacro-spinous." Attached to the same sacrai tubercle, and passing horizontally outwards to be im- planted into the posterior surface of the in- ferior posterior spine of the ilium, a point exactly corresponding to the termination of the horizontal limb of the sacro-iliac articular surface, is another well-marked ligament {fig. 81. b), which, being separated by a dis- tinct cellular interval from the deep ligaments and distinguished by the more deeply seated position and horizontal direction of its fibres from the oblique ligament (a), and from the