273 RESPIRATION. system: " the second, pulmonary, or small circulation." The nutrition of some parts of these organs is sustained by another order of vessels, distinct from these. The pulmonary artery, conducting venous blood, and proceeding from the right ventricle, is the channel by which the blood destined to be arterialised is conveyed to the hin!;s. It is circumscribed in its distribution to the area of the true pulmonary tissue as distinguished from the bronchial. The plexus formed by its branches is emphatically the rete mirabile. The branches of the pulmonary artery follow those of the bronchi as far as the origin of the intercellular passages ; a point at which they assume an irregular course over and between the cells. A lobule of the lung receives, with great regularity, only a single ramusculus from the pulmonary artery. It is not so large in size as the bronchial tube which it accompanies. Within the lobule, the artery coincides with the tube in its divisions, which are here more intimately bound to- gether than at the extralobular stages of their course. It was sup|)osed by Bourgery that the artery formed a framework of vessels around the tube. This is not the case. Of course, many of the branches of the pulmonary artery course between the lobules in order to reach others more distantly situated. Reisseissen conceived that he had traced a ramuscule ot the pulmonary artery to the root of each " vesicle," describing a venule on the other side. Krause supposed that each individual cell, with unvarying constancy, had its artery and vein, and intermediate plexus.* Berres believed that each cellule presented, on its circumference, a great many fiicets, like the eyes of insects, each facet having its own plexus. Rossignolf embraces the views of Krause which assign a separate arteriole and venule to each cell. In the accompanying figure, taken from the essay of Adriani, and drawn from a preparation by Schroeder van der Kolk himself, the branches of the pulmo- nary artery are seen to run, not only between the ultimate air-cells, but in many instances through the very centre of the walls. With this view the exact description of Mr. Rainey coincides : — " In the mammal the number of capillary plexuses is not, as some have supposed, the same as that of the air- cells ; that is to say, a terminal artery does not divide into a plexus at any particular part of a cell, its branches uniting for the com- mencement of a vein on the opposite part. On the contrary, one plexus passes between and supplies several cells. In the interior of the lung the exact extent of an individual plexus cannot be determined, in consequence of the removal of some part of it by the sec- tion necessary for its exhibition. But, on the surface of the lung, where the extent of these plexuses, in relation to the cells over which they ramify, can be easily made out, an individual plexus may be seen to spread * Huschke, Encycl. Anat. Splanchnologie, p. 233. \ Op. cit. p. 50. Supp. over an area of ten or twelve cells in some parts and in fewer on others, the exact num- Fig. 223. A. thin slice (near the pleural surface') o f the lung of the Cow, with the pulmonary ar tery (a), and pid- nionary vein (c), injected. (After Schroeder Van der Kolk.) a, large arterial trunk terminating abruptly in small branches (&, b, h), which travel between and along the borders of the air-cells, and in the ulti- mate capillaries e, e, by short trunks as shown at d; ff, foramina arising from the sections of in- tercellular passages; g, fibrous trabeculas, supporting- by their elasticity the cells, and preserving their wall at a regulated tension, ber depending in some measure upon the size of the cells." * Around the foramina and margins of the cells very frequent anastomosis takes place be- tween the minute branches of the pulmonary artery. With reference to this artery, it should, however, be stated, that it difllers f rom all other arteries in the extremely infrequent inoscula- tions which occur between its secondary and tertiary branches—and that its blood mingles with that of no other vessel; it is poured en- tire into the pulmonary veins. " The trunk " of a vessel is most certainly very seldom seen * Op. cit. p. 7. T