STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 303 ei"ht or nine years ago, the author discovered that all these projections from the surface of the ordinary Ruminant stomach,—viz. the villi, honeycombs, and plies—are constructed chiefly of unstriped muscular tissue, lined by scaly epithelium. The uses of such a structure are too obvious to need any comment. The fourth cavity ov abomasum, is the true stomach : it secretes the gastric juice, and possesses the ordinary tubular structure. As regards the uses of these cavities, the bolus is probably moulded for rumination in the honeycomb, and is thence regurgitated into the gullet ; while a muscular fold forms a direct pathway for the ruminated food to pass at once from the oesophagus to the niani[)lies. Pachydermatu.—The Elephant has astomach ■which is elongated, and subdivided by very numerous folds. In other respects it is simple. That of the Rhinoceros is similar ; but the cardiac pouch is devoid of folds. The shorter stomach of the Pig is divided internally by two folds of mucous membrane into three por- tions :—a cardiac pouch, a pyloric extremity', and an intermediate portion, which receives the oesophagus. The lesser curvature, and the back of the cardiac pouch, are both occu- pied by a white and dense ejiithelium, which is similar to that of the oesophagus, and forms a broad quadrilateral band along this aspect of the interior. In the Pecari tliere are ex.- ternal indications of the same subdivisions : but the white epithelium extends over a wider surface; so that it is only the pyloric third, and the lower parts of the niidille and cardiac pouches, which exhibit the proper gastric or tubular structure. In the Hippopo- tamus, the stomach is long and tubular, and is complicated by the addition of two pouches, which have a size almost equal to its own, and communicate with its cavity by corre- sponding orifices on the right of the oesophagus and at the back of the cardia. The internal siU'face of the organ is so folded as to allow the alimentary bolus to enter either of these two cavities.* The stomach of the Solipeda has a rounded shape, and a cardia and pylorus which are close to each other. The cardiac half of the organ is lined by a white epidermis, which terminates by an abrupt dentated margin. In all these three orders — Ruminants, Pachyderms, and Solij)eds — the intestbte is characterized by great length, width, and convolution, and by the possession of a capa- cious cfficum. Thus, in the Ruminant sheep, the intestine is thirty times the length of tlie boJy. And although in the Soliped horse this proportion sinks to fifteen or twenty, still the * The above is a description of the organ in the foetal Hippopotamus, to wliich alone our present information refers. Cuvier suggests this to have been an incomplete development of a compound organ, akin to that of a ruminant; the stomach being the al)omasum, and the diverticula represent- ing the paunch and honey comb. But the tough and wrinkled character of the mucous membrane which lined the supposed abomasum in the greater part of its extent seems to negative this view. sacculation of the cfficum and colon which ob- tains in this and the Pachydermatous order per- haps compensates such a diminution in length. Theilio-caecal valve is represented by a narrow passage, the mucous membrane of which forms six or eight thick longitudinal folds. The caecum, smallest in the Pachyderm, attains its maximum size in the Soliped; being, in the Horse, two feet long, and thrice as capacious as the stomach. In one Pachyderm—the Cape Ilyrax—two additional ctecal tubes open into the large intestine by wide apertures. In the Rodentia the stomach is separated by an external constriction into two portions: —a cardiac, clothed with a thick epidermis, and a pyloric, occupied by a mucous mem- brane which has the ordinary tubular struc- ture. The size of the former pouch varies in different genera ; the latter sometimes pre- sents an imperfect subdivision. The whole organ occasionally approaches a conical or spherical shape. In the Beaver and Muscar- din, the stomach is complicated by the addi- tion of glandular crypts and caeca, the im- port of wliich is unknown. The intestine of the Rodent is very long and convoluted, and the small and large intestine are of nearly equal diameter; but the latter is deeply sac^ culated. The caecum is usually very large, and is sometimes subdivided by spiral or cir^- cular folds. But in the omnivorous Rat it \n small ; and in the Dormouse it is altogether absent. llarstipialia, —In a large proportion of this order, the stomach has a considerable resem» blance to that of the human subject. Such an organ is found in both carnivorous and herbivorous Marsupialia: and indeed, it is difficult to point out any differences in its size or shape which are distinctly referriblc to' the habits of its possessors. In some, how^ ever, a stomach of very similar outside shape exhibits a lesser curvature, which is oc» cu[)ied by a gastric gland like that of the Beaver, composed of numerous irregidar cryjjts. In the Kangaroo (il/ffOY;^;?/s) both the shape and the structure of the organ differ widely from the preceding. The stomach is of a length which equals that of the whole body; the cardiac pouch is subdivided into two ciEca ; and the middle part of the organ is sacculated by three bands of longitiuli- nal muscular fibres, so as closely to resem- ble the ordinary arrangement of the colon,^— except that the interspace between the upper two, or that third of the surface which occu- pies the lesser curvature, is not sacculateil. The gastric gland is broken up into numerous follicles, which are placed in three roivs parallel to the longitudinal muscular bands. The mucous membrane of the oesophagus is continued right and left of the cardiac orifice for a considerable distance; some- what as in the stomach of the Pig. The re- mainder of the mucous membrane is of the ordinary soft character. The intestine of the Marsupial is also sub- ject to great differences. The carnivorous members of the class are devoid of a caecum.