PANCREAS. 105 downwards, have remarked that the act of in- The following is a tabular view of the state- spiration, and violent respiratory or strugi^ling ments of different observers of the [)rincipal efforts, always increase the rapidity of its characters of the pancreatic secretion : flow. Tiedemann and Gnielin. Lenret and Lassaigne. Ecrnard. Frcrichs. JJidder and Schmidt. General Physical Qualities. Limi)id Willi a blue- whit** cast like wliite of egg diliUed witli water, sliglit, liut sensibly saline taste. Limpid with a slightly salt taste. Colour 1 ess, 1 impid, viscous and stringy ; odourless ; taste sa- line. si igh tly t cn ai 0 u s, without taste, or smell. Clear, colourless, viscid and rupy. Reaction. (at first slighlly P, ) acid, after slightly alkal- (ine. ^ Sliecp, slightly aciu Horse, ditto. AIL aliiiG. Always alkaline. All-Saline Strongly alkaline. Specific Gravity. lOOSG . 1-OOS to 1-009 1-031 Amount sccieted. At the rate of one ounce per hour in the dog. Three ounces in half an hout—horse. Normal 31 grains an hour. Morbid. 279 ditto. 580 grains in f of ■in hour — ass. 45 ditto in 25 min. — dog. grain every hour for every 2 lbs. weigiit.—dog. Quality of Solids. Dog, 8-72 per cent. Sheep, 5-19 „ „ '9 per cent. Ass . . l-.SG Dog . 1-02 9 924 per cent. Amount of Albumen, &c. Rendered semi-solici by Some of the re- .igents of albumei. —r/ng. Perlectly solid h\ heat —sheep. Abundant consis- tent ilocculi on heat — horse. Slightly froiihlcd by he reagents of albu- nen. Azotised principles soluble in alcohol and water. Absolutely the satnc IS saliva. Entirely solid by heat, as white ot'egs- ,iIso the strong mi- neral acids and alco- hol. The dried precipi- tate may be re dis solved in water. No sulphocyanides. Inconsiderr-ble coa- gulation on heating. Slighlly turbid on adding alcohol and nitric acid. Butter-like fatO-026 No sulphocyanides. Alcohol coagulates it into a miky mass, which deposits thick white flakes, leaving above a strongly al- kaline solution. The dried flakes dissolve in water. FuncLion of llie pancrcalic fluid.—Tlie first indication of the importance ol"the pancreatic juice to the process of digestion has been as- signed to Valentin. He showed that it con- verted into sugar that portion of the amy- laceous matter that had not heen acted on by the saliva and had passed unchanged into the duodenum ; and he ascertained that both the expressed secretion and an infusion of the gland-substance exercised this transforming property in a high degree. Bouchardat and Sandras found that the pancreatic secretion of fowls and geese possessed this property, and immediately transformed starch into dex- trine and grape sugar. On raising the fluid to 100° (centigrade) it became inert ; but the flocculi precipitated, either by heat or alcohol, on being redissolved exerted an in- fluence exactly the same as the original secre- tion, and with the same power. In this albu- minous substance they recognise the material of which, under the name of diastase, they hail indicated the existence in the alimentary canal of granivorous birds. They profess themselves unable to define the action of this substance compared with that of diastase. Like dias- tase it is nitrogenous; and they regard it as the principal agent in the digestion of feculent aliments. They found, moreover, that a fliiitl of similar prorierties might be obtaineil by macerating for a short time portions of the pancreas, finely minced, in an equal weight of water. The fluid thus prepared converted a thick starch jelly into a thin fluid, without any viscosity, in the lapse of a few minutes. By many alternate precipitations with alcoiiol and solutions in water, as in the operation for the purification of diastase, a flocculent pre- cipitate was obtained, which, rapidly dried, possessed a very energetic solvent power. The existence of a principle acting like dias- tase on fecula was eqtially demonstrated in the rabbit, the dog, anti man.* Within the last few years an additional and most important office has been claimetl for the pancreas by M. Bernardf—that, namely, of emulsifying or saponifying the neutral fatty matters contained in the food, by de- composing them into glycerine and their respective fatty acids, antI so rendering them absorbable. M. Bernard bases his views on two methods of proof—on experiments on the living animal, and on the secretion after its removal ; and his whole paper is charac- terised by an admirable completeness and most orderly logic. The first series of ex- periments consists in the admixture of variou.'? fatty matters — olive oil, butter, tallow, lard — with fresh pancreatic juice, alkaline, viscid, and possessing all the characters of the nor- wal secretion ; a temperature about that of the body is applied, if necessary, and the mixture agitateil. In every case a smooth, creamy ennilsion is at once produced. In keep- ing the pi'othicts of these e.s'periments at a temperature above 100° Fahr. for fifteen or eighteen hours, he says the emulsion was perfectly maintained ; the appearance of the white creamy litjuid was quite unchanged, nor was there, although kept in perfect re- * Compt. Eend. t. 20. p. 1085. f Arcliives Gen. de Me'dccine, iv. scrie, 1.19.