95 PANCREAS. parts of the gland open into the biliary duct as it passes through. The organ maintains the same relations in the Toad; in the com- mon toad it is yellow, straight, and elon- gated. In the Tritons it is i)erceived with difficulty; Cuvier describes it as appearing like a semi-transparent riband sending one bifurcation to the spleen, and another to the duodenum at the point of insertion of the biliary canals. In the Siren it resembles in miniature, as far as external appearance goes, the pancreas of the sturgeon, and joins the intestine by many parallel canals considerably in front of the cystic. In Ophidian reptiles, the pancreas varies greatly both in volume and form; sometimes it is elongated, often globular and pyramidal, sometimes divided into two triangular lobes, and this variety of form obtains even in con- generic species ; thus, in the CcEcilia albi- ventrii it is thick, and pyramidal, and in the Cacilia i/iferrupfa, liimhricoidcs, and den- tata, it is straight, elongated and slightly forked. It is always placed to the right of the commencement of the intestinal canal and head of the stomach. Its substance is red with a tint of yellow, and soft, more rarely firm and consistent, and often divided into distinct lobes. In this respect it does not at all resemble the salivary glands of these ani- mals, but those only of mammifera. Its inti-* mate union with the spleen is very remarkable in the true serpents, whilst in the genus A»gnis and CcEcilia the contact and adhesion at this point does not exist. In the Saurian reptilia the pancreas is often applied against the pyloric portion of the stomach and the commencement of the duo- denum ; or it may be said to liave two branches parallel to the stomachal sac, one of which accompanies the biliary canal, and the other adheres to the spleen, and these reuniting terminate at a point more or less approaching the pylorus ; it is almost always contiguous to the choledoch canal, which often traverses it before arriving at the intestine. According to Cuvier, its volume is greater in saurians living on vegetable food; and its smallness in those that are carnivorous he believes to be com- pensated, as in fish, by the agency of the mucous and intestinal secretion of the abun- dant glandular apparatus with which their alimentary canal is furnished. In the Lacer- tid(E, and Iguanidce, the pancreas is very much developed. Chelonia. " In many respects," says Cuvier, " the animals of this order are in the same conditions as birds. The jaws are similarly armed, the salivary glands are but little de- veloped, and as the volume and importance of the pancreas in birds has appeared to us to be in inverse ratio to the means of masti- cation and insalivation, we might antecedently conclude that the chelonia would also pos- sess a considerable pancreas." At the same time he adds, that the superior masticatory power of the horny jaws of the chelonia over the bills of birds, and their taking their prey generally in the water, considerably impairs the closeness of the analogy. In the com- mon turtle, the pancreas (Jig. 72.) firmly ad- Fig. 72. Pancreas of the Turtle, with the duodenal curvature thrown np, slioicing its loose and branched cha- racter, its embrace of the spJeen, its long caudate process accompanying the duodenum, and its duct entering the intestine higher up. s, spleen ; m. branch, of superior mesenteric artery-; c, gall-bladder. heres to and embraces the spleen ; from that point it radiates towards the duodenum, being thick, amassed, and irregularly arborescent above and to the right, and continued in a long and tapering tail to the left: it is closelv attached to the duodenum along its whole extent, a distance of about fifteen inches. The duct, nearly as lar^e as in the human subject, passes to the right, and enters obliquely the choledoch duct, as that canal is perforating the thick intestinal wall, in a way very analogous to that already described in the human sub- ject. The gland sr.bstance has a very peculiar appearance ; it is dense, opaque, nearly white, and along its edges the lobules are scattered in the clear gelatinous-looking cellular tissue in which the gland is embedded, and appear to be quite distinct from each other; but on dissecting them out from this celatinous bed, they are seen to be attached by little pedicles— in some of gland substance, in some apparently merely of the duct of the lobule and its vessels — to the rest of the gland. It is the most arborescent and ramified pancreas I have seen, next to the rodents, but not so flattened, nor spread out so much in one plane. When looked at as an opaque object with a low power (one inch focal distance), the mapping out of the follicles is very prettily seen ; but the same circumstance that lends them their