SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 450 many of the glands : they have been seen by LuJwig on the nerves of the kidney ; also by Fig. 296. Fourth thoracic ganglion of Rabbit; showing the course o f the fibres contained in the communicating branch after reaching the sympathetic, A B, main cord of sympathetic ; A, cephalic, B, pelvic extremity; c, communicating trunk; g, ganglionic corpuscles; a, portion of the fibres in the communicating branch passing towards the pelvic extremity ; b, ditto passing towards the head. (^Magnified 70 diameters.') Pappenheiin on the nerves distributed to the su|)ra-renal capsules. Schaffner* has also ob- served ganglionic corpuscles from which nerve-tubes proceeded, in the substance of the lymphatic glands. Small ganglia have also been described by Remak as occurring on the nerves distributed to the bronchi: they have also been observed by Koiliker. The latter observer believes that he has seen nerve-tubes arise from them. From the observations of Purkinje* it would appear that numerous fibres of the sympathetic pass to the cerebro-spinal mem- branes. In the dura mater of the cranium he describes the nerves as most abundant in the neighbourhood of the trunks of the three meningeal arteries. INIost of them accom- pany the vessels ; but there are also others which leave them and ramify in the mem- brane. In the pia mater of the cerebellum the nerves which branch separately from the arteries are not so numerous as in the pia mater of the cord. Tlie nerves in the pons and cerebrum belong exclusively to the ar- teries : no trace of nerve-fibres was seen in * Vermischte Beobachtungen in Ilenle und Pfeiift'er's Zeitschrift, band vii. p. 177. t MuUer's Archiv. 1845. the choroid plexuses. Around the vena Galeni magna they form a dense plexus which passes into the tentorium cerebelli, and seems to belong to it rather than to the venous system. The nerves in the pia mater of the cord unite with those of the cerebellum and pons. In the pia mater of the spinal cord the nerves are more abundant than in any other part of the cerebral membranes ; they run singly or in bundles of two and three ; others contain from thirty to fifty fila- ments. Sometimes fibres leave the bundles, forming loops and returning to tiie same or to a different bundle. The largest bundles are situated near the anterior spinal artery, which they entwine; and some pass from this into the process of the dura matei in the anterior fissiu'e, and form loops in the same. Other large bundles, running mostly in a longitudinal direction, are situated near the ligamentum dentatum and posterior median line of the cord. Near the origins of the spinal nerves the bundles of sympathetic fibres are not so numerous and are also smaller. Some of these fibres spring from the cerebro-spinal nerves, and enter with the arteries through the intervertebral foramina. In the perito- neum nerve-fibres have been described by Bourgery* as existing in considerable num- bers. They have also been observed by Luschka.-|- Nerve-fibres are also abundant in the periosteum, both that which invests the shafts of the bones and the articular extremi- ties of the same, as shown by tiie observations of Pappenheim.J They are chiefly situated in the outer part of the membrane, and either run in company with the vessels or are situ- ated upon them. They terminate in loops. Nerves also exist, according to the same author, in the cellular tissue which surrounds the ligaments, penetrating these along with the arteries, and terminating in a series of plexuses and loops. In the tendons they are also sometimes present. Wherever (accord- ing to Pappenheim) vessels pass to ligaments or tendons, nerves pass also. Development.— In the cow's embryo of 8i lines in length, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the thorax was observed, by Kiesselbach (J, on either side of the spinal cohmin in the form of a thick cord, presenting numerous inequalities. In the pig's embryo, eight lines in length, it presents, according to Valentin, the same aspect. It seems, at this period, to consist of a series of small ganglia placed almost in juxta-position to each other, the interval between the individual ganglia not being very distinct. In another embryo, measuring about thirteen lines in length, Bis- choff found the gangliated chain distinctly formed, not only in the thoracic, but also in * Comptes reudus, 1845, p. 56G. t Luschka, die 'Structur des Serosen Hiiute des Menschcn, quoted in Canslatt's Jahresbericht. t Mliller's Ai-chiv. 1843. § Disser. Syst. Histor. Formatioiiis ac Evolutioni Nervi Sj'mpathici: Munich, 1835 ; quoted in Bishoff's Eutwikeluug und geschichte, French Translation.