58 OVUM. received by the open fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. The empty ovicapsule now undergoes a remarkable change by the deposit in its inte- rior of the substance termed corpus luteum, the quantity and nature of which vary greatly according as the escape of the ovule is fol- lowed or not by pregnancy. Of this change more will be said hereafter. The result in both cases is the ultimate closure and obliteration of the ovicapsules. In birds, scaly reptiles, and cartilaginous fishes, the greater size of the ovules when in a state of maturity is connected with a modi- Fig. 42. Relation of the ova to the ovary in Birds. A. Ovary of a fowl, showing at a a a the most developed ova hanging from the ovar_v in their pedi- culated capsules; the non-vascular bands are seen on their most projecting sides; at hb, the empty capsules or calyces of ova that have been previously discharged; at cc, the more compact part near the root of the ovary, where the ova are less developed. B. Diagrammatic section of one of the most ad- vanced of the capsules; o, tlie extended ovarian substance forming the capsule; p, its pedicle; c, indicates in this and the preceding figure the most common position of the cicatricula or germ-disc and vesicle; o v, the two layers of the ovicapsule or ovisac, into which the blood-vessels penetrate: the dotted line v m, marks the vitelline membrane. fication of the structure of the ovary and the ovicapsules. Previous to the age for breeding, the ovary of birds — in which animals only one ovary and oviduct is usually developed or attains to functional activity — is a solid organ of a less firm texture than that of mammalia, and is adherent to the vertebral column in the mid- dle of the dorsal I'egion. It contains at an earlier period a much greater number of ovi- capsules of a considerable size than are per- ceptible in mammalia. The stroma or ova- rian substance is in less proportion, therefore, to the ovicapsules and ova. As the ovules become more developed, they increase rapidly in size ; and we then perceive that they bear a different relation to the ovicapsules from that which has previously been described in mammalia, as they fill com- pletely the ovicapsules, and there is no fluid or loose cellular layer between the outer sur- face of the vitelline membrane and the lining membrane of the theca.* As some of the yolks approach maturity their increase in size is proportionally much greater, and the theca or ovicapsule, and along with it the ovarian substance, is distended in like proportion ; and in this manner the ovary of the fowl at the breeding season has lost its appearance of compactness or solidity, and seems to be composed almost entirely of a larger num- ber of pediculated ovarian capsules of the most various sizes, filled with the yolks or ovules in all stages of development. Never- theless, a little attention shows the solid part of the ovary still remaining at the part at- tached to the vertebral column, forming the ground, as it were, from which the pedicles of the enlarged capsules spring, and contain- ing still a very large number of minute undeveloped ovules in their correspondingly small ovicapsules. The large ovicapsules of the developed ovary of the bird consist of two layers, which are loosely united together by blood-vessels and binding tissue towards the pedicle and over the greater part of the capsule, but are more firmly knit together at the free border. At the latter place the blood-vessels of the theca, which are on all the other parts dis- tributed in wide or comparatively large chan- nels very thickly set, suddenly become so small and delicate as to give, at first sight, the appearance of an absence of vascularity in the course of a band of about ^th of an inch in breadth, and extending across a large portion of the free circumference of the cap- sule.f This is the so-called stigma, at which, when the ovule is to escape from the ovary and to be transferred into the oviduct, the rupture of the theca occurs. * There may probably be an epithelial lining of this membrane. See H. Meckel's paper, afterwards referred to, Zeitsch. fiir Wissensch. Zool. vol. iii., 1852, p. 420. t The length of this band or stigma is about equal to the long diameter, or a third of the circum- ference of the capsule at its widest part. It is some- times crossed by a second band of the same kind.