722 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. the placenta, the blood of the mother is brought into mediate relation with that of the foetus. Two currents, the one foetal, and the other maternal, are continually flowing into and from this organ, yet in channels so perfectly distinct that no direct commingling of the streams can ever take place. Never- theless, though no passage of the form-ele- ments of the blood can occur, yet through the partition-walls which separate these two currents, all the materials necessary to the growth of the foetus are conveyed by endos- motic processes, and all the changes necessary to the respiration of the foetus, and to the elimination of effete materials, are effected. The mechanism by which these ends are accomplished is of two kinds. The one consisting of means for bringing the two con- stantly flowing streams of blood into juxta- position, the other of instruments for carrying on the nutritive and eliiiiinative processes which are the objects of this conjunction. The foetal blood conveyed by the branches of the two umbilical arteries, is distributed to the villi, whence, after being exposed, in the finer vessels and capillaries which ramify upon their inner surface, to the influence of the maternal blood, it is returned to the funis by the branches which terminate in the single vein. The propelling power by which the blood is moved resides in the heart of the foetus, and the whole of its circulating fluid is thus carried in successive portions through the placenta. The maternal blood, after having its im- petus diminished by the s|)iral course which the arteries take in passing through the walls of the uterus, as well as through the decidua, is delivered at once into the placenta, where it becomes immediately separated into fine streamlets by the villi which are so closely set as to break up the interior of the organ into countless channels. After flowing every- where among the villi, the blood escapes back into the uterine system * by the venous ori- * I can arrive at no other conclusion than that the blood in the interior of the placenta, is as much external to the maternal vascular system as it is while passing through a quill inserted between the divided ends of a vein in a hving animal. Although, in this belief, I find myself opposed to the views of Weber, Miiller, J. Raid, Goodsir, and Schroeder van der Kolk, who, with certain differences maintain that the blood is still retained within the maternal system. The views of these and of many other physiologists, who more or less agree with them, are divisible into two classes. According to one view, the uterine vessels either form a network in the substance of the placenta (Weber), or become expanded into an enormous sac, composed of the inner coat of these vessels, which envelopes every- where the surface of the villi (J. Reid), so that the blood after circulating within the placenta is re- tui-ned to the uterus without having been extrava- sated. According to tlie other view (Goodsir and Schroeder van der Kolk), the decidua throws a close investment over every villus, and forms that outer covering of cells which I have ascribed to the chorion; so that in this view a lamina of uterine structure still separates the maternal blood from the exterior of the villi. On this and other points relating to the minute fices upon the surface of the decidua, and upon the dissepiments and marginal furrows from which it is conducted, through the deci- dual coat, to the sinuses in the substance of the uterus, and thence is returned to the mother's body by the uterine and spermatic veins. During the flow of these streams through the interior of the placenta, the surface of the villi is constantly bathed by the maternal blood. Nevertheless the blood of the foetus is separated from that of the mother — first, by the walls of its own capillaries; secondly, by the gelatinous membrane in which these ramify ; and thirdly, by the external non-vas- cular nucleated sheath derived from the cho- rion. With the latter alone, the maternal blood is brought into direct contact. Each of these structures has its distinct office. The use of the external layer of cells (^fig. 485. h) has been happily illustrated by Goodsir. They are to the ovum what the spongioles are to the plant: they supply it with nourishment from the soil in which it is planted. Thus their action is selective, and they transmit to the interior of the villus the materials necessary for foetal growth. These again are taken up by the internal layer of cells (_/%■. 485. 6), and by them brought into direct contact with the foetal capillaries. By a similar process, the interchanges necessary to respira- tion are effected through the membranous sur- faces which separate the maternal and foetal blood. And these processes, respiratory and nutritive, are continued without intermission from the moment that the two separate cur- rents are established until the final separation of the foetus in the act of birth. Yet, through- out pregnancy, the form of the mechanism by which these changes are effected is continually altering, either in its greater or lesser parts. The greater changes have reference chiefly to mechanical, and the lesser to vital necessities. The changes in form exhibit a beautiful series of adaptations in the capacity and strength of the placenta to the increasing amount and force of the maternal current. The original plan of the placenta, that of an interspace be- tween two spheres (a lesser one contained within a greater) filled by maternal blood, could not be long preserved with the materials out of which the temporary organ is con- structed. For as the ovum grows, the deci- dua reflexa, which alone confines the blood structure and composition of the placenta, consult Von Baer, Untersuchungen iiber die Gefassver- bindung zwischen Mutter und Frucht in den Sau- gethieren. 1828. Hitgen, Beitriige zur Aufhellung der Verbindung der Menschlichen Frucht mil dem Fruchthalter. 1835. Sharpey, in MuUer's Physi- ology by Baly. 1837 and 1848. Eschricht, De orga- nis quae respirationi et nutritioni foetus mammalium inserviunt. 1837. E. H Weber, in Hildebrandt's Anatomie, b. iv., and in Wagner, Elements of Phy- siology. 1841. J Reid, Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ!, No. 146. J. Dalrymple, Medico-Chirurgical Trans., vol. xxv. 1842. Goodsir, J. and H., Anatom. and Pathol. Observs. 1845. Schroeder van der Kolk, Waarneraingen over het Maaksel van de Mensche- lijke Placenta, en over haren Bloods-omloop. X851.