391 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. large proportion. And it is impossible to avoid connecting this maximum of fat in the food, with the hirge amount of heat that has to be evolved from the body in these cold regions, as well as with the energy of tiie combustion on which this evolution of tem- perature de|)ends. As a rule, however, but a small quantity of fatty matter can be really digested at a time. Any excess over this amount is merely expelled from the intes- tinal canal with the fajces. The digestibility of fat depends chiefly on two circumstances : — its mechanical arrange- ment, and its chemical composition. In the adipose tissue, the fatty substances are en- closed in large nucleated cells; the membranous walls of which consist of a proteinous sub- stance that is rather difficult of solution, and yet requires to be dissolved before its contents can enter the lacteals as chyle. And the three substances (stearine, elain, and marga- rine), which form the greater part of the fat of the Mammalia ordinarily slaughtered for food, possess very different degrees of solu- bility. Hence they are by no means equally easy of digestion; the first resisting its in- fluence much more obstinately than either of the other two. An animal which is fed exclusively on fat increases in size during a short period. Its nutrition, however, soon sufl^ers; and it finally dies, with those appearances of inanition which have already been mentioned as attend- ing all attempts to maintain life by the in- gestion of only one ingredient of the normal food. In the later stages of this process of starvation, its body gives off a repulsive odour, which appears to be due to the evolution of volatile fatty acids from the skin and lungs. The production of these acids may be re- garded as probably due to an imperfect oxida- tion of the hydro-carbons accumulated in the organism. The alimentary properties of various other tissues and organs of the animal body may be passed over with a very brief notice. The blood itself appears to be a for less valuable article of food than its composition would jead us to suppose: — abounding, as it does, in the important protein-compounds of fibrin and albumen. Some authors have supposed, that its digestion is rendered diffi- cult by the dense state of aggregation which its fibrin is so apt to assume in the act of coagulation. But however this may be, still its large albuminous constituent appears to be m a condition such as woidd eminently fit it for fulfilling the requirements of the organism. We are thus left to remark upon its almost total want of hydrocarbons*: as well as upon the contrast offered by its salts f to those of the muscular substance. _ The brain and nervous centres are so rich in albumen and fat, as to form highly nutri- tious articles of food; especially when they are nnxed with other substances, which are more * Sec p. 380. of this article, t Compare pp. 332. and 389. capable of affording the requisite mechanical stimulus to the digestive organs. The various glands possess a dietetic value which is derived, partly from their physical structui'e and arrangement, partly from their chemical composition. Thus, the dense mechanical texture of the liver and kidney must decidedly oppose their usefulness as food : while the bile and urine which they respectively contain, necessarily superadd the properties of these secretions to those of the proteinous parenchyma that forms the bulk of their mass. And conversely, from both mechanical and chemical reasons, the pancreas is highly digestible and nutritious. The hard solid texture of bone, and its large gelatinous and calcareous constituents, to- gether render it of comparatively little use as an article of food. The cg[;s of oviparous animals contain, in addition to the embryo itself, a quantity of nutritive matter, which is destined for its nou- rishment during the process of incubation. Hence, the large eggs of many Birds form an excellent article of food, the dietetic virtues of which resemble, to some extent, those pre- viously attributed to milk. The white of egg contains about 15 per cent, of albumen. The yolk is composed of about 20 per cent, of the same protein compound; together with about 30 per cent, of fatty matter—chiefly margarin and elain—in a state of subdivision and ad- mixture which eminently adapt it to digestive purposes. The general composition of the mille which forms the food of young Mammalia has already been mentioned. It only remains for us to notice its chief varieties, and the products which its artificial preparation adds to the bill of fare of the adult. The peculiarities exhibited by the various kinds of milk, are chiefly referrible to the species of the parent animal, the date of its lactation, the nature of its food, and its habits. Thus the milk of the Human female* contains about half the quantity of casein, and two-thirds the butter, of that of the Cow: while that of the Ass, which is still poorer in each of these constituents, greatly surpasses them both in the amount of its saccharine ingre- dients (being as 3 to 2). The rich colo- strum which is yielded in the puerperal state f soon gives place to a milk which is * From some an.ilyses of this secretion in two persons, L'Heritier conchides that the milk of Bru- nc'ttc's contains nearly twice as much casein, as that of Blondes; together with about one-half more butter, and one- sixth more sugar. This statement con- firms a belief generally entertained as to the superior qualifications of women of dark complexion as nurses. But, wthout much more extensive observations, it cannot be accepted as an established fiict. If true, it would remarkably complete wdiat we may venture to call the structural and functional homologies of the manuiiary gland, all of which concur in regarding it as a highly-developed offshoot of the general integuments. f The composition of the colostrum seems to in- dicate, that it is partly derived from milk which has been concentrated in the breast subsequently to its secretion, by the re-absorption of a portion of c r. 4,