uo PELVIS. the one being 2 inches, the other 1^ inch, in These dynamic requirements are met by pe- sacral arch, but it resists their displacement inwards, which would result from the pressure of the femora in the direction of the necks of these bones. The effect of this pressure, when the pubes yield to it, is shown in the de- formity which has been termed the rostrated pelvis, resulting from the crushing of these bones together. The cotylo-pubic arch also receives, in its concavity, part of the weight of the abdominal viscera, tliough, from the attachment of these to the spine, their chief weight is concentrated upon the common centre of pelvic arches, — the sacrum. The ilia are also generally supposed to support the intestines in a great measure ; but this support, on account of their great obliquity in the erect position, cannot be so important as is commonly imagined, except, as in the case of the coecum and rectum, through peritoneal attachments. The human pelvis, when thus taken in conjunction witli the thorax, forms the base of a cone, the apex of which is the neck, a disposition for supporting the contained viscera which the erect position demands, and which contrasts strongly with the structure of quadrupeds. Again, the cotylo-sacral and pubic arches on each side, united at their extremities in the acetabula, form two lateral arches, on the centres of which rest the thigh bones. Against the lateral pressure exercised by the thigh bones, these two arches, connected, at their anterior and posterior extremities, by the symphysis pubis and sacrum, form, as IVIayo observes, an elastic hoop. The ischia also contribute to this resistance against lateral pressure, and form, with the two other por- tions of the innominate bones, a sort of arched tripoi.1, on the apex of which the femur is ^ supported. r In addition to the buttresses already de- scribed, there is, placed vertically above the cotyloid cavity, a thick rib of bone, which transmits to the arched crest of the ilium, and through it and the sacro-iliac joint to the sacrum, a portion of the direct vertical pressure from the heads of the thigh bones. This thickened portion of the iliac wing has been mentioned in the general description of the bone as impinging on the iliac crest in the middle of its anterior curve. The division of the pressure thus produced, no doubt calls into action much more com- pletely the elastic resistance of the pelvis, in sudden increase of weight. Thus in the sacro-iliac joint meet three buttresses or thickened lines of pressure, of which the direct cott/lo-sairal is tlie central and principal one, the iscliio-sacral the lowest and next in strength, and the siijjeriur or indirect cotylo ■ sacral the weakest. But, besides merely supporting quiescent superincumbent weight, the pelvic arches are required to resist and break the force of shocks and concussions meeting with the inertia of the trunk, and passing from the lower extremities of the body to the vital and delicate cranial and thoracic structures. culiar modifications of the simple arch, com- bining with it, by an admirable adaptation, the qualities of an elastic spring. First, the cotylo-sacral arch, on which the greatest number and force of shocks falls, is not placed vertically, but obliquely upwards and backwards, while the cotylo-pubic arch, being united to it at its extremities, and con- tinued in the same plane over the femoral supports, forms the anterior arm of a bent lever of the first order, of which the cotylo- sacral arch is the posterior curved arm, the spinal column the weight, and the heads of the femurs the fulcrum (see Jigs. 87. and 86. b). Fig. 87. Drawing of a section of the pelvis in the cotylo- sacral arch, removing the left iliac wing, a, a', line of fulcrum falling in the transverse vertical plane of trunk ; c,c', line of weight passing through centre of sacro-iliac joint; 6,^, line of power or pubic pro- jection ; d, d', line of sacral projection ; e,f, cotj'lo- sacral curve; a',V, pubic arm of lever; a',c', co- tj'lo-sacral arm ; a', d', length of gluteal arm ; c', d', posterior spinal arm; g, posterior iliac projec- tion. The anterior or pubic arm of this lever giving insertion to the powerful extensor muscles of the thigh, which represent the power, is thrown upwards by the operation of downward force on the crown of the cotylo-sacral arch, calling these muscles into contractile reaction, which overcomes gradu- ally the force of any shock operating at the posterior extremity of the pelvic lever over the fulcrum of the thigh bones. In well- formeil male pelves, the pubic arm of this lever is increased in power by being longer than the cotylo-sacral byor f of "an inch,