STOMACH AND INTESTINE, 416 the large or small intestine. The lymphatic glands connected with the diseased intestine are also altered; becoming swelled, injected, and of a red or bluish-red colour. These al- terations seem chiefly due to their irritation. The changes by which the diseased portions of intestine are restored to a healthier state, of course vary with the intensity of the pro- cess, and with the extent to which it has pro- ceeded. Thus, in slighter cases, the process is one of mere resolution. While, after the occurrence of sloughing and loss of sub- stance, the reparative act is much more imper- fect. It is effected by the development of a cicatrix ; which is gradually formed in the suppurating ulcer that is left by the detach- ment of the gangrenous portion of mem- brane. This cicatrix, though similar in structure to that noticed in the typhoid process, is very different both in its amount and arrangement. Its smooth (and apparently serous) surface often has to fill up the intervals of the irregular islands or isthmuses of mucous membrane which are left by the process of sloughing ; and hence the latter are often seen as thick projecting nodules, surrounded by a basis of new tissue. The base of the cicatrix extends to a va- riable depth in the subjacent coats of the bowel; and, in chronic cases, often forms a thickened base, that sustains an ulcer of long standing and variable size. Finally, the great loss of surface which the cicatrix replaces, concurs with the two preceding circumstances to render its subsequent contraction of great influence on the shape and diameter of the bowel. Thus the ordinary situation of the sloughs in milder cases — on the projecting folds of the mucous membrane — seems at least a partial explanation of the frequency with which the contracted cicatrix takes the form of ti cord or fold, itself more or less trans- verse to the axis of the tube, and hence very liable to cause obstruction of the canal. Ulceration constitutes a frequent termina- tion of the various inflammations of the alimen- tary canal. In this tube, as in most other parts of the body, it is associated with inflam- mation, chiefly as a secondary result ; which is conditionated, not so much by mere inten- sity of the process, as by a certain slow and chronic rate of its progress Thus in many of the abnormal conditions already alluded to, the sloughing occasioned by rapid and violent inflammation is often replaced by this inter- stitial mode of destruction, during the subsi- dence of the earlier and more acute sym- ptoms. While, in milder and more chronic cases, it occurs independently of the gan- grenous process. How far it is due to the vascular disturbance which inflammation pro- duces ; or to the direct efiects of the ex- sudation ; or finally, to a mere increase of the ordinary destructive absorption, or a decrease of assimilation; — it would be irrelevant to this sketch to inquire. The specific ulceration of typhoid fever has already been mentioned, as well as the secon- dary ulceration to which it often gives rise. The ulceration of tubercle and of cancer of the canal will be hereafter alluded to ; as being essentially due to the metamorphosis of certain deposits in the tissues of the organ, and to the reaction excited in the latter by their presence. Hence we need here only enumerate one or two of the remaining forms of ulceration most frequently seen in the stomach and intestines. It is but rarely that we find ulcerations of the tube which can be attributed to mecha- nical causes. In certain instances, however, the mere pres- sure of a neighbouring tumour, or of some diseased viscus, results in this process. But in such cases, the access of ulceration is usually preceded by the occurrence of exsu- dation and adhesion, which limit the amount of original substance it removes, and thus to some extent obviate the danger of its per- forating the walls of the tube. The impaction of solid masses in the canal more frequently leads to such a result. In rare instances, these masses find their way into the canal frofn neighbouring organs; as is the case with gall-stones. In still rarer cases, they seem to be formed solely by the concretion of the liquid contents of the canal; resulting in intestinal calculi. In most instances, however, they are due to the in- troduction, from without, of various foreign bodies; such as cherry-stones, pins, needles, or nails. In all cases, the ulceration depends, not only on the size, but also on the shape and surface, of the mechanical irritant. The most familiar examples of such ulceration are seen in the vermiform appendix: where it is not uncommon to find perforation produced by an impacted mass ; which, on examination, proves to be some one of the small solids just alluded to, encrusted with rough calcareous matter, that has been derived from the con- tents of the canal. Ulcer of the stomach.-^\n the stomach and the first portion of the duodenum, the ulcera- tive process is often present in a peculiar form: namely, that which is usually called the simple or perforating ulcer. Of these two epithets, the first refers to the slight ap- pearances of inflammation often present in the neighbourhood of such ulcers; the last, to the frequency with which they extend to such a depth, as to perforate all the coats of the organ. The size of these ulcers varies from that of a fourpenny piece, to that of a crown piece, or even larger. Their shape is usually circular; sometimes elliptical: occasionally, however, more irregular. In some instances, this irregularity of outline is due to the fusion of two or more neighbouring ulcers into one, by an extension of their adjacent margins. But in a majority of cases, only single ulcers are present. The ulcer is generally situated, either in the neighbourhood of the pylorus, or near the lesser curvature of the organ : more rarely in front than behind ; and least frequently of all, in the cardiac sac.