251 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovim). which is not evident, but which seems ana- logous to the suspensor, presently to be mentioned, meanwhile decays away."* Fig, 197. Omle of the same at the period of impregnation, X, the external integument; c, the internal, which immediately surrounds e, the embryo-sac. The pollen tube p, after passing the wide exostome becomes sensibly narrowed as it penetrates the canal leading to the embryo-sac, Avith the out- side of which its termination is in contact. 180 diam. 108. The nnlJicr nnd the pollen rr//.—The history of the development of the anther is remarkably uniform among the different families Fig. 198. The same, sometime aflcr imprerfnation. The remains of the pollen tube are observed to be still adherent to the sac. The rudiment of the embryo exhibits itself as a scmewhat pear-shaped cell, divided towards its upper part by a succes- sion of transvei'se septa, into numerous compart- ments. The lowest of these, larger and more granular than the rest, is the parent-cell of the embryo. 180 diam. (The above, from 191 to 198 inclusive, are original.) of Phaneroganiia. It at first appears in the young flower-bud as a cellular papilla, which grows out laterally from the floral axis. * Henfrey, On the Reproduction of the higher Cryptogamia, and the I'lianerogamia. Annals of jSTat. Hist., June, 1852. By continuous cell multiplication an organ is formed, in which may be distinguished a Fig. 199. Further developed embryo. (Orchis Morio.") The embryo-sac is no longer distinguishable. The spheroidal embryo which completely occupies the cavity of the ovule is surmounted by a fila- mentous prolongation, which projects through the micropyle. 150 diam. (Henfrey.) central cylindrical column (connective), along the antero-lateral aspects of which are at- tached two larger cellular masses; the outer surface of each is marked by a vertical furrow, indicating its division into two halves, which are the rudiments of the future loeuU. In each half a single axile vertical column of cells soon becomes distinguished from those surrounding them by their greater size and granular contents. In each of these cells the nucleus disappears, and is replaced by two others, this being followed by a division of the cell contents (primordial membrane), which results in the foruiation of a new cell round each nucleus. By the repeti- tion of this process a mass of cells — the parent-cells of the spores—is formed, which occupies the centre of each rudimentary loculus. The next change observed is the thickening of the walls of the parent-cells by gelatinous deposition on the interior surfaces. This is followed in all of them by disappear- ance of the nucleus, and consequent division of the contents of the cell (primordial mem- brane) into two portions, each surrounding a new nucleus. These, however, are only trans- itory formations, and are soon succeeded by four permanent nuclei, which are placed towards the four angles of a regular tetrahe- dron, each invested with a primordial sac con- taining a granular mucus, on the surface of which is soon secreted a gelatinous layer. In this manner the parent cell is divided into four compartments—the so-called special parent cells of the pollen grains. Within each com- partment is now formetl a new cellulose mem- brane on the surface of the primordial utricle. This is transformed into a resistant and co- loured tegument, which is the outer mem- brane of the pollen grain, and exhibits various projections of its surface, which differ ac- cording to the species. 109. While these changes are taking place in the central mass of each locuhis, the tissue forming its wall is transformed into a capsule of three distinct cellular layers. Tlie inner