RESPIRATION. 292 1. Catarrhal inflammation. ■ a. Acute. b. Chronic. 2. Exudative processes (croupous inflam- mation.) 3. Pustular inflammation. 4. The tj'phous process on the mucous membrane of the air passages. c. Inflammation of the submucous areolar tissue. d. Ulcerous processes. e. OEdema of the mucous membrane of the air passages. f. Gangrene of the air passages. g. Adventitious products. B. Diseases of tlie cartilaginous skeleton of the air passages a. Inflammation of the perichondrium of the laryngeal cartilages. b. Inflammation and softening of the epi- glottis. c. Ossification. d. Adventitious products. 7. Anomalies in the contents of the air passages. Abnormal Conditions of the Lungs. 1. Deficiency and excess of formation. 2. Anomalies of size.—Hypertrophy and Atrophy. 3. Anomalies in form and position. 4. Diseases of texture. a. Rarefaction of the pulmonary tissue (Emphysema.) b. Condensation of the pulmonary tissue. c. Hypteremia (stasis). Apoplexy of the lungs. d. Anajmia of the lungs. e. CEilema of the lungs. f. Inflammation of the lungs (Pneu- monia). 1. Croupous pneumonia, typhous pneumonia. 2. Catarrhal pneumonia. 8. Inflammation of the interstitial tissue of the lungs (Intei-stitial pneumonia). g. Deposits in the lungs (Melastatic processes). h. Gangrene of the lungs. ?. Softening. h. Adventitious products. The preceding distribution of the morbid conditions of the air passages may be advan- tageously methodised under two heads : first, those of the bronchi (as defined in the account of their normal anatomy) ; secondly, those of the Inngs. The bronchi are liable to several forms of inflammation: a. Acute bronchitis. C'hronic bronchitis. c. Plastic bronchitis. Collapse of the lungs should be considered, pathologically, as rightly ranking under the denomination of the diseases of the bronchi. The various forms of asthma, and hooping cotigh, belong to this species.* The bronchi are subject to two forms of dilatation. In the first, a lube is uniformly dilated at every part of its circumference. In the second, the dilatation is saccidar. The * For an account of the morbid statis of the larynx, and upper part of the trachea, see Art. Larynx. small bronchi and those near the surfaces and borders of the lungs are most liable to suffer this change. The walls of the tubes at the dilatations are h^ pertrophied and thickened. Sometimes, with the saccular variety, the same parts are relaxed and attenuated. The brofichitic colla})se of the lungs occurs under two distinct as[)ects, the diffused form, and the limited or lobular form. Of these tlie latter variety is the more striking or cha- racteristic, and has been, especially in the lungs of children, the subject of more discus- sion than the former. But the diffused form is by far the more common, and is of frequent occurrence in its slighter degrees. In both conditions the pulmonary tissue presents a dark violet colour as seen beneath the pleura ; internally it is red. In considering the causes which tend to produce this condition they seem to resolve themselves into the following: 1st. the exist- ence of mucus in the bronchi, which is more liable to produce obstruction according as it is more thick and viscid ; and 2ndly, weakness or inefficiency of the respiratory power; Srdly inability to cough and expectorate. Of these conditions, the first must be considered as the exciting cause, the others as predis- posing, co-operating with the first, but in- capable, without it, of producing collapse.* With bronchitic collapse of the lung is almost always associated emphysema of the unaflfected portions of the same lung (Gairdner). Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bronchi produces changes which are denoted by redness and tumidity of the tissue, a secretion of muco-serum, purulent mucus, or pus, according to the stage and intensity of the inflammation. This latter is the condition of superficird siippuration. The swelling of the mucous membrane and sub-mucous tissue, which as- sumes the form of watery infiltration into the * For a full discussion of this interesting subject, see " Pathological Anatomy of Bronchitis, and- the Diseases of the Lung connected with Bronchial Ob- struction." By W. T. Gairdner, Edin. 1850. Me- moire sur une Distinction nouvelle de deux Formes de la Bi'onchite; precede de quelques considerations g&e'rales sur rinflammation de la membrane mu- quese des voies-aeriennes. Par J. H. S. Beau. Archives Generales de la Medicine, Sept. et Oct. 1848. Memoire sur quelques Parties de I'Histoire de la Bronehite et de la Broncho-pneumonie cliez les Enfants. (Archives G&erales, Oct. 1851, et suivantes.) Memoire sur la Broncho-pneumonie Vesiculaire chez les Enfants. (Revue Medico- Chirurgicale de Paris, 1852. Par les Drs. Barthez et Rilliet.) Traite Pratique des Maladies des Nouveaux-Nes, &c. Paris, 1852. Par M. Bonchut. A Memoir by Legendre and Bailly, in the Archives Generales de Medicin, on the " etat fcetal" of the lungs, torn. Ixiv. On the Diseases of the Organs of Circulation and Respiration, Art. Atelectasis. By Hasse. Sydenham Society. Die Bronchio-pneu- monie der Neu-gebornen und Sauglinge. Berlin, 1837. By Seifert. Medico-chirurgical Trans., for 1830. By Dr. Alderson. Der Mechanismus der Re- spiration und Circulation. By Mendelssohn. Beitrage zur Experimentellen Pathologic und Physiologic. By M. Traube. Die Bronchitis der Kinder. Leipzig, 1819. Dr. Fuchs. Diseases of Infancy and Child- hood. West.