OVUM, gous to transverse fission. Stein, on the other hand, has been convinced by a very at- tentive observation of the different stages of this process, that it is of an opposite character, and that, previous to the development of the young progeny, two of the Gregarinse have become fused, or united into one. As the two are about to unite, they gradually change their form from that of elongated planaria- like animalcules, to that nearly of hemispheres, closely pressed together; then a com|5lete fusion or union occurs, and the whole of the granules of both having become amalgamated in one sphere, the development of the internal j)rogeny takes place gradually from the mass. This progeny consists in a vast multitude of minute bodies, shaped like the Navicellse (among the Diatomaceee), but different from these bodies, and very probably constituting the reproductive germs or embryos of Gre- garins. The development of this Navi- cella-like progeny into the Gregarina does not appear as yet to have been traced ; as in this animal, like many other parasites, the progeny is required to n)igrate during its de- velopment from one stage to another, and the little bodies are passed out of the alimentary canal of the insect before undergoing farther changes. The views and observations of Stein, how- ever, should they be confirmed by others, would prove the very remarkable tact, that the phenomenon of conjugation, or fusion of two unicellular individuals, hitherto supposed to be confined to some of the simpler plants, as Closterium, Spirogyra and Zygnema, &c., may occur also in animals of a similar simple structure. These observations on the Gregarina are not altogether of an isolated kind. In a recent interesting notice of this subject by V. Siebold*, he has called attention to the ob- servation of Kolliker on the conjugation or fusion of two individuals of Actinophrys f, a spherical infusorian animalcule analogous to the Ainceba or llhizopoda, by its slowly con- tractile, amorphous texture, and its long, ra- diating, contractile processes. Kolliker ob- served two individuals of this animalcule to approach each other, adhere, and gradually to fuse into one, which soon assumed the same globular form, with the radiated contractile processes, as each of the two that formed it, and differing only from them by the increase success by various observers, as V. Siebold (Beitrag. Z. Naturgescli. Wirbelfos. Tliiere, 1839, p. 63.). Henle (Miiller's Archiv, 1845, p. 3G9.), and Stein in tlie same, 1848, p. 182. Kolliker (Zeitsch. f. Wiss. Zool. 1848 and 1849), and as many as eighty dif- ferent species of them have now been discovered. * Zeitsch. f. Wissenscli. Zool. Blarch, 1851, p. 62. t Op. cit. 1849, p. 207. In this very interesting memoir Kolliker has proved the animal nature of tlie Actinopbrys by his observations on its contrae- ti]it3% and on tlie manner in wliich the particles of solid matters, vegetable and animal, are involved in its substance for the purpose of digestion, and tlieir remains again rejected ■wlien that process is com- pleted. of size which it sustained. This very curious observation has been confirmed by Stein, in an allied genus Podophyra, both of the sessile and pediculated kind ; and V. Siebold has ob- served the same phenomenon in a species of Acineta belonging to the same family of Infusoria. Cohn, also, has repeated and con- firmed Kcilliker's observations in the Acti- nopbrys sol, and has made a farther discovery of great interest in connection with the pro- cess of conjugation in these animals, having observed after the union, both in the Acineta and Actino|)hrys, the development, at certain periods, between the united individuals, of a spherical body of considerable size, vesicular form, and containing within it a nuclear forma- tion of variable magnitude. Although the farther development of this body has not yet been traced, it seems not im|)robable to V. Siebold that it may be analogous to the reproductive capsule or sporo-cyst of the conjugating Closterium or Zygnema*, from which bodies it seems to be certain that a number of reproductive spores are produced. Since the foregoing was written, indeed, renewed researches by Stein f have come under my notice which are confirmatory of the view previously stated as to the repro- ductive process in Gregarina, and explain in a great degree the apparently incomplete observations of Pineauj and others as to the varying conditions of Vorticella, and also extend our knowledge of the production of germs of the Infusoria. Stein observed the Vorticella microstoma to lose its pedicle, become free, assume the globular form, and at last to be enclosed in a cyst produced by exudation from its own body. After a time the band-like nucleus of the encysted Vorti- cella is divided into a number of small discoid bodies, not by a regular or progressive process of cell-cleavage, but at once and directly. These minute bodies gradually increase in size at the expense of the granular and fluid substance surrounding them in the cyst, and ultimately escape in the form exactly of JVIonas colpoda (of Ehrenberg). These very soon fix themselves; and a fine pedicle is developed at the place of attachment. In other instances the Vorticella-cyst was observed to send forth long contractile processes from its sur- fiice, and then assumed very much the form and appearance of an Acineta or Actinophrys; and in this case a new Vorticella was formed in the interior in the manner of a bud. The Vorticella, therefore, it would appear, is ca- pable of reproduction in two modes,—by the development of embryoes from the divided nucleus, which Stein on this account proposes to call nucleus germinativus (the testis of Ehrenberg) ; and by gemmation from an intermediate Acineta form. The first form Stein would regard as the equivalent of sex- * See the Article Vegetable Ovum for an ac- count of this process in the lower forms of plants, t Zeitsch. fur Wissensch. Zool. Feb. 1852. I Ann. des Scieu. Nat. 1845 and 1848.