UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 708 the vaginal walls are easily lacerable, or if siibjecteil to continued pressure pass readily into gangrene. A/jscess forms occasionally in the vaginal walls, but many of the abscesses which burst into that canal have their origin in pelvic cellulitis, or in inflammation of other struc- tures external to the vagina. Ulceration. — The minute aphthous ulcers which are dotted over the surface of the va- gina originate in follicular inflammation. The more extensive and UTegular ulcers, except those which form upon the more exposed parts when the vagina is inverted, as in proci- dentia uteri, are usually either syphilitic or cancerous. Gdniircnc of the vagina occurs in conjunc- tion with gangrene of the vulva in se|)tic puer- peral processes ; or it results from pressure iu protnicted labour. Spontaneous gangrene occurs also occasionally in infants and j'oung children. Cysts mid tumours. —The former, if of small size, may result from obstructed mucous fol- licles ; but more often the larger cysts arise in situations external to the vagina, and pro- trude into its canal. In the same vvay, fibrous or osseous tumours growing from the perios- teum or ligaments of the pelvis, ovarian, or even uterine tumours may, by pushing before them the walls of the vagina, protrude into the canal. Vaginal cystocele and rectotele occur in a similar manner. The tumours which lie free within the vagina are chiefly uterine pol\ pi, or cancerous tumours of the cervix or of the vagina itself. The uterus, when partly in- verted, also forms a tumour occupying the vagina. Cancer may originate in the vagina, although it more often constitutes an extension of the same disease from the uterus. In either case it apptars most commonly as medullary can- cer, taking the form of tuberculated masses or ridges, which narrow or obstruct the passage, and quickly pass through the stages that cha- racterise the ordinary progress of uterine can- cer. The surrounding parts become infiltrated with cancer matter, and the vagina is fixed in the pelvis, ulceration of the walls and fistulae resulting. Occasionally, at the connnencement, this disease appears in the form of soft, rapidly- growing papillary structures, springing from the upper and posterior wall of the vagina {villous cancer). EXTEKNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. SvN. Vulva. Pudendum. — These parts per- form subordinate offices in the act of repro- duction. Thoy are in no way concerned in gestation, and only slightly in menstruation and parturition. They are associateil with the vagina in the act of copulation, which has for its object insemination, or the con- veyance of the seminal fluiil to the internal or formative organs. The parts which serve to establish this relation between the sexes, with the exception of the vagina, are placed external to the body, and are attached to the front of the pelvis. They are included under the general term vulva or pudendum, which extends from the mons veneris to the perineum. The vulva consists of the follow- ing parts, viz. labia, clitoris, nymphiE, vesti- bule, vaginal orifice, and hymen. The Mons Venehis forms a slightly rounded or flattened eminence, of triangular outline, covering the symphysis and horizon- tal rami of the pubes. In fat subjects it is separated from the abdomen by a transverse furrow. It is composed of adipose and fibrous tissue, covered by integument. The latter contains many sebaceous and hair follicles. The hair is not developed until the age of puberty. Fig. 480. I'j.vternal nigiins of generation, arid commencement of vagina. (^After Huguier.') 1, labium of left side (that of tlie right side is divided and partly removed to expose the vagina and vulvo-vaginal gland); n, nympha; c, glans clitoridis; pc, preputium clitoridis; r, vestibule; «, oritice of urethra; va, vagina; g, vulvo-vaginal gland, or gland of Bartholin and Duveniay; d, duct of the same. The Labia, termed also labia majora, to distinguish them from the lesser labia or nympha?, are two symmetrical tegumental folds(/i,'. 480. //), placed one on either side of the rima or fissure which leads to the vagina. The labia vary considerably in size and form in different subjects. In stout adults they are full anil fleshy, closing the vulvar orifice, and con- cealing the rest of the generative organs, which they serve to protect. In the aged the labia become shrivelled and the nympha; [iro- trude between them, as they also connnonly do in infants and young subjects. The outer surface of each labium is composed of com- mon integument, which at the age of puberty