TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 504 perfect connective tissue occupying the centre of the papillae, and further distinguished by having their endoplasts and imperfect elastic Fig. 320. a' ■ A papilla with its Corpusculuni tactus surrounded by three vascular papilla;. fibrils arranged transversely to the axis of the papilla, so that they appear to be made up of transverse superimposed laminae (Jig. 320.). One or two dark-contoured nerve tubules come up through the base of the papilla, and running along one side of the corpuscles, thin out and terminate, vi^ithout, so far as I have been able to see, entering its substance. In fact, these nerve tubules are, as KoUiker pointed out, accompanied by a delicate neurilemma, and the axile corpuscle itself appears to me to be nothing more than the enlarged end of this neurilemma. In Birds, a large proportion of the tegumen- tary nerves terminate in bodies which are, on the one hand, related to these axile corpuscles, and on the other to the well-known Pacinian bodies (fig. 322). They are, in fact, usually described under the latter name; but their small size and superficial position,thepaucity of their concentric lamellae, and the transversestriation of the solid central axis, ally them closely with the corpuscula tactus. They are found in the skin around the sacs of the feathers, in the beak, and in the interosseus spaces of the fore- arm and leg. A special article (Pacinian Bodies) has already been devoted to the organs of this kind which are met with in Mammalia, and it need only be added here, that late re- searches have shown that the Pacinian bo- dies of mammals, like those of birds, are solid masses of rudimentary connective tissue; the appearance of capsides and of a central cavity, arising merely from the arrangement of the elastic element and the extreme transpa- rency of the collagenous substance. * They are in fact nothing but thickened portions of the neurilemma, and the nerve which they enclose either passes through them, or more usually * This fact was ascertaiaed aod stated indepen- terminates, more or less abruptly, in the cen- tral solid axis. In the article on the Pacinian Bodies re- ference is made to the peculiar organs de- cribed by Savi in the Torpedines. These Savian bodies, in fact, are little more than Pacinian bodies converted into sacs by the development of a cavity between their cen- tral and peripheral portions. Now Leydig has discovered that these &avian bodies do not stand alone, but that they form a part of a great series of peculiar integumentary sen- sory organs, which are most characteristically, if not solely, developed in the class of Fishes — the so-called mucous canals and follicles. It has long been noticed, in fact, that in osseous fishes one series of the scales along the sides of the body differ in their structure from the rest, giving rise to what is called the lateral line; and that a canal runs beneath these scales from the tail to the head on each side ; that then becoming connected with its fellow by a transverse branch over the oc- ciput, each canal passes forward on the sides of the head, dividing into two principal branches, one of which following the course of the suborbital bones terminates at the end of the snout, while the other passes down on to the lower jaw. Similar organs, but having a more complicated arrangement, are known to exist in the cartilaginous fishes; but it is com- monly supposed that these canals and follicles secrete the mucus with which the skins of fishes are lubricated. However, in a very beau- tiful series of researches, Leydig has shown that the mucus is furnished by the cellular ecderon, and that the so-called mucous canals and follicles are sensory organs. The limits of this article will not permit me to enter into any of the details of structure of these organs, but they may all be described generally as sacs or canals lined by a cellular investment, like that of the skin upon which they open, and filled with a more or less gelatinous sub- stance. If the organ be a sac, a single pro- tuberant knob, if a canal, a series of them pro- ject into the cavity. Each knob is covered by a coat consisting of tiers of much-elongated cylindrical cells. _ Its substance consists of more or less gelatinous connective tissue, and it receives a nerve (a branch of the fifth or of the vagus), whose fibres divide and become lost in its tissue. In the osseous fishes this nerve usually perforates the peculiarly modified scale of the lateral line, which supports and encloses the canal at these points. In the cartilaginous fishes, the canals have sometimes special fibro- cartilaginous coats; or if sacculi, a number of them may be contained in a common cartila- ginous investment, as in the Chimjera. Leydig insists with great justice on the identity of the structure of these organs with that of the semicircular canals of the ear. The connection of these sacs and canals with the corpuscula tactus and Pacinian bodies dently and contemporaneously in 1853, by Leydig and myself. See Quarterly Journal of Micr. Science, No. V., and Siebold and Kolliker's Zeit- schrift, B. v. Heft 1.