476 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. membranes which possess free surfaces and definite directions of growth and meta- morphosis. The boundary line — passing through in- different tissue—between any two such op- posite areas of growth and metamorphosis, I term the Protomorphic line. The whole ex- ternal (free) area of metamorphosis I call the Ecderon ; the entire internal (deep) area of metamorphosis, the Enderon. It will be observed that these definitions rest wholly upon the jnode of groivth, and leave altogether out of consideration the structure of the resulting tissue. In fact, as I have al- ready said, an extensive study of the integu- mentary organs convinces one at once tlnit mere structure affords no base for homology ; the ecderon, for instance, presenting every variety from the structurelessness of a homo- geneous membrane, as in the Tasniadas, to the complex combination of the so-called enamel, dentine and bone, in the scales of Placoid Fishes. It is, I venture to think, no small evidence in favour of the importance of these consi- derations that they enable us to carry still further the doctrine of the identity of struc- ture of plants and animals sketched by Cas- par Wolff, and developed in our own times bv Schwann. If we make a transverse sec- tion of the growing limb of a vertebrate ani- mal, leaving out of consideration, for the moment, the vessels, nerves, and nuiscles, we observe from the surface inwards, 1st, the ecderonic area of metamorphosis; 2nd, the integumentary protomorphic line ; 3rd, the enderonic area of metamorphosis ; 4th, the periosteal area of metamorphosis ; 3th, the protomorphic line, formed by the indifferent tissue between periosteum and bone ; Gth, the osteal area of metaniorjihosis, within which lies, 7th, the cartilage resulting from the me- tamorphosis of the tissue of the primitive axis of the limb. Now, if we compare this with the growing shoot of a young exogenous plant, we meet with exactly tiie same series from without inwards. There is, 1st, the epidermis, which commonly becomes replaced by a cork or peri- dermal layer, just as the primary epidermis over a nail is thrust aside by the subjacent and subsequently-formed horny matter ; or, as the horny " epidermis" of a Skate is ()ushed aside and replaced by the calcareous placoid spine. Beneath this lies, 2nd, a protomorphic (or cambial) line, from which metamorphosis into periderma goes on outwards, while inwards it passes into, 3rd, the metamorphosed tissue of the mesophicEum. Next to this comes, 4th, the metnmorphic area of the endophloeum or liber; within which is, 3th, the proto- morphic line of the cambium, which becomes metamorphosed on its inner surface into, Gth, the wood ; within which lies, 7th, the pith, the result of the metamorphosis of tlie pri- mitive axis of the shoot. I have endeavoured to render these relations obvious by the tliagram (y?g. 304.), which may be taken for a section from centre to surface of a foetal limb, or of an exogenous branch, a, outer protomorphic line between epidermis or periderma and mesophloeum in the plant ; Fig. 304. between ecderon and enderon in the animal; a', inner protomorphic line between liber and wood of plant, between bone and periosteum of animal ; Z>, b', cork and epidermic layers of plant ; cellular epidermis and scale of animal, fish, e.g.; c, mesophloeum, enderon (derma) ; f/, liber, periosteum ; e, e', wood and pith, bone and cartilage ; x, axis; y, surface. The consideration of vegetable structures will aid us even further in understanding the manner in which the different varieties of in- tegumentary organs, with which we shall meet, are formed. For it is well known that the outer covering of a plant may ultimately be constituted in one of three ways. 1. The original cellular ecderon may persist un- changed. 2. The " epiderm " persisting, a la- minated, but otherwise structureless " cuticula " may be developed upon its outer surface, attaining sometimes a very considerable thick- ness. 3. The original epidermis is cast off, its place being taken by the development of a new Ia3er of different, usually suberous con- stitution, beneath it, which then goes on growing endogenously, and constitutes the peimanent integumentary surface. Now, we find a precise parallel for all these conditions in animals. In the soft integument of most INIollusca and Vertebrata the first condition obtains, the general surface of the integument being constituted by the cellular "epidermis." In the Annulosa, on the other hand, the integument has certainly, in many cases, and I think probably in the great majority, the cha- racter of a vegetable cuticle, consisting as it does of laj'ers developed from the outer sur- face of the cellular ecderon. In this way also I believe that all molluscan shells are formed. Lastly, the fish-scale produced altogether beneath the cellular ecderon or epidermis, but growing endogenously after the manner of a true ecderonic structure, appears to be precisely analogous to the corky periiierma of the plant ; and as the latter, though it is not the original epidermis, takes its place and grows in the same way, so in the fish the scale, which is assuredly not a calcification of the cellular ecderon, yet represents it both in position and in mode of growth. ^ 2. Morj)hologi/of the integiimcnts.— In the