213 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). p 3 tions. In the historj' of their development we have an epitome of that of all the more simple Algas. In the family of Protococci the type may be said to be included to which all tlie green and olive-coloured Algse, with the exce|)tion, on the one hand, of the Des- mideae and their allies, on the other of the FucaceEB, may be referred. Among the Des- mideee, indeed, is placed one genus, that of Pediastrum, in which the zoosporous is the only form of reproduction which has been observed. Pediastrum consists of a disc of cells, which are usually eight in number, and contain a protoplasma, which possesses a generally diffused green colour. The first step in the reproductive process consists in the separation of the protoplasma into agi'een and a colourless portion. The former, after collecting into a central mass, becomes divided into numerous secondary masses, the number of which is always a power of two. From the latter is formed a transparent gelatine-like in- vestment which lines the parent cell. After the completion of these changes the original cell- wall is ruptured, and the whole contents escape in a mass. No sooner has this taken place than the corpuscles into which the green protoplasma has divided, commence an active motion in the interior of the gelatinous cell in which they are included, and in fact display in every respect the form and peculiarities of zoospores. They are not, however, as in every other example with which we are ac- quainted, destined to display their activity beyond the narrow limits within which they originate. In a short time their motions be- come languid, and finally cease, while they arrange themselves in a beautifully regular geometrical order which corresponds exactly to that of the cells that constitute the adult Pediastrum. The next change observed is the disappearance of the gelatinous membrane, and the investment of each of the zoospores with a distinct covering of its own. From this there results a disc-like body, which, in a short time, assumes all the characteristics of the original parent.* 3. Taking these simplest of unicellular plants as our point of departure, we pass to the consideration of the confervoid Algaj, many of which, though they are but little elevated above the Protococci as regards their struc- tural elements, present a general appearance which at first sight recalls that of plants very much higher in the scale of organisation. Thus in Bryopsis and its allies, in which the tubular frond branches in the most compli- cated manner, the whole consists essentially but of a single cell, the cavity of which is continuous throughout. When the formation of zoospores is about to take place, all that is observed in a Bryopsis is the accumulation of the green granular protoplasma towards the * The development of Pediastrum has been de- scribed by Braun (Die Verjiiiigung in der Natur) as ■well as by Caspary (Butunische Zeitung, 1850, S. 780.). The description in the text is after Braun, witli whom Caspary agrees in every important par- ticular. extremities of the tubular branches. In these situations the cavity of the tube becomes completely filled, while at some point in the neighbourhood of each accumulation, the tube membrane becomes sacculated so as to present a nipple-shaped projection. In the meantime the accumulated protoplasma is observed to have given rise, by its division, to niniierous green bodies, the forms of which cannot yet be distinguished, owing to the closeness with which they are packed together. No sooner, however, is this process complete, than a re- markable phenomenon, corresponding to that already described in Protococcus, manifests itself. The crowded zoospores, now com- pletely developed, at once commence their characteristic motions. From this results an appearance of confused agitation, to which the term " swarming " has been applied by the Germans. A minute aperture, or pore, is Fig. 129. a, termination of tubular frond of Bryopsis crowded with zoospores; h, the same, after the escape of its contents. Each of these exhibits the lateral pore; c, fully formed zoospores in active motion. a and b 150 diam, c 200 diani. then found at the extremity of the nipple-like projection, apparently in consequence of the absorption of the cell-membrane at its apex. The zoospores now begin to escape, at first one by one, afterwards more rapidly, until at last a few only are left occupying the cavity of the tube.* 4. In the simplest forms of jointed confer- voids, thefrondconsistsofa seriesofcellssuper- posed one upon the other, each of which is capable of producing zoospores independently of the rest. In the vegetative state, each contains only a green protoplasma. The re- productive process is the same in every respect as in the Bryopsidcae, the opening by which the zoospores make their exit, being situated at the upper part of the cell, imme- diately below the septum, which divides it from its successor. In other cases (as in Mi- crospora), the zoospores escape by a kind of * Thuret, Recherches sur les Zoospores des Al- gues. Ann. des Sc. Nat. xiv. 217.