54:8 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. Longitudinal. Perpendicular. Transverse. Highest 2" 1" 1"' 6"' Lowest 1" 6"' 3"' Mean 1" 4"' 9"' 4i"' Another and more accurate method of esti- mating the bulk of the ovary consists in weighing. The following are the extreme and mean weights of five ovaries taken from healthy adults : viz., greatest weight, 135 grs. ; least, 00 grs.; mean (of five examples), 87 grs. On comparison of these results with Krause's estimate of the weight of the testis, which gives the mean weight of the male organ, also in five instances, as 35-l."4 grs.*, it appears that the ovary, though furnishing the larger portion of the generative element in the act of repro- duction, has an average bulk of less than one quarter of that of the corresponding male gland. Position and Connections.— The ovarj' is so intimately connected with the uterus, in whose ^■hanges of position, both normal and ab- normal, it necessarily takes part, that it can- not be said to have any fixed or definite seat. It is most commonly found lying somewhat deeply in the lateral and posterior part of the cavity of the ti'ue pelvis, concealed from view by the small intestines, and in part covered by the Fallopian tube of the s;mie side. Rela- tively to the uterus, the ovary is placed on either side of that organ, at a distance varying from i'" to 18"', and behind and a little be- low the level of the point of entrance of the Fallopian tubes {fg. 368.). Each ovary is invested by a layer of perito- neum derived from the posterior lamina of the broad ligament, to which the ovary is thus attached by a kind of mesentery. Besides this indirect connection with the uterus, through the intervention of the broad ligament, the ovary has also another and more direct attachment by the aid of its own projier ligament (ligmncntum ovarii), which serves to bind it more securely to the uterus. (Fig. 368.7n.) The ovary is further connected at its outer extremity to the mouth of the Fallopian tube by one of the processes of the pavilion, which serves to keep the organ always in close proximity to its excretory duct (Jig. 368. The distance which intervenes between the ovary and the uterus varies considerably on each side, not only in different individuals, but also in the same subject, where it is very rarely found to be equal; the right ovary, so far as my observations have gone, being farther removed than the left in the proportion of nine out of twelve instances. During pregnancy, the ovary suffers fre- quent changes of position. As the uterus ex- pands, it carries the ovary along with it into * See art. Testis, Vol. IV. p. 976. the abdominal cavity, at the same time the relative situation of these parts is mate- rially altered, the fundus uteri gradually ex- panding and rising above the former level of the ovaries, whilst the latter appear to be bound down more closely to the side of the uterus, until at term their position is usually found to be below the centre of that organ. Component Parts. — The ovary is com- posed of, 1st, protecting parts, or tunics ; '2nd, a parenchyma, or stroma, in which are imbedded ; 3rd, the proper secreting struc- tures, in the form of closed sacs or vesicles, containing the ova; 4th, vessels and nerves. 1. T/ie Protecting Parts 01' Tunics.—These are two in number, and correspond precisely, both in structure and derivation, with the analogous coverings of the testis. The pciitoncal covering {fig. 371. a) consti- tutes the outermost of these coats, and consists of the layer of peritoneum derived f rom the pos- terior lamina of the broad ligament, which serves to connect the ovary with the parts adjacent. Except at its base, the ovary is so closely in- vested by this [leritoneal lamina, that no ef- fort with the scalpel will suffice to detach it from the tunic beneath. This intimate union, however, of the two coats ceases at the base of the ovaiy, where a white, irregular, and somewhat elevated line is observed on either side, extending in a horizontal direction, and rising higher on the anterior than on the pos- terior surface of the gland. In its intimate texture, this covering of the ovary differs in no respect from the peritoneum covering the viscera generally. The tunica a/bvginea, or tunica jyropria, (fig. 37 Lun) constitutes the special or proper cover- ing of the ovary. It serves to give form and soli- dity to the organ, and to protect the ovisacs and ova from injury. This coat has a nearly uniform thickness of and forms a complete investment for the ovary, except at its lower border, where the fibres are either very thinly scattered and interlaced, or are altogether wanting, leaving a longitudinal space, termed the hilum or vascular fissure, by which the vessels and nerves enter the organ. This space measures 3"'—4'" in width, and extends along the entire base of the ovary. The tunica albuginea has been commonly regarded as a more condensed portion of the stroma, or parenchyma, of the ovary; but from this it is readily distinguished, not only by its clear white colour, and dense and almost cartilaginous hardness, but also by its micro- scopic characters. On account of its extreme toughness, this tunic is not very easily sepa- rable into fragments suf&ciently minute for microscopic examination. But when small portions have been so obtained, the margins of the fragments exhibit numerous close-lying and irregularly arranged fibres of developed connective tissue, projecting from a dense, structureless matrix interspersed with gra- nules, which serves to connect the fibres to- gether, and to which apparently is due, in a great measure, the peculiar toughness of this membrane, while its remarkable whiteness is