OVARY — (Functions). 557 rally be found in the ovary one or more fol- licles in conditions similar to those just de- scribed. The ordinary state in which the Graafian follicle is found has been explained at p. 550. Vesicles in the state there de- scribed may be seen at all times in the healthy ovary, sometimes near its surface, and at others buried more deeply; but when they increase in growth beyond this size, and are preparing to rupture, one or more will always be found approaching the periphery of the ovary, or rising above the level of its outer tunics, constituting there a nipple-like pro- minence, so distinct as at once to arrest attention, and to point out the part of the ovary in which the dehiscence will next occur (>v:380.«). Fig. 380. Ovary from a woman aged 22, wJio died on the tenth daij after the commencement of her last menstrual period. {Ad Nat.) A follicle is preparing for spontaneous rupture at a, where a considerable prominence occurs, and where the peritoneal and albugineous coats are ahnost entirely absorbed. In general, only one follicle will be found preparing for rupture ; but sometimes two, or possibly three, may be observed in the same condition in one ovary. The growth has now been so considerable, that instead of measuring only li'"—21'", or even 3"', it has now a di- ameter of 5|—T", the breadth being usually somewhat less than the length, for it rarely happens that the follicle is perfectly spherical. In consequence of this increased growth the follicle projects from the surface, and causes the swelling just described, whilst the accu» inulation of fluid within it produces a softness and sense of fluctuation in this part of the ovary, which is very obvious to the touch. Over the centre of this projection the pe- ritoneum is exceedingly thin, and in some places is wanting, partly from absorption, and partly from laceration, the result of over- stretching and distension. The tunica albuginea also of the ovary may be absorbed, or may have become so exceedingly thin, as to permit the blood- coloured contents of the vesicle partially to appear through it, giving to the spot a peculiar brick-red colour. Around the mar- gin or base of the prominence the fibres of the tunica albuginea are often seen to be separated at short distances, forming concentric lines or interrupted circles; the red contents showing through the interspaces, and producing an appearance of alternate white and red lines {fig. 380. b). Beyond this circumference, the base of the promi- nence exhibits the usual white colour of the ovarian coverings. Numerous red vessels, chiefly veins (Jig. 380. c), ramify towards the projecting spot, and some of these traverse it to its summit, coursing over the promi- nence in serpentine lines, and forming here a rich plexus. A clean section through the centre of the projecting follicle lays open an ovoid cavity. Fig. 381. The same ovary {ad Nat.) as in fg. 380. laid open, displaying, a, the cavity of the enlarged follicle; c, the corre- sponding half of the same; h, a blood-dot. Nu- merous follicles of the ordinary size are seen scat- tered through the ovary. {fig. 381. a), containing usually a deep red clot, b, together with a certain quantity of blood and a bloody fluid. The clot has as yet no adhesion to the walls of the cavity, and is easily wasiied away. If the ovary has been examined not too long after death, the ovum may possibly be found lying imbedded in the granules of the mem- brana granulosa, immediately beneath the most projecting point of the follicle. But more commonly, the examination not being made until after this delicate membrane has melted down, and its granules have become dispersed by post-mortem change, the ovum cannot be discovered. After washing out the contents of the follicle, the inner surface of the ovisac is ex- posed (fig. 381. c). This I have occasionally seen to be of an intense red colour, from the surface being covered by a rich network of ca- pillaries filled with blood. But most com- monly the colour of the ovisac throughout, as far as the outer tissue of the follicle, is at this time a clear, pale, chrome yellow, this coat being now also very soft in texture. It is important to observe that the yellow colour includes the whole thickness of the ovisac, or inner coat of the Graafian follicle, which now mea- sures from J to I"' in thickness, but that it extends no further ; the outer coat, or theca