[126] OVUM. Mem. of the Acad, of Belgium, 1842, tom. xvi. Leuckart and Keber. lated condition of the ovum in the ovary, that it is in fact the remains of the divided pedicle after the ovum is separated from the place of its original formation. Fig. 91*. Ovum and Micropyle in Holothuria tubulosa. (^From Leydig.) a, b. A small portion of the ovary from the inner surface, containing ova in various earlier stages of their development; three of them project ft-ora the inner surface, of which a is the most de- veloped. In this one the pediculated attachment and enclosure of the ovum hy the nucleated ovarian membrane is seen, the yolk granules and the ger- minal vesicle with its macula. c. A more advanced ovum now separated from the ovary. Externally the nucleated remains of the ovicapsule are represented ; inside this the thick albuminous layer marked ■with radiated lines, and lined closely by the vitelline membrane; both these, as well as the ovicapsule, being perforated by the micropyle formed at the place where the pedicle formerly existed. The micropyle aperture has also been ob- served in other Ecliinoderniata, viz. by J. Miiller in Ophiothrix fragilis, in which he states its diameter to be tiW"' ^"'1 ^3' son Max Miiller in Sternaspis thalassemoides.* This aperture has not yet been observed in the ovum of Echinus. In the fecundated ova of this genus, however, Derbes observed spermatozoa to have passed through the thick external albuminous covering, but not within the more delicate vitelline membrane; but in this animal ihe external covering is more like a layer of soft albumen than a dense mem- brane as in Holothuria. The ova of Echinodermata take their origin, like those of other animals, by the formation of the germinal vesicles. These have been * The micropyle was represented in the ovum of Holothuria tubulosa by R. Wagner in his Icones Zootomies?, tab. xxxii., fig. 12., before its nature was known. The first discovery of a micropyle in the animal ovum is therefore due to J. Miiller. The next observations of a similar nature are those of observed by Leuckart in the Holothuria tu- bulosa, beginning to be formed in the ovarian substance, which they cause to bulge or pro- ject when they enlarge, so as to hang into the ovarian cavity. The yolk-granules then come to be deposited round the vesicles, rendering the ova opaque, but during all this time the ovum is attached and enveloped by the original capsule derived from the ovary; the albu- minous layer is then deposited, and the ovum being detached, the micropyle remains, as al- ready stated, as the perforation in the pedicle of attachment.* Polypina. — Although the greater number of the Polypi are commonly multiplied by a process of gemmation, as has already been stated in a former part of this article, yet they are all capable of attaining sexual complete- ness, and are also reproduced by means of fecundated ova. From the varieties, however, presented by the form both of the gemraules and true ova in different genera of Polypes, considerable difficulty has been experienced in determining the exact circumstances in \yhich the ova are produced, and the distinc- tion between the germs from which true ova and those from which gemmae are formed. This is more especially the case among the ciliobrachiate Polypes or Bryozoa, which in their general organisation approach very nearly the tunicate Mollusca, but which in their mode of reproduction resemble closely some of the Polypes. The ova of the common Hydra, already re- ferred to in a previous part of this article, present the character common to the class, of being enveloped by a firm covering or shell membrane, which seems to be formed from modified cells, and which is sometimes beset with rough processes or projecting bristles or barbed spines somewhat like those of the Br}ozoa. In the Tubularidae and Sertulai-idse the ova are formed in ovigerous capsules, which may be regarded as modified individuals or polype-heads of the compound animal formed by gemmation. In some instances these are detached from the parent stem, as in Tubu- laria indivisaf ; in other genera they remain attached, and their ova, or the ciliated em- bryos developed from them, are discharged from the ciivities in which they are formed \; but as the phenomena of the production of these ova have been fully descrihed by Pro- fessor Rymer Jones in the article Polypifera, it is unnecessary to enter into farther details with regard to the process in this place. * In addition to the memoirs previously quoted, descriptions of the ova of Echinodermata will be found in the following: viz., those of Comatula by J. Miiller, in Mem. of the Berlin Academy for 1841; of Asteracanthion, in Wagner's Prodromus, and in the 5th Part of Carus and Otto's Tabula; Anat. Compar.; those of Echinus by Derbfes, loc. cit.; and b}' Krohn in J5eitr. zur Entwick. der Seeigel- larven, Heidelberg, 1849, &c. f Sir John Ualzell, Remarkable Animals of Scotland, &c. J Dumortier and Van Beneden's Researches, in