569 OVARY — (Functions). the tubes before coitus was permitted, has usuiilly amounted to the sum of the ova dis- charged. If one side of the uterus be tied, the ova found in that cornu will not have been impregnated, hut those on the free side will be developed. The number of ruptured follicles in each ovary will agree with the number of ova found in the corresponding tubes ; but no difference will be perceptible between those on the impregnated and those on the unimpregnated side ol' the uterus. The contact, therefore, of the seminal fluid with the ovary has nothing to do with the discharge of the ova, or with the formation of a " corpus luteum." The only question that can here have place is, whether the excitement of the coitus, or the contact of the seminal fluid with the inner surface of the vagina and uterus, has any influence in precipitating the discharge of ova from the ovary when they ai-e ripe for impregnation. This, however, is, in the present state of our knowledge, an un- settled point. By all the earlier observers down to Barry, it was assumed that the coitus was the sole determining cause of the oviporit. By most physiologists since that time the coitus has been regarded as having nothing to do with the discharge of the ova, or only a limited power has been ceded to it, as in the view of Coste just detailed. So far as numerical amount of recorded observation goes, it may be asserted that the spontaneity of the act of emission of ova, inde- pendent of sexual intercourse, has been more fully and satisfactorily proved in Man even than in animals. In the works and essays upon this subject, to which reference is given in the preceding page, a large amount of evi- dence will be found ; but since some proofs of this fact have been already given, and since it is proposed again to return to the subject in considering the question of menstruation in its relation to ovulation, it will not be ne- cessary to pursue the subject further here. (See page GGG.) In tracing the process of ovulation, it will have been observed that the ovarian follicle passes through a series of changes, so gradu- ally progressive and of such a definite cha- racter, that the knowledge of these may be turned to great account in any investigations relating to the ovipont ; for, next to the dis- covery of the oviun itself, whether in the ovary. Fallopian tube, or uterus, the condition of the capsule, from which it is about to be or has been already discharged, will aflbrd the best evidence as to its probable locality and condition, even should the ovum not be found. Doubtless, one of the greatest impediments which has been encountered in investigations of this class arises from the extreme diffi- culty, and often the impossibility, of finding the ovum in many situations on account of its minute size. Hence, in the absence of this demonstrative evidence, which cannot always be obtained, any other, which, though only inferential, may be made available for a like purpose, is of great value. Wanting the ovum, therefore, the state of the ovicapsule may be made, in part at least, to supply the evi- dence which is deficient. Now it has been shown that, whatever aflPects the ovum, to de- termine its development or the converse affects in a like degree the follicle from which it had been discharged, not on account of any appa- rent sympathy between the ovum and the fol- licle which once contained it, but from the whole generative track being more or less brought under the power of one common sti- mulus, felt alike by all the parts that are em- ployed for the nutrition and protection of the ovum. It will be desirable, therefore, now to determine what evidence the condition of the ovarian follicle affords, first, as to the previous escape of an ovum, and secondly as to the probability or certainty of that ovum having been impregnated or otherwise. But since it is desirable to fix the value of certain terms which are commonly employed to designate particular states of the follicle, it will be need- ful, first, to determine, What is a corpus luteum ? This term, as Raciborski has observed, is indicative of the infancy of science. It be- longs to a period when anatomists were in the habit of designating by the word body or corpus any part of the animal economy whose nature or relation with other parts they did not comprehend, adding to this some dis- tinctive title drawn from the general appear- ance of the part. Hence the terms corpus striatum, corpus cal/osum, corpus luteum. It is an unfortunate circumstance that such a term was ever applied to the (Iraafian follicle, and the more so since it is often employed without any definite meaning. The Graafian follicle in its progress to- wards full development, and previous to its rupture, has been ilescribed as becoming yel- low. This fact has been long known. It is stated by Home, Baer, Valentin, Wagner, and Bischoff. The cause of the yellow colour has been fully explained. After impregnation this yellow colour becomes still more conspi- cuous on account of the greater thickness of the ovisac or inner coat of the follicle, which is the seat of the change producing this colour. From the greater distinctness, larger size, longer drn-ation, and other pecu- liarities of the follicle after im|)regnation, an artificial distinction has been made between the follicle in this state, and all other forms of it, in which it exhibits the yellow colour. The former are arbitrarily called " true," and the latter " false " corpora lutea. But there is as little reason for the use of the last term, as there would be for denominating a child a false man; for that whicii is commonly designated the "true" corjjus luteum is the follicle in its largest condition of growth, as it appears after impregnation ; whilst in all other conditions, when it has not been stimu- lated to full growth by impregnation, and whether before or after rupture, it has been called a "false" corpus luteum so long as it possesses the yellow colour. This distinction, therefore, as far as regards the terms em- ployed, is not only unscientific and arbitrary.