PELVIS. 183 N 4 of the great glutei muscles upon softened iscliia. In some instances, however, this length anJ projection of the spines cannot be tinis accounted for. Ohstruetion may occur before the head reaches the tuberosities in these cases. Their relative positions may be altered also by fracture. Pelves in which the cavities are contracted at the lower part by d'ncose, present the chief obstacles at the inferior outlet, and will be considered under that head. A variely of the shape of the pelvic cavity is mentioned by Mur|)hy, as forming a contrast to the funnel-shaped masculine pelvis. It is tiie funnel-shaped reversed by the gradual wi- dening of the tiansverse diameters downward; but, being generally attended by some contrac- tion at the brim, it belongs rather to the chisses of deformities before described, and would seem to I'csemble the first case of Ramsbo- tham's there cited, and to be the beginning of a more complete ovate deformiiy, afterwards to be mentioned, as shown by the tvideuMg ot the inferior opening. Dhtorlions ajfeciing Ihe oui/ct only or prhi- crpaJlij. — In these cases the greatest obstruc- tion occurs at the inferior outlet, which, being comparatively inuepcntlent of the brim and cavity, may be contractetl without any im- portant alteration in their shape or size. Conlra.rtion of the iramverse diameter is the most frequently seen. The ischial tube- rosities are apfiroximated, and the space of the sub-pubic arch lessened ; and thus, indi- rectly, the antero-posterior diameter is ren- dered less effectual. Cases are frequently presented to the obstetrician, and many are on record, in which obstruction has occiu red at the sciatic tuberosities, and the use of the forceps been rendered necessary. The normal distance between the centres ofthese processes is from 4 inches to 4i. In my measurements I have met with as small a distance as 3f inches in female pelves, in which the trans- verse diameters were generally rather small. The bi-parietal diameter of the foetal head is said to be 3i inches, and is |>laced obli(]ucly between these tuberosities, as tlie occijuit emerges under the siib-pu!)ic arch. The soft parts, besiiles, will occiipy at least thi ee- fourths of an inch. Thus with a large and well-ossified head and contracted inter- tuberal distance, tlie impediment is great. The diminished sp;;n of the sub-pubic ai ch, also, pushes back the head upon the coccyx, and renders a greater enlai'gement than usual of the autero-posterior dianietcr necessary ; while at the sanie time the great sacro-sciatic ligaments are also appi'oximatetl and rendered extremely tense, and thus the oblique di- aiueter between them and the ischio-pubic rami is also considerably diminished. The upecial cav^e of this deformity, when not dependent upon the infantile, masculine, or funnel-hhaped pelvis bel'ore described, is to be attributed to the action of the great glutei nuiscles, in standing and walking, pressing upon the ischia partially softened by disease. Coidracliun of the rndcro-posLerior diameter. This results in most cases from milylosis of the sacro-coccifgeal jo'wt. The coccyx is rendered immoveable and incapable of yielding to the head of the foetus, so as to bring about the usual increase in the antero-posterior diameter. In addition, it is usually ankylosed in an almost horizontal direction, with its apex directed forwards and its surfaces upwards and downwards, a position which is brought about by the resiliency of the sacro-sciatic liga- ments and ischio-coceygeus muscles, and by a continued sitting ]josture ; — and thus the an- tero-posterioi- diameter is still more diminished. 'J"he foetal head is arrested by, and rests on, the coccyx, and the obstruction is only over- come by the giving way of the bone at or near the ankylosed part. The delivery gener- ally reciuires instrumental aid. E.vamplcsi of this condition are nume- rous. In the practice of Dr. Michaelis of Kiel, a fracture of the parietal bone of the infant was occasioned by an immobility of the coccyx resulting from ankylosis.* Dr. Merriman, in a Letter to Dr. Lee; published in the Med. Gazette (1843, p. 224.), mentions a casein which the point of the coccyx snapped off in three successive labours, and he had observed one or two other cases in which this occurred, and no ill consequences followed. In one, the coccyx was turned upwards, and there was a considerable bulk of ankylosis, pro- duced by a fall. Dr. F. Tlamsbotham also mentions three instances in which fracture at or near an ankylosis of the coccyx took place. Dr. Lee relates also a case which occun-ed in the practice of a country surgeon, in which the lower end of the sacrum curved much forward and was ankylosed to the upper coccygeal bones, the last only being moveable. In certain cases the contraction of this diameter is brought about by the ailing forward of the lowei- end of the sacrinn, with an almost horizontal direction of the lower ])art of the sacral cm ve. 1 have met with two or three pelves in which this condition is present, coexistent with, and evidently caused by, a curvature of the lower dorsal region of the spin.d column hnclavards. By sucli a curvature, the line of gravity of the/r»/'.''is displaceil back- wards, passing through the sacrum consider- ably behind its base, and making traction upon it in that direction. The promontory of the sacriun is by this means dragged backwards and iipirards, and the conjugate diameter of the brim increased, so as to be C(jual to, or greater than, the transverse. The shape of the brim is thus rendered oblong or oval in the 0[)posite direction to, and contrasting with, the ovate deformity presently to be described. The axis of the superior plane is rendered more horizontal than normal, by the increase of the ptlvi-vertebral angle, the cotylo- sacial arch more open in its curve, and the acetabulain soiue measure approximated. The cavity of the pelvis is narrowed antero-pos- teriorly by the gradual ailvance downwards of the posterior wall, and the vertical eui vature * Neue Zeitschrift fiir Geburtskimde, t. iv. 1836.