RESPIRATION. 289 are placed, like the leaves of a book, in close apposition with each other, the unattached siiles floating freely in the water, the current of which, as it traverses the branchial pas- sages, bearing directly on the flat surfaces oi the leaflets, separates them effectually from each other. Viewed edgewise, as represented in the following sketch, the arrangement of these respiratory membranous extensions may be more fully understood. On the branchial processes of the eel these leaflets amoiint to 700 in number , on those of the turbot, to 900 ; on those of the cod, to 1000; on those of the salmon, to 1400, Especial attention is invited to Jig. 2.37. It shows that only the mucous membrane (J. e. the layer of epithelium and basement membrane) is doubled upon itself, so as to assume the form of folds, the stratum of c(qnlku-ij blood being single. From this beautiful arrange- ment it results that the blood, in its passage through the labyrinth of this plexus, must present two sides of an extremely divided stream to the agency of the circumfluent medium. If the network of vessels were duplicated upon a supporting basis, only one side of the sheet of blood could re- ceive the influence of the surrounding me- dium. Regarded mechanically, such a plan would present little of the delicacy and per- fection which really distinguishes this most elaborate specimen of organised structure. This .si«g/(?-layer disposition of the respiratory vessels, doubling thus the surface of exposure, obtains as the univei'sally prevailing type of structure in the breathing organs of aquatic animals. It is an arrangement which faci- litates in a very remarkable manner the inter- change of gases between the blood and the water. The capillary vessels of the branchite of fishes, in internal diameter, exceed very little the long axis of the blood-corpuscle. The internal calibre of these channels varies from Tfto to of an inch ; the blood-cor- puscle ill the cod measure in the long dia- meter Yj^Y inch, and the channels forming the capillary network present in all parts precisely the same calibre. Cartilage, or Supporting Systevi of the Branchice. — The skeletons of fishes are struc- turally distinguishable into three classes ; the osseous, fibro-cartilaginous, and true car- tilaginous. In the conventional language of comparative anatomists the last is described as the least completely organised, and the first the most. This distinction, however, which obtains in the adopted nomenclature of science, has no counterpart in that portion of the skeleton which sustains the foliage of the branchiae. In the pctromyzon fiivialis the wicker-work of cartilage which Miiller has called the cartilaijinons basket of the branchiae, and which Prof. Owen regards as homologous with the epibranchial system of osseous fishes, detaches processes of almost membranous tenuity stretching inwards to supply a mechanical support to the slentler res[)iratory foliage. In the myxinoid families, cartilage and calcigerous structures arc sub- stituted, in various parts of the body, by elastic fibres. In the osseous fishes the Fig. 237. Skeletal framework of tlie laineJliM of the gills in Fishes (Oriffihal.) a, section of the branchial arch, which, in osseous fishes, consists of well-marked bone, and in the car- tilaginous, of soft cartilage ; b, marks tiie junction between the sj'stem of the arch and that of the lamella;, proving that the latter is quite distinct from the former; e, illustrates that portion of the framework which occupies the obtuse border of the lamella, exhibiting its external thick marginal fluted channel destined to convey the branchial artery from the base to the apex of the Iamell» d, denotes that part of the skeletal fabric which coincides in situation with the acute margin of the lamella; e, marks the situation of the branchial vein as it emerges from the innermost aspect of the axis supporting the lateral processes /, which, by their eUisticity, keep open or stretched the true mem- branous respiratory leaflets. branchial skeleton presents itself under the most readily distinguishable characters. From this class, accordingly, the following illustrative details will be drawn. The respiratory segment of the skeleton com- prises the hyoid system and its dependen- cies, in wdiich are inchuled the branchio- stegalrays and the branchial arches, on which, finally, is elaborated an exquisite arrange- ment of solid ])oints upon which important mechanical functions devolve, in the move- ments of the apparatus of respiration.* The * As it is the design of this paper to refer no more to the descriptive departments of comparative anatomy than is found indispensable to elucidate questions of ultimate structure, I must refer the reader, for the solution of the homological and tele- ological details ou this subject, to the work of Prof.