STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 402 it assumes the length, form, and convolutions, proper to the perfect intestinal tube. As it already occupies the whole length of the abdominal cavity, any elongation of the canal will of course give it a curved shape. And since, at this period of foetal life, the abdomen opens by a wide vertical fissure in the situation of the future umbilicus, the first bend of the intestine renders it convex forwards, and then protrudes it through this aperture. Here it adjoins the base of the umbilical duct; which opens into the point or angle of this convexity, so that the bowel appears like a bifurcation of the duct itself. The two forks of this bifurcation are soon produced into a spiral coil of intestine; which still lies outside the abdominal cavity, and only recedes into it at about the middle of the third month of uterine life. At this stage of its evolution, the intestinal canal may be conveniently described as con- sisting of three portions: an anterior, which extends from the beginning of the tube to the umbilical coil; a middle, which is formed by this coil itself; and a posterior, which reaches from the latter segment to the end of the canal. The anterior of these three portions may again be subdivided into three sin)ilar seg* ments. The first, which gradually elongates from the blind end that was formerly the fovea cardiaca, is developed dui'ing the evolu- tion of the thorax, so as to form the oeso- phagus. And it finally opens into the cavity of the mouth; which is itself developed from an involution of the skin, and from the united ends of the anterior visceral arch. The second or middle segment dilates, turns on its left side, and then bends transversely to the axis of the body, to form the stomach. The pyloric valve is only visible some time after this change has occurred. And the third or lowest portion of this anterior segment is con- verted into the duodenum. The middle, umbilical, or extra-abdominal, part of the canal, is developed into the Jeju- num and ileum, the coecum, the vermiform appendix, and part of the colon. In this process, the change of form undergone by the small intestine is limited to a mere increase in its length and in the degree of its con- volution : — an alteration which is accom- panied by a further elongation of its mesen- tery. The upper boundary of the large intestine is first seen as a constriction and change of calibre, which occupy a point some distance below the insertion of the umbilical duct. Such a situation of the future coecum conclusively shows, that the vermiform appendix is not that permanent intestinal end of the duct, which Oken supposed it to be. This commencement of the large intestine next enlarges into a projecting pouch of uniform width. But the lower end of this pouch soon ceases to enlarge, and remains as the vermiform appen- dix. While its upper part, increasing in size, becomes the coecum. The valve appears at about the tenth week. But the proper shape and size of the coecum are only acquired towards the end of foetal life. The colon is developed from the lower part of the second, and the upper part of the third portion of the rudimentary intes- tine. The ascending colon is at first a simple straight tube, which, conmiencing in the pouch just alluded to, runs forwards along the spinal column, lying to the left of the numerous coils of the small intestine. The succeeding backward bend of this tube has at first a metlian position, which renders it par- allel with (and close to) the ascending colon. But this part of the canal soon elongates ; and, passing outwards towards the left side, forms the transverse and descending portions, as well as the sigmoid flexure, of the colon. Finally, the blind end which corresponds to the rec* tum is continually moved downwards by a gradual lengthening of the tube; so that it meets, and at last opens into, a cavity, which is sent inwards from the skin to form the future anus. The sacculation of the large intestine only occurs in the latter half of uterine life. The valvulse conniventes ap|)ear still later, and are but rudimentary at birth. The development of the various microscopic constituents of the canal may be almost as briefly summed up. The cell-growth (which is derived from the mucous lamina), and the fibrous tunic (which is developed from the vascular lamina), ai e at first very loosely united to each other. Hence they may be easily separated into distinct and comparatively plane strata ; of which the fibrous has about double or treble the thickness of the epithelial one. The cells of the latter affect an elongated or columnar form at a very early date of fcetal life (about the sixth week). The various offshoots of tubes and other glands which are contained in the wall of the canal, are developed from a mass of cell- growth, which sprouts from the external surface of the mucous layer, and gradually acquires the definite form and cavitary ar- rangement specific to these minute structures. The larger accessory glands of the liver and pancreas are produced from a similar mass which lies external to the bowel: and they ultimately prolong their ducts so as to open into the cavity of the intestine. The fibrous layer, which is at first smooth and homogeneous, soon becomes roughened into little projections, which ultimately take the shape of conical processes. These, as they enlarge, pass upwards into the mucous or epithelial hi} er. Some of these projections not only separate the various tubes and glands from each other, but, by a farther advance and enlargement, carry before them the general surface of the cell-growth. They thus form the future villi. While others — and by far the majority — affect a lateral, instead of a vertical, growth; uniting with their neighbours by cross ridges, which soon form a network, that extends between the tubes at all parts of their height, so as to constitute a matrix for these and the other structures derived from the mucous lamina.