OVUM appearance: when, however, the vesicle has been extracted from the yolk, I have gene- rally found this appearance to be removed and perfect sphericity restored. It would appear also, from Vogt's observations in Alytes, that this appearance is not constant: it may depend on the viscidity of the contents, and the ex- treme softness and thinness of the enclosing membrane of the vesicle. It is only in the earliest stages of ovarian for- mation that any appearance of distinct macule, such as they have been described in other animals, is to be perceived; for from a very early period these spots or nuclei are already very numerous. As the ova approach matu- rity the contents of the germinal vesicle un- dergo very considerable and rapid changes, by which a number of corpuscles, some loose, others aggregated, and subsequently delicate cells, are formed, and completely fill the whole cavity of the vesicle. The germinal vesicle is situated, in the ripe ovarian ovum, nearer the upper than the lower part of the yolk. When the egg has been hardened by the re-agents already re- ferred to, there can be perceived in the middle of the u|)|)er surface, or exactly in the upper or germinal pole of the yolk, a minute depression, which was first noticed by Prevost and Du- mas*, and which they, erroneously, according to most of the observers who have followed them, conceived to be connected with an aper- ture or pore in the external membranes of the ovum. Von Baer showed that this depres- sion leads into a canal which extends from the u()per pole of the yolk, through the yolk- substance, to the surface of the germinal vesicle. The existence of this canal has been fully established, and its situation well repre- sented by Newport. The interval between the upper surface of the yolk and the germinal vesicle appears to become less as the ovum approaches maturity. The vitelline membrane of the mature ovarian ovum in the frog is thin and homoge- neous. In the ova which have escajied from the ovary into the abdominal cavity it is still so thin, that they are very liable to be broken by the slightest force ap[)!ied unequally on their surface; but in their descent through the oviduct considerable consistence is given by the addition of the layers of albumen to the vitelline membrane. Besides the simple vitel- line membrane, there appears to be a second envelope formed within the albuminous de- posit. Remakf, indeed, desLribes the vitelline membrane itself as consisting of two layers, besides the superadded membrane within the albumen. Formation of the Ovum, and Changes in its Progress.— The ovary of the Batrachia is peculiarly well adapted for making observa- tions on the development of the ova, as the stroma is in small quantity and transparent, and as it contains at most seasons acousiderable * 2""^ Mem. sur la Generation, &c., in Annal. des Scien. Nat. 1824, torn. ii. p. 104. t Loc. cit. p. 127. number of ova in different stages of their for- mation and progress. If examined in the autumn or in spring before pairing, there are generally found three sets of ova ; one uniformly large and dark-coloured, obviously belonging to those which are about to be brought forth in the ensuing breeding season ; another set, also of uniform size, but less than the first, and in which only a partial deposit of colouring matter has taken place, probably constitute the ova for the next season after the first; and, third, a number of ova of inferior magnitude to either of the other sets, and of most various sizes, down to the most minute, which we may suppose to comprise those de- stined for succeeding breeding seasons. It seems probable that three seasons are neces- sary for the full development of the ova in the common frog and toad. The earliest ova are seen within the ovi- capsules or ovisacs, in the delicate ovarian stroma ; the more advanced are enclosed in their pediculated capsules or calyces. The germinal vesicle is the part of the ovum first distinctly recognisable; but so soon as it, or any part of the ovum can be distinguished, the delicate membrane of the ovisac or ova- rian follicle is also seen surrounding it. Leuckart * was never able to perceive a fol- licle without there being already also an ovum within it. It would appear, therefore, either that the follicle and germinal vesicle arise together, or that observations have not yet determined which of them has the priority. It has been stated by some, that in the very earliest periods a single macula or nucleus may be observed in the germinal vesicle f ; but it is rare to find the germinal vesicle in this state, and I have generally observed the macula, even in the earliest stages, to be multiple, or to con- sist of several maculae. Still it is undoubted that, in the earliest period, there are fewer maculae than at more advanced periods, and that their number gradually increases. About the time of maturation of the ovum the con- tents of the germinal vesicle undergo further changes, to which reference will hereafter be made. From a very early period, though perhaps not from the first, the germinal vesicle is sur- rounded by a thick viscid substance, which closely adheres to its surface. This substance is at first remarkably clear, especially at its outer part, where it has a hyaline appearance : a little later it becomes gradually more and more opaque, as if by the deposit in or mix- ture with its clearer substance of fine mole- cules or granules. This appears to be the primitive yolk-substance ; which in these ani- mals therefore, as in most others, is ascertained to consist of a clear basis or matrix, in which the granular part is suspended. The out- * Loc. cit. t Mr. Newport describes the germinal vesicle of the frog's ovum as nucleated, even wlien half-grown. He also speaks of the corpuscles of tlie yolk sub- stance as "nucleated cells" (1st Series, p. 176.); but this is quite inconsistent with the statements of most otlicr observers.