PELVIS. 188 the pubic symphysis was 2 J- inches. The distance between 'the superior pubic rami at Fig. 118. Pelvis 0 Isahtl Redman. the point of angular bend, was f of an inch. From the 4th limibar vertebra at its upper anterior border, to the left acetabulum, was only I of an inch ; on the right sitle f. The greatest transverse diameter was 5f inches. At the outlet, the distance between the sciatic tuberosities was 3f inciies ; between the spines 2|. The greatest contraction of sub- pubic arch was at the sciatic rami, which were only -jL. of an inch distant from each other; above this, the arch bellied out. The sacrum was bent double, so tliat the tip of tlie coccyx was only I^l inch from the sacral base. The pelvic bones were quite soft, and lighter than natural. The measurements of the pelvis of Jane Foster, who was saved by the Cffisarian sec- tion by Mr. Barlow, are given as follows :— From the fibrocartilage between the 4th and 5th lumbar vertebrae (which is sunk down so as to occupy the normal position of the sacral promontory), to the outside of the projecting pubic symphysis, is 3 inches. From the same point, to the centre of the superior ramus of right pubes, ^ of an inch, of clear available space. The same measure- ment on the left side, If inch. From the same point, to the right acetabtdum f of an inch ; to the left acetabulum 1^ inch. Tiie greatest available space is, from the left sitle of the sacral promontory to the left ilium, and amounts to \\ inch. The greatest lateral space, following the curve, is 5f inches. At the outlet, the distance between the sciatic tuberosities is li inch. The coccyx and lower part of the saci'um are bent upwards, so as to bring the tip of the coccyx to within ^ \ inch of the sacial [)ro- montory, and to 2i inches from the point of contact of the ascending ischial rami, which are so close as to obliterate entirely the sub- pubic arch. The dimensions of the rostrated pelvis of Elizabeth Thomson, who underwent the Ca^sarian section at the hands of Mr. Wood of Manchester, and died in consequence, are given by Dr. Murphy, as follows: — From the most projecting point of the sacral promontory to the pubic symj^hysis, 2 inches. From the same point to the left pectineal eminence, f of an inch ; to the right pectineal eminence, f of an inch. The transverse diameter of the brim, 2\ in- ches ; both the oblique, 3^ inches. Cavity : —antero-posterior diameter, 3^ i\iches ; trans- verse diameter, 2f inches. Outlet:—antero- posterior diameter, 3i inches ; transverse diameter, 2^ inches. The sub-pubic arch mea- sured 10° only. In a specimen of rostrated pelvis given by Dr. Ramsbotham, the antero-posterior diame- ter of the Ijrim is diminished by the projection of the sacral promontory, and the bend in the pubis, to \^ inch. The same measurement on the left side of the promontory, 2^ inches ; on the right side, 2i inches. The longest transverse diameter is 4 J inches. At the outlet, the nearest points of the ischial tuberosities are as close as lij inch ; but from the tip of the coccyx to the lower border of the pubic symphysis measures 4^ inches. In the opinion of this author, a foetus might be extracted fro!n this pelvis by craniotomy. In Dr. Cooper's case of C'jEsarian section, the pelvis was affected with the angular de- formity to the extent of reducing'the conjugate diameter of the brim to \ \ inch.; and the trans- verse diameter of the outlet to \ an inch only.* In Dr. KcUie's unsuccessful case of Caesarian operation, the pelvis was of the rosfrated kmd; the superior pubic rami being as if fractured in the centre, and held only by ligament. The lumbar curve was fo the right side, and the 4th vertebra was sunk below the plane of the pelvic brim. The right lumbo-cotyloid diameter was only -^^ of an inch ; the left, lj%. Between the lumbar vertebra , and the bend of the pubic rami, was only of an inch. At the outlet, the intersciatic distance was only 2^'^ ; antero-posterior, S^^j inches. The sacrum was doubled, so that the tip of the coccyx was but 1 inch from the sacral base. The pelvic bones were soft; but the joints and cartilages healthy. In this case, the patient was only twenty-seven years old, and had borne four children : the last, three years before her death. In Dr. Radford's two imsuccessful cases of hysterotomy, the deformities were both from nialacosteon, and the form rostrated. In one, the circle of space at the brim was only about f of an inch in diameter; the opening Y- shaped. The distance between the sciatic tu- berosities was 11 inch, and the sub-pubic arch reduced to a small slit. The subject had |)revi- ousl)' undergone nine natiu'al deliveries, and one by craniotomy. In the other case, theconjugate diameter was reduced to a of an inch; and the superior rami were also bent so as to be parallel anteriorly. The patient had borne seven chiklren with great ease previously ; the last case four years before the operation.f Dr. Hamilton's case was also rostrated, the * Med. Observ. and Inq. vol. v. p. 218. f Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Jourinil, vol. Iv.