304 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. The insectivorous Marsupials have a longer intestinal canal, which is separated into large and small intestine, and exhibits a csecurn of moderate size. Those that live upon fruits have bovi'els which are still longer, and a large caecum of twice the length of the whole body. Finally, the true vegetivorous genera have a caecum which is thrice as long as the body. In those which are possessed of a saccu- lated stomach, the ceecum is, however, much shorter. One genus, the Wombat, has a vermiform appendix. Tlie length of the whole intestine varies from two to ten times the length of the animal. In the Monotrcmata the alimentary canal is chiefly remarkable from its terminating in a cloaca common to it and the urinary and generative organs. A small caecum separates the long and narrow bowel into two parts. The diameter of the small intestine gradually diminishes to the caecum, while that of the large intestine gradually increases to the rec- tum. The Cetacca offer two chief varieties of stomach, which are connected with differences in their food, though scarcely explained by them. Those which live on vegetable food exhibit a simpler form of organ. Thus, in the Dugong, the stomach is long and transverse; and is divided by a deep constriction into a globular cardiac, and a conical pyloric, portion. Two large casca open into it near this con- striction ; and a special glandular apparatus occupies the upper part of the cardiac pouch. In the carnivorous Cetaceans, the stomach is subdivided into three, five, seven, or more cavi- ties. In some genera, however, there are only four. Of these the first has an epidermoid lining, while the three last have a soft mucous membrane. The biliary duct often opens into a dilated cavity, the import of which is unknov/n. The intestine is longer in the herbivorous di- vision. Here there is also a caecum ; which is sometimes large and glamlular, but some- times small, short, and even bifid. In the zoophagous Cetaceans there is rarely either cajcum or valve:—so that the intestine, which decreases slightly in size from the pylorus to the anus, offers no separation into large and small. But in the genus Ba/ana there is a small caecum, like that of the Cat. The Quadrumana possess a stomach the form of which ai)proaches that of the human organ. In some cases, however, it is more elongated ; while in others it assumes a glo- bular shape, with a cardia and pylorus in close proximity. The latter deviation is generally found in conjunction with carnivorous or insectivorous habits. It is usually separated into two portions, a cariliac and a pyloric ; atid sometimes the latter, which is more globul ir than usual, is distinguished by an internal fold from a short tubular part, which termi- nates in the p}'loric valve and the duodenum. Rudimentary pyloric casca have been remarked by Cuvier * in one instance. The Sem- no'inthccus presents a form of stomach which * Lemons d'Anat. Comp. vol. iv. p. 28. recalls that of the Kangaroo. For the cardiac cavity, smooth and almost bifid at its com- mencement, is soon sacculated by a superior and inferior band of longitudinal fibres which come from the oesophagus ; and from thence the sto- mach continues to the right side, as a saccu- lated tube, which is bent upon itself, and closely resembles a large intestine. But before reach- ing the pylorus, these sacculi diminish and dis- appear. The length of the intestinal canal in the different genera of this order varies to an extent which is curiously contrasted with the general similarity of their food. Its proportion to the length of the body is in some as 8 to 1; in others as 3 to 1 only. The division into two portions, antl the general arrangement of both small and large intestine, is very similar to that seen in man. In all the genera a caecum exists, but with great variety as to length :—an increased development of this portion of intes- tine, as well as of the cardiac extremity of the stomach, being sometimes connected with a diminution in the length of the whole canal. The Apes and Gibbons possess a vermiform appendix ; but in the latter it is of very small size. The mucous membrane has villi, but no valvulee conniventes. General remarks.—Although physiology at present scarcely pretends to interpret "this various and complex develojunent of the ali- mentary canal, still some attempt at its expla- nation is indispensable. For without any clue to their import, details like the preceding could hardly be recollected, far less made use of; and would scarcely deserve to be stored up in the archives of science, much more brought forward in an essay like this. Nor, in attempting their ex])lanation, can one be rightly charged with breaking those rules which our great countryman has laid down tor the pursuit of natural knowledge. All that is necessarv to such a superstructure of theory is, that, how- ever slight and temporary, it should at least be founded on the known facts; that it should in- dicate something like the degree of probability assignable to its several parts; and,finally, that it should be at once yielded up, as soon as a stricter logic, or larger and more numerous facts, offer us a better explanation. The absence of all digestive cavitij is the first peculiarity which demands our notice. The few genera in whom this rare condition has been found all offer the greatest simplicity of structure; and fiuther agree in the fact that they are parasitic :—i. e. that they derive their nutriment from the juices of another animal, to whose body they are attached. Hence we need not scruple to assign this apparent defi- ciency of the digestive organ, partly to the pre- vious elaboration of a highly nutritious animal food, partly to the sini|)licity of the various tissues which are destined to be nomished by it. But can we therefore say, that the function of digObtion is absent, or — what would be nearly equivalent to such an assertion — that it is reduced to a mere physical absorption ? Probably not. For, as regards the general de- velopment of the animal series, comparative