SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 436 Ganglia. — The ganglia occurring on the sympathetic are, as has been ah'eady stated, very numerous, constituting the most distin- guishing character of this nerve. There are also ganglia present on the posterior roots of all the spinal nerves, as well as on several of the cerebral nerves; and by many these are classified along with those of the sympathetic, constituting what has been termed the gan- glionic system of nerves. The ganglia present the appearance of nodules or swellings oc- curring on a nerve during its course. When examined with the naked eye, they appear to consist of opaque and more or less pellucid portions, present a greyish colour, and are possessed of considerable consistence. Some- times they occur in the course of a single nerve, as is the case with the ganglia in the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The sympathetic ganglia commonly present the appearance of masses of various sizes connected with several nerve-branches which appear to pass oft" from tiiem in different dii'ections. The ganglia situated in different parts of the body are all more or less connected by means of bundles of nerve-fibres passing between them. As already noticed, many of them are arranged alongside the spinal column ; others are si- tuated on the different plexuses which are formed by the branches passing off" from these, while numerous others of smaller size occur in the substance of the organs supplied by the sympathetic. All of them consist essentially of a number of bodies presenting peculiar characters and termed ganglionic corpuscles, and of nerve-fibres in more or less intimate connection with these. Ganglionic Corpuscles, ganglion-vesicles (Germ. Ganglienlcugeln). — These bodies ap- pear to have been first noticed by Ehrenberg*, and were afterwards more fully described by Valentin.f They vary in size from the ^„'„„th to the Trlo'h of an inch. Those in the ganglia of the cerebro-spinal nerves are generally con- siderably larger and not so delicate as those in the ganglion of the sympathetic. They commonly present a round or oval form; sometimes they are more or less pear-shaped. Their contents consist of a delicate clear fluid holding in suspension numerous finely granular particles, which give the cells a more or less grayish aspect. This substance is possessed of considerable viscidity, as shovm by the fact that when removed from the corpuscle it does not separate into distinct particles, but remains coherent in a single mass which flattens out somewhat. Each of the ganglionic corpuscles contains a distinct rounded nucleus which in appearance resembles the corpuscle itself, only its contents are clearer. These measure from the ^oWh to the TTrWth of an inch in diameter, and are commonly situated rather towards one side of the cell. Within the nucleus there is commonly a third body, which presents a clear rounded appearance like the * Poggendorf's Annalen, band xxviii. p. 458., as quoted in Brun's Anatomie. t Nova Acta, band xviii. p. 127., as quoted in Bmn's Anatomie. nucleus, and may be regarded as the nucleolus. Sometimes there are two such bodies present. In the ganglionic corpuscles there is also fre- quently contained a mass of pigmentary matter consisting of particles which are much coarser and darker than the rest of the con- tents. This mass is sometimes situated at a little distance from the nucleus, at other times it partly covers it, and occasionally it conceals it entirely from view. Its quantity varies much in diflJerent cells : it appears, as KoUiker observes, to be more abundant in the ganglion- corpuscles of old people than in those of the young. Sometimes he has observed it present in such quantity as to fill the entire cell. In the Gasserian ganglion of a man aged about sixty I observed several bodies present, which in size and shape corresponded with the gan- glionic vesicles: they appeared, however, to be less delicate, and presented a dark-brown colour, and in all probability were ganglionic corpuscles filled with dark pigmentary matter such as KoUiker notices. Connected with many of the ganglionic corpuscles are one or two delicate processes of different lengths, and presenting the same delicate finely-gra- nular appearance as the vesicle itself of which they appear to be a prolongation. In the corpuscles occurring in the ganglia these do not present the same branching character as they have been described to do in the brain and spinal cord by Purkinje, Remak, Hannover, and by Todd and Bowman, who in their de- scription of these bodies, which by them were termed "caudate nerve-vesicles," hinted at the probability of the processes being continuous with nerve-tubes. The actual continuity of the process of the ganglion-vesicle with the nerve- tube was, however, first observed by Kollikei * in the ganglia of the amphibia. He found that on tracing the process onwards from the cell it became continuous with a nerve-tube pre- senting distinct dark margins. The observa- tion of KoUiker in regard to the connection of the nerve-tube with the ganglion-corpuscle has since been confirmed by many other ob- servers, and especially by Wagner and others in the ganglia of the fish. Some of the gan- glionic corpuscles appear to be destitute of any such process ; othei's have a single process passing off from them, while others present two such processes, passing off'at either extremity (A.G.Jig.286.}. Occasionally the two processes pass off" from a round cell, not at either extre- mity, but at a short distance from each other on one side of the body (_fig. 291.). The ganglionic corpuscles which are not connected with any process, or, as may be safely said, with any nerve-tube, have been termed by Stannius apolar cells ; those from which one tube pro- ceeds are termed wiipoh/r, while the cells with which two such are connected are called by him bipolar ganglionic corpuscles or cells. The nerve-tube which is connected with the uni- polar cell is always found to run periphcricall)-, i. e. from the centre. In regard to the bipolar * Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 508., zweiter band.