PANCREAS. 113 biliary ducts; the liver gorged wilh bile; fungoid disease attacking tlie head of the pancreas; and malignant ulceration on the surface of the duodenum. The question to be solved is, upon which of the conditions indicated or cansed by these morbid changes, if upon either, the peculiarity of the alvine evacu- ations dependedThat the obsti uction of the biliary ducts, or even the total absence of all indication of biliary secretion, is not usually attended by the same peculiarity in the eva- cuations, many cases which have been cau- tiously detailed by various authoj's, auil many which we have all obscrveii, bear sufficient testimony ; and 1 was therefore intluced to ascribe it, either to the existence of malig- nant disease, or to tiiat disease lieing situated in the [lancreas. Ti)at the simple fact of lualignant disease existing is not necessarily productive of such appearances in the fascu- ient matter, I infer from cases both of that form of disease and of melanosis in the liver to a very great extent being, within the scope of niy experience, luiaccompanied by any such discharge, though the evacuations were sub- mitted to the most rigid observation. That simple ulceration in the bowels to any known extent, is not attended by any such symptom I am led to believe from knowing tiiat neither in the most extensive ulceration of the large intestines in cases of dysentery, nor in the worst cases of ulceration of the small intes- tines in fever, in diarrhoea, or in phthisis, does anything of the kind occur. Whether, how- ever, malignant ulceration of tiie mucous raembi'ane is accompanied by this symptom I cannot assert, though I have often seen most extensive ulcers of the pylorus and of the rectum, where, although the evacuations were attentively observed, such fatty matter was not detected. As, however, a malignant ulceration of membrane did exist in each of the foregoing cases, it is not impossible that this was the cause of this symptom ; iuit we must bear in mind that such ulcerations are h}] no means uncommon, and tiiat the plieno- inenon of which I am speaking is unconmion ; and that in each of the cases it was accom- panied by another morbid appeai'ance, which is not common ; namely, the malignant disease of the pancreas. The fact of the intestinal ulceration having in each case occupied the duodenum does, however, somewhat diminish the weight of this observation, for that cer- tainly is not so frequent an occurrence." By this process of elimination, and by the in- sfance of other cases more or less analogous. Dr. Bright conceives that we may bring the circumstances of the diseased stiuctui'e in connection wilh this sjniptom within a nar- row limit — " disease, jvobahlij vialignaiit, of that part of the pancreas which is near the duinldntin; and nlceraiion of the duodenum ihclfr To this conclusion, however, so care- fu liy arrived at, subsequent observation has shown that exception must be taken : cases tliat liave occurred since the publication of Dr. Bngiit's p;iper, and even quite ix'cently, have proved that neither the malignant cha- .Supp. racter of the disease nor ulceration of the duodenum is necessary to the production of the fatty stools. In a case in which fatty stools occurred, eomnuuiicated to the Society of jMedicine of Boston *, in one reported by Dr. Alfred Clarke, of Twickeidiani, in the Lancet for August 16. 1851, and in one re- ferred to by Dr. Kirkes in his Handbook of Physiology-)-, the pancreatic dise:ise ap[)cars to have been clearly non-malignant, and to have consisted in the conversion of the organ into a serous C3st in consequence of oi)struc- tion of its duct; and the duodenum seems to have been quite healthy. In two, however, of these cases, there w as jaundice, and in the third deficient bile in the evacuations, so that the pancreatic disease was not pure. What we want for the clearing up of this subject as far as the pancreas is concerned is, a case in which the pancreas ahmc is affected, other organs not being even functionally insplicated, and in which there is during life a clear pre- sence, or a clear absence of fatty stools. Until such a case or cases can be brought forward, the light which this section of pathology has thrown upon physiology will still leave unde- termined the relative importance, in etfi-'cting the absor|)tion of fat, of the dilFerent digest- ing agents su|iplied by or poured into the duodenum. Bibliography. — «. Descriptive. — IVirsunq, Figiira Ductus ciijusdam, &c. P:\d. 1()43. Wliurton, A<leiiographia, Lond., 1G50. Hoff iiian, De Paucreate, Altduit', 17UG. Sceminerrlng, Corp. Human. Fab. Lond., 1754, t. vi. Saiitoriiti, Tabula; septcii- decim ; Parma, 1775. J/r(r/o/(«, Manuel d'Anatomie, Paris, 1815. Mecliel, iMauuel d'Anatomie, Paris, 1H2.J. Steltnld. Cruvciltiier, Anatomie Descriptive. Borden, Recherches Auatoiniques suV la Position dos Glaiides, et sur leur Action. Tiedtmann, Sur Ics Dillcrences que le Canal Excreteur du Paucre'as, &c., Joiu'. Compl. des Sc. Med., t. iv. p. 370. Quain and Stiarpei/'s Anatomy. Tiedemanns Plates, and the various text-books of Descriptive Anatomy. ^. Microscojiical structure. — Malpiglii, De Vis- cerum Structura. liiii/sch. Op. om., t. iii. Midler, Physiolog}', by Baly. Idem. De Glandular. Secer- nentium Struct. Pcnit., Lipsiai, 1830. Gerber, Ge- neral and Minute Anatomy. Berrcs, Anatomica Blicroscopica Corp. Ilnm. Nicotucci, Sull' Intinui Struttura della Glandula Pancroa, im Filiatre Sc- bezio Maggio, 1847. Jones, JVttarton, in Pliil., Trans., 1848. Vernevil, Anatomie du Pancreas, Gaz. Med., 1851. Hcijfelder, Acad, des Sciences, Jain, 1852. Bernard, on the Structure and Func- tion of Glands, Acad, des Sciences, 1852. Knox, in Med. Gazette. •y. Comparative Anatomy. — Bliiment/ach, Manual of Comparative Anatomy, b}' Coulson. Cuvier, Lecons d'Aiiat. Comp., t. iv. Tiedeinanv, Sur les Ditferenccs, &c.. Journal Comp. des Sciences Me'd., t. iv. Grunt, Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, Lancet, 1833-4. Wagner, Elements of Comparative Anatomy, Trans, by Tulk. Owen, Comp. Anat. vol. i. and ii. Jones (lii/mer). Comparative Ana- tomy. S/annins, Mutter's Arcliiv. 1849. 8. Physiology Brimner, Experimenta Nova circa Pancreas, Amst., 1G38. Sylvius, Thes. 37. De Usu Lienis et Glandularuni. Graaf, Regner, De Succi Pancreatici Natura et Usu, Lugd. Bat., 1G71. Jotireniiis, De Affect. Ilypochond., Kinteln, 1G78. lyiiarton, Adcnographia. 31uller, Physiology, by * Archiv. Gen. dc Med. t. xix. p. 215. t 233. I