RUMINANTIA. 518 "pricket" puts forth a simple "dag" or cylindrical shaft {a, iig. 340.), which is slightly bent forward. In the third year the branch- ing commences, and he is said to be a "sorel" (6). The antlers in the fourth year grow more numerous, and the stem is bifid at the summit (c) ; at this period the Fallow Deer is Fig. .340. Development of the horns in the Fallow Deer. (From Cuvier.) entitled a " sore" by sportsmen. After this date the upper part of the brain or shaft becomes more palmated, and irregular serra- tions or " snags " are produced at the margin (rf) ; the animal is now a " buck of the first head," and, as age advances, the snags en- large, and take on, more or less, the appear- ance of true antlers. In the Rein Deer the horns undergo a similar metamorphosis ; they * are of great size in both sexes, but are some- what less branched and slender in the fe- male ; the brow-antlers are much prolonged forward over the forehead. The nature of the anatomical change •which takes place in the adult individual during the periodical renewal of the antlers, is characterised by, and contemporaneous with, the following phenomena; — a strong determination of blood to the head takes place at the spring of the year, and the vessels surrounding the frontal apophyses enlarge. This increased vascular action re- sults in the secretion of a fibro-cartilagi- nous matrix, manifesting itself externally by a budding, connnencing at the summit of the " core," at the spot where the horns of the previous season had separated. In the early condition the horn is soft and yielding, and it is protected only by a highly vascular periosteum and delicate integument, the cu- ticular portion of the latter being represented by numerous fine hairs, closely arranged. From this circumstance the skin is here termed the " velvet." As development goes on, a progressive consolidation is effected, — the ossification proceeds from the centre to the circumference and a medullary cavity is ultimately produced. While this is taking place a corresponding change is observed at the surface. The periosteal veins acquire an enormous size and by their presence occasion the formation of grooves on the subjacent bone. At the same time osseous tubercles, of ivory hardness, appear at the base of the stem ; these coalesce by degrees and enclose within their folds the great superficial vas- cular trunks, which are thus rendered imper- vious. The supply of nutriment being cut off, the first stage of exuviation is accom- plished by the consequent shrivelling up and decay of the periosteal and integumentary envelopes. The full growth of the horns is now consummated, and the animals, being aware of their strength, endeavour to com- plete the desquammation by rubbing them against any hard substances which may lie in their path ; this action is technically termed " burnishing." After the rutting season the horns are shed, to be again renewed in the ensuing spring. The disposition of the horns is invariably symmetrical in a state of health, but the antlers are sometimes disproportionate on either side and their growth incomplete from deteriorating circumstances. A remarkable sympathy exists between the generative or- gans and the horns, and any imperfection in the one induces a corresponding change in the other. In consequence of this reciprocal influence, the development of the horn may be arrested and the periodical shedding pre- vented by castration. An illustration of this is to be seen in the cranium of a Fallow Deer preserved in the College of Surgeons' Mu- seum, London. The hoins of ruminants are seldom more than two in number, but ex- ceptions occur in the case of the extinct Bramatherium and gigantic Sivatherium (Jig. 341.) found inthetertiary deposits of Northern Fig. 341. Front view o f the cranmm of the Sivatherium. (From a model in the Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) India. Living instances of more than a single pair are seen in the Four-horned Goat and Many-horned Sheep ; also in the Jung- liburka Antelope (A. subquadricormihis) where the anterior pair are rudimentary, and in the Chousingha (/J. quadricorins),se\eva\ species of which have been described byauthors(^g.342.). The structure of the horn in Cavicornua is exceedingly simple. The frontal " apophy- ses " or " cores," instead of branching, form cylindrical shafts, more or less solid, the surface being protected by the ordinary peri- osteum, and by an extension of true skin, the cuticular portion of which is developed into a dense horny sheath {Jig. 333.). If a trans- verse section be carried through the base of the " core," a number of cavities will be ex- posed, v\hich are continuations of the frontal