OVUM. Annelida. According to this description, the first germs of the ova consist of minute ger- minal vesicles formed in the ovarian sub- stance; they soon acquire the single macula or nucleus. After undergoing some enlarge- ment, these germs fall into the abdominal cavity, and there acquire, by deposit round them, the clear primitive vitelline substance. In this substance opaque granules, which are at first colourless, are subsequently deposited; and as these extend outwards from the ger- minal vesicle, and accumulate in quantity so as to increase the bulk of the whole ovum, a delicate vitelline membrane is added exter- nally. The germinal vesicle attains a diameter of about -^lo'\ and its macula of 25^0"; and when the several parts of the ovum which have been mentioned have appeared, and the yolk is now coloured, the whole ovum has a diameter of about ^^i/'. The superficial part of the yolk consists of minute coloured gi anules. Within this there are larger oil-like globules free of colour, and in the innermost part a somewhat viscous transparent fluid.* According to Leydig, the germinal vesicle in Piscicola becomes enveloped by a second vesicle or cell-wall before the formation of the yolk-substance ; but it is suggested by Leuckart that he may have been misled in this by the appearance often presented by the clear and somewhat highly refracting substance which in many animals precedes the formation of the opaque yolk. If this is not so, the fact observed by Leydig would constitute a marked departure from the usual homological relations of the ovum.f Roiifeia. — Although most zoologists are now dis[)osed, on the ground of the analogies in the most important parts of their general structure, to place thellotifera among or close to the Articulate Worms, yet in some re- spects their mode of reproduction presents a marked correspondence with that of the lower Crustacea. Thus they have, in com- mon with some of the lower Crustacea, the occasional separate condition of the sexes, the preponderance of females, the imperfect development of the males, the proportionally large size of the ova, and the production of winter ova as well as the ordinary kind ; on the other hand, the simpler structure of the ovum and its complete segmenta- tion are more similar to what is observed among the Vermes.J * Quatrefages, it is to be observed, designates the enveloping membrane ovarian and not vitel- line membrane, which last he holds is wanting in these ova. i" Farther interesting views of the ova of this class will be found in Milne Edward's memoir in the Annal.des Scien. Nat. for 1845, vol. xxiii. p. 145 ; and in his article Annelida in this UyclopiEdia, to which I must refer the reader; in Grube's Unter- such, ilber die Entwickel. der Clepsine, Kbnigsberg, 1844. H. Koch, Ein Worte zur Entwick. von Eunice, with an Appendix by Kolliker, on Exogone and Cystonereis. \ See Leydig, On the Structure and Systematic Position of the Kotifera, &c., in Zeitsch. filr Wissen. The relation of the sexes in Rotifera has only recently been in any degree under- stood, and that only in a few genera ; and there are still many points requiring elucida- tion. The greater number of the animals, in fact, which till lately have been known or de- scribed in this class have been females ; and as yet the males or male organs have been as- certained only in a few genera. Some are certainly of separate sexes, as Notommata, and the allied Rotifer of which the male was first discovered by Brightwell*, and of which the development was described by Dalrymple f. Others seem to be hermaphro- dite, as in Megalotrocha, described by Kol- liker:]: ; in Euchlanis, by Schmidt $ ; and in Lacinularia socialis, by Leydig. || But ac- cording to Huxley^, there may still be some doubts as to the bodies described as spermatozoa, and as to the arrangement of the male organs in the Lacinularia. Fig. 83*. Ovarian ova of Rotifera. (^From Huxley.") The figures represent the formation and develop- ment of the true or ovarian ova of Lacinularia socialis (one of the Kotifera). A. and b. are small fragments of the ovarian substance showing the primitive ova wth their germinal vesicles and maculoe; in B. one of the ova more advanced than the rest. c. represents the mature ovum. d. the same undergoing the first stage of segmentation. The ova of Rotifera have been observed by Ehrenberg and many other microscopists. They are of comparatively large size, but yet belong to the group of ova possessing the simpler kind of structure, the yolk substance being quite finely granular, and undergoing a complete segmentation. The germinal vesicle is large, and possesses a distinct single ma- cula ; and the whole ovum is inclosed in a clear vitelline membrane. No micropyle has yet been discovered, nor have the time and Zool., vol. vi.; and C. Vogt on the same subject in vol. vii. of the same work. * Ann. of Nat. Hist, for Sept. 1848, p. 153. t Philos. Transact, 1849, p. 331. t Froriep's Neue Notizen, 1843, p. 17. § Vergleich. Anat. p. 268. II Zeitsch. fiU- Wissen. ZooL, vol. iii. ^ Microscop. Soc. Trans, p. 1. in vol. 1. of Microsc. Journal, 1853.