203 PELVIS. Extremes of dif- feience between the two sides. 1. From the sciatic tuberosity of| ^^.^^^^ j one side to the posterior su- |- ^ [^^^.i^q^. perior iUac spine of the other J 2. From the anterior superior ihae "| from 10 spine of one side to the pos- >■ lines to 1 terior superior of the other J in. 11 lin. 3. From the spine of the last him-T from 8 bar vertebra to the anterior |- lines to 1 superior iliac spine J in.4 lines. 4. From the trochanter major of! from 1 in. one siileto the posterior su- J-to 1 in. perior iliac spine of the other J 7 lines. 5. From the lower border of the"! from 7 pubic S3'mphysis to the pos- /- lines to 1 terior superior iliac spine J inch. In these measurements it is to be remarked, that theJlrst presents the most marked dif- ferences on the two sides. This results from the fact that the sciatic tuberosity of tiie an- kylosed side is placed more posteriorly than the [opposite one, while the posterior supe- rior iliac spine is lower on the side free from ankylosis. Hence it results that i/ie ankylosis is always found on that side of ivhick the sciatic tuberosity is Clearer to the ojjposile posterior su- perior iliac spine. These two points on a lean subject are easily to be distinguished. On the fat subject, there is, in the position of the iliac spine, a depression caused by the firmer attach- ment of the integuments to the bone at that place. Another test of the presence of the ob- lique deformity practised by Naegele was, to place the patient upright with the back against an even wall, so that the shouklers and nates should equally touch it, and then drop- ping two plumb-lines, one from the spine of the first sacral or last lumbar vertebra, and the other from the centre of the lower border of the pubic symphysis. In the well-formed pel- vis, the plane in which these two lines fall, forms two right angles with the plane of the wall, but in the pelvis obliquely deformed, it is an obtuse angle on the ankylosed side, and an acute angle on the side opposite ; the dif- ference between these two angles marking the degree of distortion. Cause of the obliquely dtformed pelvis. — Dr. Naegele was inclined to the opinion that the cause of this peculiar condition of the pelvis was, an arrest of development of one side of the sacrum and the corresponding in- nominate bone ; with ossification of the joint instead of its normal development. The following reasons led him to this conclusion. The intimate and complete fusion of the bones into one piece ; and the absence of any mark or cicatrix indicating a former separa- tion, except a sca-cely perceptible line on the upper aspect of the place of junction ; a section of the ankylosis exhibiting an uniform areolar texture in the internal structure. The defective development, in its whole length, of the ankylosed side and lateral mass of the sacrum, as well as of the innominate bone in breadth, as particidarly exhibited in the narrowing of the sciatic notch ; and the analogy herein drawn, from the del'ective de- velopment and fusion of other bones, especi- ally those of the cranium. The great re- semblance between the several pelves affected by this disease, which argues identity of cause ; original deficiency of development being more likely to produce similarity of results than the accidental and subsequent inflammation. And lastly, the presence of the distortion from the earliest period, together with the youth of the individuals affected, and the total absence of any symptoms whatever, indicating an ex- ternal cause for the distortion, in the whole course of their history. In two of tlie cases of this deformity, there had been present disease of the hip joint, which in one had led to the formation of a false acetabulum; but this was not, ia the opinion of the above-named author, tlie cause of' the obliijue distortion. He had never seen the distortion coincident with rickets, though he suggests the possibility of such a compli- cation. Rokitansky also considers this deformity to be a congenital malformation, and not a consequence of foetal intra-uterine disease. Dr. Knox adopts the theory that the arrest of development having taken place while the ossification of the sacrimi was in- complete, the whole of that side of tllie pelvis remains thereafter stationary in its foetal or brute transitional form, while the other ad- vances to com|)lete development ; and thus one side is perfect, while the opposite is simply that of an undeveloped pelvis magnified. This anatomist also states, that in the mu- seum of Dr. Outrepont there is a female pelvis presenting the oblique deformity on both sides, producing a superior opening of a very elongated shape, with its broadest part towards the sacrum. The lateral epiphysial sacral pieces, which form the auricular surface, appear in the ob- lique deformity to have failed in establishing a separate identity, though the presence of the sacral holes and transverse lines and grooves lead to the supposition that the number of the primary ossific points has been normal. Un- iler this supposition, the coalescence of the sacrum and ilium wouhl, probably, take place between the sixth and ninth months of intra- uterine life, (at which time the characteristic ossific points of the three first sacral vertebra; begin to appear,) by the prolongation into them of the ossifying process from the ilium or " pleurapophysis," already considerably ad- vanced in its bony development. Another hypothesis as to the cause of the ankylosis, is found in the occurrence of in- flammatory disorganisation, after the com- plete formation of the sacro-iliac joint, and, as a consecpience, oblique tieformity of the bones. Dr. Rigby inclines to this theory, and thinks that ulcerative absorption must have existed in the joint, though probably in early- life.