383 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. exsudes directly from this fluid. It is the main component of the muscles, which execute the various movements of the body. It is an equally important ingredient in the tissues of both the central and peripheric parts of the nervous system. It is probably the source of the gelatinous * tissues; which, in herbivorous animals, can only be derived from a kind of degradation or regression of the albuminous substances. And, finally, its large amount in the structures of the foetus proves that it is just as important to the evolution and growth of the animal, as it is to its maintenance. In short, in protein and its various kindred sub- stances, we recognize the princi[)ie, which forms the material exponent of all the struc- tures and functions, and is the chief sub- stantive agent of the chemistry of life. The quantity of protein necessary for the proper maintenance of the healthy animal can only be estimated from very indirect and ap- proximate calculations. In milk, the albuminous compounds are chiefly represented by casein, which forms about 3J- per cent, of its total quantity. But we can scarcely guess how much milk is daily consumed by the sucking animal, or what proportion this amount bears to the weight of its whole body. And we are justified in assuming, that a large fraction of the protein thus introduced into the system, is applied to exigencies of growth and deve- lopment whicli have little or no pla ~ in the adult animal. Assuming an exact maintenance of the adult organism, without increase or decrease, we might expect that an examination of its various azotized excretions would teach us how much nitrogen had been discharged from the system witliin a given time : and hence that, by comparing this quantity with the known elementary composition of protein, we might be enabled to calculate how large a quantity of the azotized constituent of the food ought to be added to the system, in order to replace its daily loss. But here we are met by a dilRculty con- nected with the process of nutrition itself: — with that chain of events of which food and waste constitute only the extreme links. The amount of nitrogen given off by the body does not depend solely upon the quantity excreted by its waste, but also varies in close corre- spondence witii the quantity taken in its food. It is therefore greater in carnivorous, and less in herbivorous, animals. Hence the true or essential waste of the organism, in respect of this constituent, can only be determined from an analysis of the ex- cretions of animals which have been kept for a day or two, either without food, or on a diet altogether devoid of nitrogen. In both cases the results are the same. The nitrogen of * Ignorant as we are, both of the nature of this metamorphosis, and of tlic various stages through which it is conducted, there are reasons for con- jecturing tliat tlie formation of the cliondrin radicle generally precedes that of the suhstance which yields gelatin by boiling. Supp. the egesta drops to a certain minimum ; at which it remains for a considerable period. The quantity of nitrogen evolved by the lungs and skin is at any rate so small, as scarcely to form an im[)ortant element of cal- culation. And even the larger quantity excreted in the biliary resin, hardly deserves notice. It is in the uric acid, and above all in the urea, of the renal secretion, that this element is chiefly dismissed from the body as an effete compound. And hence it is from the urea found in such experiments that we may best deduce the probable rate of daily waste in the albuminous tissues ; and the cor- res|)onding quantity of protein which there- fore has to be supplied in the daily food. From observations of this kind on the human subject, we may infer that, in Man, the albumen of the adult oi'ganism under- goes a loss of about 2 ounces daily ;—a quan- tity which corresponds to scarcely more than -n'outh of the weigiit of the body. While if we suppose that a new-born infant, weighing six or seven pounds, consumes daily about ten or twelve ounces of milk, containing .3J per cent, of casein, the quantity of protein thus introduced into its alimentary canal would amount to the larger proportion of about ^Toth of its total bodily mass. The larger proportion of albumen thus consumed by the infant probably depends upon at least t\yo causes. As a smaller* animal, it is subject to a more energetic waste of substance. And as a growing animal, it not only lays aside in its body a constant surplus of its income over its waste; but possibly undergoes a more active metamor- phosis, that still further increases the propor- tion of its effete materials. But, apart from the influence of age or size, there is no donbt that a careful compari- son of the azotized ingesta and egesta would always show a marked disproportion between the two. There are indeed obvious reasons, why the nitrogenous constituent of any suitable food should always greatly exceed that quantity which is required by the strict exigencies of the organism. A part of the casein which is contained in the milk taken by the sucking-child, is often found to pass through the alimentary canal without being absorbed into the blood. And in the case of many other varieties of food, the insoluble state of the protein-compounds actually present afl'brds a still greater obstacle to their absor[)tion. In a proper mixed diet, how- ever, we may detect some approximation be- tween the presumable gain and loss. Thus the daily rations of the British soldier on home service include litile more than 5 ounces of albuminous substance ; — a quantity which is therefore little more than double the amount * From researches by Frerichs, Lehniann, Bidder, Schmidt, Boussingault, Valentin, and others, "we may estimate the daily waste of albuminons com- pounds, relatively to the whole body, in the under- mentioned animals, as follows : — Rabbit, ^Jjth ; Cat, .figth; Dog, j'gth; Horse, ^th. c c