540 RUMINANTIA. for, not only do the follicles extend to the ileo-colic opening, but the intervening upper lip of the circular valve is likewise glandular. A few of the cavities are subdivided by se- condary lamellae, but generally speaking these are not very prominent. The larger folds, which contain muscular fibres of the non- voluntary kind, are extremely thin, trans- parent and extensile, so that the amount of secreting tissue is much greater than is at first sight apparent; in one example, to the left of the figure, the orifice of the saccule is much contracted, while the cavity on the other hand is particularly capacious. Altogether, without taking into consideration the lami- nated foldings, the follicles within the colon cover a space equal to about two square inches. We were unable to determine the length of the other division of the patch proper to the ileum, the intestine having been cut across too near the valve; its longitu- dinal extension may have been five or six inches ; transversely, it occupied nearly the whole calibre of the tube. Fig, 363. Sacculated compound gland in connection u-iih ilw iko-colic vuU-c nfthe Giraffe. Natural size. (Original.) The liver is exceedingly simple, of small size, and wedge-shaped ; it is thick at the anterior and right borders, and very thin at the lower or posterior margin. The lateral lobes are only indicated by a slight fissure at the entrance of the suspensory ligament, di- viding the gland into two unequLd halves, — that of the right being paramount and fre- quently developing a minute lobular append- age posteriorly. In the Giraffe it is elongated, compressed, and slightly cleft, so as to indicate a bilobular tendency : on the under surface there is an elevation corresponding to the lobus spigelii, the outer edge of which is particularly conspicuous. The entire gland in the Edinburgh specimen weighed only five pounds and six ounces, and measured in the long diameter sixteen inches — nine trans- versely, and but two and a half in thickness. The Camels have the under surface and in- ferior border characterised by a multitude of polygonal lobules, which are minute and varying in size, but circumscribed by rather deep grooves. This family, in common with the Cervidfe proper, is further distinguished by the absence of a gall-bladder, whereas the