UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 624 At such a time the uterus, supported be- tween the folds of the broad ligament, which constitutes a moveable dissepiment, dividing the pelvis transversely into two unequal parts, and sustained by the parts attached to it around and below, lies with its fundus directed oblique!}' upwards and forwards, while the cervix or neck looks downwards, and very shghtly backwards towards the orifice of the rectum. The relative heights of these several parts are determined by two lines ; the one, a—a, drawn from the lower border of the symphysis pubis to the promontory of the sacrum ; the other, b—b, from the same point to the lower margin of the fourth sacral ver- tebra. Upon the latter the cervix will rest at a point near the centre of the line. The di- rection of the uterine body will be more con- veniently shown by a third line, c—c, drawn through its axis. This line, if produced, will pass out of the pelvis upwards at a distance of I" in front of the sacral promontory; and downwards, after traversing the posterior wall of the cervix, it will pass out about the centre of that wall, and impinge upon the ex- tremity of the coccyx. The lower portion or cervix of the uterus being curved upon the body in the manner hereafter described, the direction of its canal will be downwards, and will be represented by a line drawn nearly perpendicular to the horizon. Form. — The uterus belongs to the class of hollow muscles, with which it is associated on account of its cavity and the muscular cha- racter of its proper parietes. In many of the mammalia, the elongated form and general arrangement of the tissues gives to the uterus a resemblance to an intestine; while in man and the quadrumana, in whom it possesses a considerable degree of firmness and solidity, the shape more nearly resembles that of the urinary bladder. The uterus has been compared to various objects, such as a flask, a little gourd or cala- bash, a pear, or a truncated cone. There is enough of similarity to these several objects, to excuse the comparison, yet the resemblance is not sufficiently close to render any of them an exact representative of that body ; but perhaps the flattened pear conveys the best idea of the uterine figure, although the pyri- form outline is somewhat broken by the at- tachment to its lateral borders of the parts usually termed appendages {fig. 368.). These should be, therefore, removed in order to dis- play the proper boundaries of the organ {fig. 424. and 431.). Dimensinns. — The uterus does not attain to its full development until after the establish- ment of puberty. Previous to this period it remains but little altered from its infantine condition ; but as the period of puberty ap- proaches, and about the time when the mam- mae, which have also until then retained their infantine state, begin to enlarge, the uterus rapidly increases in bulk and weight. It then soon reaches the size which, if unemployed, it maintains through the rest of life, only wast- ing, and becoming somewhat altered in figure by absorption of its tissues, as age advances ; or, if employed in the process of reproduc- tion, then undergoing a degree of temporary enlargement unparalleled by any other growth of structure in man, and subsequently return - ing, in part, though never entirely, to its for- mer state. The following are the average dimensions of the virgin or nulliparous uterus. The entire length frou) the centre of the fundus {fig. 424 a), to that of the anterior lip b, which gives the longest diameter, is 2", '6'"— r". Of this one half usually belongs to the body, and the remainder to the neck or cer- vix ; but the proportional length of either of these parts may exceed the other by V"—2"'. The greatest breadth of the organ is found opposite to the point of attachment of the Fallopian tubes. Here the transverse dia- meter is i", 3"'—; at the point of junction of the cervix with the body 10'"; about the centre of the cervix 12"'; at the extremity of the cervix, opposite to the point of junction with the vaginal walls, 11'"—12'". The antero-posterior diameter of the uterus is greatest about the centre of the body, where it measures in the nulliparous organ U"'—12"'. Weight. — The weight of the adult virgin uterus, deprived of the appendages, is 9—12 drachms. Regional ditnsions. — The uterus is divided primarily into a body and neck or cervix. Each of these is again subdivided, the upper portion of the body being termed the fundus, while the lower or terminal part of the neck is distinguished as its vaginal portion. These divisions, though to a certain extent artificial, are necessary, not only to facihtate descrip- tion, but also to distinguish parts which ex- hibit great and im|)ortant differences both of structure and function. So great, indeed, is the amount of structural and functional dif- ference between the body and neck of the womb, as almost to justify these being re- garded as two distinct organs. The fundus is that portion of the body of the uterus which lies above an imaginary line, {fig- 424. A A,) drawn transversely across the organ from the point of attachment of one Fallopian tube to that of the opposite side. This portion of the uterus is of a very dense and firm texture. It is very slightly convex in the virgin state, but becomes considerably arched and expanded during pregnancy, when it forms, as it were, a vaulted roof to the organ. After parturition the fundus does not regain its former figure, but retains more or less of the rounded form which constitutes one of the points of difference between the nulliparous and multiparous organ. The fundus is that part of the uterus which, from its concealed position within the pelvis in the unimpregnated healthy state, is the least ca- pable of being examined during life. It is of all parts of the uterus that which is the least subject to destructive disorganisation by malignant growths, frequently remaining un-