PANCREAS. 93 in all. The appearance of the frill of pyloric CEeca is sliown in fig. 07, and one of the bunches separate in fig. C8. In the Salmon this apparatus of caeca is much more voluminous. It is not condensed around a particular portion of the intestine, but extends linearly, from close to the duo- denum for a distance of about eight inches along the intestinal wall; each caecum opens by its own separate orifice. There is no coalescence or fusion, so that on looking on the inside of the intestine there are seen as many orifices as caeca; they form a double row on each side, so that altogether there are four rows, and are arranged with the utmost regularity. The amount of secreting surface of these caeca must be very great; some of them are ten inches long, and as big round as a tobacco-pipe; they rapidly Fis. 69. Portinn nf the (dimcntary cntialoft/ie Salmon (^Salmo sdlar), showing one double row of ccccal appendayes and the pi/loi-ic extremity of the other. a, oesophagus ; h, stomach ; c, pylorus ; d, small intestine ; f, g;iU-duct. (Oiie-tliird tlie natural diameter.) increase in length from the first three down- wards, and the third from the stomach is generally the longest. They then graduall}' diminish, slightly in calibre, considerably in length, to those furthest down the intestine, which are about three inches long. Altogether the secreting surface of these caeca mast con- siderably exceed that of the rest of the ali- mentary canal, and the whole apparatus, taken together, is next to the liver, by far the largest of tiie viscera. Each double row con- tains about thirty, so that altogether there are sixty caeca, and as the average length of each caecum is (i\ inches, the whole length of secreting surface must be 390 inches, or upwards of 32 feet. In their internal ultimate structure these caeca exhibit considerable variety ; in many the mu- cous surface is closely laminated ; in some it is covered with flattened, fused villi with crypts thickly planted between their bases. In the Herring {fg. 70.) the structure is very peculiar: on looking vertically on the internal surface it is seen to be mapped out into hexagonal and pentagonal cells about --L of an inch in diameter, very evenly and geo- metrically arranged, and each filled with a mass of epithelium. The septa between them appear to consist of sub- mucous fibrous tissue, and on making a section and looking at it laterally they are seen to project between the acervuli of epithelium, and rather beyond them, and to have no epithe- lial investment of themselves. The masses of epithelium are seen to be of a spheroidal form antl very smooth outline, though I could not distinguish any basement membrane or capsule wall ol' which the} might be supj^osed to be the contents, or any special structure determining their outline. I have thought this structure suffi- ciently [leculiar to give a figure of it. A represents the appearance on looking down on the surface; B, a view of the wall in section, seen with a lower magnifying power. Many anatomists deny the true pancreatic nature of these pyloric ca3ca, and assert that many fish pos- sess, over and above them, a true glandular [)ancreas, analogous in struc- ture to the i)ancreas of higher animals. Weber first describcil such an organ in the carp, as interlaceil with the lobules of the liver, and, so to speak, confounded with them, but having a |)roper excretory canal opening into the intchtine by the side of the cystic ; he also thought that he had seen traces of a pancreatic duct in the ■pike. Much more recently Alessan- drini described the same exirtting duct, as also the volume and position of ttie pancreas, in the same fish. In the aUurusglanis MM. Brandt and liatzeboiu'g have taken for the |)an-