21 OVUM. undergoing a slight change of form, fixes itself by the narrowest end, and acquires tentacles like a Pol3'pe at the other, amounting for some time to eight. In this condition it appears to Firr. ]6. Dcvi'lnpmcnt of Medusa: (From Sars, Stccnsirvp, and Z)uli/cll.) a,h, ciliated free moving embryo from tlic owm ; c, embryo attached by its pedicle; d, its tentnciila begimiing to be formed ; e, with four, /, with eight tentacula; rj, the fiilly developed polype, jirodiiciiig other polypes by gemmation ; h, i, //, triuisvcrsc di- vision and development of Medusa: from the polype stock or strobila; a pile consisting of four Sle- dusoids just about to separate; m, n, and lower lateral view of Medusa; separated from the polype stock; 0, more advanced, natural size; p, r, {from Dalydl), p, a pile of medusa discs separating, and new tentacula formed on the polype at the base; r, the same, -with more of the discs separated; the strobila retiirning to its polype state and budding at the side. be capable of multiplying itself, or producing other similar attached Polypes by gemmation from its side or base, or from a running stolon below it. The subsequent change of each of these polypoids is remarkable. It has been described by Sars and Dalyell as follows : — The body undergoing some elongation be- comes partially divided by transverse grooves, into a range or column of imperfect Meduste, attached still to each other l)y their adjacent surfaces, but presenting at their borders, in various degrees of advancement, the division into rays or lobes which belong to the Me- dusa; the upper or terminal one having deve- loped upon it a set of radiated processes dis- tinct from the tentacles of the Polype and much longer than those of the rest. These 3'oung Medusas are successively separated from the stock by the deepening of the transverse clefts between them. They then move about as independent animals, anti proceed in their farther growth and development to sexual and other con)pleteness. These bodies, therefore, arc subject to two kinds of multiplication, which are ver}'difierent: i)y simjile gemma- tion a number or a colony of Strobiltc may be produceil, and by transverse fission and deve- lopment a number of Medusas may be thrown off' from each Strobila. A considerable number of the Medusa pro- geny having been separated, the Strobila stock generally returns to its polypoid condition, 17. Production of Medusa: {Anrclia auritii) from Po- li/jK stock. {From Dcsor.) A, Medusa-form larva; on the stock above the polype, which remains at the base, a. I!, lower surface of a detached Medusa. c, D, natural size. Young Medusa; ibrming from the polype above its disc. c 3