RESPIRATION. 286 appendage-like process, which reaches the farthest boundary along the roof of the abdo- n7inal cavity. These appendages may be aptly compared to the abdominal air-cells of birds which communicate with open ex- tremities of the bronchial tubes. The " dia- phragm" in the mammals precludes this interblending of the thoracic and abdominal organs, or the diffusion of air into any of the cavities of the body. With reference to the minute structure of the lungs in the saurians, it coincides pre- cisely with the account given of tijose of the ranidcc. Each sejilum consists of a central basis or framework of elastic fibrous tissue lined on either side by a reticulate layer of vessels. This plexus is again overspread by a " hyaline pavement epithelium." Rich tracts of ciliary epithelium may be discovered along tlie margins of cells, the course of vessels, and the lines of condensed structures. The double layer of vessels borne by each septum may be noted as a point of structure dis- tinctive of the reptilian lung. The lungs of the chelonian reptiles are very voluminous. They extend over the whole dorsal part of the trunk as far as the pelvis. They are fixed by the pleura to the ribs, which also separate them I'rom the cavity containing the diuestive anil generative organs. They are symmetrically developed on the two sides. Through the centre of each lung longitudi- nally an ?«2walled axis extends from the an- terior to the posterior extremities. This is the main road for the air-currents. From this axis, secondary passages, jjarietally cel- lulated, radiate towards every point of the circumferences of the organ. The ultimate ceils are very cajiacious. They coumiunicate little with each other. Each group has its common outlet, thus resembling a lobule. In the reptilian lung, however, there exist no lobules; an anatomical particular in which they are distinguished from that of all mam- malia. It is a criterion of lower organisation. The vibratile cilia which line the nasal and buccal passages, the |)harynx and oesophagus, the larynx and trachea of all reptiles are viost remarkable for tenacity of life in the lungs of the chelonia. In tlie trachea of the turtle, along certain tracts of the lungs, the motion of cilia may be detected several months after death. The physiological value of the breathing process in any given animal cor- responds, not with the volume of air inspired per any unit of time, but with the measure of the blood-surface exposed to its agency, the rate at which the blood-current moves, the numerical |)roportion of its red corpuscles,and the frequency of the res|)iratory movements. The small, but minutely, subdivided lung of the mamma! presents a nmch more extensive surface for the outsjjreading of the rete mira- bik' than the very voluminous, but spacious- chambered lung, of the chelonian. The total volume of air inhaled by the mammal is less than that which the lung of the turtle is capable of containing ; but in the former case it is more minutely distributed and divided ; it is more effectually employed ; the contact between it and the blood-web is far more extensive and intimate; while it acquires a higher temperature than in the latter. In these several particulars, cold differ from warm-blooded animals. Respirator!/ Organs of Fishes, The aquatic type, distinctive almost univer- sally of the breathing organs of invertebrate animals, obtains also in tlie lowest order of the vertebrata. Fishes and the lower amphibia respire on the branchial plan. The difference between a gill and a lung rests more on ap- parent than real and ultimate grounds. In the last anatomical analysis this difference vanishes, and the eye is arrested only by the close structural affinities which reduce the two varieties to an essential unity of type. In both, the blood is exposed to the agency of the aerating element by means of reticulated ves- sels, furnished with distinct parities, and pre- senting a diameter little in excess of that of the corpuscles of the blood ; so that these latter must travel through the true respiratory capillary in a single series. This fact denotes the extreme measure to which the subdivision of the blood-stream is carried. It is a funda- mental requirement of the breathing organ, that all structures interposed between the blood and the surrounding element should be reduced to the utmost degree of attenuation. Accordingly, it is found that- the epithelium overlying the rete mirabiie consists of a single layer of attenuated scales, perfectly destitute of those contained parts which give bulk and density. In no instance wdratever within the limits of the vertebrata (excepting, as stated already, the branchiae of the amphibia) are the true respiratory capillaries covered by a ciliated epithelium. This rule applies also to the hranchisB even of the higher inverte- brata, such as the Crustacea and cephalopoda. The gill of the fish differs from that of the crustacean in the extreme minuteness with which the blood current is subdivided, and in the existence of specially parieted vessels ; conditions which denote an intensified measure in the function of breathing in the instance of the vertebrate animal. —In the blood of the vertebrata the floating cells are infinitely more numerous, relatively to the bulk of the fluid, than in that of the inverte- brata; — a fact more expressive than the former of the greater activity of the respira- tory process in the vertebrate than in the in- vertebrate animal. It is an axiom in physics, that no gas is capable of passing through an organic septum without first assuming the fluid form. This axiom destroys the apparent difference be- tween a gill and a lung. In contact with the gill the aerating medium is already fluid: in the case of the lung, it takes this condition only in the act of passing through the partition dividing the blood from the external medium. Between the gill of the fish and the true lung ofthe ver- tebrate animal there is discernible, however, this differential character, that in the former