OVUM. 64 colour seems to be merely a uniform tinge of the outermost layer of calcareous matter.* The lining membrane of the shell is a peculiar fibrous, interwoven structure, depo- sited in laminae of some thickness and tough- ness, which is readily divided by tearing into two layers over the whole surface of the egg — an outer, thicker, and denser, adhering firmly to the inner surface of the shell; and an inner, thinner, smoother, and of finer texture, which may be easily withdrawn from the outer one, and which naturally separates from it at the air-space ; but both the outer and inner layers of this membrane may be torn into a number of thinner laminte, all agreeing in their minute structure. By microscopic examination, this membrane is found to consist of a closely-interwoven network of peculiar fibres, which are of va- rious sizes, generally between -_i_th and ^-i__th of an inch in diameter ; the larger fre- quently branching into or giving off smaller fibres at acute angles, the sides rendered un- even by minute projections or knots upon them (not represented in the figure) ; the larger fibres are of a somewhat flattened or ribband-like form. The external layer of the membrane contains the largest fibres. These fibres appear to be analogous in their che- mical nature to those of the elastic yellow texture, not being soluble in strong acetic acid ; but they do not coil up in the manner of the elastic tissue (see Jig. 45. a). The parchment-like coverings of the eggs of serpents and lizards, which have no calca- reous shell, seem to be composed of a greater number of layers of the fibro-laminar texture now described. The albumen, or white of the egg, compre- hends several layers of glairy, albuminous, semifluid substance deposited round the yolk, the chalazse, or grandines, or twisted cords, and the condensed layer of albumen, forming a thin membranous investment immediately over the yolk membrane. In a perfectly-fresh egg, or in an egg taken from the oviduct pre- viously to its being laid, the whole albumen has the consistence of a moderately-firm jelly ; but very soon the outer part becomes fluid, and allows of the freer motion of | the parts within the shell. This solution of the albumen proceeds to a greater extent after some hours' incubation, especially over the cicatricula. The deeper part of the albumen, or that next the yolk, is more dense in consistence. No part of it, when unchanged by reagents, presents any sensible structure either to the naked eye or when viewed microscopically. If, however, the soft contents of a fresh egg, or one removed from the oviduct, be taken from within the shell, and thrown into water either pure or with a little acetic acid mixed with it, a slight turbidity or coagulation of the albumen takes place on the surface, which brings out the appearance of a spiral arrange- * See the works of Hewetson and others on the Eggs of Birds. Carus and Otto, Erlauterungstafehi der Vergleich. Auat. part v. ment of laminae; and in a boiled egg these laminae may be torn in great numbers in suc- cession from off it, the direction of the spiral being from left to right, from the large towards the small end of the egg. With a little care, almost the whole of the albumen may thus be wound oft' the egg in spiral strips, the deeper ones enclosing the twisted cha- laza; (see Jig. 46. d). The coagulated albumen presents, in the microscope, a minute but indefinite granular structure. The chalazcB (grandines) are two irregularly- twisted cords of albumen, harder than the rest. Fig. 46. Manner in which tlicchalaza;, albumen, §-c., are deposited round the ovarian ovum of the Fowl. A. Yolk from the upper part of the oviduct soon after it has entered it, showing a thin covering of albumen on the yolk, forming the chalaziferous membrane, and the twisted chalaza; extending from the opposite poles of the 3'olk- The twisting in these is represented more strongly than it can be seen at this period. B. Sketch of the fully formed chalazie from opposite sides of the yolk, stretched to their fidl length, and showing the opposite direction of the spiral in each. c. Egg from above the middle of the oviduct; the first laj ers of albumen deposited round the yolk and ehalazaj.