1G8 PELVIS. tapering gradually to the posterior extremit}' of the sacrum, where it terminates in an outward curve ; and placed upon the transverse processes, which it encases, like a frame, on each side, and to which it is firmly anky- losed by its inner surface. In the Ostrich, its thick upper surface or border does not unite with the similar bone of the opposite side, nor with the sacral crest; but is separated from it by a chink, or oval opening, d, gradually narrowing posteriorly, in which the sacral spines («) are seen distinct and separate, and coalesced only at their extremities. Opposite the three last sacral spines, however, the ilio-sacral pieces are ankylosed to the sacral ridge, and terminate posteriorly the oval chink. In the Emu and Rhea, the ilio-sacral pieces are coalesced in their whole length with the extremities of the sacral spines, and a narrow diamond-shapetl dorsal plate is formed, com[)osed almost entirely of the united ilio- sacral plates, and having its angles at the massy ischio-sacral buttresses. The iscliia (e) are very long and thick, and form, by the su])erior vertical bifurcation of the cotyloid extremity, a very sti'ong iscJiio- sacral hiitlrcss (/), coalescing at that point with the ilium, sacrum, and ilio-sacral plate. In the Ostrich and Emu the ischia are not connected posteriorly with the sacrum, but a wide and elongated sacro-sciatic notch inter- venes. In the latter, the ischial extremities are free and tubercular. In the Rhea they are ankylosed, by their posterior four-fifths, not only to the sacrum, but, like the ischia of the Bats, 1o each other, passing in front of the coccyx and greater part of the sacrum, thus excluding them from the pelvic cavity, and enclosing complete sacro-sciaticforamina,\\\nii\\ open into a sort of posterior pelvic cavity. Tlie j)ubes (g) are long and slender, and are united posteriorly to the ischia in the Ostrich and Rhea, completing the Obturator Foramina ; but, in the Cassowary, the [jubes, as well as the ischia, are free at their posterior extremities, and the obturator foramina are incomplete, like the sacro-sciatic. In the Rhea and Cassowary they are widely diverging ; but in the ostrich they approach each other in a wide curve posteriorly, and unite in a median inlerpuhic st/nrphysis (h), which curves forward anteriorly in a hook-like process, and completes an oblong anterior pelvic outlet with its longest diameter antero-posterior. The ilio-puliic angle is 140° in the Rhea, and 15.5° in the Ostrich and Cassowary. The ilio- pectineal spines are well marked, especially in the Ostrich (m). The acetahida (i) are per- forated, and open partly into the pelvic cavity, ami partly upon the sacrum, and are so closely approximated that the bodies of the vertebras only intervene. Immediately below the ace- tabula, the ischia and pubes are connected, on each side, by the suture of an ischial apophysis with the pubes (A), across the obturator mem- brane, enclosing a smaller obturator opening (/), which transmits the vessels and nerves, and intervenes between the larger obturator opening (o) and the acetabulum. In the Aptertjx the ilia are longer and more concave superiorl}', and the ilio-sacral prolon- gation short ; and both are separated more distinctly from the opposite ones by the coalesced extremities of the sacral spines, forming an elongated ridge of bone down the middle, and separated from the iha and ilio- sacral pieces by distinct parallel sutures. The ischia, in this bird, as well as in the fossil gigantic Z)iKor?;w, or wingless bird of New Holland, are not placed, as in the Cm-sores before mentioned, parallel with the ilia, but form an anteriorly retiring or reversed ilio- ischial angle of 140° ; and they do not coalesce posteriorly, either with the pubes or the sacrum, but have free truncated extremities, presenting a great general resemblance to the pelvis of the Enui. The pubes are parallel to the ischia, and, like them, free and diver- gent. In the Natatores the pelvis is long and broad, and generally much expanded posteriorly by the divergence of the ischia and large sacro- sciatic ossification, for the attachment of the powerful muscles used in swimming ; and the great intercotyloid distance gives to their gait its peculiar waddle {^see Jig. 104.). That of the Loons and Penguins, however, is remark- ably contracted, long, and narrow, with little intercotyloid distance. The usual number of sacral vertebrae is fourteen, as in the Swan; the Grebe has thirteen, and the Duck fifteen, and the sea Swallow ten only. The sacrum is usually very broad ; but in the Penguin and Loon it is unusually narrow, and in the former it is united by ankylosis to the last dorsal vertebra. The coccyx is usually composed of eight pieces. The Goose and Pelican have but seven, and the Barnacle Goose nine. In Penguins it is strong, and assists in the support of the body in its usual vertical position. It is usually curved much dorsally, affording a larger [los- terior pelvic outlet. The ilia are moderately long, and overlap the posterior ribs. In the Penguin they are said, by Wagner, jiot to be ankylosed to the sacrum, but connected only by ligamentous union ; thus increasing its loose and waddling gait. The ischia are very long, divergent, and largely expanded into a very broad sacro- sciatic element, enclosing a small sacro-sciatic foramen. They are prolonged posteriorly into a sort of styliform process in the Auk and Puffin. The 2^ubes are very long, slender, and divergent, and are expanded at the extremity, and curved inwards in the Swan, Diver, and Gannett. They do not generally unite with the ischia posteriorly ; but, in the Swan, Duck, and Pelican, the obturator foramina are com- pleted by the union of these bones, and are small and elongated. The GallinecE have large and strong i)elves, in correspondence with their powerful legs, used chiefly for progression and scratching up their food. The sacrum is broad, and composed of from ten pieces, as in the Turkey, to fifteen in the Pheasant and common Fowl. The