SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 451 G G 2 the cervical region : the superior cervical ganglion presented the aspect of" a small round nodule. In tiie cow's embryo, measuring Fig. 297. Sixth thoracic ganglion of the left side, from the sym- pathetic of a Kal>bit, treated with soda, and magni- fied forty diameters. Tr, main cord of sympatlietio; Rc, Ec, commu- nicating brandies, each dividing into two portions; Spl, splanclinic nerve; S, small nerve proceeding probably to the blood-vessel; G, ganglion-cells and fibres, passing into the main cord of the sympathe- tic. {After £dHiker.) about 11 inches in length, I found the ganglia in the cerebral and spinal nerves, as well as those of the sympathetic, very distinct. The superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic appeared as a small reddish grey mass, of an irregularly oval form, measuring about -Vth of an inch in its longest diameter, soft and breaking down readily. It was situated close to the [)neuinogastric, a narrow indistinct ■whitish line passing downwards from the lower part of the ganglion to that nerve. The lower cervical ganglion presented a more elongated form, and appeared to be prolonged into the first thoracic: the other thoracic ganglia appeared as minute greyish particles between the heads of the ribs, and measuring about -gijth of an inch in diameter. The ganglia in the lumbar and sacral regions pre- sented in general a more elongated form, and were not so distinctly separated from one another : the connecting cord, especially in the sacral region, being short and thick, and looking as if it were a prolongation of the one ganglion into the other. None of the branches which are sent inwards from the sympathetic cord, nor the ganglia occurring upon them, could be accurately distinguished from the surrounding structures. As regards the ganglia occurring on the cerebral and spinal nerves, they were much more distinct than those of the sympathetic. The Gasserian ganglion presented the form of a greyish w hite body, situated beneath the still soft and transparent dura mater : it measured about -jLth of an inch in diameter, and presented an irregularly oval or triangular shape. It ap- peared to consist of several opaque portions, separated from one another by an intermediate more or less transparent substance, thus pre- senting the appearance of being composed of several minute lobules. The ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves were also very distinct : the}' were arranged along the interior of the spinal canal, on each side, and rather anteriorly towards the bodies of the vertebrae, and concealed by the spinal cord. They presented an oblong or oval shape, mea- sured about ^Lth of an inch in length and about yij-th in breadth, and presented the same characters in regard to colour, &-c., as the Gasserian ganglion. In embryos from seven to eight inches in length, the superior cervical ganglion presents the same oval shape and reddish grey appear- ance as before: it is larger, however, measuring about Y^th of an inch in its long diameter: it consists, as before, of a number of opaque round or oval portions : the intermediate sub- stance exists in much smaller quantity. It is surrounded by a highly vascular sheath. From its lower part the communicating cord is seen passing downwards for a short dis- tance, when it is applied to the trunk of the pneumogastric. The cord presents a flat- tened aspect, and is of a greyish red colour. The ganglia in other, regions of the body, as well as the intermediate cord, are well formed, and much larger than before. The first sacral ganglion of either side appears to be amalgamated into a single ganglion situated in the medial line. The splanchnic nerves and solar plexus, as well as its offsets, are distinctly visible. The rami communicantes are also present; so also the plexus on the abdominal aorta and epi- gastric plexuses. The ganglia on the cerebral and spinal nerves present the same characters as before, with the exception that they are considerably larger. In embryos measuring seventeen or eighteen inches in length, not only can the parts which have been already mentioned be distinctly seen, but also most of the peripherical branches of the sympathetic. The superior cervical ganglion presents, as before, a more or less oval shape, and measures about Jth of an inch in its long diameter. It has still the appearance of being composed of a number of round or oval opaque greyish-white masses : there appears, however, to be very little of the intermediate transparent substance present. Its sheath is very vascular, and numerons vessels also pass into the interior of the ganglion between its lobules : it is possessed of considerable con- sistence. Its branches of communication with the different nerves are also distinctly seen : they liave a more or less greyish red ap-