406 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. thus claims a considerable part of the trunk which generally belongs to the thorax. The duodenum is so fixed as scarcely ever to be displaced, except when it is dragged out of its normal position, by displacements of the stomach or small intestine. It is in the large intestine that such devia- tions of position are most frequently found. In the ccEcum, however, they are by no means common ; or if present, are generally limited to a descent of its dependent left extremity into the pelvis. The more frequent displace- ments of the ascending and descending colon seem usually produced by changes, which principally engage the segments that imme- diately succeed them. Thus the transverse colon sometimes appears to be wanting; being converted into a narrow arch, with the con- vexity upwards, and having sides whicli are no way distinguishable from the ascending and descending colon. The reverse of this state is even more common, in which the arch, instead of being horizontal, has its centre depressed towards the hypogastrium, so as to form an abrupt vertical bend, with the con- vexity downwards. Here the neighbouring ascending and descending segments of the bowel are, as it were, drawn into the increased length of transverse colon, so as to be them- selves greatly shortened. And finally, the displacements of the sigmoid flexure, which are even more common than the preceding, resemble them in the modifications which they impress on the normal length and curva- ture of the tube. Sometimes they merely exaggerate the natural curve of this part ; sometimes they lengthen it at the expense of the descending colon, or even of the rec- tum; and occasionally the curve is, as it were, transferred to the latter bowel. Lastly, the sigmoid flexure is sometimes preceded by a long segment of tube, which carries it over to the right iliac fossa; where it is so fixed, that the rectum which succeeds it, shares its displacement, is attached to the right sacro- iliac symphysis, and only gains the median line towards the middle of the sacrum. The origin of many of these displacements is scarcely at present ascertained. But there is little doubt that they are often produced by tight-lacing, as above alluded to. Such a con- jecture is confirmed by the fact, that they are almost limited to the female sex. They seem to occur most frequently in persons who have borne children. We have next to notice a form of accidental displacement, in which the change of situation, though limited in amount, is much more se- rious in its results, leading to an obstruction that is usually fatal. It includes the various kinds of torsion, and the intus-susception or inversion of the canal. In the torsion of the intestine, a portion of bowel is more or less twisted, either around its own axis, or around a centre formed by a variable extent of the neighbouring mesen- tery. The parietes of the tube are thus brought into contact with each other, with the effect of completely occluding its calibre. In what way this twisting is efi^ected, or why it is not soon effliced by the subsequent dis- tention of the bowel, it would be incompa- tible with the limits of this sketch to inquire. In iyitus-susception, the obstruction is ef- fected by the passage of a longer or shorter segment of the canal, with a portion of its adjoining mesentery, into the cavity of the next or following segment. The anatom}' of this displacement may be best traced by a brief narrative of the steps of its occurrence; at any one of which death may intervene. Mobility of the tube is an essential condi- tion of its production. Hence intus-sus- ceptions are generally found in the small intestine, and sometimes in the large intes- tine ; but rarely or never in the duodenum. Irregular contraction of the muscular coat seems equally essential to their occurrence. Hence we often find them in dead bodies, as a result of the intestinal rigor mortis. While their occurrence during life can often be traced to a casual diarrhoea, which seems to form at least their exciting cause. They are almost invariably produced by the reception of a superior into an inferior segment of bowel. It would therefore seem that they " originate as a kind of perverted peristalsis:—that, the longitudinal fibres re- maining quiescent, the intestine is surprized by a transverse constriction, the rapid advance of which hurries the contracting portion into the flaccid and dilated part immediately anterior to itself"* The whole of this process appears to be well illustrated by the ordinary action of the oesophagus, the lower end of which tube imdergoes a temporary intus-susception into the stomach at the end of every act of deglutition.-j- The way in which the transverse contrac- tion of a segment of intestine furthers intus- susception, receives some illustration by its frequent occurrence in cases where a poly- piform tumour is attached by a pedicle or stalk to the interior of the intestine. Here the traction exercised by the stalk of the tumour on the wall of the bowel from which it takes its origin, appears to assist the muscular contraction of the segment which immediately propels the tumour itself, in producing the intus-susception. The mechanical obstruction produced by an intus-susception is probably always an indirect result. It is perhaps aided by the obliquity of the received portion, the open end of which is always inclined towards the me- senteric border of the bowel. This obliquity seems due, partly to the pledget of mesentery', which shares the occupation of the outer or receiving segment of intestine; partly to the greater distention undergone by the free mar- gin of the bowel above. In large intus-sus- ceptions, the mesentery thus forms a thick strong cord, that not only ties down the bowel by its inner margin, but constitutes the * Autlior, Op. cit., p. 17. t See p. 311.