SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 444 tomists, the sympathetic was described as a continuation of tlie fifth and sixth cranial membrane. The number of processes varies between three and twelve; by speedily branching the_y may be increased threefold and upwards. The number is regulated by the number of nerves connected with the ganglion; and hence it is smaller in the main cord than in the solar plexus. The processes have in general the optical and chemical properties of the axis cylinder of the nerve-tibres. In the solar plexus there are found, however, ganglion cells whose processes are distinguished from one another in a similar manner to those of the ganglion cells in the electric lobes of the torpedo. Besides the multipolar ganglion cells, bipolar cells are also ob- served in the plagiostomata and mammalia. They differ from those of the spinal ganglia, however, in this, that both processes branch, thus coming to agree essentially with the multipolar cells. The same holds of the unipolar cells which, in the ani- mals mentioned, are sometimes found along with multipolar, and which in the batrachia and osseous fishes, as well as in the head of the mammalia, almost alone constitute the sympathetic ganglia. In transverse or longitudinal sections of the thoracic or abdominal sympathetic ganglia in the mammal or plagiostome, the simple (generally very broad) processes of sucli a unipolar cell are seen after a short course to divide into numerous tibres, which pass off from one another in different directions. '1 hat all the processes take a peripherical course cannot, according to Kemak, be demonstrated, and is, from what follows, improbable. He has ascertained, namely, that in the mam- malia the multipolar ganglion-cells of the ganglia in the main cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen and thorax become continuous by means of their processes with the axis cjdinder of nerve-fibres with dark borders, of such, too, as pass from the spinal ganglia into the ganglia of the main cord. In man and in the mammal, each ganglion in the main cord is connected, by at least two branches, with spinal nerves. The under branch (ramus com- municans sympatliicus s. revehens) is, according to liis observations, gray, contains very fine (the fibres of Bidder and Volkmann) nerve-tibres, and very many ganglion-fibres: it joins a spinal nerve for peripherical distribution after it has at its place of entrance, sometimes close to the spinal ganglion, formed another ganglion consisting of multipolar cells. Ihe upper branch (ramus eommunicans spinalis, s. advehens) is white: it contains the tibres which, accoi'ding to Wiitzer, &c., may be followed to both roots of the spinal nerves. Kemak has as j'et succeeded in seeing fibres of this branch enter merely into the anterior root; the remainder, gene- rally the smaller number, are lost in the spinal ganglion. The sensory fibres destined for the sym- pathetic nerve must, therefore, as it appears, be- come connected with cells of the spinal ganglia before they pass into the main cord of the sympa- thetic. The fibres of this spinal communicating branch either pass directly into the ganglia of the main cord, or they form in part separate white bundles, which apply themselves to the cord, and are lost in the next ganglion behind. Since, now, as transverse sections of the glangia in the main cord show, all entering spinal fibres become con- nected one after another with multipolar glanglion- cells, it follows that if the anterior roots of the spinal nei-ves contain merely motor fibres, the posterior merely sensory, the multipolar cells in the ganglia of the main cord are found as well in the course of sensory as of motory nerve-fibres. From these cells there pass off in the peripherical direction both broad nerve-fibres with dark borders, and fine fibres (fibres of Bidder and Volkmann), likewise others in which no dark borders can be observed. All these peripherical fibres may be named sympathetic, in opposition to the spinal fibres with which they are connected by means of nerves, reinforced by fibres sent to it from the difFerent-cerebro spinal nerves along its the multipolar ganglion-cells. There are no grounds for the assumption that (human) sympathetic fibres exist which do not stand in connection with spinal fibres, and consequently not in connection with the great central organs of the nervous system. So also in the nerves passing off from the sympathetic ganglia to organs no spinal fibres have as j'et been demonstrated in whose course no sympathetic gan- glion-cells are found. By the above results, it is merely established that in the sympathetic ganglia the angles of branching, or points where sensory and motor fibres divide, contain ganglion-cells. The ganglia are not, however, thereby established to have the fimction of central organs, so far as we make them depend- ant on the conflux of sensory and motor fibres, and so long as there is no ground for supposing that among the peripherical fibres passing from a sen- sory or motor sympathetic ganglion-cell, as well sensory as motor fibres are found. Ganglion-cells have been observed by Leydig in the angles of branching of sensory fibres in CarinariaMediterranea. In the angles of branching of motor fibres gan- glion-cells are only known in the great central organs. This of itself gives ground for the ques- tion, whether the sympathetic ganglia have the function of central organs; that is, whether in them there are distinct sensory and distinct motor cells, or whether each multipolar cell serves as a medium of connection between sensory and motor fibres. On the spinal communicating branches, the question has not hitherto been determined, because they are too long, and a trustworthy microscopic distinction between the two kinds of fibres is wanting. On the other hand, other obser- vations favour the view that the multipolar cells are connected both with motor and sensory fibres. In ganglion-cells whose long axis is the same as the long axis of the ganglion, there are frequently seen two fibres entering at one pole and two pass- ing off from the other. If all four fibres were of the same kind, the cell would then form an anas- tomosis between fibres of the same kind, as has only once hitherto been observed by Leydig, as a variety of the bipolar cells in the Casserian ganglion of ChiniEera monstrosa. If, moreover, in a small multipolar ganglion taken from the solar plexus of a mammal (ox), the number and direction of the nerves passing to and from it be compared with the number and the direction of the processes of the cells, as seen on a transverse or longitudinal section of the ganglion, the fullest correspondence is foimd to exist between them; that is, in such a multipolar ganglion each ganglion-cell is connected with nerve-fibres of all the nerves which are connected with the ganglion. That in these cases, each of the nerves entering or leaving the ganglion con- tains only sensory or only motor fibres is, however, improbable for this reason, that in other multipolar sympathetic ganglia, — for example, the ciliary, otic, and spheno-palatine,—we know that the enter- ing nerves contain sensory as well as motor fibres. If the sympathetic ganglion-cells serve as con- necting media between sensory and motor fibres, then the impressions made upon sympathetic sen- sory fibres may be transferred by these ganglion- cells to sympathetic motory, through the medium of the spinal sensory communicating fibres they will also be enabled to act upon the great central organs (brain and spinal cord), and thence through the spinal motory upon the sympathetic ganglion- cells and their motor processes. Besides the sym- pathetic sensory and sympathetic motory fibres, the assumption of a third set of sympathetic fibres, serving immediately for nutrition, is not required by any fact in physiology, since it is possible to ex- plain the dependence of nutrition upon the nerves by the action of the latter upon the contractile walls of the blood-vessels.