22 OVUM. and may remain for a long time in that state ; continuing to multiply by budding into others of the same kind, and occasionally giving rise by the process of fission to its Medusa progeny. The observations of J. Reid * have shown that the Polype or polypoid stock may remain for a very long time in this condition without forming any Medusa progeny; and these obser- vations, as well as those of Steenstrup and of Desor, appear to show that these Polypes bear a considerable resemblance in their internal structure to the Medusae which they produce by gemmation. The latter author, indeed, is inclined to believe that the new Medusa ani- mals are produced not by a mere transverse fission of the Polype, but by successive gem- mation on its summit, that is, roimd its mouth and within the tentacula; and he states that he has observed the Polype remaining witii its tentacles at the base of the Sirobila of Medusae. The observations of Dalzell and Fig. 18. Medusa larva. (^From J. lieid.') A, Polype before it lias undergone any gemnia- tioii of Medusae, sliowiug the mouth and four canal openings. B, the strobila or larva forming Medusre. c, lower surface of one of the young Mednsre, after separation. J. Reid appear, however, inconsistent with this view ; but it is possible that there may be varieties in respect to the mode of formation of the Medusa progeny, so that in one set the tentacles of the Polype may be included in the upper Medusa, and when all the progeny is separated, new tentacles may be formed on the Polype stock at the ba'ie, while in others the budding Medusa may be within the circle of the tentacula of the Polype. It appears from recent investigations that ♦ Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. 1848. others of the Acalephae also undergo remark- able processes of non-sexual multiplication. According to Huxley's recent most interesting researches *, the Physsophoridae, Diphydae, and Physalia, are to be regarded as compound organisms in which the floating processes of most various form are analogous to Polype or attached Medusa individuals, which are the bearers of sexual organs, in some of one kind, in others of both, and others of which are neuter, on the same compound stock.f These are probably a progeny developed by budding from a single individual, which is the parent stem. By these discoveries a remarkable relation is shown to exist between the medusoid and polypoid animals. Some we have been ac- customed to see principally in their largest anil most developed condition as Meduste, others are best known in that polypoid condi- tion in which they remain for the longest time; but we must regard that condition in which sexual reproduction takes place as the complete one, and this we have seen is in both the Acaleph or Medusa form, while the Polype or polypoid state, however permanent it may appear, is to be looked upon as a pre- paratory sta^ze, in which, it is true, multiplica- tion of its own kind may occur by gemmation, but which can only effect the true reproduc- tion of the species by forming its progene of Medusans to which is conunitted the ofiic of producing the fecundated ova. This, there- fore, is another example of multiple metage- nesis, or alternating generation.| Mollusca.— Among the Mollusca the only examples of alternate generation that are yet known have been observed in the Tunicated Acephala: and among these, three modifica- tions of the reproductive process are known In the Bryozoa, Ascidia, anil Salpidas. The Bryozoa, or so-called (jiliobrachiate Polypes, long ranked with the Polypes on account of their union in branched groups, their radiated arms, and retractile body, but now regarded as more nearly allied by their internal organisation to the Tunicated Mol- lusca, present a ver\' marked example of the nndtipiication by budding of the progeny of a single ovum. These animals never continue for any considerable time as single or distinct individuals, but, multiplying by gemmation, form numerous colonies, in which the new individuals remain connected with the pri- mitive one from which they have proceeded and with each other. They thus always con- stitute comjjound groups spreading from the first individual as from a centre. All the in- dividuals of the group may acquire sexual completeness, and the male and female organs are united in each individual : the ova are fecundated within the cavity of the mantle; * Phil. Trans. 1849, Pt. ii. t Professor Goodsir has informed me that his ob- servations on Stephauomaia are quite confirmatory of this view. X See also on this subject the interesting treatise by Prof. E. Forbes, on the Naked-eyed Medusse, in Kay Soc. Pub. 1848.