PELVIS. 185 Distortions affecting ike luhole pelvis. — In these cases the inibic bones are always more or less extensively implicated in the distortion, and entering, as they do, into the formation of both brim, cavity, and outlet, all these parts of the pelvis are contracted or mispropor- tioned. At the brim, however, the u/jslruc- tion usually takes place, while the operations necessary to procure delivery through the natural passages are rendered more difficult by the distortion of the cavity and inferior opening. General distortions of the pelvis are com- monly divided into three kinds, named, from the shape of the brim, the wate or elliptical,— the cordifurm or angular,—and the obliquely ovate. The ovate, elliptical, or reniform pelvis. — In this distortion the sacrum is placed almost horizontally, so that the srcvaX promontori/ pro- jects forward to a great degree, generally at the same time deviating from the median line, and considerably sunk in a direction forwards and downwards, so that the lowest lumbar vertebra forms the most projecting point. The lateral sacral curve is diminished, flat- tened out, and often bent backwards on each side the promontory. The vertical curvature is generally diminished and flattened in some degree, and directed more downwards by the more horizontal position of the bone; but occasionally there is an acute bend forwards at the lower part. The coccyx is generally bent acutely forwards. The ilia and ischia on each siile are often removed to a greater lateral distance than normal. The iliac tvings are flattened and directed more forward ; and the cotylo- sacral arch is more sharply curved, and often shorter and thicker than normal. The planes of the iscliia diverge instead of slightly con- verging downward ; the spines and tu/ierosities being likewise divergent, and the latter di- rected more outwards and backwards. The superior rami of the 2juhes are generally flat- tened out, having little anterior projection ; while the inferior rami are widely divergent, aftbrding a wider and shallower expansion of the sub-jjuhic arc/i. In some cases, however, the sub-pubic arch is little altered. In some instances the symphysis of the pubis presents the appearance of being in- dented or pusheil backwards, giving an out- line to the brim of an hour-glass shape. The diameter principally diminished is the conjugate of the brim, and often one or other of the oblique diameters. In one variety the transverse diameter of the brim is also con- tracted. The transverse diameter is, however, sometimes undiminished, or even increased. The transverse diameter of the inferior outlet is generally most considerably increased ; but the antcro-jnnterior diameter is most usually con- tracted by the bend in the sacrum. In many instances, however, it is considerably enlarged. The depth of the true pelvis is generally dimi- nished, and its capacity lessened. The sacro-vertcbral angle is generally much diminished, from the backward horizontal di- rection of the upper end of the sacrum. The inclination of the superior plane is some- times increased so much as to be vertical; the a.ris of the brim being generally directed more forward than in the " standard," and that of the inferior outlet more backward. Some- times, however, they are very little altered. The structure of the bones is light, slender, and fragile, indicating the origin of the dis- tortion in rickety softening. Examples of this kind of pelvis are nu- merous. One of the most well-known is that of Elizabeth Sherwood, who was delivered by Dr. Osborne by means of the crochet. The measurements of this pelvis are given as fol- lows:—From the most prominent point of the lumbar vertebra to the upper border of the pubic symphysis, \\ inch. From the same point on the left side to the left pectineal eminence, If inches. The same measurement on the right side, 1|^ inches. From the sacral promontory to the pubic symphysis, \ \ inch. Transverse diameter of brim, 5 inches. Leit oblique ditto, 4^ inches. Kight oblique, 4^ inches. Antero-posterior of cavity, 2^ inches. Transverse ditto, 5 inches. Antero-posterior of outlet, 2i inches. Transverse, 4^ inches. Sub-pubic angle, 100°. The measurements of a very extreme case of this kind of distortion are recortlcd by Dr. Ramsbotham (seeJig. 117.) as follows: — Fig. 117. Ovate pdvls. (^Aftcr Ramshotliam.') Conjugate or sacro-pubic diameter of brim, I of an inch only. From right side of sacral promontory to right pubis, 1^ inch. The same measurement on the left side, 1^ inch. Antero-posterior diameter outlet, 2 inches. Transverse diameter, 41 inches. The shape of the brim in this pelvis is hour-glass, the pubic symphysis being pushed back. Such a pelvis, in the opinion of the above-named writer, would necessitate the abdominal section. In a less extreme case, given by the same writer, the sacral promontory and lumbar curve bend much more considerably towards the Ifft side. At the brim, the conjugate dia- meter is ]^ inch; the right sacro-pubic, 2