UTERUS—(Abnormal Anatomy). 699 first, in the cervix, and especially in the va- ginal portion, is so preponderating, that this may be regarded as mainly the seat of origin of uterine cancer. The comparative rarity of opportunities for examining uterine cancer in the incipient stage, has limited to a certain extent our knowledge of this part of the subject. The cervix in the incipient stage, smooth, tense and hard, or exhibiting upon its surface here and there knotty projections, is found upon section to have its tissues infiltrated in {)arts by the cancerous structure, which differs in the character and relative proportions of its elements, according to the form which the cancer assumes. In the meduihiry variety a white cream-like or lardaceous semi-fluid mat- ter, composed of the usual cancer constituents, is found interspersed ainong the mesiies of a loose reticulum, in the sol'ter portions of which few if any of the normal uterine fibres can be traced. The larger preponderance of the en- cephaloid matter, compared with the fibrous stroma, occasions that semi-elastic feel which the part early acquires, and at the same time constitutes the main difference between en- cephaloid and scirrhous cancer. In the scirrhous or fibrous variety the greater hardness of the structures is depend- ent upon the presence of a large proportion of a coarser fibrous stroma, composed of dense white fibres, the minute interspaces of which are occupied by a greyish or reddish softer and often |)ulpy substance, which may be obtained by scraping, or may be squeezed from the part. In the harder forms of scirrhous but little fluid is so obtainable ; but in some specimens here and there, softer portions are found from which a fluid cream-like matter exudes, dif- fering in no respect from the pulp of ence- phaloid cancer. These and the softer portions obtained by scraping are composed of cancer cells with molecules, granules, and disinte- grated fibrous tissue. The irregular nodulated projections oc- casioned by the unequal development of the cancer structure rapidly increase in the en- cephaloid variety, and the cervix becomes much enlarged. The surface of the more projecting portions becomes florid and vas- cular, and these portions pass first into ul- ceration by thinning and absoqjtion of their nmcous covering. The creamy or cheese- like contents of these tuberculated portions then escape, and being sometimes of a yel- low colour may be mistaken for tuberculous matter. This stage is followed by the formation of one or more corresponding ulcers upon the outer cervix, which coalescing tiestroy the remaining [)ortians of the mucous membrane, and spreading up the cervical canal, convert it into an irregular funnel-shaped cavity, bounded below by hard rugged margins. Or fungous vascular growths, friable and easily bleeding, sprout from the part and entirely destroy its natural configuration. A yellow or greenish-brown sanious discharge, of a highly fetid odour, mixed occasionally with florid blood and ultimately with fragments of putrid tissue, dates from the commencement of ulceration, and increases in proportion to the extent of surface denuded. The frag- ments of putrefied tissue which hang from the ulcerated surfaces, and occasionally pass away in the discharges, consist mainly of connec- tive tissue fibres, which are more slowly dis- integrated, stained of a dirty brown colour by infiltration with ilecomposed blood. By these disintegratmg processes both li[)s, and finally the cervix itself, are destroyed and removed ; the cancer structures being con- tinually deposited in advance of the ulcera- tion, while the funilus and even the body of the uterus may still remain sound. In like manner cancerous deposits take |)lace in the fibrous tissue surrounding the uterine neck, and attaching it to adjacent parts. Thus the uterus becomes fixed in the |)elvis, and at the same time a way is paved for the further ex- tension of destructive ulceration, by which first the blailder and then the rectum are penetrated, and the disease further extending down the vagina, the whole is laid open into one ulcerous cloaca (^fig. 479.). If life is Fig. 479. Cancer of the neck of the uterus (;/), extending to the bladder (/>), rectum (?•), and upper part of the vagina (ti). {Ad Nat.) maintained beyond this point the pelvis be- comes lined with cancerous matter, and, the peritoneum inflaming, all the adjacent |)arts become agglutinated together, until finally the ulceration may extend into and lay open the peritoneal cavity itself. The penetration of the bladder earlier than the rectum, which almost uniformly obtains, is explained by the different modes of connexion of the cervix with these two parts. Since nothing but fibrous tissue intervenes between the bladder and the anterior cervical wall 426. b b and 43.3 f), the cancer elements are readily deposited, and extended in this direction, while the posterior wall being se- parated from the rectum by a double fold of