310 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. subjacent muscular tunic. The advantage of such a yielding attachment has already been alluded to. For a description of the structure of this tunic, the reader is referred to the articles Peritoneum and Serous Mem- branes. The viuscular coat of the stomach consists of the unstriped or organic muscular fibre ; which the researches of Koelliker have shown to consist of fibre-cells, such as are represented in Jig. 241. The form and dimensions of these long and spindle-shaped elements vary little in the dilFerent parts of the intestine and stomach. Their length is from ^i^tOjigthof Fig. 241. Fibre-cell from the unstriped muscle of the intestine. 3Iagnified about 350 diameters. {After Koel- liker.) a, nucleus. an inch: their breadth from to ^oVoth at the middle, where they are flattened, and from whence they taper off to conical and pointed extremities. They contain a nucleus ; which is from to yoWt'i of an inch in length, and about a sixth of this in breadth. Their tex- ture is a pale substance,which generally appears to be homogeneous, but is sometimes seen to consist of a membrane* enclosing granulated * From a comparison of very numerous observa- tions, the author entertains no doubt that this or faintly striated contents. In some instances, they are marked by swellings ; which, as they are rarely seen in the associated fibres, are probably due to casual local contractions of the sarcous substance itself. The arrangement of these fibre-cells is very simple; they are packed together in parallel rows 242.), their flattened surfaces adhering strongly Fig. 242. Portion of a bundle of fibre-cells from the muscular coat of the intestine. Magnified 250 diameters. a, nuclei of the fibre-cells. to each other. They thus form small and broadish bundles, between which are interposed the vessels for their supply, en- closed in a sparing quantity of areolar tissue. The union and interlacement of such fasci- cles of cells, builds up the large flattened strata of the muscular coat of the intestines. The fibre-cells are developed by the longitu- dinal extension of an oval cell; in which is deposited a special sarcous content, that soon obscures the original cell-membrane. We shall hereafter see that these fibres sur- round the intestine in two layers: an external, membrane is always present, being only obscured by such circumstances as delicacy, adhesion, or re- fractility. In the fibre-cells of the adult human pylorus, he has often verified a distinct cell-wall or sarcolemma. And the reappearance of this membrane in the unstriped muscular, fibre of the human uterus, as its cells recede or degenerate after parturition, is only one of many significant instances, that we cannot deduce the real absence of such a delicate membrane, from the mere fact of its ceasing to be visible under the microscope.