230 RESPIRATION. their vascular system (^figs. 227, 228.) Like those of the ranidae they are clothed in a vibratile epidermis, numerously starred by pigmental cells, in common with the rest of the body. For some time before the deca- dence of these organs in thelarvEe of the triton they cease to exhibit the phenomenon of cihary vibration. The vibratile epidermis undergoes a change by which the ciliated cell becomes succedeed by the simple. This event foretells the approaching extinction of the parts. In their earliest condition the branchiae of the newt discover only four minute simple cylindri- cal filaments. Each grows in length and thick- ness, and throws out from the inferior surface a double row of pectinated processes. These are more complexly constructed than the pri- mitive filaments. They carry not only an afferent atid efferent trunk, but an elaborate plexus of capillary vessels. The pigment cells are limited in tlieir distribution to the larger lobes, and to the line of the larger vessels. The epidermis of the secondary processes of the branchiae is reduced to extreme tenuity. Through it the eye readily tracks the move- ments of the individual blood corpuscles on the branchial capillaries. These elliptical bodies move like a boat, their long axes coinciding with that of the channel in which they are travelling. Sometimes several proceed abreast. The diameter of the vessels of the temporary branchiae is greater than those of the lungs. In general terms it can be confidently stated that the quantity of blood circulating in the temporary branchiae of the amphibia, at the period of their maximum development, is far less in relation to the amount contained in the whole body than that which the lungs, when fully formed, are capable of carrying. This inferior amount of blood is physiologically ex- pressive of an inferior functional power in the case of the temporary organs. Their respira- tory function is really only supplemental to that of the whole body. The whole cutaneous surface, as in the Ncematoid annelids, is richly ciliated. It is organised like the branchiae. On these parts, however, the epidermal layer is not so attenuated as that with which the branchiae are invested. On these latter there is, however, a very perceptible epidermal co- vering. Its scales exhibit the ordinary hexa- gonal figure. This demonstration, which dispels all doubt, establishes the physiological principle, that the presence of epithelium is compatible with the respiratory office of the part which it clothes. This law prevails throughout the class of fishes ; it has also been reduced to actual fact by the author throughout the whole sub-kingdom of the invertebrata. But it must not be forgotten that its office on the breath- ing organs is almost exclusively mechanical. In no known example among vertebrated animals does the epithelial investment of a respiratory surface develop itself into any of the forms of a secreting organ. No "follicles" are, at any time or under any circumstances, discovered on these localities, in this class of animals, but in the inver- tebrata follicular glandules are constant on the surfaces of the respiratory organs. The constituent !.<;ales are therefore function- ally passive. Nuclei and a granular proto- plasm would find no purpose to subserve if they were present in a highly developed form. Thus is exemplified the law of " demand" and "supply:" disuse entails attenuation on all living structures. Either the gases by which the epidermis of respiratory locahties is traversed suppress the glandular office of the scales, or these latter, from the first, re- ceive a special organisation. The scales of the branchial epithelium contain nothing but a pellucid fluid. This fluid condenses, fluidi- fies, the respiratory gases in transitu. This is the office of the refined covering under study. The "principle" that the epithelium of the breathing organs is required by the physical conditions of its office to be reduced to the state of the utmost thinness receives new proofs from the study of the internal branchiae. From all that is known it is probable that in minute structure the branchiae of the per- enni-branchiates conform to the plan of the temporary organs just described. The ge- neral arrangement of the primary branchial vessels and the structure of the heart are identical. 77/1? internal temporary BrancMee of the Amphibia. — The process by which these or- gans are withdrawn into the interior of the branchial chamber is not simply that of short- ening. It is the labour of a new organisation. The internal gills of the tadpole differ in type Fig. 229. The internal branchice of the Tadpole of the Frog, b, e, are the primary trunks supported by the cartilaginous arcli c, which give off tlie looped processes a; d, is one of the vascular loops viewed transparently, and showing the arrangement of vessels in them, and the epithelium by which they are covered. of structure from the external. The ultimate vessels of the latter are differently looped.