305 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. anatomy conclusively shows that the fusion of certain structures by no means implies the absence of their several functions; while a history of the development of each individual would equally establish that, though the embryo at a certain stage of life is quite devoid of a digestive cavity, it is nevertheless nourished by materials which have been pre- viously set apart from the substance of the parent. And just as it nmst doubtless effect some change in these materials, in order to assimilate them to its own various textures, so it is evident that such a change, however slight, probably represents what is as much a digestive as an absorptive act:—a digestion in which the absence of many of the ordinary agents is sufficiently accounted for by the mini- mum of waste which this food supplies, and the minimum of change which it lias to undergo. Now some of these parasitic genera are also con- nected by the circumstance, that the anenterous condition probably forms but a stage of their development;—so that the process of time, or their transplantation to a more congenial dwelling, would often convert them into animals possessing an alimentary canal. Of such creatures we might therefore vaguely say, that they retain the low digestive development of an early ovum; or, in other words, that they are themselves the partially developed embryos of a very simple organization. That, with such a simple structure, they should effect such a complex function, is surely not one whit more extraordinary than what appears to be the case in the action of every ordinary cell ; which is what it is — liver, kidney, or the like —by virtue of powers that its mere structure will not explain — powers that enable it to attract and retain certain materials, to re- linquish or dismiss others, or even to effect a definite metamorphosis in its own chemical ingredients. The simplest form of the digestive organ may be seen in the hydriform Polyp, as a cavity of the body, in which the food undergoes a kind* of solution. The agent of this process is doubtless a fluid which exsudes from the mem- branous walls of the cavity. But as these are also the parietes of the body, it is to the latter that we must probably refer the origin of the solvent. That harmless inversion of the whole animal, which Trembley was able to effect, strengthens such a conjecture. Nor is it impos- sible, that the poison of the tentacles is itself but a more concentrated form of the gas- tric fluid. In any case, one cannot avoid suspecting that, in this animal, the alimentary solvent has some very simple chemical rela- tion to the organism generally. The more so that, although it acts upon the swallowed prey v^fith the greatest energy and rapidity, the tentacles of the animal itself, which are often closely entwined around the hapless victim, are quite unaffected by even a prolonged stay * For the sense in which we are to understand the word solution as applied to tliis process, see the remarks upon tlie action of the gastric juice at in the stomach. And the same impunity ex- tends to another animal of its own s[)ecies which may have been swallowed while tena- ciously clinging round the prize * that both are disputing. It is usual to call such a simple digestive cavity a "stomach." But though the etymo- logy of the term quite allows of its being thus applied, still the definite character of this organ in the higher animals seems to sug- gest that we should either restrict its applica- tion, or recollect the doubtful meaning which it acquires by such an extended use. When- ever an organ of this kind appears to effect the solution of substances which pertain to the albuminous groupf, it is entitled to rank as a true stomach. But in proportion as this fact is uncertain or improbable, the name becomes a vague designation, which ought never to be made use of without recollecting what it really means—a mere receptacle of food. In the instances before us, such a recej)tacle probably represents, not only the stomach of the higher animal, but a fusion of this with the succeeding]: portions of the tube, and with all the accessory organs of digestion,—such as the liver, pancreas, &c. And just as such simple cavities import more than a mere gastric function, so conversely we might find others bearing the same name, which com- plicate a fully developed alimentary canal, and thus imply less. These, though called stomachs, are probably mere crops. A complex digestive organ might at first sight seem to be the natural antithesis of the preceding. But though complexity forms a useful subjective contrast, without which we could indeed hardly conceive of simplicity— still, as already hinted, instead of a progressive evolution, corresponding to a gradual and suc- cessive advance of development, the alimentary canal rather offers a variety of deviations. And most of these deviations appear to result from causes, the number and intricacy of which is such as to defy all analysis. We shall therefore only enumerate those, the influence of which seems to be most direct and im- portant. I. It is scarcely necessary for us to dwell upon that advance of development, and gi'adual increase of complexity, which the reader must have observed in the [jreccding sketch. He has seen how, in progressing from the low- est Inf'iisory to the highest Mammal, a simple excavation first became a membranous canal; how it then acquired an additional orifice; an organ of mastication ; a salivary appa- ratus ; a stomachal dilatation; a snbdivi- * It is interesting to notice that differences of development, such as arc obviously almost tanta- mount to diversity of species, appear to remove all barrier to this solvent action. Thus the Polypifonn Medusa devours and digests its Infusory-like younger brethren. t See p. 3;^5. j The term " chylific stomach," sometimes made use of by comparative anatomists, seems especially to demand such a caution. For we need scarcely point out that, in the higher animals, at any rate, this organ does not "make cl)3'le." X