OVUM. [105] tozoa into the ovum in others, suggest novel and more general and extended views of the process of fecundation, and while they add certainty to the more limited observations of the same kind made upon animals higher in the scale, tend to prevent the adoption of partial views in regard to these functions of the animal economy. It is principally among the more highly or- ganised Invertebrata that we meet with that form of ovum in which the nutritive is com- bined in considerable quantity with the forma- tive yolk, and in which segmentation is partial, such as the Cephalopoda, Insecta, Arachnida, Myriapoda, Crustacea, and some of the Arti- culate Worms. In by far the greater number of the Mollusca, such as Gasteropoda and Acephala, the ova belong to the smaller kind with more or less complete segmentation, as also in most of the Annelida, as Hirudinea and Lumbricina, the Nematoid, Cestoid and Trematode worms, with the Planarite, the Rotifera, Echinodermata, Bryozoa, Acalepha; and Polvpina. I now [troceed to give a short statement of the principal facts that have been ascertained as to the structure of the ovum in these ani- mals, and to state some details with regard to some of those which are either best known or which present phenomena of the greatest interest. 1st. Large-yolked Ova iv'itli partial Cleavage. Cephalopoda. — The ova of this class of ani- mals have already been referred to in connec- tion with those of birds, scaly reptiles, and cartilaginous fishes, to which they present in some respects a greater analogy than to those of almost any of the Invertebrata. The con- siderable size of the germinal vesicle with its multiple maculaSjthelaigfe mass of the coloured yolk (nutritive), composed of conglomerated masses of yolk corpuscles, and the very limited extent of the process of segmentation, which affects only a round disc of the germinal part of the eg?, are all characters in which the ova of the Cephalopoda, at least the Sepia and Loligo, which have been fully examined, are ascertained to be similar to those of the large- yolked group. We owe the most of our knowledge of the ova of this class and their development to KoUiker's interesting treatise, published in 184.4.* The ova of the Sepia are deposited singly, but are attached in numbers close together by pedicles to the stalks of Alga? and other marine productions. Those of Loligo are arranged in small masses, in which a number are enclosed in a general bag or covering of gelatinous matter, which is at- tached along with others of the same kind by means of pedicles. I have found those of Sepiola also thus enclosed in small pyriform Ciipsules. The ovum of Cephalopoda possesses a firm laminated external covering or chorion, which in some is darkened on the surlace by the colouring matter or ink, in others is trans- * Entwifkelungs-gesch. der Cephalopoden, 4to. Zurich, 1844. parent and colourless. Immediately within this outer membrane is situated a structureless vitelline membrane, containing the mass of yolk-substance, which is separated from the membrane by a slight interval. It appears to be ascertained that the chorion is formed by superposition on the surface of the ovum dur- ing its descent through the oviduct. In the ovary the ova are contained in slender capsules, attached to the rest of the ovary by narrow pedicles. When ripe the ova escape from the capsules, in some species by an ir- regular laceration, in others by a more regular and defined opening, and, falling into the cavity of the ovary, pass thence into the oviduct, through which they are finally excluded. Fe- cundation is believed to occur soon after the escape of the ova from their ovicapsules or in the earlier part of their descent through the oviduct ; but this process has not, so far as I am aware, been directly observed. The ova of the common Sepia officinalis have an oval form, one end being much nar- rower than the other. It is at this the pointed extremity or narrow pole of the egg that the germinal vesicle is situated, while the egg is in the ovary, close under the vitelline membrane; and it is at this part also that, at a subsequent period, the process of segmentation and the first formation of the embryo take place. The narrow end is therefore the germinal pole. This extremity of the egg is always turned to the opposite side from the pedicle of the cap- sule, which is attached to the middle of the blunt or wider end. One of the most remarkable peculiarities in these ova, is the extraordinary change which the outer part of the yolk and the vitelline membrane undergo during the greater part of the time occupied by the growth of the ovum in the ovary. This change, of which the appearance had been known to some previous observers, was first accurately described and explained by Kolliker. From his observations it appears that at first the ovarian ova are quite smooth on the surface, and that at the time of complete ma- turity of the ovum, or after its escape from the ovary, the vitelline membrane and surface of the yolk are also quite smooth ; but that in the intervening time, that is, during the greater part of the period of its growth, the surface of the yolk is indented or marketl with peculiar grooves, into which folds of the vitel- line membrane pass so as to line them to the bottom, somewhat after the manner in which the pia mater tlescends into the sulci of thebi'ain, but without the same convoluted form. This has been represented by Kolliker in the Sepia, and I have observed it in this genus, and have con- firmed in every particular that author's state- ments as to this change. It ap|)ears that at first these inflections of the yolk and membrane begin as longitudinal folds, extend- ing between the wide and narrow poles of the ovum, and, gradually increasing, become at last so deep as almost to meet each other in the interior of the yolk. Subsequently they are traversed by more numerous depressions.