SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 471 while a partly fluid, partly solid exudation surrounded the heart, forming in some parts adhesions between it and the pericardium. From the experiments of Krimer it appears that division of the renal nerves gives rise to changes in the constitution of the urine. According to his observations this fluid, after the nerves have been divided, contains al- bumen as well as the red colouring matter of the blood, these increasing in the same proportion as the normal ingredients diminish in quantity. Similar results were also ob- tained by Brachet* in dividing these nerves. He cut the renal artery and with it the nerves leading to the kidney, and then connected the two extremities of the cut vessel by means of a canula so as to keep up the flow of blood. The fluid wliich passed off" by the urethra contained fibrin and albumen as well as the red colouring matter or hsematine. Analogous experiments were also performed by Miiller and Peipers.f A ligature was applied around the renal vessels of the dog and sheep so tightly as to destroy the nerves, and again relaxed in order to allow the circulation to be re-established. Only in one case did they observe the secretion of urine continue in the kidney, the nerves of which iiad been de- stroyed, and in this case it contained blood as also hippuric acid. The kidney itself was more or less injected, and rapidly became disorganised. As regards the influence of the sympathetic on the circulation, it has been already stated, that division of the sympathetic in the neck is followed very rapidly by distension of the vessels of the conjunctiva. From experiments lately made by Bernard, it also apfiears that in the rabbit the vessels of the ear on the same side in like manner become immediately distended with blood, so that the ear appears quite red, while at the same time its tempe- rature, as well as that of the whole side of the lace, rises so considerably, that the dif- ference between it and that of the opposite side is distinctly appreciable to the touch. This experiment 1 have repeated several times. In a rabbit to which ether had been given, the temperature of the two ears rose to about 9.i° F., the vessels at the same time being much distended. Tlic sympathetic was then divided about the midille of the neck ; shortly thereafter the temperature of the ear on the side on which the nerve was not divided, sunk to 85°, and its vessels became much less distended. The temperature of the ear on the side on which the nerve had been divided, still continued as high as 95°, its vessels also remained distended, and were felt pulsating forcibly. On examming the two ears an hour or so afterwards the tempera- ture of that upon the side on which the nerve had been divided, was still felt to be dis- tinctly warmer than the other: its vessels were also still distended, and pulsating for- cibly. How long the effects produced upon * Op. cit. p. 326. t De Nervorum in Secretioncs Actione, p. 26. the temperature and blood-vessels continue I have not been able to ascertain : they are certainly not so permanent as the contraction of the pupil. While this remains contracted for weeks, or even months, no difference in the condition of the two ears can be distin- guished a week or so after the nerve has been divided.* * The elevation of temperature, according to Bernard, begins immediately after the nerve is divided, and is so qiiiclcly developed that in a few minutes, in certain circumstances, the difference in temperature of the two sides of the bead may rise to 4° or ifi centigrade. This difference of tempera- ture is perfectly appreciable to the hand, but is better determined by introducing a small ther- mometer into the nostril or ear of the animal. Re- moval of the superior cervical ganglion is followed by the same effects as section of the s3-mpathctic cord, only these effects are always more rapid, more intense, and more durable. After section of the sympathetic cord in rabbits the phenomena of ex- cess of sensibility and calorification are scarcel}' observable beyond five to eighteen days, while in dogs they may continue for six weeks or two months. After ablation of the ganglia in these animals the persistance of the phenomena may be regarded as indefinite: in a dog in which the superior cervical ganglion of the left side had been removed all the phenomena of excess of sensibility and calorification due to that operation were very intense a year and a half after the extirpation of the ganglion, when the animal was sacrificed for otiier purposes. The temperature of the side of the head on which the operation has been performed is nearly the same as that of the central parts of the body, such as the abdomen, thorax, or rectum; sometimes, however, it is higher, being 40°, v/hile the temperature of the interna! parts is 88° to 39°. The increase of temperature is also attended by an increase in the activity of tlie circulation, as is very distinctly seen in the ear of the rabbit. But in the following days, or even on the day after the operation, the vascular turgescence diminishes considerably, or disappears, while the heat of tlie face continues to be very well developed. It is found, by passing the bulb of a small thermometer into incisions properly made, that the elevation of temperature observed .on the superficial parts of the head extends to the deeper parts as well, and e\-eu into the cavity of the cranium and substance of the brain. This is better observed after extirpation of the superior cervical ganglion. The blood itself, which returns from parts so heated, also possesses a higher temperature. The side of the head on which the temperature has been so raised, presents also a greater resistance to the effects of heat and cold, when the animal is placed in a stove where the ambient heat is greater than that of the body ; while the sound side becomes warmer, the other does not. When placed in a colder medium than its own bod}'', the whole side loses temperature more rapidly than the other. Thei-e is also a sort of exaltation of vitality on the side on wdiich the operation has been performed, the involuntary movements continuing longer on this side than in other parts of tlie body. When the cephalic extremity of the cut sympa- thetic nerve in a dog is galvaniseil, not only does the pupil become larger, but all the other phe- nomena which followed division of the nerve disap- pear, and the opposite take place; the pupil becomes larger than that of the opposite side; the eyeball pro- jects ; the vascularisation disappears; and the tem- perature sinks below normal. When the galvanisa- tion is stopped, then the phenomena caused by section of tlie nerve reappear. By Walter and Bi-OAvn Sequard the elevation of temperature is attributed to an increased afflux of H II 4