'ABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 250 REPRODUCTION, VEGE teen cells, of which eight are superficial, and the other eight enclosed as a central spheri- Later stage. Division of parent-cell of embryo hj a vertical septum. The vesicles contained in the upper tubular por- tion of the germ-cell li.ive now arranged them- selves so as to form a filamentous prolongation to the embryo, about 200 diam. cal mass. By the frequent repetition of the same process it increases in size, still retaining Fig 194.. Isolated sl.rfeen-celkd embryo of the same, with its filameHtous prolongation, about 150 diam. its globular form, until it is transformed into an embryo, the direction of growth of the axis of which is downwards. 107, Orchis Murio.— ln the Orchideee the structure of the ovule is remarkably simple. The following description of the mode of origin and early development of the embryo, in Orchis Morio, all the stages of which we have ourselves followed, is taken from Mr. Hen- frey's paper on Vegetable Reproduction, in the Annals of Natural History : — " The ovule springs from the placental surface as a single projecting cell, which, by subdivision, soon becomes a cellular papilla (the nucleus), com- posed of a central cell (the embryo-sac), sur- rounded by a simple cellular layer. The two coats gradually grow up over this, and by the greater elongation of one side the ovule becomes anatropous. The nucleus mean- while loses its cellular coat, apparently by absorption, and appears as a large oval sac enclosed in the coats, consisting in fact merely Fig. 193. Early condition of ovide of Orchis mascula. The embryo-sac is exposed in consequence of the absorption of the cells which previously sur- rounded it, 180 diam. of an embryo sac. In the apex of this, about the epoch when the pollen falls upon the stigma, three cellules (embryonal vesicles), make their appearance at the upper end of Fig. 196. Isolated embryo-sac of the same immediately before impregnation, containing three embryonal vesicles, 180 diam. the embryo sac, formed apparently by free cell-formation around a globule of protoplasm. The pollen masses on the stigma send down pollen tubes, which traverse the conducting tissue of the style, and make their way to the placentas, where they enter, ordinarily, singly (sometimes more than one) into the micro- pyle canals of the ovules, and come in contact with the outside of the apex of the embryo sac, immediately above where the embryonal vesicles lie ; but the pollen tube does not pene- trate the embryo sac. Soon after the pollen tube has reached the embryo sac, one (very rarely two) of the embryonal vesicles begins to swell, becomes divided by a cross septum into two cells, and while the upper one grows out in a filamentous form through the micropyle, by a continued process of cell-division, the lower cell enlarges, and divides repeatedly so as to form a cellular globule—the embryo, which in this plant does not go on to produce a co- tyledon and radicle, as in most other cases. The filamentous prolongation, the use of