249 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 106. Hippuris vidgaris.*—The already ana- tropous ovule of this plant consists of a cylin- drical nucleus of delicate cellular tissue, along one side of which is observed a longitudinal fleshy ridge, terminating above in a short funi- culus, by which the ovule is suspended from the apex of the one-celled ovary. One of the central cells of this nucleus becomes larger Fig. 190. Section of naked nucleus of Hippuris vulgaris at an early staye, about liiU cliain. The embryo-sac is seen as a larg€ central nucleated cell. (Unger.J than the rest, from which it is further distin- guished by its containing a free vesicular nu- cleolated cell-nucleus anil granular fluid. This cell, the embryo sac, rapidly enlarges, and at the same time assumes an elongated oval form. A number of vesicles of various size are de- veloped at the same time, at its micropyle extremity, all of which disappear some time before the scattering of the pollen. Shortly after *his has taken place several new cells are formed, one of which, situated towards the upper end of the sac, begins at once to lengthen, and is finally converted into a tube closed at both extremities (germ-cell). The rest arrange themselves in vertical series, so as to form a continuous tissue (the endo- sperm), which completely occupies the lower part of the sac. yJ/Vcr this, in consetjuence, as may be presumed, of the contact of the pollen tube with the membrane of the sac, the germ-cell is divided by a transverse septum * Unger, Botanische Beobachtnngen, Entwick. ties Embryos von Hippuris vulgaris. Bot. Zeitung, 1849, p. 329. Sanderson, On the Embi'yogeny of Hippuris vulgaris. Trans, of Bot. Soc. of Edinburgh, Feb. 1850. into a tubular superior, and a spheroidal and much smaller inferior compartment. The Fig. 191. Upper end of emhryo-sac of the same as observed immediately before impregnation, 250 diam. The tubular germ-cell, the lower end of which is embedded in tlie nucleated cells of the endosperm, occupies its axis. latter, which is the parent cell of the embryo, is divided by a vertical se|)tam into two hemispheres. In these two new septa are formed, also vertical, but at right angles to Fig. 192. T/ie same immediaiety after impregnation. The germ-cell is now divided by a transverse sep- tum into two compartments, the inferior of which is the parent-cell of the embryo. 250 diam. the last. In the meantime, several new vesicles make their appearance in the upper tubular compartment of the germ-cell, which eventually become cylindrical, and arrange themselves, end to end, in its interior. The four cells of the embryo now divide by hori- zontal septa, which are succeeded by others parallel to its surface, and meeting their pre- decessors at_ angles of 43°. The globular body which is thus formed, consists of six-