334 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. ive fluid will, however, sustain a temperature of 160° without damage. But at a heat above this, it becomes wholly inactive, and partially insoluble. And Dunglison* found the organic [)rinciple of the gastric juice to be insoluble in hot water. Alcohol, acids, and alkalies, when applied in excess, have also a destructive influence on the digestive power of pepsine. In the case of acids, this injurious effect is much less marked. As might have been ex- jjected from tlie constant reaction of the gas- tric juice, an acid is essential to its digestive cfhcacy ;—indeed, we might almost say, to its very existence. Even that incomplete loss of acid, which we have seen to be involved in the precipitation of its pepsine, must be compen- sated by an artificial aciduiation, before the a(|ueous solution of this substance regains its former digestive powers. Here, however, as in the case of heat, it is necessary that certain limits should be obser- ved. Wasmann found that an addition of about 3 parts of hydi'ochloric acid per 1000 formed a tolerably effective fluitl; — a quan- tity which corresponds with about half of that present in tiie gastric juice according to Bidder and Schmidt's analyses.f But much larger proportions of this acid may be added, not only with impunity, but even with advantage. Thus Schwann used from 6 to ]2 parts per 1000. And Elsaesser thinks that the most favourable proportion for diges- tive purposes is about 3 or -t per cent, of muriatic acid ;—a ijuantity which would be about five times as great as that present in the gastric juice. But the nature of the acid seems a matter of indifference J Nitric, phospiioric, sulphu- ric, acetic, and lactic acid, have all been suc- cessfully made use of. And the range of amount already specified for hydrochloric acid might, d priori, prepare us for the fact, that the re- quisite quantities of each of these acids seem solely related to their more or less dilute state; and do not allow us to recognize any trace of an equivalent chemical propoi tion. Applied in still larger quantities, all of these acids first weaken, antl then destroy, the digestive power of tlie solution of pepsine. The comparative amount of injin-y inflicted by equal quantities of tlie different acids appears to depend, like their solvent efficacy, chiefly on the degree of their concentration, and that of the digestive fluid itself. How essential its acid is to the solvent powers of a natural or artificial gastric juice, is well shown by the effect of neutralizing it with an alkali. Under these circumstances, not only does it lose all action upon albu- minous substances, but if mixed with them, soon shares in the putrefaction whicii they are liable to undergo. An equally rapid putre- faction occurs in the simple aqueous infusion * Beaumont, Op. cit. p. 69. t The acid Wasmann added to the pepsinous fluid being liquid, would contain less than half its weight of true hj-drochloric acid. X Beraartl, Loc. cit.; Lehmanu, vol. ii. p. 50. of stomach. Left to itself, however, the powers of the neutralized gastric juice are only suspended ; and can be restored by the addi- tion of a proper quantity of acid. But in the course of time, the neutral fluid gradually becomes mouldy:—a process which appears to differ in its rapidity only from the similar decomposition that occurs in pure gastric juice, apparently after the slow evapora- tion of its acid.* A still larger quantity of alkali permanently destro3s all its solvent powers, and is followed by its rapid putrefac- tion. That incomplete loss of acid which was noticed as occurring in the ordinary processes for obtaining pepsine, does not entirely sus- pend its specific action. On the contrary, its watery solution still retains the power of pre- cipitating large quantities of casein, and even of exerting a feeble digestive or solvent influ- ence. But while all such observations on the artificial digestive fluid agree in representing an acid as one of its most essential elements, some physiologists have gone further, and have asserted it to be so far the true and only prin- ciple of the gastric secretion, as to be capable of imitating its action. And others, who allow that the dilute acid is only rendered efficacious by the presence of the organic matters with which it is combined, have doubted the specific nature of the gastric prin- ciple ; and have asserted that acidulated saliva or nmcus, or an acidulated infusion of blad- der, diaphragm, trachea, or intestine, is ca- pable of effectinga solution of the protein com- pounds like that seen in artificial digestion. Each of these remarkable statements demands a passing notice. Many dilute acids—such as sulphuric, nitric, acetic, hydrochloric, and phosphoric — can certainly produce appearances resembling imperfect solution, in meat and many of the protein compounds. But such a solvent ac- tion, even when most marked — as in the steeping of small pieces of coagulated albu- men in dilute hychochloric or phosphoric acid — differs greatly, both in nature and amount, from the true stomach digestion. It requires the aid of a much higher temperature ; it is ex- cessively slow, superficial, and imperfect ; and the resulting weak and turbid solution often parts with its dissolved constituents on the addition of the ordinary reagents. The same statement will apply to various experiments that have been made with an aci- dulated infusion of large or small intestine; in which the process of solution, though some- what f more energetic, is still so feeble, slow, and imperfect J, as to be scarcely comparable with that effected by the gastric juice. While we ought not to forget, that the superior * Beaumont, Op. cit. p. 71.; Blondlof, Oj). cit. p. 351. f Compare Valentin, vol. i. p. 36G.; Todd and Bowman, vol. ii. p. 203.; and Frerichs, p. 795. X In any future ob;ervations of this kind it would be very desirable to institute a strict com- parison between the reactions of the resulting solu- tion, and those of true peptone or albuminose.