REPRODUCTION, VEGE 'ABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 247 R 4 of the nucleus there exists an ovoidal embryo- sac, which owes it origin to the coalescence of a vertical and axial series of cells. At this period it contains only granules of starch and Fig. 185. Section of nucleus of ovule of Pinus Austriaca, in the centre of which is observed the young embryo- sac, 150 diam. mucus, the nucleus which it at first contained having disappeared. It corresponds, as will be seen as we proceed, to the internal mem- brane of the ripe macrospore of tiie Riiizocar- peae and LycopodiaceEe. The pollen grain in theConiferasgenerall} itself reaches the summit of the nucleus by means of the wide micropyle. From each grain emanates a tube, which pene- trates for a short distance into the tissue of the nucleus; not, however, until it has re- mained for some time upon its summit. In the meantime numerous free nuclei have be- come visible in the embryo-sac, which imme- diately afterwards " presents itself filled with a large number of radially elongated cells, which are arranged in a concentric layer." These continue to multiply by septa in all three directions, until the beginning of winter, at which period the wall of the eml)ryo-.sac is so delicate as to be indistinguishable. During the winter months these cells undergo no further change, except that their walls are thickened by internal gelatinous deposition. In the beginning of March of the second year, both the gelatinous material and the cell-wall disappear, the primordial sacs lying free in the cavity of the embryo-sac, each containing a large globular nucleus. Shortly after, the nucleus of each cell disappears, and is re- placed by two or four smaller ones, round each of which new spherical secondary cells are formed. The parent cell is dissolved, and immediately after, the same process is re- peated in the secondary cells. While this is taking place, the embryo-sac has increased to twenty times its former volume ; its membrane has become resistant and vitreous, while throughout the whole ovule, with the excep- tion of its summit, an active cell growth has taken place. Towards the middle of May the permanent cellular body which after- wards fills the whole embryo-sac, originates by the application, in successive layers, of the cells contained previously in its cavity, to its membrane. By the continuation of this pro- cess, the sac becomes a second time filled with cellular tissue.* Two or three of the cells sub- jacent to the micropyle end of the embryO' Fig. 186. ..■/ ■ / Section of naked ovule of Finns mariiima, as ob- served in Jan^mry of the second year, 150 diam. The spherical embryo-sac is filled with cells, the walls of which are already thickened by gela- tinous deposition. Two pollen grains occupy the funnel-shaped space between the wide microp3'le and the summit of the nucleus. The cellular tissue of the latter is penetrated by two tuhes emanating from the pollen grains. At the dotted line the tissue of the ovule becomes continuous with that of the spermophore. sac now become larger than the rest, and are destined to contain the germs of the future embryos. As their development proceeds, these bodies, the so-called corpuscula, assume an elongated, oval form, and the space in- tervening between their summits and the membrane of the embryo-sac is occupied by four small cells on the same level, which are Fig. 187. Four cells which surmount the corpusculum of Finns sylvestris, seen from above, 200 dia7n. * To this tissue is commonly applied the term "albuminous body." It corresponds in its mode of origin with the " endosperm(§ lOG.) of other Phanerogamia.