44-3 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. ray appear, as Robin stales, to be (in general at least) connected with broad fibres, while the smaller cells are connected with narrow fibres : this, however, does not appear to be invariably the case. In the sympathetic gan- glia there are sometimes seen connected with narrow fibres cells as large as some of those in the spinal ganglia, which are connected with broad fibres. Moreover, as already stated, there appear to be transitional sizes between the larger and smaller variety of cor- puscles. KciUiker also calls attention to the fact that small ganglionic corpuscles occur in other parts than in the sympathetic, as for example those in the brain and spinal cord. It would seem, then, that just as the finer variety of tubular nerve-fibres cannot be re- garded as characteiistic of the sympathetic system, so also the smaller variety of gan- glionic corpuscles cannot be regarded as pe- culiar to it either. It has been already stated, that the nerve- fibres which compose the posterior root of the spinal nerves in the ray, &c., have all, according to VVagner, ganglionic corpuscles developed upon them. He concludes from this, that all sensory fibres are so constituted, and that we have thus a good mark by which a sensory nerve-fibre may be distinguished from one possessed of motor properties. To this view, however, it is objected by Kolliker, that in the higher animals at least, so far is it from being the case, that all the fibres in the posterior roots of the spinal nerves are provided with these structures, that not one of the fibres proceeding from the spinal cord enters the ganglion at all, the nerve fibres connected with the ganglion be- ing fibres which arise in it and run peripheri- cally, not one of them passing in the opposite direction towards the spinal cord. In ex- amining the spinal ganglia of the mouse, after addition, as Kolliker directs, of dilute solu- tion of soda, I have often had no difficulty in observing, that a great portion at least of the fibres in the posterior root run past the ganglion without forming any connection with its corpuscles, and, moreover, that the fibres of the ganglion appear to be directed periphe- rically, as he states.* * A paper on multipolar ganglion-cells has been published by Remak in tlie Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akadcmie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin fiir Jaiiuar., 1854, translated also in the Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal for April, 1854. He mentions that it was first made known byStilling's discovery of the so-called norve-nuclei in the pons Varolii of man and of the mammalia, that the multipolar g'anglion-cells discovered by Purkinje, Muller, and himself (1837), in the cen- tral organs of the vertebrata are connected with motor nerve-libres. It has also been ascertained by Wagner (1847), that each of the large multipolar ganglion-cells of the electric lobes in the torpedo tiecomes continuous by means of a process with the axis cylinder of a fibre of the electric roots of tlie n. vagus and trigeminus. The other branched pro- cesses of these cells, distinguished by their granular or striated appearance, serve the purpose, according to Wagner, of connecting the cells with each other. Remak could not, however, in an examination of the Torpedo marmorata find such connections. On Connection between the Sympathetic and Cerebro-spinal Systems. — By the older ana- treating the fresh brain with a solution of sublimate or of double chromate of potash, the electric lobes are easily separated into their constituents. All the ganglion-cells are multipolar, surrounded by delicate nucleate sheaths, and occupy the meshes of a network formed of wide vessels with thick walls. The processes destined for the formation of the electric roots of the vagns and trigeminus collect themselves at the base of the cerebral lobes into strong bundles visible to the naked eye. The re- maining branched processes, becoming surrounded by a thin medullary sheath, form nerve-tubes -with dark borders, which pass into the medulla oblongata. A connection of the cells with sensory fibres has not as yet been demonstrated; the sensory roots of the vagus and trigeminus do not pass into the electric lobes ; rather those of the former pass into the medulla oblongata, those of the latter into a gray appendix of the cerebellum (feuillet restiforme of Lerres and Lavi), which in its structure, par- ticularly in the size and form of its multipolar ganglion-cells, agrees with the cerebellum, but not with the electric lobes. He mentions that he has in his possession trans- verse and longitudinal sections from the spinal cords of man and of the ox, prepared by Stilling, in which, as mentioned by the latter, the passage of nerve-fibres belonging to the motor}' roots into multipolar ganglion-cells of the anterior gray co- lunni is observed. He finds also in the transverse sections small bands of broad nerve-fibres with dark borders, which seem to unite the anterior and poste?5or roots. From the place of entrance of the anterior roots into the anterior gray columns, or commencing at the oirter circumference of the latter, they run as far as the posterior surface of the sub- stantia gelatinosa, where the posterior roots enter the latter. Plere the}' are connected with the gan- glion-cells, which send one of their processes to the sensory roots, while the chief mass of the latter radiates in broad thick bands through the gela- tinous substance into the posterior gray columns as far as the seat of the large multipolar ganglion- cells. These circular bands of fibres may be pre- sumed to indicate one of the paths on which in decapitated animals the stimuli applied to sensory nerves gives rise to reflex movements. It is re- markable in this respect, that the long axis of the largest ganglion-cells has the same direction as the long axis of the spinal cord, and that besides the lateral processes by whose means they are con- nected with the fibres of the roots of the nerves, they send out branched processes at both poles towards the cephalic and caudal extremities of the spinal cord. In the spinal ganglia the multipolar cells dis- covered by Remak in 1837 in the ganglia are not found. They consist ratlier, as he observed, in fresh plagiostomes, without exception of the bipolar cells simultaneously described by Robin and Wag- ner (1846). These constitute, as shown by Leydig in Chimajra monstrosa, nucleated swellings of the axis cylinder, and are surrounded by a sheath con- sisting of an epithelial layer, and of a firm mem- brane, which is continuous with the sheath of the nerve-tube. Dipolar cells may also be obtained from the spinal ganglia of man and of the mam- malia. They frec[ueiitly appear unipolar when the two processes leave the cell close to one another. More frequently, however, as Kolliker observes, are cells seen with a single process; this probably di- vides after a short course into two fibres. He finds at least in the spinal ganglia of the mammalia (ox), not nnfrequently, divisions of nerve-tubes witli dark borders, which he misses in the plagiostomes. Of the ganglia, it is exclu.sively the symjiathetic which are made up of multipolar ganglion-cells. The sheath of the latter consists, as in the spinal ganglia, of a delicate layer of cells and of a strong