OVUM. 1121] puscles; which are held by Nelson thus to pene- trate or gain access to the vitelline substance. E. Ovum more advanced ; the vitelline and albuminous membranes formed; clear highly re- fracting spaces resembling altered spermatic cor- puscles are seen in the yolk substance. F. Ovum after fecundation; uniform structure of the yolk substanee previous to the appearance of the embryonic cell and commencement of segmenta- tion. The chorion has now become tuberculated. of the ova appears to consist, first, in tiie production of minute cell-germs in the upper- most part of the ovarian tube immediately adjoining its ccEcal termination. It does not appear to be fully ascertained whether these germs are originally, as some have supposed, the maculfE or nuclei, or rather, as others hold, the germinal cells or vesicles themselves : the latter opinion appears to be the most probable. Second, the granules of the yolk-substance very soon collect round the exterior of the ger- minal vesicles. These granules appear at first to be suspended in fluid ; but a little later, as they come to collect round the germinal vesicles, they are united together in a mass by a firmer but clear basement substance, and when the minute ova have somewhat in- creased in size, the outline of this clearer basement substance of the yolk is distinguish- able. There is not, however, at first any ex- ternal or vitelline membrane; of this Dr. Nelson and I have convinced ourselves by re- peated observations in Ascaris mystax.* The ova, as they continue to descend in the vitelligenous part of the tube in immense numbers closely pressed together, assume the form of subtriangular flattened bodies, and come to be arranged in series of three, four, or more, in a short spiral round the centre of that part of the ovarian tube which constitutes the yolk organ, as round a central axis, but without being united together by any com- mon stalk or other structure. A [irodigious number of ova are thus packed together in a very small space. In passing through the next part of tube, which forms an oviduct, the ova are detached from the spiral and closely-set position, and being surrounded by fluid, which must here be secreted within the tube, descend one by one through its narrower part. At this place they encounter the spermatic corpuscles when they are present, and undergo the change of fecundation ; but whether fecundated or not, the ova now lose their germinal vesicles, alter their form from that of flattened triangles to oval, become for a time much more yielding and soft, and somewhat later begin to acquire an external covering which they have not previously possessed. The peculiar motionless and tailless sper- matic corpuscles appear, therefore, to come into contact with the ova when the yolk is exposed directly to their action. According to the interesting observations of Dr. Henry * See Nelson's paper on the Reproduction of the Ascaris Mystax in the Trans. Roy Soc, of Lond, 1852, p. 5G3., pi. 28, figa. 48. and 50. Ftg. 8C*. Development of Spermatic Corpuscles in Ascaris mystax. This figure is introduced to show the several stages of development of the peculiar acaudal and motionless spermatic corpuscles of the Ascaris mystax. A. shows various stages of the primary sperm- cells or rather sperm-germs; in the more advanced of which towards tlie right, internal cells are seen forming by endogenous production within the primary germ-cells. B. & c. show the second stage, in which the sepa- rated germ-cells have each become covered by a finely granular mass collected round them ; in b. this process is beginning; in c. it is completed, and the sperm cells thus formed have assumed an ovoid shape. D. Tivo views of sperm-cells in the third stage, in which a quadrifid division of the whole cell has taken place preparatory to the escape or separation of the spermatozoon-cells, usually four in number, proceeding from each sperm-cell. E. Various views of these spermatozoon cells in which the radiated linear marking (seen in d.) has disappeared, and is again resolved into granules; the nucleus is seen from above in the left-hand figure; in the three others being viewed in profile the appearance of the bell-shaped spermatic cor- puscle with the nucleolus is perceptible. F. Exhibits from right to left the various pro- gressive stages of the bell-shaped corpuscle into the test tube form; the remains of the nucleolus and granular substance are seen towards the mouth of the flask-shaped bodies. Q. Illustrates the effect of water in developing " Sarcode " on the exterior of tliese corpuscles in two diiferent stages of their advancement.