PELVIS. 167 M 4 marked iUo-iscMal angle in the reverse direc- tion to that of Mammals generall}', i. e. with the retiring sides anterior (.sw Jig. 107.). The pubcs of birds are generally long, slender, rib-like, and divergent, and are com- posed of a single curved branch (ji), having no angle, and never forming a true interpubic symphysis, though, in the Ostrich and Falco Fulvus, they are closely approximated attlieir posterior extremity, and form a sort of sym- physis. The ilio-'jnibic angle is very large, from 155° to 1G0°, except iu the birds of prey above alluded to ; and the pubes and ischia are generally almost parallel. Sometimes the posterior extremities of the pubes and ischia unite to form complete elongated obturator foramina ; and they may be united also near their anterior extremities, forming a lesser an- terior division of the foramina, as in the Cur- sores {see fig. 106. k). Very often, the boun- daries of the obturator openings are incom- plete from the failure of this junction, and the foramina are vtfanting altogether ; or the an- terior union and foramina only may be present, as in the Duck {fig. 104. r), from deficiency of the pubes posteriorly, or their entire apjiroxi- mation to the ischia. The pelvic cavity is in- creased in size posteriorly, by the divergence of the pubes and ischia, and is capable of great enlargement by the yielding of their unfixed extremities. The ilio-pectineal emi- nence is generally present, and often large in size, constituting a s|)inoiis process ((/). The acetabula (i) are perforated and placed almost close to the borders of the sacrum, and generally much anterior to the centre of the whole pelvic length, that the points of support may be nearer the centre of gravity. The bird's pelvis thus constitutes a firm, compact, immobile, box-like structure, de- ficient inferiorly, affording a large and firm hold, by the elongated and strong ischia, for the extensor muscles of the leg ; and, by the large sacrum and ankylosed ilia, for those of the trunk, which is placed almost entirely in front of the supporting femora, and always more or less at an angle with them, except in the Grebes and Penguins. The centre of gravity is not, in birds, directly above these supports, as in the true erect position of man, but is placed considerably in advance of the femurs, and necessitates considerable flexion of the lower parts of the legs, and great length of toes, to keep the centre of gravity within the base of support. The long pelvic muscles, the tendons of which reach to the toes, by a constant tendency to flex them, contribute mainly to preserve this semi-erect position, even during sleep, and independently of the will of the animal. The pelvis of the Cursorcs (fig. 106.) ap- proaches most nearly in the massiveness of the bones to the Mammalian type, as well as, in the Ostrich, in the formation of a pubic symphysis. The sacrum (rt) is very long and narrow, and is composetl, according to Cuvier's tables, of twenty pieces in the Ostrich and of nineteen in the Emu and Australian Casso- wary. The spinous and transverse processes are distinct, and coalesced only at their ex- Fig. 106. Dorsal view of the pelvis of the Ostrich : a, coa- lesced sacral spines ; b, ilium ; c, c', sacro-iliac plate; d, sacral cliink; e, ischium ;_/;iscliio-saeral buttress; <7, pubis; /(.symphysis; j, acetabulum ; A, anterior ischio-pubic suture ; /, anterior obturator opening; m, ilio-pectineal spine; o, posterior or greater ob- turator hole. treinities («), in the Ostrich (the former being the only part of the sacrum appearing dorsally), presenting another close ap[iroximation to the Mammalian condition. The coccyx is straight, and composed of seven pieces, which are perforated for the termination of the spinal marrow, and end in a conical bone. In the Uhea or American Ostrich, both the sacral anil coccygeal bones are much atrophied. The ilia (6) are comparatively very short, especially in the Rhea. The alae ai e thick, short, and little curved, and lie close to each other at the upper half of their inner borders, by which they are ankyloseil to the sacral spines, whose coalesced extremities are seen between them, forming a tent-like eminence above the anterior sacral vertebra?, and sup- ported by their spinous processes in the manner of tent poles. Anteriorly, tliey overlap the posterior nbs ; and posteriorly, they are prolonged on the sides of the saci'um into a distinct and prominent Uio-sacrul element. This is an elongated piece of bone, with a superior (c) and a lateral (c') surface,