UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 594. of peritoneum, after investing the Fallopian tulie, passes off towards the ovary, to form the posterior diipliiature which encloses the vessels proceeding to that organ, will be found a small plexus of white tortuous tubes, (fig. 403. ff, 6, c) arranged somewhat in the form of a cone whose apex is directed towards the hilum of the ovary /, and its b<ise a c a to- wards the Fallopian tube k. The entire or- gan measures about one inch in breadth, and is composed of 12—20 tubules O'lo—0-2'" in diameter. The tubes which contain nothing but a clear fluid consist of fibrous membrane, lined by a single layer of paL% cylmdrical, epithe- lial cells. These tubular canals are not known to have any direct communication with the ovary. That the pai'ovarium is formed out of the Wolffian body does not now appear to admit of doubt. It has been usually considered that the Wolffian bodies are organs peculiar to foetal life, and that they afterwards entirely disappear in both sexes. Hence no sj)ecial investigations have been undertaken with a view to ascertain their ultimate fate. Meckel indeed compared them to the epididymis. Rathke believed that they became epididymis in the male, and disap|)eared in the female ; while Rosenmiiller, who discovered the paro- varium, compared tiiis body to the epididy- mis. ISome general conjectures also have pointed in the male sex to thevascula aberrantia of ihe epididymis, and in the female to the or- gan of Rosenmiiller and the ducts of Gartner, as the supposed remains of the WolfSan body. Nevertheless it is, according to Kohelt, an undoubted anatomical fact that each pretended ephemeral structure not only exists through the whole of life in both sexes, but that it absolutely increases up to its highest state of perfection, and first suffers a gradual re- trogression, after the extinction of the repro- ductive function, but never entirely disappears. The signification and true homologies of this singular organ cannot be understood without first briefly examining the motle of formation and development of the Wolffian body, and tracing its relation to the genera- tive gland and Fallopian tube. In this exa- mination it is also of consequence to compare the progressive steps of foimdtion of those parts with the corresponding structures in the male. The Wolffian body is most readily exa- mined in the chick, {figs. 399, 400.) Here during the ihird day of incubation are formed two canals v\hich extend along the sides of the vertebral column, from the heart to the posterior extremity of the body. To the inner side of" each canal is attached a series of bimd pouches (fig. 399. c and 4C0. b), which during the next two ilays become lengthened and convoluted. The^e together constitute the Wolffian body. Behind them, and formed independently at a .somewhat later perioti, lie the kidney s {fig. 399. and 400. a) and supra- renal bodies, {fig. 399. f, 400. d) and as these increase, the Wolffian bodies diminish. The testes {fig. 399. e) and ovaria (fig. 400. c) are develoj)ed upon the iimer border, and in front of the corpora Wolffiana. Fig. 399. Kidneys, Wolffian bodies, and testes of an embryo bird. 3Iagnified. {After Mailer.') a, kidney; 6, ureter; c, WolfE.in body; rf, excre- torj' duct of the latter, wliicb, according to the views of MuUer and Kobelt, afterwards becomes the vas deferens; e, generative gland, afterwards be- coming testes; f, supra-renal capsules. In the female chick, according to MuUer, there is always seen an oviduct {fig. 400. g). Fig: 400. Kidnei^s, W^olfpan bodies, ovaries, and oviducts of a fceliii bird, at a period when hoik oviducts are stiU of nearly equal size. Magnified. {After 3IuUer.') a, kidney; b. Wolffian body, c, ovary, the right * rather tlie smaller; </, supra-renal capsule; ex- cretory duet of the Wolffian body, which in the female becomes obliterateil, but in the male is con- verted into vas deferens; g, duct of MUller, after- wards oviduct or Fallopian tube. * The drawing has been reversed in engraving. The left, therefore, should be here the right side.