662 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. The inner coat becomes folded, and forms convolutions, which increase and become deeper in proportion as the retractility of the external tunic increases. These convolutions in the inner and now yellow coat of the follicle are so distinct and striking {fig. 385.) as to have suggested those comparisons with the cerebral convolutions which so many authors have eu:ployed in describing this change ; for the colour, as well as the nature and arrangement of the foldinas, constituting ridges and sulci, produce an exact miniature resemblance to the surface of the brain. If the blood-clot, which is generally found contained within the ruptured ovisac, be of considerable size, its surface will frequently exhibit little furrows, more or less deep, cor- Section of the ovary of a ii'oinan who was poisoned by opium. A large Graafian follicle, which had re- cently burst ayid discharged its contents, is laid open. The part of the ovary surrounding the aperture was loaded with vessels full of blood. The convolutions of the collapsing follicle are very distinct. The follicle is empty. {Ad Nat.) responding with the convolutions of the ovisac, by contact with which they have been im- pressed. This clot becomes adherent to the walls of the ovisac; assumes by degrees a pale rose hue ; and gradually diminishing by absorption and contraction, it constitutes a centre, towards which the rays of the convolu- tions from all sides are directed. But if there be no considerable clot in the centre of the follicle, then its closure proceeds more rapidly. The angles of the convolutions approach each other more nearly, but there still remains a space in the centre which may be empty, or contains only the debris of old coagula. Lastly, if the cavity is emptj', the retracti- lity of its outer coat soon effects its closure. The angles of the convolutions, now com- pressed one against the other, come into contact across the cavity, and end by adhering together, and so the cavity is obliterated. If, during the progress of these changes within the follicle, the external surface of the ovary be examined about the seat of rupture, it will be found that the parts in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the laceration become paler, that the blood gradually deserts the ves- sels, which were before highly congested, in this situation; and that, as cicatrisation ad- vances, the zone becomes less and less dis- tinct, disappearing, finally, about the time when the last traces of the laceration are effaced. These changes in the ovarian follicle after rupture exhibit certain differences among the Mammalia, in some of whom, for example, there may be seen to project from the aperture a fleshy mass, sometimes occasioned by the presence of a coagulnm, but more constantly by an exuberant growth of the lining mem- brane of the follicle, which for some time protrudes through the orifice, and may often, at this stage, be drawn out entire by the for- ceps, without difficulty. Its colour is not alike in all the Mammalia. In the sow, it resembles the liver of a calf; in the cow and sheep, it is of a brick-red. In Man, the follicle has generally shrunk to very small dimensions by the time that one or more of the next series, which is preparing for development, have reached and protruded from the surface. The cavity by this time is nearly effaced. The chrome-yellow colour of the walls has also disappeared, and the ovisac has gradually become white. Its appearance upon section at this time is very striking and characteristic. In the centre (_;%. 372. //) is still perceptible a small space, which might contain the head of a pin. It is surrounded by a white irregular circle, from which pro- ceed outwardly about a dozen little rays. The circle is formed by the united inner angles of the follicular convolutions. The rays consist each of a double layer of the folded membrane. The apices of the rays are the original outer angles of the serpentine folds or convolutions of the ovisac. The outer coat of the Graafian follicle can now no longer be seen. At this time, the remnant of the shrunken vesicle measures about \^"' diam. Finally, whilst the foregoing changes are proceeding internally, a corresponding altera- tion takes place at the surface of the ovary.