446 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. branches between the sympathetic and cere- bral nerves, they also regard it as probable that the greater number of the fibres in the communicating branches run periphericallv. In the fish and bird they also found tliat tlie fibres of the communicating branches were di- rected partly towards the centre and partly to- wards the periphery. In small animals belong- ing to the class mannnalia, such as the rat and mole, as well as in small dogs and cats, they found, on examining the communicating branches with the microscope as before, that the fibres passed both inwards towards the centre and also outwards towards the peri- phery, and tiiat the latter in many cases ex- ceeded the former. As already mentioned, there are commonly two branches of communication between each of the spinal nerves and the sympa- thetic in the higher animals. The one of these presents a white appearance, resem- bling more or less the ordinary nerves of the cerebro-spinal system; the other has fre- quently a more gray aspect, approaching in this respect the appearance of the sympa- thetic nerves. Sometimes the white cord presents the appearance of being composed of a white and a grayer portion running to- gether. As regards the minute structure of the rami communicantes, the whiter portion consists entirely of tubular nerve-fibres, both of the coarser and finer varieties . there are also not unfrequently present fibres which appears to be intermediate in point of breadth. In general the broader variety of fibres ap- pear to be more numerous than those which belong to the finer variety. According to Kolliker, the relation between them is much the same in point of number as in the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves. The gray portion, as is stated by Todd and Bowman, contains a large proportion of fibres belonging to the gelatinous variety : in young animals it is often entirely composed of structures agreeing in character with the gelatinous fibre. In the full-grown animal also it often, when examined without addition of reagents, presents the appearance of being altogether composed of these fibres. Addition of dilute solution of soda, however, always brings into view a number of tubular nerve-fibres, which belong to the finer variety. The relation be- tween the tubular fibres and those of the gelatinous kind as regards number, is much the same as in many of the branches of the sympathetic, especially in the smaller twigs distributed to the blooil-vessels. Occasionally, however, especially in the rabbit and cat, this portion is found to be almost exclusively composed of fine tubular nerve-fibres : the gelatinous fibres being present oidy in small numbers. In its appearance as seen by the naked eye, as well as in its microscopic structure, the grey portion of the rami com- municantes agrees in character with the branches of the sympathetic, and would ap- pear to be an offset from the same to the ccrebro-s[)inal nerves. This is rendered more proiiablc by the observation of Dr. Beck, that the grey portions on leaving the ganglia send off small branches to the nei^h- Fig. 292. From a gray communicating filament between the sym- pathetic, and one of the lumbar nerves in the Cat, treated with acetic acid, showing fine nerve-fibres, and micleatedfibres of JRema/i. {Mag. 250 diam.') bouring vessels, and are reduced in size before reaching the spinal nerves. Moreover, Kol- liker has sometimes observed a small gan- glion present upon them, which, on exami- nation, was found to present the structure of the sympathetic ganglia, and which gave origin to the fibres with which it was con- nected. As regards the white portion of the rami comnumicantes, there can be no doubt that all the broad tubular fibres contained in it are fibres which are transmitted from the nerves of the cerebro-spinal system. This is proved by the fact that all the tubular fibres which are su|)posed to originate in the ganglia do not be- long to the broader, but to the finer variety. In regard to the finer variety of tubular nerve- fibres occurring in this portion, inasmuch as similar fibres are present both in the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, they may be regarded either as fibres sent from the spinal cord to the sympathetic, or they may be fibres which are transmitted from the latter to the cerebro-spinal nerves. On tracing the white portion of the rami communicantes backwards to the spinal nerve, it is found to apply itself to the latter generally in a direc- tion more or less central. On attempting to separate the two by means of needles, though several of the fibres break across, yet the di- rection of these, as well as of the others, ap- pears to be towards the centre. When the corresponding spinal nerve, along with its conmnmicating branch, is dissected out, and