702 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. the latter being discharged through the utei'ine cavity. Pathological conditions of the Uterus after Parturition. Irregular contraction. — After tedious and exhausting labours, or those in which the uterus has been rapidly emptied, or under other circumstances which tend to the production of a general or partial atony of the organ, its post-partum contractions are often imperfect. The whole uterus may re- main relaxed and undiminished in size, or a portion only of tiie walls may contract wiiile the rest remain inactive. From the latter combination result the hour-glass and other irregular forms of the organ when the cavity of the uterus is partitioned into two chambers, in the upper of which a [)art or the whole of the placenta may be imprisoned. The seat of constriction being either near the fundus, or the centre of the uterus, or the neigh- bourhood of the cervix. This condition is often attended by haemorriiage from tiie un- contracted portions of the uterine walls. In explanation of these irregidar contrac- tions, it has been usually assumed that the contracted portions consist of the fibres that have retained their vigour, and the relaxed parts of those that have been exhausted. Numerous observations, however, have satis- fied me that this is but an imperfect and, in some respects, an erroneous interpretation of this phenomenon. It appears to depend rather upon arrested peristaltic action, which may indeed be. and [irobably is, the result of ex- haustion ; not, however, of a particular set of fibres, but of the ganglionic nerves which especially govern this movement of the organ. So that the peristaltic contraction in travelling along the uterus from os to fundus, is stopped in some part of its course. This explanation is consistent with the fact that these constric- tions are not confined to any special region, but may occur at any point between the cer- vix and" the fundus, and particularly with the circumstance that in some cases the con- stricted part may change its seat, the contrac- tion being sometimes felt to travel onwards towards the fundus, while the hand is em- ployed within the uterus in removing the pla- centa. See p. 673. Rokitansky describes a remarkable result of partial contraction, with relaxation of the rest of the uterine fibre. When this occurs at the placental region, the part that gave at- tachment to the placenta being relaxed is forced into the cavity of the uterus by the superior tonicity of the surrounding tissues, and there constitutes a kind of tumour which, on account of its form and the protracted haemorrhage that usually ensues, may be mistaken for a polypus or a haematoid growth. Retarded and incomplete involution consists in an arrest of those metamorphic processes by which the uterus after parturition is re- stored to its ordinary condition. All inflam- matory puerperal processes are attended by this condition in a greater or less degree. But involution may be arrested without in- flammatory action, so that the uterus remains undiminished in bulk, its fibre uncontracted, and its tissues unrenovated for several weeks or months after labour. The soft flabby organ is easily distinguished above the pubes, reach- ing sometimes as high as the umbilicus ; while its cavity, tested by the uterine sound, may measure several inches in depth. Puerperal inflammatioiu.—Tlie puerperal or post-partum inflammatory affections of the uterus may be noticed according as they in- volve the peritoneum, the proper tissue to- gether with the blood-vessels and absorbents, or the lining membrane of the organ. Puerperal endometritis.—Inflammation of the internal surface of the uterus occurs, as a pri- mary affection of that organ, shortly (within a few hours or days) after labour. It takes the form usually of plastic inflammation, whose first seat is either the surtace which has been exposed by the separation of the placenta, or certain portions that have suffered injury, such as lacerations and contusions, occurring dur- ing forced or spontaneous delivery. From these points, the inflammatory action may spread over the entire inner superficies of the organ, or it may involve more or less deeply the uterine parenchyma, and ultimately extend by contiguity to the peritoneum itself. The form of inflammation, and the nature of the exutlative products, exhibit great variations in different instances, variations which are espe- cially observable in re.spect of individual and epidemic influences, and are directly connected with corresponding conditions of the blood to be hereafter noticed. Endometrial inflanmia- tions have been accordingly distinguished by some pathologists, as croupy, dysenteric, ca- tarrhal, and the like. The exudations of the fibrinous or croupous kind, which are found upon the inner surface of the inflamed uterus, exhibit sometimes great plasticity. These may occur in the form of isolated patches, or of more extensive invest- ments of a dense yellowish or greenish lymph, either firmly agglutinated to, or lying loosely upon, the sublying tissues. In inflammations of a less sthenic type, the exudation is softer and more gelatinous, and is often intermixed with serous and purulent fluids. Or the fibri- nous matter may be wholly wanting ; the in- flammatory products consisting then entirely of purulent discoloured and sanions exuda- tions, which, in cases that have been distin- guished as putrescence of the uterus, assume usually a greenish or dirty-brown coffee-co- loured aspect. The condition of the tissues, which are brought into view by removing or wiping away the above-mentioned products, exhibits corre- sponding variations. Beneath the coating of firm Ivniph, characteristic of uterine croup, the uterine tissue is merely softer and more spongy, and redder than usual; but in those forms of inflammatory action which rapidly pass into the purilbrm stage, the subjacent tissues become infiltrated and softened,so that they may be easily scraped away in the form