170 PELVIS. of the Tiger and some Carnivora, and which has an evident relation to the increase of leverage for the muscular power of adduction required to grasp their prey, as also has the convergent direction of the ischia just mentioned. The jnihes (d) are long, and are like the ischia, less directed backwards, form- ing an Uio-pubic angle of 125° in the Eagle and 140° in the Owl, They have a great inward convergence in most Vultures and Falcons, and in the Hen Harrier and brown Eagle are closelj' approximated in the median line and connected by ligaments in a sort of short st/mphi/sis; generally the ischia and pubes unite posteriorly to enclose a small obturator foramen in the Diurnal birds of pre}'. In some Falcons and Vultures, how- ever, according to Carus, they are united in their whole extent; while, in the Owls, this union does not take place at all. The Reptile pelves present some specimens which a|)proach the Mammalian type, in the formation of a perfect pelvic girdle by inter- pnbic and inter-ischial symphysis. In these animals, however, the three components of the innominate bones remain separate through- out life, and are connected in the acetabida by ligament only. The manner of articula- tion of the ilia with the sacrum is also cha- racteristic. We have seen that in Mammals this connection of the ilia takes place about the centre or at the anterior half; and in Birds by the whole length of the alae. In Heptiles it takes place by the tip only of the upper extremity of the ilia, giving much less strength, but far greater mobility to these bones. In the Chehmian and Saurian reptiles also, the ilia are directed forwards and down- wards instead of backwards and downwards, as in Birds and Mammals, and thus the axis of the anterior pelvic outlet is directed upwards and forwards, and the lumbar vertebrae, instead of the coccygeal, form part of the posterior pelvic wall. The pelvic bones are simple, and the sacro-sciatic notch can hardly be said to exist. In the Ophidians and some Saurians the pelvis, like the corresponding extremities, is totally wanting. In the Clielonia,—the fresh-water, and the mud Tortoise, or Trionyx, have a sacrum composed of three pieces, soldered, like the dorsal ver- tebree, to the back-plate. Their long transverse processes project from it, and unite in a tuber- cle at their apices, to which the ilia are attached. The caudal vertebrce are numerous. The ilia(Jig. 108. a.) are short, thick, curved roundish and clubbed inferiorly, and are di- rected outwards, forwards, and downwards, extending under the back plate directly be- tween the sacrum (at /) and the acetabula. In the Tortoise and Trionyx they are moveable upon the sacrum forwards and backwards. From the acetabula, the iscliia (c), larger than the ilia, pas^s, almost at a right angle, backwards and inwards, and unite in a median symphysis (d), forming the real pelvic circle, and present- ing a sharp angle posteriorly in the Trionyx (/) and fresh-water Turtle. In the land and fresh-water Tortoise this symphysis is continu- ous anteriorly with the inter-pubic {e), forming with it a cross-shaped suture, and the ob- turator foramen on each side is distinct and separate; but, in the Turtle and Trionyx, as in most reptiles, the inter-pubic and inter-ischi- atic symphyses are separated and connected by cartilage only, and thus, in the dry bones, the obturator foramina are coalesced in one large opening, and the pubes and ischia have the appearance of large ribs connected at their ventral extremities. The j^t^bes {!>) are the Fig. 108. Pelvis of the Trionyx, or Mud Tortoise, superior view. largest of the bones in the reptile pelvis, and, as seen in the Turtle, pass each from the acetabula as a thick bone, which expands as it passes downwards into a broad plate, and divides into an inner portion which unites with its opposite fellow in a symphysis (e, e') and an outer portion, free and directed ex- ternally {li). In the Chelydes all the pelvic bones are ankylosed to the plastrum or to the back-plate ; but in the others, the ischia and pubes are connected to the plastrum by liga- ments only. The anterior pelvic opening in the Chclonia is directed upwards and forwards. The pelvis of the fossil Plesiosaurus is very like that of the Tortoise, with narrow, small, and weak ilia, with the fan-like, spreading ischia, and large square pubes uniting in a common symphysis, by a crucial suture. The pelvic and shoulder bones have a great resemblance in the Chelonian as well as in the Saurian reptiles. Of the Saurian reptiles the Crocodiles have two sacral vertebrae with large spines (7%. 109. a, a'), which support the ilia by strong prismatic apophyses, ankylosed together at the ends, and separated by a suture, in the young animals, from the bodies of their vertebras. The caudal bones in all the Saurians, are very numerous. The ilia (b) are very short, and in some species almost cuboid, slightly bent, with an inward concavity, and directed downwards and a little forwards, but almost at right angles to the spine, with the superior angle (c) projecting backwards. The iscliia (c) are long, and directed, like the sides of an