STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 403 D D 2 Finally, the unstriped muscular fibres, and the white and yellow fibrous elements, repeat the ordinary steps seen in the development of these tissues generally. AcNORBiAL Anatomy. Malformntions. — The malformations of the digestive canal may be conveniently ai ranged in three groups:—1. Those which appear to depend on an arrested or deficient de- velopment. 2. Those which are attended by an excess of size. .3. Those which can only be referred to errors of development, the causes of which are unknown; or to mal- formations of adjacent parts. (1.) A deficient development of the whole tube may diminish either its calibre, its length, or both of these dimensions simultaneously. But malformations of this kind are rarely seen, in that marked degree in which alone they can be distinguished from from tiie differences which doubtless obtain in different indivi- duals. Among the residts of a local failure of de- velopment, by far the most common is one, which we might expect to be so, both from the history of the evolution of the digestive canal, and from the analogy of malformations in other parts; namely, the absence of one or both of the terminal orifices of the tube, to- gether with more or less of its adjacent seg- ments. Thus the imperforate anus, which is some- times limited to the mere occlusion of the lower orifice of the bowel by a thin mem- brane, is, in other instances, associated with the absence of a variable extent of the rec- tum, and even of the colon, ileum, or jeju- num. In such cases, a cord of more or less dense fibrous tissue generally replaces a vari- able extent of the absent sesfinent of tube. The canal itself is usually dilatetl above its closed extremity. It may, however, com- municate with the neighbouring urinary or genital cavities; or it may even open at the umbilicus.* The analogous deficiency of the oesopha- gus is of less frequent occurrence than the preceding, and is but very rarely associated with it. Here the pharynx ends below in a blind extremity ; generally forming a pouch, which sometimes communicates anteriorly with the adjacent trachea. The oesophagus below this pouch begins in a similar but nar- rower sac, which is separated from the pha- rynx, either by a membrane, or by a fibrous cord, or by an absolute interval of varying length. The deficiency of the stomach occurs chiefly in acephalous monsters. It is some- times accompanied by the absence of the duodenum, or part of the jejunum. * In that class of double monsters in which the trunks are distinct below, but united above in tlie upper part of tlie belly, a variable length of their two small intestines is sometimes similarly fused into a single tube, which bifurcates above and below. The scat of the lower bifurcation is some- times occupied by a (probably true) diverticulum. An incomplete evolution of the remainder of the tube is evinced, either by a local nar- rowness of variable* extent and situation, or by a closure and interruption which (jnutatis mutandis) repeat the various grades of this malformation seen in the occluded oesophagus and anus. Or it may exhibit a somewhat analogous tendency of the more complex parts of the canal towards the simply tubular shape. Thus the stomach may be devoid, either of its cardiac sac, or of its pyloric valve; or may present a cylindrical form, precisely like that of the small intestine. Or the valve or pouch of the projecting coecum, or its vermi- form appendix, may similarly disappear.-]- The maximum of this imperfection renders the whole intestine a narrow cylindrical tube, in which it is impossible to distinguish be- tween the large and small bowel. Almost all the foregoing malformations, where excessive, are accompanied by other deformities, which affect the neighbouring or- gans. Thus the deficiency of part of the rectum is a common coincident of the mo- nopodous slate, in which the two lower limbs are fused into one. (2.) The excess of development to which we may refer the second class of malforma- tions of the digestive canal, consists in an increased length or width of the whole tube, or of any particular part of it. In the latter case, the large intestine, the coecum, and the stomach are the segments most frequently affected. The other local malformations which we may ascribe to such an excess, are those of subdivision of the canal on the one iiand, and the production of diverticula or supplementary tubes on the other. Very few of the transverse subdivisions of the tube can, however, be regarded as really belonging to the category of excessive de- velopment. For even where these, as in the stomach, subdivide the cavity of the canal by imperfect septa, into abnormal portions, still the latter generally exhibit a diminished, rather than an increased size. J The longitudinal division of the tube pre- sents us either with a septum, which separates its interior into two channels, that communi- cate again below ; or with a double canal, of variable length antl position. The double cfjecum which has sometimes been observed, might be regarded, either as a bifid or double state of the canal, or as the * In rare instances this narrowing is so great as to constitute a virtual occlusion. Thus cases are sometimes met with, in which the whole of the in- testinal canal below the duodenum or jejunum con- stitutes a tube, which retains the formal separation into large and small intestine, but evinces its checked development by its narrow calibre, and by the ddatation or pouch above it, that terminates the normal segment. t In some of these latter cases it is probable that the projecting cul-cle-sac, which appears to be the co3cum only, is in reality the undivided rudiment of both it and the vermiform appendix. X Some of these transverse subdivisions of the tube possibly imply a mere arrest of development in the site of the imperfect septum, without any excess of this process in the contiguous parts.