RESPIRATION. 276 blood is poured into the pulmonary system at the kft side of the respiratory i-ete. The cur- rent, therefore, entering the left auricle is not pure arterial blood : it is alloyed by the venous rivulet received from the bronchial system, — a reptilian characteristic traceable in human organisation. J3y a third class of observers it is said, that the cajnllanes of the pulmonary and those of the bronchial system of vessels intimately inosculate. The precise solution of this question is difficult, in consequence of the readiness with which an injection thrown into one vessel will pass into another by extrava- sation. Other anatomists suppose that the three above-described modes of communica- tion actually exist. It is certain that these two systems do communicate, and that only a part of the blood of the bronchial arteries re- turns by the bronchial veins. More recently, a new aspect has been given to this controversy by the statements of Dr. Heale, to the effect that the bronchial and the pulmonary systems of vessels do not in any manner or degree communicate. He maintains, on the evidence afforded by his injections, that the vascular web of the air-cells extends, and is prolonged over the internal surfaces of the bronciiial tubes. Dr. Heale assigns to this extension cf the rete mirabile the power of prolonging the aeration of the blood. This is impossible. The bronchial tubes, the minutest, are inter- nally lined by a dense ciliated epithelium. Such epithelium does not exist on the true capillary parts of the lungs of any vertebrated animal. Where there is ciliated epithelium, a universal principle of structure requires in the higher vertebrated animals that the function of breathing should be suppressed. This prin- ciple, however, does not obtain in respiratory organs of the invertebrata, and in the bron- chial organs of lower vertebrata. Respiratory Organs of Birds. The lungs of birds are two in number, symmetrically developed, flattened, and ir- regularly triangular in figure. They are fixed, by means of areolar tissue, to the ribs and vertebral column, from the inequalities of which they receive deep impressions. They extend from the second dorsal vertebra as far as the kidneys, and laterally to the junction of the vertebral with the sternal ribs. In their fixed position imder the back and near the centre of gravity, they contrast strikingly with the lungs of mammals, which float loosely in the thoracic chamber. In colour they are blood-red, and in general texture they are more fragile than the lungs of mammals. They are not divided by deep " Par les artferes pulmonaires, I'injection revenait en entier par les veines correspomlantes et jamais par les artferes bronchiques." " Enfin, I'injection pouss^e par les veines pulmo- naires remplissait tons les autres vaisseaux sau- guins du pouQion, c'est-sl-dire, I'artfere pulmonaire, les artferes et les veines bronchiques."—Eossignol, Op. cit. p. 64. fissures into lobes, like the mammalian lung ; lobuii, however, exist, although more length- ened in form than those of the mammal lung. In the former, as in the latter, a Fig. 225. A. Lobule of the lung of a Bird represented in ideal longitudinal section. {Original.) a, a, a, primary bronchi maintaining a uni- formity of diameter and terminating coecally; b, b, b, secondary bronchi, maintaining also a regularity of diameter and opening into a dense cubic laby- rinth of blood-vessels e, c. B. A smalt piece of the ultimate portion of the lung, representing the arrangement of the ultimate re- spiratory capillaries. lobule is a smaller lung. All its parts are complete. The lobuii are embraced and isolated by membranes of areolar elastic tissue. A pleural investment embiaces their sternal aspects, and an aponeurosis, proceed- ing from the diaphragmatic muscles below, blends its fibi es with those of this covering. The trachea, after a course in the neck vary- ing with the length of this part, at its entrance into the lungs, divides into two primary bronchi, one for each lung. At the place of this bifurcation there exists, in most birds, a complex mechanism of bones and cartilages, moved bj' appropriate muscles, and consti- tuting the true organ of voice. This part is known as the inferior larynx.* The trachoa is composed of rings of cartilage which are not deficient at the posterior third of the circle, as in quadrupeds. The successive rings are linked together into a cylindrical form by means of a highly extensile and elastic membrane. The whole C3linder is embraceil in a second concentric cylinder of muscular fibre which belongs to the volimtary or striped variety. In this particular it differs from the trachea of mammals. In the latter, only the deficient portion of the rings is con)posed of * See arts. Larynx, Voice, and art. AvEa