79 OVUM. line membrane passes with it completely round the whole yolk and over the vitelline disc ; the next layer, less prismatic and more rounded in their form, but still distinctly nucleated cells, covers the whole surface of the yolk, with the exception of the part oc- cupied by the vitelline disc, with the margin of which this layer is continuous. The next layers passing inwards consist of granular corpuscles, which do not in general present the appearance of nucleated cells.* In conclusion, therefore, the ovarian ovum of tlie bird being formed in an ovarian capsule, is at first verj' similar to the Graafian vesicle of the mammalia, and differs chiefly in the earliest stages from the mammifcrous ovum in the proportionally large size of the germinal vesicle, and in the absence from this vesicle of the more distinct and persistent nucleus which exists in animals having the smaller yolk. This germinal vesicle may be looked upon as the fundamental part of the ovum in both kinds of animals. Along with it there exists, from a very early period in birds,agra- nular opaque yolk substance. This substance by itself constitutes the whole yolk of mam- malia ; but in birds it probably remains as a part, if not the whole, of the proligerous disc (afterwards cicatricula). The mammiferous ovum is closely surrounded at an early period with a dense transparent membrane (the zona pellucida) formed by a condensation of the outermost layer of the albuminous part of the yolk ; and a similar envelope, but less dense, exists in the earlier stages of formation of the fowl's egg, surrounding the finely graimlar primitive yolk substance along with tlie ger- minal vesicle. In both birds and mammalia the ovarian follicle, besides being lined with a layer of epithelial cells, secretes, or has formed immediately within it, a (juantity of nucleated granular cells more loosely united together, known in mammalia by the some- * While the above was passing through the press, I received the 27tli and 28th pa~i-ts of R. Wagner's Handwijrterbuch der Physiologie, containing the Article " Zeugung," by Professor Leuclvart of Giessen. I regret that I have not previously had the advantage of perusing the very luminous and comprehensive sketch, by that author, of the struc- ture and morphology of the ovum of different ani- mals. As, however, Professor Leuckart has stated that his observations do not confirm the statements of H. Meckel in regard to the zona pellucida of the bird's ovule, I have thought it right, notwithstand- ing the unfavourable period of the year (October), to repeat carefully my examination of this matter; and I have here lo state that, in the common fowl and thrush, the description given above has received the fullest confirmation. While, therefore, I am inclined to differ, as above stated, from tlie views of H. Meckel as to the morphological analogy of parts of the ovum in different animals, I must admit the existence, at a certain stage, of the very pecu- liar structure pointed out by him, as corresponding with the zona pellucida, with tfie differences as to details which I have there mentioned. The primi- tive ovule of the bird therefore consists of the ger- minal vesicle, granular yolk, and this so-called zona; and the cellular substance of the bird's yolk, is the product of secretion, or is a modifieation of epithelial formation from the interior of the ovarian follicle. what inappropriate names of tunica granulosa and substantia granulosa of the ovarian fol- licle. But in birds, although this substance is at first somewhat similar in structure and rela- tions, cells afterwards increase within it in very large quantity, and acquire a peculiar structure and colour, constituting the yellow part of the yolk substance. Tlie outer cover- ing of the yolk, or vitelline membrane, is only produced when the ovule has attained con- siderable advancement, by a new deposit upon the external surface, or by the condensation of a part of the external layer of these cells, which covers the whole yolk, together with the cicatricida. The germinal vesicle is fixed in the bird's yolk, towards the surface, in the proligerous disc. In the mammiferous ovum the germinal vesicle is, for the most part, near the surface of the yolk substance, hut not so far as is known in a determinate situa- tion, and the whole ovum in its zona pellucida is fixed in the tunica granulosa towards that part of the follicle which is next the surface of the ovary. The germinal vesicle bursts or is dissolved in both. In u'.ammalia it is probably difflised through or over the whole granular yolk : in birds it probably overspreads only the proli- gerous disc. The whole yolk is segmented in mammalia, while in birds this process is con- fined to the proligerous disc, out of which the blastoderma is produced. The full description now given of the struc- ture of the bird's egg will enable me to treat comparatively briefly of that of other animals. In regard to most of them, indeed, it will scarcely be necessary to do more than to no- tice their most important peculiarities. Before leaving the ova of the first group, it may be noticed on the authority of Leuckart*, that in the scaly reptiles there is not the same difference between an external coloured yolk and the lighter cavity as in birds, but that the whole yolk substance is of a paler colour, and of a more clear and uniform appearance. Still from a preponderance of oily matter in the vicinity of the cicatricula, there is the same tendency to that part of the ovum floating uppermost. The germinal vesicle in the ova- rian ovum of these animals presents at an early period a very subdivided condition of the macula; and it is placed in a granular disc, which does not appear to differ essen- tially from that of birds. The vitelline mem- brane is equally structureless. Leuckart has traced the development of the ovum in La- certa crocea and Coluber Ijevis, and has ascer- tained that in them, as in birds, the primitive yolk substance is destitute of cellular ele- ments, and has at first no special covering. The true or external vitelline membrane is probably formed, precisely as in birds, on the exteiior of the outermost layer of the cellular part of the yolk. In the cartilaginous fishes there is a greater departure from the type of structure now de- scribed. The external vitelline membrane is of * Al t. Zeugung.