342 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. extend backwards between them, so as to shorten the length of its tether of mesentery. Tlie terms Jejutium and ileum refer to a division of the small intestine which, though to some extent an arbitrary one, is not only too convenient to be altogether dispensed with, but is also connected with certain pecu- liarities in tlie structure of the mucous mem- brane, that will be hereafter alluded to. The jejunum includes the u[)per two-fifths, and the ileum the lower three-fifths, of the small intestine.* Muscular coat. — The muscular coat of the small intestine consists of the fibre-cells pre- viously described, the bundles of which are arranged in two layers,— an OTiter or longitu- dinal, and an inner or circular. The first con- stitutes a very delicate lamina, which is often scarcely visible at tiie mesenteric bonier of the tube, but is thickened at the opposite margin, where it is firmly united to the perito- neum. The circularfibres form a much stronger and more perfect stratum ; and many of their bundles, like those of the same layer in the stomach, seem to take a slightly oblique di- rection ; so as to join with others above and below them. Both layers (and especially the transverse) are somewhat stronger at their commencement in the duodenum. But from the middle of the jejunum their thickness remains unaltered throughout the rest of the small intestine. Movements of the intestine. — The muscular actions of the intestine have long been re- duced to two : — a normal peristalsis, which urges the contents forwards towards the anus ; and an abnormal antiperistalsis, by which they are propelled backwards towards the stomach. But each of these movements has rather been maintained as a doctrine, than verified as a fact. From the mere tenuity of the muscular coat of the small intestine, we might infer that its movements are much less vigorous than those of the stomach and CES0|)hagus, in which this tunic has a thickness from two to six times as great. Indeed, an active and continuous peristalsis, hke that which may be seen in these segments of the canal, would scarce allow the time necessary for the diges- tive act. Even a slow progressive contrac- tion of two inches per minute would traverse the whole length of the intestine in from two to three hours:—■ a speed which we have every reason to believe very unusual in the healthy subject. To obtain direct evidence respecting these movements, various methods have been re- sorted to. In the healthy living intestine, it is but very rarely that any definite muscular action can be seen or felt through the wall of the belly. In some of the Polyps, however, the * The former derives its name from the jejune or empty state in which it is usually found .after death: and the latter either from its convoluted form (eiAra, circumvolvo'), its being the most fre- quent seat of the disease called Hens, or its relation to the iliac bone (os Hit). alimentary canal appears to exhibit a peri- staltic, but intermittent, movement. And in ISIan, the borhori/gmi which sometimes occur in conditions but little removed from those of health, constitute sufficient evidence of a valid intestinal movement. While in cases in which abnormal obstruction of the intestine has been followed by an accumulation of fluid in the segment above the occluded part, the wall of the belly often becomes so extremely distended and thinned, as to allow us to re- cognise a progressive rolling contraction of the dilated bowel. Such observations at least prove that its muscular coat is capable of very vigorous contraction, while in this state of undue distention. When the intestines of a healthy living animal are exposed by vivisections, surgical operations, or accidental injuries, they are found at rest. Hence, could we implicitly trust these appearances, we should assign but a very slight mechanical value to the intestinal contractions. But such an estimate would obviously be at variance with that propulsion of their contents which we know them * to effect. And, apart from this implied contradic- tion, it is evident that such observations can never be regarded as affording us trustworthy evidence of what really obtains in the healthy uninjured animal. For not only is it possible that the slow and feeble contractions of the intestine are much interfered with by the pain and disturbance which such operations or accidents presuppose, but I would add, that there are considerable grounds for suspecting that irritation of the peritoneal tunic of the bowel can produce relaxation of its subjacent muscular coat, f Until lately, it has been usual to augur the movements which occur during life, from an inspection of the intestines of healthy animals immediately after their death. On laying open the abdomen of a newly-killed animal, its intestines are seen lying perfectly still. But in a short time, those parts of them which are exposed to the air begin to experience vigorous contractile movements. In many instances, these contractions are irregular and undefinable, and are hence rather "vermicular" than " peristaltic." But in other cases, they take on appearances of a forward or backward course, or sometimes of each of these direc- tions alternately. Where transverse constric- tion is marked, it almost always takes a di- rection downwards, or towards the anus; and is preceded by a dilatation which stretches the intestine to the full length of its mesen- tery. After a few minutes, the contraction of * It can scarcely be necessary to argue the ques- tion which has sometimes been raised:—namely, whether it is the muscular wall of the belly, or the muscular coat of the intestine, that propels the con- tents of this tube. For this is obviously an inquiry, which might be decided by a reference to its human and comparative anatomy, even in the absence of all direct observations as to the nature of its contrac- tions, and their necessary mechanical effects. f The effect of scratching the peritoneal coat (see opposite page) is perhaps partly due to an action of this kind.