642 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES, branch which proceeds from the renal plexus in company with the spermatic artery, and is distributed also to the ovary. Another set, distinct from these nerves, comes also from the same continuation of the hypogastric plexus, but forms a plexiform ar- rangement around the vessels ; andamongthese are found here and there minute ganglia. These nerves are very minute.* body of the uterus is formed in man ; while in those animals in which no middle portion or body exists, the cornua remain ununited. As the development of the uterus proceeds, the two cornua become gradually shorter, until at length they are lost, or, as it were, absorbed into the body or fundus of the uterus, wliich is thus at the same time developed. The accompanying figure, representing the The Development of the Uterus, and THE Metamorphoses which it undergoes AT Different Periods of Life. a. The origin of the uterus, and its coyidition during ffetal life.— In the human embryo, ac- cording to the observations of Mijller, during the transformation of the Wolffian bodies, the efferent tube of the generative apparatus un- dergoes the following modifications. In the male, all that portion of the efl^erent tube which passes along the outer border of the corpus Wolffianum is thrown into strongly marked convolutions, and this part contributes to the formation of the epididymis, while be- low this point the convolutions cease ; and here a band or ligament, the gubernaculum testis of Hunter, which had been developed at a still earlier period, passes off" to the inguinal canal. In the female, the following trans- formation occurs. The tube here remains free from convolutions, but a ligament, re- sembling that of the male, which is afterwards converted into the ligamentum uteri teres, passes off" from the same point, to be extended to the inguinal ring. The part of the tube which lies below this point becomes the cornu uteri, and it is by the coalescence of the two cornua at their lower extremities that the Fis. Fig. 440. The entire internal generative organs, from afcetus of three months. (After J. Mill'ler x 8.) a, uterus; 6, round ligaments ; c, Fallopian tubes; d, ovaries; e, remaius of Wolffian bodies. condition of the foetal uterus at about the end of the third month of gestation, serves to illustrate these particulars. The ovaries pos- sess the elongated form characteristic of the early condition of these organs. Parallel with them run the Fallopian tubes, and between these are the remains of the Wolffian bodies. At the point where the round ligaments are given off, the cornua uteri begin, and by their junction, which is here not yet complete, so that a slight indentation is left, the uterus is formed. From this period of embryonic life, the uterus keeps pace in its growth with the other 441. A? Uterus and appendages of human fcettis at term. {After Richard.) a, pavilion of the left side; a, the same of the right side (below it, in this specimen, is the remark- able variety of two separate accessor}' pavilions l> and c); d, Fallopian tube, exhibiting numerous sinuosities in its outer half; f, round ligament; e, ovary, viscera ; and at the time of birth it forms an the pelvis, and occupying a conspicuous place organ of considerable size, lying high up in * Upon the subject of the origin and distribution of the uterine nerves, consult also Fr. Tiedemann; Tabulje nervorum uteri, Heidelberg, 1822; and the works of Dr. Robert Lee, quoted at page 651., where the condition of these nerves in the gravid uterus, and the question of their enlargement during preg- nancy, is considered. And for the minute anatomy of tlie sj'mpathetic filaments and ganglia, see the Art. " Sj'mpathetic Nerve." midway between the bladder and rectum. The form, however, of the generative apparatus, at this stage of life, is very different from that which characterises it at a later period. The vagina, cervix, and body of the uterus consti- tute one nearly straight stem or canal, from which diverge, at right angles, the Fallopian tubes and ovaries with their ligaments, much in the form of the letter T. Of the two divi- sions of the uterus, viz. the body and cervix,