657 UTERUS — (Development). am satisfied that no such union takes place; but that, when the decidua reflexa has ful- filled the offices already assigned to it, and has ceased to be vascular, so that no further addition of material to it can take place, it becomes, after the filth or sixth month, so completely attenuated by distension from the growth of the ovum within, that it is reduced to a mere film, of which the only trace lel't at, or indeed before, birth, is a narrow frill still discoverable at the margin of the placenta between the decidua vera and the chorion. But the decidua lining the uterine walls con- tinues vascular to the last; and this alone constitutes the membrane a part of which at birth is found adherent to the outer surface of the chorion, and which Dr. Hunter, from ob- serving that it now consisted of only one layer, imagined was formed of the two de- ciduEe united together. Histology of the decidua. — Tiie morpholo- gical changes effected during pregnancy in the Fig. 454. Hislohrjij of tlie decidua. {After Schrceder van dcr Kolk.) A, orifice of utricular gland of an unimpvegnated adult uterus surrounded by round epithelial cells; B, cells of decidua in an ovum of about three weeks ; a, round and oval nucleated cells; b, fat granula- tions ; c, cells, from a deeper layer, elongated and beginning to lorm fibres ; c, the same from an ovum of live weeks; a, round and oval cells, nmch en- larged, and containing nuclei and ftU granulations from the surface; b, elongated cells from a deeper layer; d, orifice of a utricular gland from the same ovum, much enlarged as compared with A; b, margin of a valvular opening in a deeper layer of the decidua, from an ovum of two months; at b, the cells have become elongated, at a they are filled with fat graimlations; F, long and broad cells from a decidua of nine months; a, the cells exhibit a nucleus, some having one and others two nucleoli; b, three-pointed cell. Supp. decidua, and the chief purposes of these, hav- ing been stated, the histological peculiarities will now be briefly described. The lining membrane of the uterus, from infancy on- wards, is composed, as already shown, of free elementary corpuscles or nuclei, contractile fibre cells, amorphous tissue and epithelium, together with capillary vessels, and the tor- tuous canals termed uterine glands. These undergo important modifications, which serve to explain the great and rapiil growth of the decidua during pregnancy. According to Schrceder van der Kolk, who has traced and figured with great care the several stages of development of these elemental tissues, the cells of the decidua, surrounding an ovum of about three weeks, situated nearest the villi, have alreatly undergone considerable enlarge- ment. These occurred in the form of oval nucleated cells (fig. 454. B a), with fine nuclei and fat granules, b, intermixed ; while in the layer of the decidua, still deeper, oc- curred longer cells, that were already begin- ning to form fibres. In an ovum of five weeks, similar cells were found, in a further stage of development. Tn the superficial decidual layers, the oval cells, C a, were filled with granules, and contained a nucleus, and some a nucleolus. In the deeper layers, as before, the cells had become more elongated, C b. In and between all these cells were numerous minute fat granules, and among the cells lay fine nuclei. The openings of the utricular glands, D, which were surrounded by enlarged epithelial cells, were now considerably expanded, as compared with their usual condition previous to im- pregnation, //. At two months, the increase in size of the oval cells, E a, now abundantly furnished with fat granules, was still more marked. These were developed into long cells, b, which were found composing those valve-like membra- nous septa formed now everywhere on the deeper decidual layer, as already described 452, From this period onwards, the development of the cells proceeds more and more rapidly, until those in the deeper layers become trans- formed into fibres, which it is impossible to distinguish, under the microscope, from the [)eculiar contractile fibre cells of the true mus- cular structure. In the ninth month are found colossal fibre cells, Fa, which are rarely seen beyond the margin of the placenta. These were very transparent, and exhibited, some one, and some two, nucleoli. A remarkable three- pointed cell is sometimes also observed, F b. Fibres of fibrous tissue occur everywhere, and between them small cells and nuclei. The utricular glands have long ceased to be dis- cernible in the advanced stages of pregnancy. According to the observations, however, of Rolin, Robin, and Kilian, from the fourth or fifth month onwai'ds, the decidua begins to lose the character of energetic life, which, up to that period, it had exhibited, and becomes atrophied, and less firmly adherent to the u u