697 UTERUS — (Abnormat- Anatomy). the epithelial covering. And it is probable that proCuse discharges lying in constant con- tact with these parts during life may similarly assist in softening and detaching this struc- ture. But it is deserving of consideration that the papilla; of the outer surface of the os by this uncovering are merely reduced to the same anatomical condition as those of like form within the cervical canal. Whether this deprivation of a natural covering usually found here renders the villi of the outer cervix, which are probably specially sentient structures, more susceptible of irritation, particularly when in a hy|)ertrophied state, is a matter for consider- ation that would extend the present inquiry beyond its proper limits here. But it is pro- bable that in this way may be explained those constitutional and local erethisms which often accompany faulty states of the uterine cervix ; and which have led to such conditions being invested with a degree of i]nportance often in excess of their true pathological value. But the villi may be found in some speci- mens denuded of vaginal epithelium, yet with- out any evidence of inflammatory or other changes. Such a part may a|ipear quite na- tural. The villi upon the cervical lips, and those within the canal being in every respect identical and alike natural m appearance, so that the strictest microscopical investigation may fail to detect any difference between them. The examination of such specimens has satis- fied me that the vaginal epithelium does not always normally terminate precisely at the inner borders of the uterine lips, but may cease at some point short of this * In the third place are to be noticed those cases in which the process of removal extends to tissues deeper than the epithelium, i. e. to the villi, the vascular and fibrous, and other tissues. The removal of such tissues here necessarily produces excavation with definite borders, and all the characters of a true ulce- ration. Ulcers of the uterine cervix exhibiting these features are almost exclusively either syphilitic, phagedenic, cancerous, or cancroid, and such as occur upon the surface of a pro- lapsed uterus. They are seldom, I believe, scrofulous, and more rarely if ever do ulcers occur upon.the uterine neck as the result of simple inflammation, fulfilling the conditions that would entitle them to be admitted into the category of true ulcerations. Distensions of the uterine cavifi/, by liquid or gaseous contents, constitute tlie affections termed respectively hi/drometra, hcemdtometra, and physometra. These collections result usually from narrowing or atresia of some portion of the vagina or cervix, whereby the natural or morbid secretions of the uterus become pent up in its cavity. They are generally accornpanicd by hypertrophy, but sometimes by atrophy of the uterine walls. * Some of tliese morphological varieties have been described in a preceding page; and such, to- gether with many of the hypertrophies already noticed, have been repeated!)' subnutted to me during life as examples of ulcers of the uterine neck. Hydrometra results usually from a combina- tion of chronic uterine catarrh with oblitera- tion, absolute or relative, of the lower uterine orifices. Such obliteration, for example, may be caused by chronic disease of the cervix, by the presence of a submucous fibroid or a cer- vical polypus obstructing the cervical canal, or by the pressure of an enlarged neighbour- ing viscus, as the ovary *, or Of a chronic ab- scess. If, with these or similar conditions, uterine catarrh co-exists, the secretion from the mucous membrane collects in, and gradu- ally distends, the cavity; the walls of the uterus becoming at the same time hypertro- pliied, or sometimes atrophied.f The fluid which accumulates in such cases may be thin and watery, but it is more often puriform, and in some instances, as in Dr. Hoopei's ex- ample, which resulted from the opening of an abscess into the uterine cavity, it consists of pui-e pus. To these cases, the term pyo-mctra woukl be perhaps more appropriate. Collec- tions of these kinds amount usually to several ounces, or may reach one or two pounds. The uterus enlarges to the size of a fist, and, in rare exam|)les, to the bulk of the gravid uterus at term.J Pure hydrometra, i. e. without haematometra, can only occur after the cli- macteric period, or in con)bination with ame- norrhoea. When the inner and outer os uteri are both closed, and the cervical and uterine cavities are at the same time distended, the organ re- sembles an hourglass in form. This consti- tutes the uterus bicameratus wtularum of Mayer. Hydrometra is to be distinguished from hydrorrhcca uteri, in which there is no ob- struction, but a continual esca])e of a thin, watery fluid, often to a large amount. This condition, which may occur both in the unim- pregnated and gravid uterus, is ap[)arently dependent upon excessive activity of the fol- licular structure of the cervix, and may be viewed as a coryza of that part. Hcematometra consists in a collection of blood, usually menstrual, in the uterine ca- vity. It is commonly associated with atresia of the vagina at some point, generally at the orifice, as when the hymen is imperforate, or when the orifice has become closed by inflam- mation of the vulva in early infancy. Under these circumstances, when the menstrual age arrives, the fluid, for which there is no outlet, collects in, and distends, the cavity of the uterus, whose walls at the same time become hypertrophied, as in piegnancy ; or occasion- ally attenuateil, as in the case of hydrometra just stated. The fluid, which is generally dark-coioured, and of the consistence of trea- cle, may, if not artificially evacuated, escape spontaneously in various ways, viz. into the abdominal cavity, by travelling along the ovi- ducts, or through lacerated or ulcerated o|ien- * Scanzoni, loc. cit. p. 1C5. f Hooper, Morbid Anat. of Uterus, pi. III. j Case. Dr. A. T. Thomson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii.