677 UTERUS — (Functions). X X 3 woman was entirely ignorant of what had occurred. Scanzoni and Chaussier relate simi- lar examples of birth taking place notwith- standing complete paralysis of the sensitive and motor functions of the lower half of the body. In Chaussier's case the pressure was occasioned by a hydatid cyst which involved the chord on a level with the first dorsal vertebra.* On the other hand, that the uterine move- ments are also capable of being influenced by spinal fibres, appears from the following con- siderations. Uterine contractions may be ex- cited by the application of cold to the general surface of the body, or by placing the child at the breast; by injecting warm and stimulating fluids into the rectuni, and in other like modes. Again ; the uterus, under various circum- stances of health and disease, is observed to * Cases of paraplegia have sometimes occurred in which artificial aid appears to have been needed to complete the delivery, as in a case cited by Bracliet (Fonctions du Systeme nerveux ganglionaire, p. 266. 1830). By those who contend for a preponderance of spinal influence over labour, such cases are cited in proof. It is said that notwithstanding the com- plete loss of sensation and motion in the extremities, independent reflex operations may still be preserved in the uninjured portion of the chord. But the motions which may be occasionally excited by irri- tating paralysed limbs are " disorderly and pur- poseless," and are in no way comparable with those co-ordinated actions that characterise natural la- bour. Moreover, the argument is entirely inappli- cable to the case cited in the text, in which no reflex action whatever could be produced. It has also been supposed that an essential distinction may be drawn between cases in which the disease is situated high up, and those in which it occupies a lower situation: in the latter cases the portion of chord supposed to furnish spinal nerves to the utems being involved in the disease, and in the former not. But such conclusions can be of little value until the precise limits of the chord, whence spinal fibres can be derived to the uterus, have been anatomically determined. (See the account of the origin of these nerves at p. 641.) For like reasons it dees not appear that in the present state of neural physiology in relation to tlie uterus, satisfactory conclusions can always be drawn from experiments upon animals. For although it might seem probable that in a case of mixed nerves, by destroying the centre or oi'igin of one of the sets, the functions of the other might be left unim- paired; or by stimulating one of tlie nerve centres alone, their actions would be exclusively called forth, while the rest would remain passive; still, absolute conclusions cannot always be arrived at, even in these ways. For in the latter case, on ac- count of this very intermixture of nerves, whenever we attempt to stimulate ganglionic centres, or plexuses, we are dealing at the same time with the spinal fibres which pass through them. Or con- trariwise, when we endeavour to destroy extensive tracks of spinal centres, we do not know if the arrest of labour that may follow is not due to the violence which, in most of these experiments, has caused the death also of the animal within a few hours or days after, rather than to the destruction only of the portion of spine whence uterine fibres are supposed to be derived. In this way, perhaps, we can explain those discordant resvdts of experi- ments, in some of which labour has been arrested, and in others has not apparently been interfered with, so far as uterine action alone is concerned, after greater or less injury or destruction of the chord. react upon all or several of the parts just named. Hence it appears that a mutual relationship is established, by virtue of which the uterus maj' be either the excitor of actions in these parts, or may through them be itself excited to action. And there can be no doubt that the spinal cord is the agent through whose reflex operations these several efl'ects are pro- duced. From this evidence it may be concluded that the double supply of nerves answers dif- ferent purposes. That the spincd system fur- nishes nerves for the purpose of bringing into harmonious relations all those organs whose cooperation with the uterus is essential or ac- cessory to various steps of the reproductive process. While the organ deriving also a simi- lar or even larger supply from the ganglionic system, these nerves serve to regulate the functions which the uterus itself is capable of discharging without cooperative aid. In this view the offices of the spinal system, as a system of relations, and of the ganglionic, as a system presiding over the direct acts of the parts which it supplies, may be separately ex- hibited. It is doubtless also a chief office of the ganglionic system to regulate and control the action of the blood-vessels with which the uterus is so largely supplied. Wliat is Hie exciting cause oj labour ?— This question carries us only one stage further in the preceding course of inquiry : and the reply to it will be nearly found in the facts already stated. For if these serve to throw light upon the causes of the rhythmic and [jeristaltic movements of the uterus, then the conditions which determine the first rhythm and first peristalsis, or, in other words, the beginning of labour, cannot lie very remote from these. Many circumstances may evoke the first rhythm, which being followed by others, labour becomes established. Thus, irritation of in- cident nerves in various parts and organs may so force those sympathies with the uterus which, for other uses, are established by the spinal system of nerves, as to bring on an un- natural and premature form of labour ; — but this is not the present question. The determining causes of natural labour can be only satisfactorily sought among that class of phenomena which causes the separa- tion of the ripe fruit from the stem which bears it: in a perfecting, namely, of the fruit or product of conception, so that it becomes fitted for an independent existence, and as a step preparatory to this, in a gradual meta- morphosis of those tissues which, having served for a time the purpose of connecting the two together, are now no longer required by either. This connecting niediiun in the human subject is the decidua, winch lines the whole uterus. Its metamorphoses during preg- nancy have been described. Already as early as the middle of that period, the preparation has begun for a new tissue, which, after labour, is to reconstruct the lining membrane. The old attenuating and perishing decidua, now no longer needed, except at the spot where it