711 EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. z z 4 is directed upwards or forwards, while that which had been in the fffitus, the upper lialf, has now become unfolded or h)st among the plaits of mucous n]enil)rane, situated at the upper part of the vaginal entrance. This, because it is the most constant, has been usually reizarded as the typical form of the hymen. But the fcetal form is also often re- tained, namely, the circular fold of mucous membrane, which, as the parts become more expanded, acquires a round rather than a slit- like aperture. If, however, the folds of the iimcous membrane lining the vagina are pro- fusely developed, then the h\men also exhi- bits the form not so much of a distinct membrane as of an irregiilat ly constricted ori- fice, the sides of which are puckered or gathered into plaits, so as nearly to close the vaginal entrance. And this also is a very common condition of the part, especially in yoimg sul>jects. The varieties, therefore, in the hymen which anatomists recognise, such as the crescentic, circular, cribriform, and the like, become easily explicable. They all proceed apparently from a common starting point, but differences in the degree of development, or accident, may determine the permanent form. The half- circle and crescent result from a normal deve- lopment of the posterior, and a correspondmg retrocession of the anterior, moiety of that conically projecting mucous fold which is more or less distinct in every foetus. The hymen with a central or nearly central circu • lar orifice, results from a flattening down and retiring within the vaginal orifice of the cone ; the retiring naturally following upon an expan- sion of the vaginal walls as growth advances. 'J'he appearance of a notched margin to the cen- tral aperture is proihiced by the prominent edges of the termir.al vaginal folds, which are in some subjects more prdfusely developed than in others. The cribriform hymen pro- bably results from an abnormal cohesion of the.se notched edges, in such a manner, that small apertures are left between them, and the completely imperforate hymen by an en- tire adhesion of the margins of the orifice, the result sometimes of inflammation in in- fancy. The hymen, however various its forms may be, consists of a double layer of mucous men • brane, containing between its laminae a small quantity of fibrous tissue and blood-vessels. It is of variable degrees of thickness, being in some subjects very strong and tough, and in others forming a very slender lamina. Its situation is at the entrance of the vagina. Although the depth at which it is placed within the vulva varies in different subjects, according to the thickness of the labia, and the size of the nymphte and vestibule. Occa- sionally, as already stated, one or more plicte of the vaginal mucous membrane, more than usually developed, form constrictions at a higher point within the canal, but the term hymen cannot with propriety be applied to an)' of these. The presence of the hymen, although it raises a strong probability of virginity, ^et affords no certain evidence ujion that point, nor does its absence establish the contrary. The hymen is commonly said to be ruptured on the occasion of a first complete intercourse, but the expression unlblded would probably, in many instances, more accurately represent the mode of its disappearance. Whenever the hymen presents any considerable mem- branous surface, doubtless a real laceration occurs, but in the cases in which it takes the form of a crescentic fold, or of a puckered rosette, instead of being lacerated, it jirobably becomes unfolded or flattened out, and so dis- appears, just as the ordinary vaginal folds are obliterated, by frequent intercourse or by parturition, without any rupture. Upon the presumption that the hymen is always lacerated a certain hypothesis has been raised, namely, that the little fleshy bodies occasionally observed near the orifice of the vagina, termed ca/unciila; m^rtiformes, consU- tute the remains of that membrane. But, notwithstanding a great amount of evidence that has been collected regarding the myrti- form bodies, it cannot be shown that these are anything more than accidental and uncertain formations, having nothing necessarily to do with the hymeo. Tiie hymen may be broken by accident, or may become obliterated by the frequent em- ployment of vaginal injections, and in other like modes. Or, from constant leucorrhosa, the parts may become so relaxed that a dis- tinct membranous fold can be no longer dis- cerned at the vaginal orifice, although there may have been no loss of virginity. On the other hand, impregnatinn may take place without destruction of the hymen, which has frequently been found entire at the time of labour, and even in women affected by sy- philis.* Sebaceous and Muciparous Glands and Fol- licles of the Vulva. — The sebaceous follicles correspond with the male preputial follicles. They are scattered over the nymphae, clitoris, and inner surface of the labia. Their secretion contains butyric acid and has a strong and somewhat ammoniacal odour. This occasion- ally becomes highly irritating, especially when cleanliness is neglected. The muciparous follicles are arranged in groups, the principal ones beine situated upon the vestibule (vestibular follicles, fig, 480. v), around and upon the sitles of the meatus urinareus {iirethralfollicles,fig. 480. u), and at the sides of the entrance of the vagina (lateral follicles of the vaginal orifice, fig. 480. va). The muciparous follicles are composed of a delicate vascular nmcous membrane arrangetl in the form of short mucous crypts, or con- sist of simple or branched tubules ending * In a case of extensive syphililic periostitis wliioli came under my notice, iu a woman thirlv years of age, who had previously been a prostitute, a tough membranous circular hymen closed the orifire of the vagina so completely tliat the tip of the fore linger could scarcely be inserted within it.