202 PELVIS. ankylosis of the right sacro-iliac joint, but no atrophy of that side of tlie sacrum, though the oblique deviation was present in a small degree, the right innominate bone being a little more elevated, contracted, and flattened than the left. The whole appeai'ance of this pelvis bore somewhat a resemblance to that of an animal, and presented on the posterior part of the ex- ternal surface of each iliac wing a remarkable protuberant growth of bone, as well as an articulation by fibro-cartilage between the left lateral mass of the sacrum and the trans- verse [irocess of the last Innibar vertebra, which was unusually large.* This last peculi- arity was also observed in an obliquely de- formed female pelvis in which both the last transverse processes were enlarged and bifur- cated ; the right being articulated by fibro- cartilage to the corresponding lateral mass of the sacrum, and the left (the side on which the sacro-iliac coalescence existed) similarly articulated to the inner surface of the ilium just above the sacro-iliac junction.f As a contrast to specimens like the two last, Naegele mentions a well-built female pelvis, in which the left lateral mass or side-piece of the sacrum was, by arrest of development, di- minished to the size and appearance of the last lumbar transverse process, but presenting an osseous protuberance, about the size of a bean, as if oFthe aborted ossiflc centre, while that on the right side was quite normal in size and appearance.^ He had seen two others similarly deformed, and mentioned examples in the collections of Sebastian at Groningen, and Vrolik at Amster- dam, and many more in the Pathological Mu- seum at Paris, and others mentioned by Creve and lletzius. Such irregularities of the sacrum are not uiiconnnonly found. A young female |)elvis is described by Dr. Knox ยง as presenting an example of the ob- liquely deformed pelvis in an earlier stage. The right half of the sacrum is more than half an inch narrower than the left, the first piece not ossified to the second, and the cor- responding half of the pelvic inlet proportion- ably smaller, the pubic symphysis being oppo- site the right sacral foramina; but the iliac portion of the innominate bone is tolerably synnnetrical, and there is no sacro-iliac anky- losis. The lumbar vertebras present an ex- tensive lateral curve. The same author also mentions that in Dr. Campl)ell's Museum there is a com[)lete specimen of the obliquely ovate pelvis, deformed on the left side, and presenting a large exostosis on the last lumbar vertebra. In his own possession hehas portions of two other pelves, both exhibiting ankylosis of the sacro-iliac joint on the lelt side, but in one partial only, with twisting of the sacrum and contraction of the ilium, such as would pro- duce, if the specimens were entire, the oblique * Tafel xi. Das Schriig Vereugte Becken. t Num. 10., tafel iii. Op. cit. j Ileidelbei-g IClin. Anna!., vol. x. p. 468. ยง Med. Gazette, vol. xxxii. p. 637. deformity of M. Naegele. On looking over a collection of human bones taken from an old London graveyard, I have lately met with a well-marked specimen of this disease on the right side, in which there is a line or cicatrix at the sacro-iliac point of coalescence. From the many specimens which had come under his observation in so short a time, and with but few opportunities of seeing them, Naegele was led to conclude that this de- formity occurred pretty frequently. Its injluence upon parturition will present an obstacle, not only to the forward progress of the foetal head, but also to its proper rota- tion, which will vary with the general extent of the pelvic diameters. If the pelvis be of large size, this deformity, though great, will have less influence than in a smaller pelvis, with a less degree of distortion. The foetal head may enter the brim with its long diameter in the long oblique diameter of the distorted pelvis ; but when in the pelvic cavity it will not be able to make the requisite turn into the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet, and will generally, in the opinion of Naegele, re- quire the use of the forceps to extract it. The obstruction occurs in the first labours, anti its importance may be considered as equal to those resulting from rickets and malacos- teon, when it is considered, that in all the cases of labour hitherto published, where this deformity has been present, both mother and child have been lost, although in the hands of the most experienced accoucheurs. The diagnosis of the oblique distortion by the usual measurements is very difiicult. It is rendered still more difficult by the absence of any history or peculiar appearance of the patient, indicative of the condition of the pel- vis ; persons aflfected with it being usually, in other respects, well built and healthy. The diagnosis, moreover, is usually called for in first labours. The promontory of the sacrum is not to be felt by the finger, an usual indication of plenty of room at the brim ; and yet thei'e may be sufficient contraction in the oblique or sacro-cotyloid diameters, to require the Caesarian section. The antero-posterior diameter, which would show, if a section were made in the centres of the sacral-promontory and pubic symphysis, a clear space of 3i to 4> inches, may np()ear, in the living subject, to be contracted inches. The contraction ol'this distortion is as totally unrecognisable by the use of Baudelocque's calipers, which may lead to gross error. The amount, in the well-formed female, of the measurements instituted by Naegele for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of this deformity upon the living subject, have been given in a former section of this article. The residts of the measurements of eight female pelves obliquely deformed, in five of which the ankylosed joint was that of the left side, gave the following differences in measure- ment between the two sides.