32 OVUM. at one time encysted, and that of the two principal forms distinguished by that observer, the one is the more advanced and the other is the larva. From what has ah'eady been observed it seems probal)le that other productions pre- viously described as Entozoa of various kinds, may, in reality, be nurses or larvse of different Distomata; and that many of these maybe brought under their several specific distinc- tions, when the new paths of investigation pointed out by the suggestions of Steenstrup and V. Siebold have been diligently pursued. Von Siebold has recently related* a very interesting observation on the remarkable double Trematode animal, discovered and described by Nordmannf, under the name of Diplozoon paradoxum, from which it seems to be ascertained that this double animal is produced by the actual union of two nearly similar simple ones, by a process of partial fusion, which, though much less complete, seems to partake in some degree of the na- ture of conjugation, such as occurs in the Closterium and some of the lower vegetable bodies. The single animal, first described by Dujardin, under the name of Diporpa J, was observed infesting the minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus)in the same streams with the gudgeon (Gobio fluviatilis). This animal corresponds nearly in form and structure with thehalf of the Diplozoon, with the exception of its smaller size, and the absence of generative organs. On the side of the Diporpa a projecting sucker exists, and the union between two of these animals which gives rise to the Diplozoon, beszins by a mere adhesion of this sucker, which becomes more and more complete, so as at last to lead to that entire fusion and combination of the adjacent parts of the in- testinal canal and some other organs, which has excited so much surprise in the Diplozoon. The development of the genital organs in both of the two united animals succeeds to this union. Anncltdn. — Some phenomena in the repro- duction of the Annelida are to be referred to the indirect mode of generation now under consideration. The most of these animals are hermaphrodite ; they are all more or less jointed, or formed in the adult of repetitions of segments of similar structure, the ante- rior and posterior alone differing from the rest. The jointed structure does not exist in the ensbryo when it first leaves the egg ; but is gradually produced by a process of gemmation, which ma}- be styled intervening rather than fissiparous. In the multiplication of these segments the new ones are always formed in the interval between the caudrl segment and that which is next to it; the seat of new production differs therefore in the Annelida and Cestoid worms ; for in the latter * Zeitsclirift fill- Wissenscli. Zool. 1851. t Op. cit. X Hist. Nat. des Helminthes, 1845. DujarcUn had noticed the resemblance between this body and the two parts of the Diplozoon, and had conjectured that it might be in some way the young of the Diplozoon. of these animals the new joints are developed at the cephalic extremity, and there is also some difference in its nature, as the multipli- cation of joints in the Taenia is in some degree truly fissiparous. A few of the jointed Annelida have long been known to be subject to another kind of development, by which one or more complete segmented individuals are formed close to their caudal extremity, and spontaneously separate to enjoy for a time an independent life. This remarkable fact was first described by Otto Fred. Miiller, in the small Nais proboscidea*; and Gruithuisen described accurately the same phenomenon in a Nereis or Chtetogaster.f This process was looked upon by these ob- servers as an instance of accidental fissiparous generation ; but it has received a different signification and a greater interest from the more recent researches of Quatrefages and Milne-Edwards. The first of these naturalists observed in a number of individuals belonging to the genus SyllisJ, at a certain period of their life, a new individual to be formed at the caudal extremity of each. The part was first marked oft' by a notch or transverse groove, the form of the parent individual gradually appeared in it, with the heati, eyes, the same joints, limbs, &c., and it was ultimately separated by spontane- ous fission. But the resemblance between the original individual and its offspring was chiefly external; for it was found that while the parent animal continued to exercise as before the functions of nutrition it was not possessed of generative organs; and, on the other hand, the new individuals seemed de- stined alone to perform the reproductive func- tions, and contained the fully formed sexual organs, while their alimentary canal appeared to become atrophied, and was not employed in the digestion of any newly assumed food. These individuals lived long enough after separation to complete the reproductive pro- cess by the formation of fecundated ova. Milne-Edwards observed in the Myrianida fasciata^, a similar, but more numerous gem- miparous production of sexual individuals. In this animal, as many as six new individuals were observed to be formed in gradual succes- sion, one before the other, and between the caudal and terminal segments of the original body. Each one of these new individuals, as it * Naturgesch. einiger Wurmarten des Siissen und Saltzigen Wassers, Copenhagen, 1800; and in a Nereis, in Zoologia Danica. f Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. vol. xi. See also J. Mid- ler's Physiol., by Baly, vol. ii. p. 1424; Owen's Lect. on the Gener. and Develop, of the Inverte- brated Animals, in 1849, in Med. Times, vol. xx. p. 83, where he refers also to observations of Oersted in an Eulosoma, and of Schmidt in a tubicolar An- nelide, called Filograna. X Annal. des Scien, Nat. 1844, torn. i. p. 22. Otto r. Midler had also noticed the phenomenon in the same animal, and described it under the name of Nereis prolifera, in his Zoolog. Danica, vol. ii. p. 15. § Annal. des Scien. Nat. 1845, tom. iii. p. 170. See also Longet's Traite' de Physiologie, tom. ii. part 3rd, p. 47.