PREFACE. a time of life long subsequent to that at which most men seek repose from such labour, he was as fresh, clear, full, and impressive, in teaching ana- tomy, at once the most elementaiy and the most important of the studies accessory to medicine, as in his early days. The celebrated discoverer of Endosmose, H. Ddteociiet, lived to the ripe age of seventy-one. The article on that subject in this work was the contribution of his own pen. It contains a summary of his views up to the time of its publication. Dutrochet's discovery has the most interesting and important bearing upon the application of physical laws to the illustration of various processes of living organisms. It gave the clue to the elucidation of many obscure points in tlie physiology of animals and plants, and took a lead in directing the minds of Physiologists away from abstract and fruitless speculations concerning the nature of Life, into the true path of inquiry as to the dependence of vital phenomena on chemical and physical laws. The value of this discovery is enhanced by the recent researches of Mr. Graham, which have developed the laws of Osmose (to use his more concise and comprehensive designation), and have shown the intimate con- nexion of osmotic with chemical action. Further experiments on the osmotic phenomena of living animals and plants, assisted by the additional light ob- tained from Mr. Graham's researches, can scarcely fail to lead to important, practical results, both in Physiology and Pathology. The loss of Newport was a heavy blow to Physiology. A man of his skill as a dissector and observer of that large and most interesting tribe, the Insects, could ill be spared. The combination of such manual dexterity and of so much acutencss of observation as Newport displayed is rarely met with. His investigations embraced at once the most delicate anatomical analyses and the deepest questions of physiology. The article Insecta, contributed by him to this work, is perhaps the most comprehensive account extant of the anatomy and physiology of this class of invertebrate animals. Newport was cut down in the prime of life, when, after many struggles and difficulties his merits were becoming recognised, and the value of his researches appre- ciated. Tliere can be no doubt, had health and life been given him, he would have largely extended our knowledge of tliis branch of Comparative Anatomy and Pliysiology.