366 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. position. Tlie shape of this bend corresponds so exactly to its name, J;hat it is scarcely necessary to bestow any further description upon it. Its curve is chiefly in the vertical plane ; though a slight lateral curvatui'e is almost always present, and is easily exag- gerated into a much more distinct bend by the mobility of this segment of the canal. The use of the sigmoid flexure seems to be that of forming a receptacle for the faeces : — a receptacle of which the shape and arrange- ment are such as to s[)are the rectum and its sphincter from much of the pressure and weight against which they would otherwise constantly have to contend. When full, the convexity of its lower bend often projects below the iliac fossa, so as to descend into the pelvis. Indeed, the whole of the colon is very liable to displacement from the various po- sitions just assigned to it:—prolonged dis- tention b}' its accumulated contents, or the ineciianical force exerted by the pressure of stays externally, or of tumours internally — being all capable of altering its relations, and even confusing its different parts* with each other. The colon retains the sacculated shape as- sumed by the caecum. Its size undergoes a progressive though slight decrease, from its commencement in the csecum to its termina- tion in the rectum. Its peritoneal coverings reach their mini[num in the ascending and descending portions ; where they only cover about two-thirds of the moderately distended bowel, and leave its posterior or attached third quite unoccupied by this membrane, and con- nected by loose areolar tissue to the subjacent parts. Hence it is these portions of the bowel which are selected in the operation for artificial anus, -f- But, just as great distention can always increase this uncovered portion, so, vice versa, excessive contraction may reduce it to a mere line, or may even develope a kind of short meso-colon in connection with either of these parts. The muscular strata which cause its sacculated shape, also retain the arrangement existing in the ccecum. But on the transverse colon, the internal longitudinal band becomes inferior. And on the sigmoid flexure, this and the posterior band generally merge into a single one. The latter change is accompanied by an indistinctness of the transverse sacculi themselves. Throughout the whole of the large intestine, the peritoneum is here and there developed into peculiar, processes, called the apjiendices cpiploiccB (t-rrl-Xoov, omentum). These are short pouches of the serous membrane, which generally form flattened duplicatures or folds. They are prolonged from the peritoneum cover- ing the surface of the intestine itself; and are therefore absent from that portion of the rectum, or terminal segment of the large in- testine, which does not receive any covering * See Abnormal Anatomy. t Other things being equal, the left or descend- ing portion is preferred: on account of a larger extent of the canal being thus left to be traversed by the intestinal contents. of this membrane. Their number, size, and arrangement, are liable to great variety. Some- times they are'so numerous, as to form a single or double row along the free surface of the bowel. In other instances they are very few and imperfect. Their size is so far related to the state of the bowel, that, like most other processes of peritoneum, they are enlarged by its contraction, and dimi- nished by its distention. From their con- tents, which consist of areolar and adipose tissue, they would seem to be small reser- voirs of fatty matter. Hence in cases of re- markable obesity, their size is much increased. Indeed they sometimes acquire a length of one or two inches; and have even been known to encircle and strangulate the bowel. Movement of the large intestine,—The exact nature of the movement which is executed by the muscular coat of the large intestine can at most only be conjectured from some of its attendant circumstances. Like that of the preceding segment of the canal, though its general mechanism is obvious, its details remain unknown. As regards the investigation of the con- tents of this intestine in its ordinary situation during life, all that can be stated is, that, even in health, they include a quantity of gaseous matter; which usually maps out the coecum, and more or less of the colon, with tolerable distinctness, from the less resonant convolutions of the small intestine. After death, the quality and quantity of these contents are so much affected by the nature of the previous food, the mode of dying, and a va- riety of kindred causes, that scarcely any gene- ral proposition can be laid down with respect to them. But on the whole, we usually find, that in addition to much gaseous fluid, the csecum of the healthy subject is partially distended by pultaceous or semi-fluid contents. While the colon is occupied at various points of its length by matter, the fascal character of which is still more distinct, and the consistence of which gradually increases as it approaches the rectum. Where these rudimentary faeces are very im- perfect, scanty, and interrupted, they only oc- cupy some of the sacculi or cells of the bowel, leaving its central or general calibre in an empty state. But when better developed, they form what is termed a " figured " mass. This con- sists of a kind of central rod, that corresponds to the general axis of the tube; and of processes that come off from the sides of this axial por- tion, and are contained in the rows of pouches formed by the wall of the bowel. In short, the solid and continuous fjecal substance forms a tolerably perfect cast of the bowel ;—a cast in which the sacculi of the colon are "figured" as projections, themselves isolated by depres- sions corresponding to the intersections of its longitudinal and transverse bands. The characteristic shape thus possessed by the solid contents of the colon, is often retained by the fasces which have been forced through the rectum in the natural process of defteca- tion. And although it is often absent,—the con-»