568 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. taneous ovipont in mammals is exceedingly small. It will suffice for illustration to observe the manner in which this question has been han- dled in the celebrated works of Bischoff*, Raciborsl^i■|", CosteJ,and Pouchet.§ The first only of these authors has given in detail the observations and experiments upon which he has endeavoured to found a law of spontaneous ovulation m the Mammalia. In several of these the coitus was permitted ; and although it is rendered highly probable, from the cir- cumstances narrated, that in some this had no effect in producing the discharge of ova, yet the introduction in any form of the only con- dition that coulJ vitiate the experiments de- tracts certainly from their value. In five, however, of Bischoff's expermients it was known that coitus had not occurred, and in three of these ova were found discharged, ac- companied by the usual appearances in the ovaries indicative of the recent rupture of the follicle.II In a fourth case, the stale of the ovaries left no doubt that the ova, which could not be found, had escaped; while a fifth case was exammed before the ova had escaped. To these BischofF adds an example of the ovipont in an animal, in which it was only probable that no coitus had occurred. The work of Racibor^ki contains a single example, which has also just been quoted. The works of Coste and Pouchet contain no examples of a spontaneous ovipont in ani- mals, but the observations of each of these authors are given in the form of results. Each work contains a minute description of the proLCSS of ovulation, drawn apparently from separate observations ; but these descriptions are not accompanied by any detailed ex- a.nples, nor any statement of the means used to rentier these observations proofs of an ovi- pont, independent of coitus. But all these authors agree in stating that ovulation occurs independently of sexual union, whilst they differ as to the dei;ree of strictness with which the universality of this law is enforced. Pouchet demands that the law should be received without any excep- tion, and observes with surprise the " unac- countable vacillations" of those among his predecessors who yield to it only a partial assent. But in the absence of any extensive series of w ell-recorded observations, whose numeri- cal force shall be such as to compel a uni- versal acceptance of the law, it is not sur- prising that some who regard it as having been too hastily framed, and as too ri^id in its ex- clusiveness, should withhold their full assent to it. For let it be conceded that the ova, when they have attained their com|)lete deve- lopment, escape naturally from the ovary, the rupture of the follicle not necessarily requiring * Beweis der von der Begattung unabhangigen periodischeii Keifung und Loslosung der Eier, &c. 1.844. t De la Puberte, et de la Ponte pe'riodique. 1844. j Histoire du Developpement. 1847. I Tlie'orie positive de rOvuIation spontane'e. 1847. II One of these cases is given above. the intervention of the male, should it there- fore be inferred that the latter is completely inoperative when exercised on opportune oc- casions ? In this form the question is put by Coste, who maintains that although the coitus may not be the essential cause of the rupture of the follicle, yet it undoubtedly has the power to precipitate that event, and even to prevent its failure. He further considers that there is this difference between the fecundated female and one in whom impregnation does not take place; that in the former the rupture of the follicle is prompt, whilst in the latter it is tardy, or even in certain cases fails to occur. In order to support this view% Coste cites two observations upon the rabbit. In the first of these, the animal was in heat, and mani- fested great ardour for the male, but coitus was not permitted. It was kept for forty- eight hours, and then killed. The genital or- gans were highly congested. Six follicles in one ovary, and two in the other, were appa- rently ready to burst, but no rupture had yet taken place. In the second experiment, the animal remained in heat for three days ; on the fourth day the heat ceased, and on the fifth it was killed. The organs were in the same condition as in the last case, but no follicles iiad burst. Coste attributes the ab- sence of rupture in these cases to the preven- tion of the coitus at a tune when, if permitted, it would in his view have determined that event. In whatever light these observations may be viewed, they are important as showing that an animal may sometimes advance far in the pe- riod of heat, and even pass through it without any ova escaping from the ovary ; but it would require a very nmch greater number of parallel observations to prove by such negative results the effects of the sexual congress in determin- ing the act of the ovipont. And it is matter for regret that this point has not been more clearly determined ; for whilst no satisfactory results can be looked for from any observa- tions upon this part of the subject in Man, this is eminently a question capable of being deter- mined by experiments on animals. All the earlier observers who directed their attention to the condition of the ovaries in relation to reproduction bear unconscious testimony to the fact that the time at which the ova quit the ovaries bears no strict relation to the act of coition. Barry states that, taking the coi- tus as the starting-point of his reckoning, he was obliged to sacrifice a score of rabbits be- fore he succeeded in meeting with one instance of the ovum at a particular time after its es- cape, and he had almost given up the attempt in tiespair. If means be used to prevent the contact of the seminal fluid with the ova after their dis- charge from the ovary, or to prevent its arrival at the latter organ before rupture of the fol- licle, this does not affect the iiumediate condi- tion of the follicle. The number of ruptured Graafian vesicles which have been found, after experiments made by placing ligatures upon