206 PELVIS. large as a filbert, projecting from the ischium into the pelvic cavity; and others in the same situation by Dr. Campbell and Otto of Breslau, in which indentation of the foetal head was produced. Other cases are found in Siebold's Journal and Gardien's Traitc. Dr. A. Farre informs me that an osseous exudation from the anterior surface of the sacrum, consequent upon disease of that bone, had recently occui'red in his practice, and compelled him to have recourse to craniotomy to accomplish delivery. Osseous projections at or near the sacro-iliac joints are also men- tioned by Kokitansky, and are to be met with in most museums of pathology. In a large female pelvis, in the King's College museum, is a small exostosis or spinous projection at the angle of the left sacro-iliac joint, in such a position as would produce an impediment to labour in a smaller pelvis. In the Hunterian Museum are two more specimens of this kind, both on the sacro-iliac joint, one in a male, and the other in a female pelvis. Many such exostoses are seen in the subjects brought to the anatomical rooms. They seem to have the same origin as the rheumatic bony projections which are so frequently met with, in old |)eople, in the neighbourhood of the joints, but especially in those of the spine, hip, and shoulder. Rheumatic and gouty patients seem to be predisposed to exostosis. The influence of such exostoses upon par- tiu'ition approaches closely to that of deformed pelvis, in the contraction of the diameters and the danger or impossibility of their removal. The difficulty of distinguishing them, when of considerable size, from pelvic deformities, is sometimes very great. Their hardness is not so characteristic as to mark them from the pro- jections of the sacral promontory ; their shape, compared with external measurements and the history and appearance of the patient are the chief means of diagnosis. Osteo-sarcomatous tumours sometimes pro- duce pelvic obstruction, and generally grow from the joints or ligaments. One case oc- curred to Grimmell of Kisbaden, and is re- corded in a letter to Naegele (Dec. 1835). Caesarian section was performed in conse- quence of a tumour of this kind, weighing li lb., attached to the periosteum only of the right sciatic spinous process and wall of the corresponding acetabulum. It had followed a fall, which had been succeeded by pains in the sacrum, a sense of weight in the right thigh, and ischuria. Stark performed hys- terotomy successfully for a tumour attached to the lower sacral vertebrae and~ innominate bone. It was immoveable, but soft in various parts, as well as could be detected "2)er va- ginam." This characteristic will distinguish these tumours, in diagnosis, from exostosis ; their partial hardness, from fibrous tumours ; their immobility, from tumours of the soft parts ; and their attachments to the side of the pelvis, from the foetal head. Obstructions from fibrous tumours attached to the pelvic ligaments. These are of rare occurrence, and have been found chiefly con- nected with the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The most remarkable examples are those re- lated by Dr. Drew in the Edin. Afed. and Surg. Journal for 1805 (vol. i. p. 20 ). The first of these tumours was taken from the body of a woman, who had died in consequence of its presstu-e upon the pelvic viscera. It was 16 inches in circumference, of a hard, gristly tex- ture, with no appearance of vascularity, and was attached by a strong root, of the same texture, to the left sacro-sciatic ligaments, and interposed between the bones and viscera, but with no other attachment to the sur- rounding parts. The second tum.our was ex- cised by Dr. Drew, by a formidable operation, from the pelvis of a woman in labour, who was afterwards safely delivered and recovered perfectly well and very speedily. The tumour was 14 inches in circumference, and weighed 2 lbs. 8 ounces. It grew from the right side, and filled the whole cavity of the pelvis so com- pletely as to admit of one finger only being passed between it and the pubis, considerably interfering with the neck of the bladder and urethra. It was separated easily from the circumjacent tissues. A somewhat similar case is related by Dr. Burns ; but, in this instance, the attachments of the tumour were much more extensive ; reaching from the pubic symphysis to the sacrum, and adhering intimately to the pelvic brim, being attached also to the obturator internus muscle, urethra, vagina and rectum, and apparently developed in the recto-vesical fascia. It was hard, somewhat irregular, and scarcely moveable. The patient being in labour. Dr. Burns, by a bold operation, in which but little blood was lost, removed the tumour, which required to be almost dis- sected out. The woman was soon after safely delivered of a still-born child, and, after some peritoneal inflammation, recovered. Fibrous tumours attached to the pelvic pa- rietes are distinguished from the fcetal head and tumours of the soft parts, by the immo- bility of their attachments ; from exostoses, by their want of bony hardness ; and from os- teo-sarcomatous tumours, by their uniformity of structure to the sense of touch. Carcino7)iatous growths commonly affect the bones of the pelvis, by advancing from the contained viscera, the uterus, rectum or ova- ries. Dr. A. Farre mentioned to me a case in which the innominate bones were so much infiltrated by cancerous matter, from a tumour conmTencing in the uterus, that they could, with great ease, be cut with the knife, pre- senting a condition very similar to the bones affected with mollities ossium. Pathology of the Pelvic Joints. — The pelvic joints, like all other joints in the body, but much less frequently than many, are subject to inflammation and its conse- quences in such structures—viz., ulceration, suppuration, and ankylosis. They are also, probably more frequently, subject to original malformation, coalescence, and anomalous constructions of a congenital origin.