421 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. E E 3 But it is very rarely, if ever, that such a me- tamor[)hosis really occurs. In general the process thus designated consists merely in the deposit of new cancerous matter within, and especially around, the scirrhous mass; and not in any true metamorphosis of the latter growth itself. The cancerous disease of the intestinal canal is often associated with the existence of a limited amount of hypertrophy. For the deposit of scirrhus in the coats of the canal not only thickens and hardens their substance; but, by the annular form it affects, has a special tendency to obstruct the calibre of the tube. Wliere it does this slowl}', and with little disturbance of the general health, the obstruction is often partially compensated by a true conservative hypertrophy of the mus- cular coat behind the diseased part. But, for similar reasons, this hypertrophy is often associated with dilatation : — an alteration which is indeed sometimes carried to an enormous extent; so that the stomach, for ex- ample, fills almost the whole abdominal cavity. Of the various morbid conditions already alluded to, there is only one which is very liable to be mistaken for cancer ; namely, that fibrous thickening of the gastric and intestinal parietes which is usually termed hypertrophy. This state offers so many points of resemMance to the scirrhous deposit, that it seems worth while to enumerate the chief points of con- trast between them. Of these we will only ()re- niise that, though they generally afford ainjile materials for a satisfactory decision, they occasionally leave us in great doubt as to the fibrous or scirrhous character of the particular specimen under examination. Comparing these two states in their ordi- nary form, as seen in the stomach, we may sum up their chief differences as follows :— 1. The scirrhus affects the submucous tissue in a greater degree than the hypertrophy, which is more evenly distributed throughout the three coats. 2. The scirrhus often presents a similar irregularity of distributioi! in the horizontal plane of the gastric coats them- selves, which it thus renders uneven and protuberant ; while the hypertrophy forms what is generally a larger and ]i]ore uni- form expanse. 3. The appearance of the scirrhus is white, hard, and gristly or carti- laginous ; that of the hypertro[)hy is yellower, tougher, and more elastic. 4. The mus- cular substance is involved in hypertrophy chiefly by the atrophy or enlargement of its bundles, within their thickened cellular sheaths. But in scirrhus, it undergoes a characteristic metamorphosis; by virtue of which its structure may almost be * said to approach that of colloid cancer. The fibrous septa become the seat of a development of new fibres ; while in their loculi or intervals, the muscular fibres are replaced by a reddish- yellow gelatinous substance, which consists * Marked specimens of this kind are,I believe, sometimes mistaken for tlie rarer true areolar cancer. of characteristic cancerous cells, in various stages of development. 5. The scirrhus fuses and confounds the various tunics; which, in the hypertrophy, generally remain tolerably distinct. 6. In scirrhus, ulceration is of more frequent occurrence, of earlier access, and of wider extent, than in hypertrophy. 7. In scirrhus, the neighbouring glands and organs genei-ally become at length affected by an enlargement and deposit, which itself par- takes of the cancerous characters. 8. The microscopic characters of the two morbid products are usually decisive; the scirrhus almost always offering the cell-forms charac- teristic of cancerous growth, in some part or other of its mass. Thus, for instance, even where the fibres of the central and cartilaginous substance are so numerous and well-developed as to obscure the cells they involve, the gelatinous matter enclosed within the meshes immediately around this harder mass will generally yield an abundant cell- growth ; or the still softer periphery of the tumour will afford the unmistakable cells of medullary disease. Of the various segments of the digestive canal, the stomach is by far the most frequent seat of cancer. The large intestine stands next to it in liability to this disease, the lia- bility diminishing successively from the rectum through the sigmoid flexure, to the remainder of the colon. In the coecum, however, it seems somewhat increased. The small intestine is very rarely affected, except in acute and ge- neral cancerous cachexia; in which the mucous membi'ane, and its submucous tissue, are some- times infiltrated with medullary deposit in the situation of the agminate follicles. In the stomach, cancer generally occurs as a scirrhous deposit which surrounds the py- loric extremity of the organ. The cancerous growth is strictly limited towards the duo- denum, by the p3lorie valve; but it extends a variable distance along the right side of the organ, generally favouring the lesser curvature. The neighbouring gastric surface is oiten oc- cupied by small isolated deposits of cancerous matter, which lie beneath the mucous mem- brane. And the healthy muscular coat, as before mentioned, is also frequently hyper- trophied over a large extent of the same locality. The chief peculiarities of the scirrhous mass have been enumerated in speaking of the differential diagnosis between it and hypertrophy of the stomach. Beginning in the submucous tissue, and the subjacent mus- cular coat, it rapidly involves both of these structures in a white cartilaginous-looking mass; the more opaque and fibrous parts of which often seem to give off'bundles of fibres, that pass completely through the nuiscular coat. The anatomy of these fibrous bundles has alrearly been mentioned. The disease advanc- ing, involves the subserous tissue and the pe- ritoneum, on the one hand; and the mucous membrane on the other. The latter of the two extensions is generally both earlier in