STOMACH AND INTESTINE. X 4 which is longitudinal: and an internal, which is circular or transverse — a general arrange- ment to which even the stomach forms no real exception. Before the discovery of the fibre cell by Koelhker, it was a matter of fruitless speculation, how these unstriped fibres termi- nated;—in other words, what was their indivi- dual length. But although this question is of course set at rest, it still remains doubtful, whether the transverse fibres of the alimentary canal return into themselves on completing one circle of the tube, or whether they take a spiral course. The latter view appears to the author much more probable. For some of their bundles often appear to join each other at a very acute angle. And whatever be the precise mechanism of their really co-ordinate contractions, it is clear that, in the longitu- dinal fibres, the direction and progress of con- traction correspond to the axis of the cell : — that is, to the line uniting the greatest number of its sarcous particles. While it is equally obvious that, if the course of these transverse fibres were absolutely circular, the peristalsis of the whole stratum they compose would move at right angles to their axes. Such a difference in their contraction would be so unlikely, as to justify our preferring the sup- position of their spiral arrangement. For this would allow of an identity in the contractions of the two strata in this respect. The course of contraction would be axial in both sets of fibres; but, ccetcris slower (and hence apparently more local) in the far longer bundles of the transverse coils. The spiral currents hereafter alluded to as seen in the contents of the stomach perha[)s strengthen this supposition. The longitudinal layer of the stomach is de- rived from the sin)ilar tunic of the oesophagus. This, on reaching the cardia, radiates on all sides, its bundles becoming thinner as they diverge, and being gradually lost from their decussation and mixture with the various fibres they meet with. But, on the lesser curvature of the organ, they continue much more distinctly, and are often traceable as two or three broadish bundles, to within a short distance of the pylorus. The longitu- dinal layer which covers the pyloric extremity appears not to have any very direct con- tinuity with the preceding. Its constituent fibres arise by scattered bundles at about the middle of the organ, and — often first uniting into two broad bands which occupy the cen- tres of its anterior and posterior surfaces — they soon form a tubular layer, which pro- ceeds over the pylorus, to join the com- mencement of the duodenum. The transverse or circular fibres lie imnicdi- atelybeneath those of the longitudinal stratum; and form what is, on the whole, a thicker, if not a more uniform, layer. To the left of the cardia its rings are very few and indistinct: their places being taken by those of the third or oblique layer. But from the right of this orifice it continues towards the pylorus with a constantly increasing thickness; until finally, reaching the margin of this valve (Jig. 243.), it is inflected towards the axis of the stomach by a rather steep and sudden curve, which presents an almost vertical surface Fig. 243. Lomjittidiiiul section of flie aHmciitari/ canal at the junction of the stomach and duodenum, to show the thickness of the pyloric valve. s, pyloric sac of the stomach; d, commencement of the first portion of the duodenum; p, pylorus, formed by a thickening of the transverse layer of the muscular coat of the stomach. towards the duodenum. Those of the trans" verse fibres which lie nearest to the left ex" tremity are somewhat less regularly transverse. Hence some of them decussate slightly v^ith each other, while others, which pass down- wards from the right margin of the cardia, are directed somewhat obliquely towards the left extremity of the organ. The third or oblique layer lies more deeply than the two preceding, and is therefore best seen by everting and inflating the stomach, and carefully removing its mucous membrane. Where the oesophagus enters the stomach, the transverse fibres of its left margin are so close to a flattened bundle of fibres, which occupies the notch (g,Jig.2-kO.), limiting the cardiac pouch, that the two are visibly continuous. The right or thickest part of this flattened band passes obliquely downwards towards the right side, soon breaking oflTrom the termination of the oesophagus ; antl from hence it continues across the transverse layer just described, to reach the greater curvature, where the similar layers from both surfaces of the organ are reflected into each other. Its usually well-defined margin occupies — and indeed forms — the notch (c,Jig. 240.). The posterior or thinner part proceeds, not only from the depression (g,Jg. 240.) on the left of the cardia, but also from the neighbouring upper border of the great extremity; and its more vertical fibres are also contiruied downwards to the lower border of the stomach, where they meet, so as to com[)lete the circuit of the cardiac pouch. Movement.^ of the stomach.—That there is an intimate connection between the oesophageal and gastric movements, is only what might be expected from that visible continuity of their muscular coats which has just been alluded to. Thus, at the close of each act of deglutition*, the lower fibres of the oesophagus contract with such force, as not only to obliterate the cardiac aper- ture, but even to cause the mucous membrane of this part to project into the cavity of the * For a description of the act of deglutition see the articles " CEsowiagds" and " Pharynx."