330 STOMACH AND INTESTINE, rently from dead animals) at 1*72, 1"80, MS, after feeding with hay, bones, and peppercorns respectively ; Lehmann at an average of 1'4 ; Bidder and Schmidt at S'CO-i in the gastric juice of a dog with deligated salivary ducts, 2'883 in another dog in whom they were free, and 1-385 from a sheep. These latter high numbers indicate that, whatever may be the influence of an admixture of food or saliva in increasing the residuum of the gastric juice, it is more than counterbalanced by the loss which attends the analysis of small quantities. The first of these three quantitative analyses by Bidder and Schmidt I have made the ba- sis of a calculation *, according to which the specific gravity of the gastric juice would be 1003*3,—an estimate that tolerably agrees with the observations of Lassaigne and Siliiman. The qnantiti/ of the gastric juice is even less accurately established. From Beaumont's experiments, it would appear that at least eight ounces may be secreted in an hour. It is, however, not impossible that ten times this amount may be poured out during the digestive process. For Bidder and Schmidt's observations on animals give an average of about -rrko ^^^^ weight of the whole body per hour, with a maximum of J^th in the same period. But it is probable that the latter proportion exceeds that which could be secreted by a human being f in the same space of time. C/iemicnl composition.—In inquiring into the chemical composition of the gastric juice, it will be convenient successively to consider its acid, its saline, and its animal constituents. T//e gastric acid.—Although this obvious and unmistakeable character of the gastric juice has been recognised for more than 130 years, yet the nature of the acid on which it depends is probably still regarded as un- certain. An impartial and searching criticism of all the numerous and conflicting analyses that have been made would far exceed the limits of this essay:—even had the author (what he has not) the abilities and leisure necessary to such a task. The reader will therefore only expect such a sketch, as may include some of the chief facts which justify us in preferring, if not in adopting, one par- ticular view. Not to mention those exceptional instances in which acetic, butyric, or other acids, have been found in inefficient quantity in the con- tents of the stomach, there are at least three views of sufficient importance to demand * This calculation is founded on a method sug- gested by Schmidt, and quoted by Lehm<ann (Op. cit. Bd. iii. pp. 4, 5, 6.). 1 have assumed that the condensation of the ferment on solution equals that of albumen ; that the clilovides of calcium and am- monium stand about midway between those of po- tassium and sodium in this respect; and that the hydrochloric acid occupies no bulk at all. On these suppositions, the 26-938 grains of residuum would take the space of 23-G17 grains of water; whence 1000—23-617 + 26-938= 1003-3. \ In a person of average weight, the above pro- portion of Jjth of the whole body would correspond to a secretion of about seven pints (nearly one gallon) of gastric juice in an hour. some notice. The first of these regards the gastric acid as the hydrochloric : tiie second as the lactic. While the tiiird attributes the acid- ulous character of the secretion to the presence of a salt, the acid phosphate—or, as it is some- times incorrectly termed, the superphosphate* — of lime. The latter view, which denies the presence of a free acid, is the more recent of the three. It rests solely upon the statements of Blondlot f; from whose writings we select some im|)ortant details, which are directly contradicted by the concurrent testimony of other chemists, and even by his own later researches. According to him, the gastric juice is precipitated by lime, does not act upon chalk, and contains no chloride of calcium. He also states (or rather implies) that biphosphate of lime is decomposed by incineration, so as to leave a neutral residue. Each of these statements is met by Lassaigne, Huenefeld, Melsens, Dumas, Bernard, and various other authorities, with a direct denial. And in a more recent Memoir, Blondlot himself lays especial stress upon the presence of a large quantity of chloride of cal- cium, the absence of which salt he iiad previously insisted on.J After these remai-ks, it is un- necessary to detain the reader by any further consideration of the various other errors— qualitative as well as quantitative—which in- validate the chemistry of this observer. But it is impossible to make these necessary allu- sions to Blondlot's analyses without passing a tribute to his talent, in devising an operation to which we owe all the brilliant experiments that have lately done so much for the ph3'sio- logy of digestion. Of the two remaining views, the parti- sans of each were, until lately, so equal in number, in repute, and in the validity of their arguments, that few physiologists could decide in favour of either: and those who could not suspend their judgment, were probably beginning to believe in both. On the side of lactic acid was the united testimony of Chevreul, Lassaigne, Thomson, Lehmann, Payen, Bernard, and Frei'ichs ; wiio had all verified its presence in gastric juice, sometimes when unmixed with food. While against the analyses of Prout §, Dunglison, Braconnot, Tiedemann, and others—in which hydrochloric acid was either lost from the * The formiUa of which is CaO, 2 HO, P2 QS. •|- Loc. cit. X Compare Op. cit. pp. 246. 250., and Comptes Keudus, t. xxxiii. p. 118. § This allusion to Dr. Prout's analyses may seem to require some explanation ; the more so, tliat they have sometimes been misquoted. He analyzed the gastric juice of rabbits who had been fed shortly before death. The contents of the stomach were filtered, and divided into four parts. The first was evaporated to dryness, and ignited. The second was supersaturated with potash, and similarly treated. The third was exactly saturated -with the same alkali of known strength. In the case of the first two portions, the saline ash remaining after ignition was dissolved in water, and tested with nitrate of silver for hydrochloric acid. It was presumed that the first method would give the amount of fixed chlorides present; the second, the total amount of