460 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. stimulus applied to the filaments of the sym- pathetic wiiich pass to the heart, have the effect of accelerating the pulsations of that organ and of exciting it to renewed contrac- tion after it has ceased beating. As move- ments very frequently arise in organs supplied by the sympathetic, especially in the intestines, spontaneously, at least under the stimulus of the atmospheric air, it is sometimes difficult to determine whether the contractions which follow the application of a stimulus to any of the nerves be really caused by this, or whether they may not belong to those just mentioned. Frequently, however, the contraction follows the irritation so regularly as to leave no doubt that the two are connected ; if, moreover, the abdominal muscles in the cat or rabbit be removed, so that the thin and transparent peritoneum alone remains over the viscera, application of mechanical or chemical irritants to the s[)lanchnic nerves in the thorax may still be observed to be followed, in many cases at least, by contractions in the intestine. In such experiments the air is prevented from acting upon the viscera by the intervening peritoneum, and in this way the fallacy above mentioned is less liable to occur. It remains to consider the motor influence of the sympathetic in reference to the ditferent muscular organs supplied by it. Heart. — The heart, as has been already stated, derives its nerves from the syn)pathfctic and pneumogastric. Tiiat the branches which are supplied by the sympathetic exercise an influence over the movements of the heart, is shown by what has been already stated, that after it has ceased to beat, irritation of the branches which pass to it from the cervical ganglia will again excite it to contraction. Similar results frequently follow irritation of the ganglia them- selves. When the galvanic stimulus is ap- plied to the cardiac branches of an animal in which the heart has not yet ceased pulsating, the effect is to augment the number of beats, and at the same time to increase their strength. In a rabbit in which the heart's action had ceased, Valentin * found that when the wires of the magneto-electric apparatus were applied, about J of a millimetre distant from each other, upon the second thoracic ganglion of the right side, a very powerful contraction in the auricles immeiliately ensued : the ex- periment was repeated several times, and with the same result. This also took place when the same stimulus was applied to the first thoracic ganglion. When, on the other hand, the wires were laid upon the aorta at the dis- tance of ith of a millimetre from the heart, or upon the surface of the right ventricle, no efl'ect was produced. He concludes, therefore, that the stimulus when applied to the nerves was, in this case, more effectual than when applied to the muscular fibres themselves. As regards the function of those fdaments which are sent by the pneumogastric to the heart, E. H. Weber \ believes that they exercise a re- * Loo. cit. p. 427. t Wagner's Handworterbuch der Pliysiologie, band iii., Abtheilung ii. p. 45. straining influence over the movements of the organ ; stimulus applied to the pneumogastric, according to his experiments, having the effect of retarding or altogether stopping its move- ments. When the stimulus of the electro- magnetic rotation apparatus was applied to the bulbus arteriosus in the frog's heart,—the part of the organ around which the fibres derived from the sympathetic are, according to him, chiefly distributed,—he found that the pulsations were increased in number as well as in strength. W^hen, on the other hand, the same stimulus was applied to the upper portion of the inferior vena cava, where the filaments of the pneumogastric are mainly dis- tributed, the effect produced was not an ac- celeration but a retardation or stoppage of the heart's action. When a defined part of the vagus has been stimulated for some time continuously,the heart again begins to pulsate : when, a portion of the nerve above this point is now stimulated, no effect is produced; when, on the other hand, the stimulus is ap- plied to a portion further down, nearer the heart, a cessation of its movements is again produced. The circumstance that the heart, after the stimulus has been applied to the pneumogastric for some time,again commences to beat, is attributed by Weber to the part of the nerve becoming exhausted, or losing its restraining influence, when the heart, being thus freed again, begins to pulsate. Budge*, however, attributes the cessation of the movements of the heart, produced by the application of galvanic stinuilus to the pneu- mogastric, not to any restraining power ex- ercised by that nerve, but rather to a temporary exhaustion produced by the strength of the stimulus. In support of this view, he states that, although the movements of the iris chiefly depend upon the oculo-motor nerve, yet Weber found, when the wires of the magneto-electric rotation apparatus were applied to this nerve within the cranium, that the pupil became dilated, remaining so for a considerable time after stimulus had been withdrawn, and then again slowly contracting. The effects thus produced upon the iris are, according to him, analogous to those pro- duced upon the heart by application of the galvanic stimulus to the pneumogastric. More- over, the nerves which are sent to the heart of the frog do not present the arrangement which Weber has described. No other fila- ments than those which pass from the vagus are distributed to the heart of this animal, at least no others have been demonstrated. The vagus nerve becomes united with the sympa- thetic in the ganglion, which is situated about one line from the root of the pneumogastric ; and from this ganglion, which contains fibres of the vagus and sympathetic, springs, amongst other branches, a slender filament which is destined for the heart. This runs down- wards on the inner aspect of the lungs, and passes along the veins to tlie auricles and ventricle, the former receiving the greater niunber of the nerve fibres. The branch in * Wagner's Haiidworterbuch, band iii. p. 415.