PELVIS. 137 According to Dupuytren, the female pelvis differs very little from tliat of the male till puberty, at which period it has a general triangular form in both sexes, but, after that period, it becomes rapidly developed, and soon assumes its distinctive sexual cha- racter. The transverse diameters bei:;in to exceed the conjugate, and, in the female, attain a great preponderance, constituting one of the great characteristics of the fully formed iiuman pelvis, as distinguished from that of the lower animals. In Autenrietb's method of calculating the pelvic dimensions, the dorsal, or posterior part, bears a proportion to the anterior or abdominal part, as 10 to from 11 to 14, in the infant of two years ; while, in the adult pelvis, it was as 10 to from 16 to 22. In advanced adult age, the pelvic inclination is said by Cruveilhier to be increased in con- sequence of the forward curvature, or droop- ing of the spinal column, which tends to arrive at the horizontal position, as in quadru- peds. To keep the centre of gravity between the lower extremities, the lemurs, in old persons, are more (lexed upon the pelvis, so as to be more directed towards the line of the superior pelvic plane. 1 have found, however, that in old subjects, although the angle of the pelvic plane with that of the ivliole spinal column is increasctl, yet the angle with the lumbar vertebr;e only, is not so much changed, and that, ap|)arent!y, the increased muscular traction on the sacrum and posterior part of the ilia by the muscles of the back act- ing upwards, and of tiiose of the front of the thigh acting downwards, upon the anterior part of the pelvic lever, in ortler to pre- serve the erect position, produce this in- creased obliquity of the pelvis, which is ge- nerally accompanied by a corresponding f/t - crcwt of the sacro-vertebral angle. This will be more fully comprehended when consider- ing the mechanism of the pelvis. Muscular Attachments of the Pel- vis.— To afford a fixed point for the attach- ment of the numerous and powerful muscles acting on the trunit and extremities is one of the important ofTices of the pelvis. These may be classed as j^osterior spinal and abdo- minal groups acting on the trunk and spinal column; extensor, flexor, adductor, abductor, and rotator groups acting on the lower extre- mity ; and perineal groups forming the move- able floor of the pelvis and acting on the genital and excretory organs. 1. Muscles acting on the trunk and. spine.— The posterior spinal group.—The longissinius dorsi and multijidus spina;, to the upper part of the posterior surface of the sacrum ; the interspmalcs, to the superior border of the sacral crest; and, according to some, the ex- tensor cocci/gis, to the contiguous posterior surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx ; the sacro- lumbalis, to the middle [lart of the posterior third of the iliac crest, and to the contiguous sacral surface ; and the lalissimus dorsi, through the lumbar fascia to the external !ij) of the posterior half of the iliac crest and to the sacral crest. This muscle acts on the arm. The abdonnnal group.—The obliquus cxter- nus and internus, and transversalis abdo- minis, to the external lip, middle ridge, and internal lips respectively of the iliac crest, and also by their aponeurotic tendons to the angle, crest, spine, and pectineal line of the pubis (the external oblique tendon, under the name ol' Poupart's ligament, stretching across, from the anterior su[)erior iliac spine to the spine of the pubis, and, under the name of Gim- bernat's ligament, passing backwards to the linea-ilio pectinea; and the internal oblique and transversalis tendons enclosing the rectus abdominis muscle, and uniting to form the conjoined tendon) ; the quadratus lumborunt, to the posterior fourth of the inner li|) of the iliac crest ; the rectus and 2^l>'"^"idaHs abdo- minis, to the crest of the pubis ; and the psoas jmrvus, when present, to the pectineal eminence. 2. JMuscles acting on the leg. — The Jlexor group.—-The rectus femoris, to the anterior in- ferior iliac spine and outer part of the coty- loiil rim; the iliacus, to the whole anterior concave surface of the iliac wing — the psoas magnns is not attached to the pelvis, but acts upon it by passing over it along the pelvic brim ; and the sartorius, to the anterior supe- rior iliac spine and notch below it. The extensor group. — The biceps Jlexor a'uris, seinitendinosus, and semimenibranosits, to the depending middle and po:-,terior parts of the ischial tuberosity ; and the gluteus maximus, to the quadrilateral gluteal impres- sion on tlie dorsum of the ilium, to the pos- terior surfaces of the two lower pieces of tlie sacrum, and of the two or three upper pieces of the coccyx, to the oblique sacro-iliac and great sacro-sciatic ligaments, and to the lum- bar fascia. The adductor group.—The adductor magnus, to the anterior ]Kirt of the ischial tuberosity, and to the united ischio-pubic rami; the ad- ductor longus, to the anterior surface of the angle of the pubis; the adductor brcvis below the foregoing, to the same surface; the pec- tineus, to the spine, pectineal line, and hori- zontal ranms of the pubis ; and the gracilis, to the rough internal border of the ischio- pubic rami and symphysis pubis. The abductor grouji.—The gluteus medius, to the dorsum of the ilium, between the crest and superior curved line; the gluteus minimus, to the same surface between the curved lines; and the tensor vagina; femoris, to the outer surface of the anterior superior iliac spine. The rotator grouj].—The j)7/riformis, to the anterior surface of the sacrum between the four upper sacral holes, and passing out through the great sciatic notch ; the obturator cxtcrnus, to the inner half of the external cir- cumference of the obtiu'ator foramen, and to the external surface of the membrane closing it; the obturator internus, to the internal surface of the same ligament, and to the borders of the foramen, and also to the surface of bone oppo- site the cot3 loid cavity (this muscle passes out through the small sciatic notch, over which