543 RUMINANTIA. symmetrical as in the Horse ; the cerebellum is divided into several irregularly disposed lobules of variable size.* The base of the brain is more flattened than in Man. In the Giraffe the cerebrum lies on the same level as the cerebellum, and does not overlap it { fig. 363.). 3 fThe anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina are paramount in most if not in all the species. The corpora viammilaria are of considerable size. The lateral ventricles intercommunicate. All the nerves at the base of the cerebrum are conspicuously large, especially the olfactories, which form broad bulbous expansions in front, where they are applied to the cribriform plates of the ethmoid bone. The spinal chord and nerves are chiefly remarkable for their length in certain genera ; in the Giraffe the filaments entering into the composition of the anterior and posterior nervous roots of the chord, are widely sepa- rated from one another at their origins. Organ of vision. — In common with many other quadrupeds, ruminants are provided with an Harderian gland; it is situated at the inner angle of the eye, and opens by a single duct behind the so-called mernbrana nictitans or third eyelid. The glandida; lacrijmales are lobulated. The eyeballs are placed wide apart, and are particularly prominent in Camelidie and in the Giraffe, enabling these animals to look straight in a backward direction without turning the head. The pupillary aperture is oblong transversely, as in Cetacea and Solipeda, the latter family having flocculent masses developed from the uvea which project into the anterior chamber. The most striking feature of the ruminant eye- ball arises from the presence of a tapctnm, provided with an extremely brilliant metallic lustre, varying in tints of yellow, green, blue, violet, and purple. Organ of/waring. — The essential part of the auditory apparatus is similar in construc- tion throughout the entire mammiferous series ; but the external auricular appendages are largely developed in Ruminantia, and moved by a numerous and comphcateil set of muscles : these have already been referred to. Internally, a small sessamoid bone is some- times found in connection with the stapedius muscle of the Ox. In ruminants generally, the cochlea scarcely exhibits the same amount of turning as in man, the number of coils being rather less than two and a half; in the Chamois only two vviiorls are present. Minor * The design and scope of the present article for- bid our entering minutely upon the Comparative Anatomy of the Brain and some other organs of special interest. We cannot, however, quit this part of our subject without referring to the import- ant Memoirs oi:' M. Camille Dareste, in the Ann. des Sc. Nat., on the "Convolutions of the Brain in Mammifera," and more particularly to liis third Memoir (No. 2., torn, iii., scrie iv.). In this paper M. Dareste shows that the complicated arrange- ments exhiliited by these organs in the dilferent ruminant families, may be all reduced to a simple type,—and this typical condition he has beautifully illustrated (in his second IMemoir) by a description of the actual appearances found in the brain of the Javanese Musk. differences exist in the form of the semi- circular canals ; in the Camelidee and Capreae their curvature is elliptical, and in Antelopidae it forms the segment of a spiral; in Solipeda the curve is parabolic. In the first of these families the canals are particularly sjjacious. The tympanum in Bovidse is irregular in form, and made up of numerous cells ;— these are absent in CEgosceridse, where the cavity is farther distinguished by its capaciousness. Organ of smell.—The olfactory sense is very highly developed in the present family, but the organic modifications are unimportant, except in so far as they refer to a correspond- ing structural increase. An interesting and special provision, however, is formed in the Camel for the protection of the schneiderian membrane from the injurious effects of the tornado, during which, particles of sand are driven along the deserts with great violence ; the nasal aperture instead of being patent, assumes the form of a narrow cleft, and to ensure its temporary closure, a subcutaneous sphincter muscle is placed at the entrance, subject to the control of the animal's will; under ordinary circumstances the nostril is well guarded with stiff bristly hairs. The openings of the cribriform lamellse of the os ethmoides are particularly large, and the inferior turbinated bones are enormously developed and folded longitudinally into seve- ral gyrations. In most species the nasal, maxillary, and other cranial sinuses are very extensive. Urinary organs. — The only peculiarities worthy of remark under this head have re- ference to the imperfectly lobulated character of the kidne3 s in Bovidas, and the large size of the urinary bladder in ruminants generall}', the latter feature being a characteristic of all herbivorous quadrupeds. The glandular bodies situated towards the inner side of the renal organs are more or less oval and elongated. Rcprodnctice system. — The male sexual organs exhibit few departures from the or- dinary mammiferous type. The testes, as in Solipeda and Man, are encloseil within a scro- tum, which is pendulous, and divided by a thin cellular septum. The gland itself is invariably egg-shaped, its longitudinal extension being considerably increased by the projecting cjiididymis above and the globus major below. It is more significantly characterised by the presence of a corpus highrnorianuni, which is essentially a production of the tunica albu- ginea, traversing the organ lengthways, and giving off numerous aponeurotic bands, — the latter radiating inwards between the seminal tubes and separating them into lobular bun- dles. The tunica vaginalis is continuous with the abdominal cavity. The vesiculae seminales are largely developed, and exhibit two lateral horns which have a globular form in OEgosceridce and Cervidae. These lobes are by some described as jirostatic; but others regard a narrow glandular layer, lying immediately in front of the above, as the representative of the last-named structure. In the Ram the rasa dcfereniia unite near