157 PELVIS. are not united in a crest. The ilia approach in shape to those of the Tapir, being in a less mari<ed degree T-siiaped ; the posterior limb 'of the iliac wings projecting inwards as far as the sacral spines; the anterior superior spine often presenting an epiphysis, and the shaft being long and blade-like. The ischia are comparative!}' long, and much more slender than in the Ruminants, being placed nearly [larallel with the coccygeal vertebra, and witli m ])rolonged tuberosities. The pubcs are small ^ and short, and directed a little forwards, as well as downward and inward, with a marked ilio-pectineal eminence, and a very long ischio- |iubic symphysis. The sciatic notch is wide, and the obturator foramen small. The an- terior outlet is large and squarish, and the posterior elongated vertically and somewhat diamond shaped. Lumbo-iliac angle rather larger than that of the Tapir, being about 130° ; Uio-ischial, 14.5°; and the ilio-pubic about 130°; making the himbo-jmbic rather less than a right angle. In the RuminanUa the sacrum is composed generally of four vertebrae, the two upper articulating with the ilia. In the Gazelle and Antelope, however, there are five, and in the common Stag only three. The sacrum is pro- portionably broad, and more arched, both longitudinally and laterally, than in the pre- ceding orders. The sacral promontory is also better marked, and the sacro-lumbar angle more perceptible. In the Ox, especially, this reaches to about 145° to 150°, and in the Fallow-deer 160°. The sacral spines are coalesced in a perfect crest in the ()x. Fallow-deer, and Stag (7%. 96. a), and partially in the gigantic Irish lieer. Gnu, and E(|uine antelope; not so in the Giraffe and Camel. The caudal vertebrae are numerous. The//ia are long, with the crest (c) concave, and the ake ex])anding laterally at the top, especially in the heavier Ruminants; being concave internally, and convex externally, and projecting much over the dorsal surface of the spinal column, by the flattened and elongated posterior superior spine {b). They form little of the abdominal parietes, and are placed on the spine at an angle of 140° to 150°. The iscliia are long and large, and placed on the ilia at an angle (c d e) of about 150° in the Deer and Sheep tribes, but much less in the lieavier animals. This in- creased length and size of the ischia is parti- cularly marked in the Deer tribe ; and, as fulfilling th(; same mechanical re(]uirejnents for affording a long and strong hold for the power- ful extensor group of pelvic muscles, allies them with the Cariiivora, and other springing animals aftci'vvards to be considered. The large and flattened tuberosities (e) project much on the dorsal surface of the pelvis, Tliis is especially seen in the Fallow- deer, common Stag, and Ox, with a well- marked lateral tubercle (g), which is also pre- sent in the Gazelle and Roebuck. They present no ischial spine, except in the Lama, where it is well marked. The pubcs are very short and slentler, and are directed from witii- out almost directly inwards, forming an ilio- pubic angle of about 130° to 140°. The Fig. 96. Pelvis of the Stag, lateral view. ilin-pcctineal spine is much marked in Red dei-r. Generally the ischia form part of the elongated symphysis (f). In the Ox, the symphysis is not placed quite parallel to the spine, as is usually the case in the inferior animals ; but is placed obli(ptclt/, as in the human species, diverging more from the spine at the anterior than at the posterior extremity, and forming with it an angle of about "20°, and causing the anterior opening to be larger tlian the posterior {see fig. 97./). The anterior opening is large and roundish, with a prevalence of the antero-posterior diameter. The posterior opening is more square, but irregular and looking much up- wanls. The ischio-pubic portion of the pelvis is altogether very long, and opposed to the coc- cygeal vertebrae. In Deer, Goats, and Ru- minants generally, but especially in the Ox, the gradual n|)ward curve of the ischia, and the well-marked dorsal projection of their tuberosities, cause them to appear promi- nently on the rump, projecting on each side and above the coccygeal vertebrae (fi'gs. 96, and 97. c.} In the Ox the dio-ischial angle is as much as 130°; and the lumbu-iliac angle hemg about 150°, the acetabula are thereby placed directly under the last hone of the sacrum, and at the apex of an inverted arch {c de) formed by the ischium and ilium. By this elevation of the ischia, the sacro-sciatic ligaments become a means of support to the sacrum, as well as the sacro-iliac, and thus that bone becomes sus[)ended between two curvetl springs, formed by the ilio-ischion on each side. Thus in these animals the sacro-sciatic liga- ments resist motion of the sacrum in a di- rection downwards and forwards, a direction totally contrary to those of the luunan pelvis, as considered in the section relating to the mechanism of that structure. And this change of fiuiction, so simply transitionary, results from the alteration of mechanical require- ments in the quadrupedal position of the trunk. About the period of parturition, the sacrum of the Ox is said to sink evidently between the ilia and ischial tuberosities, by relaxation of these ligaments. The elevation of the ischial tuberosities doubtless would