REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 239 this manner it becomes firmly implanted, the tissue which sm-rounds it assuming the form of a sheath, and receiving the name of vagi- nula. During this process, the dilated portion of the archegonium has increased in size, and has now attained about ten times its original length. Finally, it gives way at its line of junction with the vaginula, and is carried up- wards on the summit of the still lengthening fruit. 77. Development of the spores. — The upper portion of the cylindrical fruit, which is des- tined to become the capsule, begins, some time after the calyptra has given way, to dilate rapidly. Soon after there is formed, by the separation of the external and superficial lay- Fis. 166. Section of half-ripe fruit of the same, 60 diavi. The globular dilatation exhibits the following parts: — a, the capsule. Witliiu this, and separating it from the central portion, is a dark space, which corresponds to a cavity of the form of a hollow cylinder; h, columella; c, super- ficial layer of central portion; d, remains of archegonium; e, vaginula, (From fig. 164 to 106 from Hofmeister.) ers of cells from the central portion, a cavity of the form of a hollow cylinder, the axis of which coincides with that of the fruit. At this stage, the central portion consists of an axile column of large cells, closely invested by a single layer of smaller ones (the columella) ; a superficial layer of cells, about four times as large as those last mentioned ; and lastly, between the two, a layer of nucleated cells, with granular contents, the primary parent cells of the spores. The development of these last consists in the disappearance of the nu- cleus of each, and the substitution for it of two others ; this being accompanied or fol- lowed by the division of the [jrimordial mem- brane into two new vesicles, each of which encloses a nucleus. A cellulose membrane is now formed at the surface of contact of the two vesicles by which the original cavity is bisected. In the cavity of each of the result- ing nucleated cells, two new ones make their appearance, apparently by contraction of the primordial membrane, either before or imme- diately after its division into two halves. On the surface of each half cellulose is secreted, so that the spherical cells which are thus formed possess a delicate cellulose external, and a very distinct inner membrane (primor- dial vesicle.) This last divides into four por- tions (the young spores), each of which becomes invested with a layer of cellulose. The ripe spore has been already described. The capsule now gives way at the line of its insertion on the pedicle which supports it. It is by the opening thus produced that the spores make their escape after the dislocation of the layers of cells immediately surrounding them. Phascum differs from all other genera in the absence of all trace of an operculum. 78. Ferns.—No two plants could be found which differ more completely from each other in the appearance which they present to the ordinary observer, than a Hepatica and a Fern, at the moment that the spores of each arrive at maturity ; yet, in the history of their organ- isation and development a very close corre- spondence exists. The immediate result of the germination of the spore of a Fern is a frond similar to that of the simpler forms of Hepatica ; on this frond antheridia and arche- gonia are formed. In each fructified arche- gonium, a central germ-cell is developed to a new individual, widely different in organisation from the parent. It, in its turn, produces spores, the germination of each of which is the commencement of a new circle of phenomena similar to the one which precedes it. Dividing this circle into two periods, as before, we have the following stages in the development. 79. First period.* —Germination of the spore. — The mature fern-spore consists of a delicate transparent vesicle, which is invested in a brown resistant external membrane. Germi- nation consists in the budding out of the trans- parent vesicle so as to form a nipple-shaped projection, which penetrates the external mem- brane. The projecting part divides repeatedly by transverse septa. About the same time a second budding out takes place in the oppo- site direction, which is destined to the forma- tion of a root. By the further growth of new cells, a flattened tvvo-lobed organ is formed — the Prothallium. Fia. 167. Early cnyidilion of pruthalliam of Gymnogramma chrysophylla, about 20 diam. (Henfrey.) 80. The antheridia.—The antheritlia are situ- ate on the under surface of the prothallium, * Hofmeister, c. pp. 78—82.