UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 676 relation to the powers of the different nerve centres, it is scarcely possible to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion regarding the relative degrees of influence which these may be sup- posed to exercise over the movements of the uterus. The marked differences of opinion still existing upon this subject * afford sufficient evidence of the uncertainty of the data upon which definite conclusions can be based. In this uncertainty, however, all points of the nervous system are not equally involved. The amount of influence of the cerebrum upon the act of parturition can be determined with tolerable accuracy. That the uterus is in communication with the brain is proved by the fact that the woman is conscious of the ftEtal movements, and that she suffers pain when the uterus contracts. Emotion may excite, and may also for a time delay, uterine action. The will cannot operate directly upon the uterus, either in the way of producing, or of restraining its contractions, but a slight in- direct influence may be occasionally perceived, when by voluntary changes of posture, or by the use of those muscles which assist labour, the force of the uterus is slightly increased ; or conversely, when, by carefully restraining all such movements and actions, this result is avoided. It is further shown hy the occurrence of labour in cases of complete paraplegia, and also during states of unconsciousness, induced by anesthetics, that the uterus contracts while it is withdrawn from all volitional and like cere- bral influences. These several examples serve to show to what extent the contractions of the uterus may be influenced by the cerebrum, and also how that influence may be withdrawn. It is obvious that psychical influences are neither necessary nor accessory to the simple act of labour. They may often be regarded as dis- turbing, but not as regulating forces. Hence the dominant power over the contractions of the uterus, which is exercised during labour, must have its seat in some of those nervous cen- tres that are placed lower than the cerebrum. We may therefore proceed next to inquire what are the attributes which from direct ob- servation and analogical reasoning the uterus may be supposed to derive respectively from the ganglionic and spinal systems, regarded as separate sources of motor power. But here, on account of the intimate manner in which the nerves derived from each of these centres are bound up together, great difficulty arises in distinguishing between the operations of each, and these difficulties can be only in part surmounted. The circumstances which point more par- ticularly to the influence of the ganglionic system will be first considered. The uterus derives a greater proportionate * See Tyler Smith, Parturition and the Principles and Practice of Obstetrics; and Lancet, 1856. Scanzoni, Lelirbuch der Geburtsliilfe. Brmvn- Svquard, Plij'siology and Pathology. Carpenter, Principles of Human Physiology; and Todd, art. Nervous System, in this Cyclopaedia. supply of nerves from the ganglionic than from the spinal system. This appears from the re- searches of both Snow Beck and Kilian. The actions therefore of those parts or organs having like endowments, which are in other respects also comparable with the uterus, may be here examined. Of all organs the heart is that which most nearly resembles the uterus. It constitutes, after the uterus, the largest hollow nmscle. Like the uterus, it acts with rhythm, and, in a certain degree, peristaltically. It continues its contractions, with little, if any, interruption, for a long time after its principal cerebro-spinal connections have been destroyed, as by tying the pneumogastric nerves. It continues to contract rhythmically in many animals for a variable time after death, or when cut out of the body Its contractions are regulated mainly by sympathetic ganglia, while the cerebro-spinal fibres which it receives serve to establish rela- tions between it and other parts. The uterus exhibits many like peculiarities. It acts with rhythm and peristaltically. It continues these actions, in numerous species of animals, for a variable time after death. Even in the human subject, a post-mortem power of contraction seems to be occasionally retained, as in the case of women whose spon- taneous delivery has taken place some time after all evidences of somatic life have ceased.* In these several offices we may conclude that the uterus also, so far as its operations are under the dominion of the nervous system, is, like the heart, chiefly influenced by sympathetic ganglia and nerves. That this is the case is also further shown by the occurrence of delivery under circum- stances in which all spinal influence appears to be abrogated. The following is an ex- ample.f A woman was attacked with paraplegia in the eighth month of pregnancy. She had neither sensation nor motion in any part below the umbilicus. No reflex movements what- ever could be produced by tickling the soles of the feet. The fasces passed involuntarily, and the urine was drawn off daily. About the ninth month, her medical attendant, when about to pass the catheter, found a full-grown foetus in the bed (dead). The uterus was con- tracted, and the placenta in the vagina. The * A large number of these cases has been col- lected by Dr. W. H. Wittlinger, " Von der nach deni Tode der Mutter von selbst erfolgenden Geburt," in the Analekten fiir die Geburtshiilfe, Bd. I. 1849. All cases of post-partum delivery are probably due to one of three causes, viz., to a con- tractile power or irritability remaining in the uterus after death, and comparable to that which in vo- luntary muscles produces the now well-known post-mortem cholera movements; to rigor mortis; or to the develojiment of gases within the abdo- men or uterus, causing the expulsion of the child bj' pressure. The first is probably the cause of birth within a few hours, and the last several days, after the death of the mother, and the second of the expulsion of the foetus before decomposition has set in, yet at a later period than can be accoimted for upon the first hypothesis. f For this case I am indebted to Mr. Paget.