579 OVARY—(Abnormal Anatomy). To this coat, which appears to retain or in- crease its thickness by a perpetual new for- mation of fibrous tissue, is due that support and resistance to the pressure of the in- creasing contents of the sac, which prevents the more frequent rupture of these cysts. And it is [)robable that when the latter phenome- non occurs, without the formation of previous adiiesions, followed by ulceration, the lacera- tion is due to the gradual attenuation of the miildlc wall of the sac. Occasionally portions of these walls are found to be of nearly cartilaginous hardness, so that they can with difficulty be broken up into fragments for minute examination. Such portions are seen under the microscope to be composed almost entirely of close-lying fibres of white fibrous tissue, with scarcely a trace of the embryonic fibres and granules, which are found abundantly in the wails of the softer cysts, and of the normal ovisac. Other por- tions of these cyst walls, still more dense, present to the naked eye, as well as under the microscope, all the characters of the simpler forms of cartilage ; whilst in the walls of other cysts again are found patches of ossific matter, in which the earthy elements of bone are aggregated together, (calcification) but without the definite arrangement characteris- tic of true osseous structures. Upon and in the substance of this middle coat ramify numerous arteries and veins, some- times of considerable magnitude. These dis- tribute their minute branches upon the inner sui'face of the cyst, where they occasionally ])resent a peculiar straight or rectangular ar- rangement. Doubtless these vessels are the carriers of those enormous collections of fluids which accumulate within the cysts, and upon their arrangement, as well as u|)on the nature of the epithelial lining of the sac, depends probably the character of the fluids secreted or effused. Most variable is the condition of the lining membrane which bounds the inner surface of the cyst. In the smaller cysts it is often com- posed of one or more layers of simple flat- tened epithelial cells ; the remains, perhaj)s, of the membrana granulosa. This surface may be free, or to it may adhere fragments of blood clot, degenerating or undergoing fibrillation, by which the sac, when small, is partly filled. This lining of epithelial cells is often seen in a slate of fatty degeneration*, and similar cells are found abimdantly scattered among the contents of the sac. In the larger and older cysts the membrane lining the sac is nearly as smooth as that w hich covers it externally. In these the lining membrane often exhibits but little vascularity, and shows small traces of an epithelial cover- ing in its smoother parts, where it is usually so intimately adherent to the middle walls, as to be separable from the latter only with diffi- culty. Fiagments so obtained are easily split up, and are seen to be composed of deve- loped fibres of connective tissue, intermixed • Wedl, Tatholog. Ilistol. p. 4G1. Syd. Soc. with fine granules and a few embryonic fibres. After the simple cyst has arrived at a cer- tain period of its growth, antl generally when it equals tiie size of a large orange, it begins to exhibit upon its inner surface patches, more or less extensive, of rough projections, gra- nidations, or vesicles, which will be described more fidly under another section. Multiple Ci/^h:—I have en)ployed this term to designate a variety of the single cyst which might be confoundetl with the compound or proliferous kind, and which consists merely in an aggregation of two or more simple cysts that have been contemporaneous in their growth. The distinction between a mere ag- gregation of simple cysts and tlie growth of a compound one has been carefidly drawn by Rokitansky*, and has been also illustrated by Paget.f If such cysts afe observed at an early period of their growth, they may be seen to occupy different portions of the ovary in which they arise independently of each other, and having distinct portions of ovarian stroma interposed between each. They have at first a round or oval form, but " as they all enlarge together, and sometimes by the wasting of their partition walls come into communication, they are flattened by reciprocal pressure, and " may at length look like a single many-chamberetl cyst, having its one proper wall formed by the extended filirous covering of the ovary. Many multilocular cysts, as they are named, are only groups of close-packed single cysts ; though w hen examined in late periods of their growth, and especially when one of the group of cysts enlarges much more than the rest, it may be difficult to tlistingiiish them from some of the proliferous cysts. Figs. 392. and 393. serve to illustrate the simple and the multiple cyst respectively. Fig. 392. has been tiescribed at p. .5^5, where this example is given as an instance of hyper- tro|)hy of a Graafian follicle in an early stage, forming a simple or unilocidar cyst, still harilly contained within the substance of the ovary. It will be seen that at one part of this preparation the wall of the cyst has become blended with the general investments of the ovary ; and it will be easily understood how, by the gradual enlargement of the cyst in this direction, where there will be the least amoimt of resistance to its growth, the sac may at length become so greatly expanded that the remaining healthy portion of the ovary will appear only as an appendage to it, or may become by pressure and extension altogether obliterated. Fig. 393., taken from Dr.Hooper's collection J, offers a goo<l example of the mul- tiple cyst. It is composed of a mere aggre- gation of simple or unilocular cysts, which, l)y coincident enlargement, have come at length to fill the entire ovary, causing considerable increase in bulk of that organ. From the right ovary (a) a portion has been removed * Loc. cit. p. 3,32. f Lectures on Surgical Pathol. Vol. ii. p. 56. j Morbid x\natomy of tlie Human Uterus, pp 2