646 thinner, rine walls UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. He found the thickness of tlie ute- three weeks after eoncei)tion, C"; Fin. 444. months, in one case, 9/// and 2i'"; and another, 3'" above, and more than 4"' below. At nine months, they appear to be still rather thinner. In several uteri, which I have examined at all stages of gestation, I have found the thick- ness of the uterine walls exceedingly variable in different instances, even at corresponding periods of pregnancy, and particularly variable also in different parts of the same uterus.* According to my measurements, the extremes of thickness range from 2'" to 9"'. * This circumstance is remarkably exemplified in prep. No. 3605, in tlie Museum of the Koyal College ol Surgeons, London. During these changes, which take place in ; the uterine body in the course of preunancy, smular, but much slighter, alterations occur in the cervix. For the latter, being only the ex- cretory channel of the uterus, undergoes no further modification than is necessary to pre- pare it for transmitting the foetus when fully developed. Accordingly, in the earlv months of gestation, while the body is rapidly en- larging, the cervix undergoes but little change. Its tissues, however, become slightly expanded, so that the whole part is thicker, softer, and more elastic than in the virgin state. The margins of the os externum are consequently rerideretl more cushiony, and the orifice itself is enlarged. The canal of the cervix is also widened, and the palmae plicatae become un- folded, and project in the form of frill-like expansions ( fig. 446.); while an unusual ac- tivity, occurring in the crypts and folHcles, by which these parts are covered, a tough gelatinous secretion is poured out, which Fip. 445. Human gravid uterus at elyht months. The vessels have been injected, and thf peritoneum removed from the sides and fore-part of the uterus. (After fVm. Hunter.') a, commencement of the cervix; bb, portion of the body corresponding with the brim of tlie pelvis; cf, Fallopian tube concealing the ovary; dd, round ligament; e, hypogastric artery, and /, vein; g, spermatic artery, and h, vein. at the commencement of the third month, 5"'; at the commencement of the fourth month, 4'". At the end of the fourth month, in two cases, V"; in a third, 3'" at the upper, and 4'" at the lower part; in a fourth, 5'". At five months, in one case, 3'"; in another, 2"' superiorly, and 4"' inferiorly. At six and seven months, rather less than 3"'; at eight Os and cervix uteri in the eighth month of pregnancy. The OS is surrounded by a broad disc of enlarged cervical follicles filled with a gelatinous secretion. The OS is represented as seen from the vagina, va, vaginal walls divided ; u, walls of uterus. Half tlie natural size. {Ad Nat.) collecting here in the form of a plug, assists in shutting out the uterine cavity and its contents from contact of external air and other influences. The increase in size of the os and cervix, which is gradually progressive through the whole of gestation, will be sufficiently ex- pressed by comparing the dimensions of these parts in their two extreme states. The virgin cervix measures usually at the base 7—8''' in its shorter, and 11 —12'" in its transverse dia- meter, and has an ajierture of 3—4'" wide. It projects into the vagina to the extent of 4'" {fg. 425). At the end of pregnancy, the whole vaginal portion of the cervix would fill a circle of I^" diameter ; the orifice measures transversely 10—11'"; and that part which formerly projected into the fornix of the vagina, is now reduced nearly to the level of the vaginal walls. During these changes, it is often observed, especially in a first pregnancy, that, as gesta- tion advances, the projection of the cervix