PELVIS. 186 inches; the left, f of an inch only. The transverse diameter, measured in the lateral curve of the brim, 6^ inches. At the inferior outlet, the antero-posterior, 4^ inches ; the transverse, 5^. In the figure of tliis pelvis given by the author, the long axis of the sacrum is represented as placed obliquely across the median line, its apex inclining to the right side; while the tuberosity of the right ischium is widely divergent, principally causing the increase of the transverse dia- meter of the outlet. The left iscliial tube- rosity and acetabulum are brought more under the line of gravity. The left sujjerior pubic ramus is thus pusiied nearer to the promontory than the right, causing a slight twist in the pubic symphysis. In this pelvis the author considers that delivery might be efiected " per vias naturales," by craniotomy. In one of Dr. Hull's cases, that of Ann Lee, affected with this deformity, tlie con- jugate diameter was reduced to If inch, and the sacio-cotyloid on each side equal, and measuring \^-^ inch. The transverse diameter, in its widest part, amounted to 4^ inches only. There was little flattening of the pubes, the contraction being produced chiefly by the projection of the sacrum, the chief bend being near the sacro-iliac joints. The distance between the antero-superior iliac spines was only 8^ inches, but the dimen- sions of the cavity and inferior outlet were not materially diminished. In Mr. Thomson's case of Ctesarian section, the pelvis was affected with this deformity. The normal lumbar curvature was so much increaseil, together with the pelvic inclination, that the sacrum was placed quite horizontal, and the superior plane directly xx-rtical, and its axis consequently parallel with the hori- zon; but with little or no lateral deviation of the sacral promontory. The legs were crooked, and the acetabida faced directly forwards. The conjugate diameter of the brim was diminished to \ of an inch ; the transverse was about 5 inches, and the intcr- sciatic apparently about 4i.* J3r. Robert Lee gives the dimensions of a case of ovate deformity in which the patient, after being delivered by craniotomy at an early period of pregnancy in the first labour, died in the second from rupture of the uterus. The conjugate diameter of the brim was 2 inches 1 line; the transverse, 5^ inches. At the outlet the distance between the sciatic tuberosities was 4^ inches; between the tip of the coccyx and lower border of the pubic symphysis, o\ inches. This obstetrician con- siders that if, in this case, premature labour had been induced at or before the fifth, in- stead of the seventh month, the patient might have been saved.j" It has been said that in pelves presenting the ovate deformity from rickets, tiie contrac- tions of the diameters of the brim are generally * Med. Observations and Inquiry, vol. iv., with plates, I Lectures in BleJ. Gazette, 1S43, p. 181. accompanied by the enlargement of those of the outlet, and the numerous examples of enlarged transverse diameters of the outlet, in particular, are adduced. In an ovately deformed pelvis in the Museum of King's (Jollege, however, in which the con- jugate diameter of the hrhn is 2 inches, and the transverse also contracted to 4a inches ; at the outlet the inter-sciatic diameter is contracted to as little as .3i inches, and with it the sub- pubic angle is diminished also, while the antero-posterior is increased to 4^ inches. This pelvis is remarkable for the great flat- tening of tlie sacrum, the anterior surface of which lies almost in a straight line, in which direction the coccyx also is nearly placed. The antero-posterior diameter of the caviti/ is thus reduced to 3^ inches. The distance between the ischial spines is, however, 4 inches. The sacral promontory projects more forwards than downwards, and the lumbar curve is inclined to the left side. In this pelvis the brim is contracted considerably in all its diameters, and this contraction is evidently produced by the crushing down- wards of the sides of the cotylo-sacral arch. The length of the cotylo-sacral rib on the right side, taken from opposite the ilio-pec- tineal eminence to the sacro-iliac angle along the curve, amounts to only Ji inch, while the direct measurement is reduced to li inch. The rib of bone is at the same time much increased in thickness, presenting an almost cubical mass between the cotyloid and sacro- iliac articulations. On the left side, the direct measurement is a little more. In the table of measurements of diseased pelves given by Dr. Murphy, the transverse diameter of the brim in the five ovate pelves amounts to 5 inches only in two cases, and in a third, it is diminished to 4| inches. In many of these cases we may conclude that the cotylo-sacral rib was shortened as well as bent backward. The transverse diameter of the iniisrior opening is not enlarged in all the above-mentioned cases. In one it amounted only to 3|, and the sub-pubic angle (mainly depending on this diameter) is only 70°. The antero posterior diameter is, in three cases, increased to from 4 to 4f inches, while in the remaining two cases it is diminished to 2\ and 2^. These latter measurements, doubtless, depend in great measure upon the l)osition of the coccyx, or, as in the case above given from the Museum of King's Col- lege, upon the flatness of the sacrum, or in its bend. They show, however, that the en- lai gement of the inferior diameters in not uni- versally characteristic of the general ovate deformity. We may also conclude that the general contraction of the diameters of the brim, which is often found in these pelves, is produced mainly by the shortening of the coii//o-sacral rib of the ilium in the line of pressure, without any eversion of the lower part of the innominate bones. A singular pelvic deformity, related in some degree to this class, is represented in Moreau's plates, in wliichj by an anterior