PREFACE An important article on Animal Chemistry in this CyclopjEdia (Proteine) was contributed by a young and rising chemist, John E. Bowman, whose brief career sufficed to impress his friends with a strong sense of the serious loss which society and science experienced by his early removal. His acute and well-cultivated intellect would have done much for chemistry had his life been prolonged, or liad he even enjoyed, during its sliort span, an ordinary amount of health. But his last few years were greatly marred in their use- fulness by a singular chronic malady, which slowly undermined his vital powers, and greatly limited his ability for active exertion, whether bodily or mental. Nevertheless, he has left two works wliich, altliough of small size, are of considerable practical utility to the chemical student; the one devoted to practical chemistry, the other to chemistry in its application to practical medicine. The Editor takes this opportunity of acknowledging his obligations to gentlemen who, at different periods, rendered him the most efficient assistance in superintending tlie passing of the work through the press, and in otlicr matters connected with liis province. Dr. Robert Willis, formerly of London, now extensively engaged in medical practice at Barnes in Surrey, for many years took an active part in the superintendence of the printing of the work, and contributed largely to the Bibliography appended to most of the articles, as he was so well qualified to do by his extensive knowledge of books. Dr. Willis also con- tributed the article Animal. Upon his retirement, the Editor derived similar valuable assistance from his friend and former pupil, Mr. S. Rood PiTTARD, who also Contributed several articles. And, subsequently, Dr. Hyde Salter, now well-known, and of deservedly high reputation as a Physiologist and Physician, kindly afforded his aid in the same way, as well as by his valuable contributions of the articles Pancreas and Tongue. This seems the fitting place to state that it has been found necessary, in a few instances, to depart from the strict alphabetical arrangement, either by placing articles under names not commonly used, or by clubbing together two or more subjects, to which it would appeal", at first, more natural to have de- voted separate articles. The necessity for such modifications arose out of