598 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. suddenly just before terminating in a widely expanded fminel-sliaped orifice. In the latter half of its course the tube exhibits certain flexuosifies, which produce an appearance of contraction at intervals. But that no such contractions reallv exist is rendered evident by Fig. 404. Left Fallopian tube from an adult. (^After Richard.') a, pavilion and fimbriae; b, body of the tube ; c, abdominal orifice; d, tubo-ovarian ligament and fringes; «, commencement of the tube; //, tubal mesentery; g, ovary; h, ligament of tlie ovary; ?, uterus; /, round ligament. distending the tube with air or water ; a pro- cess which invariably removes this appearance, and serves to demonstrate the uniform and equable enlargement of the canal. The length of the tube vanes in different subjects, and to a slight extent on the two sides of the same subject. But this difference is not nearly so marked as that often ob- served between the respective distances of the two ovaries from the uterus. The ordi- nary range of length of the tube, measured between its extreme points and disregarding the flexuosities, is 3^—ii"; but the curvature and flexuosities add usually 1—l-^" to this length. The breadth of the tube is considerably greater at the distal than at the proximal end. Just at the point of emergence (rom the uterine border, where the tube is firm and cord-like (_fig. 404. e), its external diameter is li—2'". From this point it gradually increases in breadth, and becomes softer, so as to assume the general appearance of an intestine. The mean diameter of the tube is found at about three-fifths of its length (b) from the uterine end, where it measures 2^"'; from this point the enlargement is more rapid, until the greatest diameter is attained just before the terminal contraction occurs, and here the transverse measurement is 5"'. Situntion and connectiims. — Of the three structures termed appendages which arise in a triangular form from the superior angle of the uterus, the Fallopian tube occupies the apex of the triangle, while, at nearly equal distances from it are inserted the ligament of the ovary, and the round ligament ; the for- mer posteriorly, and the latter anteriorl}'. In the natural position of the parts, the tube, viewed from without, appears to sprmg from the uterine angle with a slight downward curve (fig. 404. e), and then inclining hori- zontally forwards and outwards, it describes an irreiiular semicircle, whose inner sitle looks backwards towards the ovary (g), which is placed nearh' opposite to the centre of its length (/or?. 3(58. and 404.). Such at least are the relative situations which these parts exhibit when spread out equidistantly from each other : although it is |)robable that during life they are more collapsed and lie closer together, — the anterior wall of the tube then being in apposition with the sides and back of the bladder, while its pos- terior wall corresponds, at its centre, with the ovary, the superior border with the small intestine, and the inferior with the fold of peritoneum by which the tube is at- tached to the broad ligament. The mouth or abdominal end of the tube is generally directed inwards and backwards, towards the distal extremity of the ovary, in close proxi- mity to which it is preserved by means of the tubo-ovarian ligament ( figs. 368. n and 404. d). The fold of peritoneum {fig. 4-04. /), which connects the tube with tlie main por- tion of the broad ligament resembles a mesentery and serves to convey blood-vessels and nerves, as well as to sustain the tube in its place, and to limit its movements. It constitutes that portion of the broad ligament