STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 3G3 with the large (like the stomach with the duo- denum), opens into it at right angles to its axis, and at some distance from its commencement; so as to leave a biind extremity of the larger tube at the site of their mutual junction. The size of this cul-de-sac generally exceeds that of the remainder of the bowel; it being larger than any other part of the alimentary canal, with the single exception of the stomach. When moderately distended, its diameter ranges from 21 to 31 inches ; and its length is about as much. Its vertical extent is,however,somewhat arbitrary; since, though defined in part of its circumference by the aperture of the ileum and by the ilio-caecal valve, it is elsewhere only limited by an imaginary line drawn around the tube at the level of the latter orifice. The situaiion of the caecum, in the left iliac fossa, allows it to vary considerably in size, without undergoing any marked change of its relations. Bound down as it is to the fascia over the iliacus muscle by peritoneum and loose areolar tissue, its enlargement merely causes it to displace such portions of the small intestine as may hitherto have shared the oc- cupation of the iliac fossa. After its distention has removed these from its anterior surface, it reaches the anterior wall of the belly in the iliac region ; where its size, shape, and con- tents can be more or less recognized during life, by the ordinary means of physical investi- gation. The above dimensions render it obvious that the shape of the cajcum is somewhat globular. This shape is, however, modified by the arrangement of its muscular layers; which here begin to offer a peculiarity that is main- tained throughout the whole of the colon. The uniform external or longitudinal layer present in the small intestine is here contrasted by one which is separated into three flattened bands, that occupy the side of the tube at nearly equal distances from each other. In the caecum one of these (and the larger of the three) is ante- rior; one posterior; and one external. And all three of them become continuous above with the corresponding bands around the as- cending colon. Between these slips of muscle, the bowel presents a more or less dilated and projecting external surface ; which is again sub- divided by transverse constrictions into subor- dinate pouches or sacculi. On laying open the bowel, and removing the mucous membrane from its inner surface, it may be seen that these transverse constrictions are in reality forn)ed by the circular muscular coat; which gives off projections or incomplete septa, that compli- cate the general cavity of the tube, by adding a number of supplementary cells. These cells are arranged in three vertical rows ; which are separated by ridges, that correspond to the external depressions formed by the longitu- dinal bands above mentioned. Between these bands, the " haiistra" or pouches of the bowel possess a muscular tunic of very inconsider- able thickness: the transverse or circular layer being reduced to a thin membranous lamina; and the longitudinal being, as before stated, altogether absent. The close relation of these longitudinal and transverse septa to the length and width of the bowel is well shown by the effect of cutting across or re- moving its three bands, and then distending the tube by artificial inflation. This obliterates the " falciform folds" or transverse septa; and thus converts the sacculated intestine into a canal, the length and diameter of which are nearly double of what it formerly pos- sessed when retained in its proper shape by its longitudinal bands or "taeniae." The serous covering of the coscum is chiefly remarkable from the closeness with which it generally attaches the bowel to the fascia over the iliacus muscle. When the tube is but moderately distended, it covers only its ante- rior surface. Extreme contraction can, how- ever, render it a more complete covering; and may even produce it into a kind of nieso- caecum behind the bowel. While conversely, great distention of the tube reduces the peri- toneum to a partial investment; which occu- pies but a third, or even less, of the intestinal surface. The mucous membrane of the coecum differs in no essential respect from that of the re- mainder of the large intestine, the structure of which is continued up to the very edge of the valve which severs it from the ileum. The caecum has three apertures: — one, a large opening by which its cavity is directly continuous with the colon ; a second, which communicates with the small intestine, and is guarded by a double valve ; and a third, which opens into the slender vermiform appendix. Ileo-ccecal valve. — The opening into the ileum is situated at the upper border of the coecum ; on its left side, and a little poste- riorly. The structures which bound and define this opening are collectively termed the ilco- ccEcal or the ileo-coUc valve : — although these names ought in strictness to be limited to those se|)arate portions of the entire intestinal valve which their etymology would indicate. The arrangement of the intestinal tunics in this valve is best seen by inflating and dry- ing that part of the intestine, which includes, together with the last inch or two of ileum, the caecum, and the commencement of the colon. On cutting out a piece of such a dried prepara- tion, so as to gam a view of its interior, we see the valve as represented in the accom- panying figure {ji<i^. 275.) The small in- testine, generally inclining slightly upwards as well as backwards, passes towards the cajcum, at what is thus a rather acute angle. In- stead, however, of opening into the bottom of one of the sacculi of the caecum, it selects for its entry the exact site of the deepest and most projecting of those transverse constric- tions which project into the cavity of the large intestine. This constriction occupies the inner side of the bowel ; and is, as it were, split up by the entering ileum into twolaminas ; — an upper and a lower, an ileo-colic and an ileo-caecal {e,f,fg. 275.) While, at the same time, the hitherto cylindrical calibre of the small intestine is gradually reduced to a hori-