237 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). sacculi blended togetlier by their smaller ends in such a manner that their axes meet at a central point, each forming with all the rest angles of 120°. The cell-wall now becomes thickened by the deposition of a granular material on its inner surface, which takes place most rapidly along the linear ridges which separate the sacculi. In this manner six imperfect dissepiments are formed, which stretch from the ridges towards the centre, and encroach so far on the central cavity, that it now communicates with the cavities of the sacculi only by four narrow circular channels. These changes are followed by the formation in each sacculus of a delicate vesicle (the spore) completely filling the cavity of each. No sooner has this taken place than those por- tions of the parent cell which correspond to the sacculi dissolve and disappear, the four oval spores remaining attached for several days to the still permanent tetrahedral cen- tral portion, which consists of vitreous cellu- lose. The central nucleus of each spore now disappears, and is replaced by two others, around which the mucous and chlorophylle granules group themselves. A septum is soon after formed between them, dividing the spore into two halves, in each of which the process is repeated. In the me;\ntime the coloured external membrane is secreted on its external surface. The ripening of the capsule and consequent scattering of the spores takes place in spring, a year after the development of the archegonium within which the fruit originated. 71. Our limits will not permit us to enter upon the history of the development in other families of Hepaticaj. In the higher Jungermannise, which are provided with a distinct stem, as well as with regularly formed and symmetrically arranged leaves, it closely corresponds to that of Pellia. In the Mar- chantias, in wliich we have again a frondose stem, we have considerable differences. The antheridia are found on special receptacles of various forms, sometimes stalked capitula, concave superiorly, like the stalked apothecia of some Lichens (Marchantia polyniorpha), sometimes sessile. However much the general form may vary, they agree in their relation to the antheridia. These last are flask-shaped bags, and always completely im- mersed in the parenchyma subjacent to the upper surface of the receptacle. This surface is always found to be scattered over with nipple-shaped elevations. At the summit of each an aperture is observable—the termina- tion of the long and narrow neck by which the cavity of the antheridium communicates with the surrounding medium. The fully formed antheridium consists of a central mass of quadrangular cells, which, surrounded by a single layer of others much larger and of a tabular form, is continued upwards so as to form the narrow neck ; the whole being closely invested by the parenchyma of the receptacle. Within each of the central cells is found a lentil-shaped vesicle containing a spiral filament, which only differs from those described already, m its greater minuteness. The archegonia of Marchantia are produced on the under surface of a somewhat umbrella- shaped, deeply lobed, stalked receptacle. This body corresponds in the mode in which it takes its origin from the notch in the anterior margin of the frond, with the ordinary vege- tative shoot, of which it is obviously a modifi- cation. Its development has been well de- scribed by M. Mirbel.* The structure of the archegonium, and the commencement of the development of the fruit, correspond very closely with what has been described in Pellia. The mode of formation of the spores and elaters differs, however, considerably. The latter, which in thelast-named plant, are nothing more than fusiform septate cells, attain in Marchantia, as well as in many Jungermannia;, a more complicated structure. Their develop- ment has been described in an admirable con- tribution by Mr. Henfrey, who finds that the young elaters are, like those of PelUa, elon- gated fusiform tubes, and contain at first only colourless protoplasma.-f- Soon after starch granules are deposited in their interior, and they are converted by a growth which is much more rapid in length than in breadth, into very slender, hollow filaments, attenuated at each closed extremity. Still later, the starch and protoplasma disappear, and at length faint streaks, denoting the nascent fibres, are to be perceived upon the walls. These become gradually more and more distinct, till, in the mature elaters, they present themselves as strong flattened bands. In Marchantia there are two fibres, which coil in opposite direc- tions, and are confluent by their ends at the extremities of the tubes in which they are contained. At the time of the scattering of the spores the cell-membrane gives way, and the elastic fibre rapidly uncoils, at the same time lengthening considerably. The parent cells of the spores in Marchantia are also, at an early period, fusiform. They are arranged side by side with the young elaters, from which they differ in being very much broader. Each of these cells is converted, by the forma- tion of transverse septa, into a series of four, which afterwards separate from each other. In each of the new cells, the protoplasma in- creases in quantity and assumes a yellow colour. Still later it begins to accumulate into four distinct masses, each of which be- comes invested in a cellulose membrane, and, after the solution of the membrane of the parent cell, assumes the structure and appear- ance of the ripe spore. 72. Musscx.—The Mosses are distinguished from the leafy Hepaticse, first, by differences in the structure and arrangement of the stem and leaves, involving greater complexity; secondl3', by the fact that the leafy axis is not developed directly from the spore, but, with the inter- vention of a confervoid structure (proto- * Recherches Anat. et Phys. sur le Marcliantia, Mt'in. de I'Acad. v. xiii. p. 380. t Trausactioiis of Liniia'an Society, vol. xxi. p. 106.