OVUM. [88] Fig. 61 r Ovarian ovum of the Sow. This ovum is represented in order to show the peculiar pyriforra shape of the macula iu the ger- minal vesicle, to the -wall of which the macula appears to be attached, Tliis ovum was taken from a Graafian follicle of in diameter. The following are the dimensions of its several parts which are magnified 2o0 diameters in the figure. The ovum across the exterior of tlie zona -jij"; the vitellus jij"; the germinal vesicle ; the ma- cula jJjjj"; thickness of the zona The ovum is surrounded by the thick layer of cells which form the granular disc, dp. A few cells of the thinner membrana granulosa are represented at tg. to occur in the germinal vesicle during the ovarian existence of the ovum. It usually disappears in Mammalia previous to the es- cape of the ovum from the Graafian follicle ; but in this class of animals the phenomena attending the disappearance have not jet been fully investigated. There are some grounds for believing that immediately pre- vious to tiie bursting of the vesicle there may be changes of the macula and other contents of the vesicle of a correspontling nature with those which have been more clearly observed in Batrachia and Fishes. Dr. Martin Barry seems to have observed something of this kind, and M. Coste has figured, bat not so far as I am aware described, the development of cells in the germinal vesicle of a ripe ovarian human ovum.* R. Wagner states, that occasionally a double macula may be seen in the germinal vesicle.f 1 have on one occasion observed two germinal vesicles within the same ovum in the dog. Bischof}' has on three occasions observed two ovules in the same Graafian follicle of the rabbit, j: This had been previously noticed by Von Baer in the dog and pig. And Bidder ยง detected two ovules embedded in the same granular membrane of one Graafian vesicle of * Seethe'plate in his great work marked " Mam- mifferes; Homme." PI. J. Fig. 6. f See Prodromus Hist. Gencrationis, Fig. xxxi. J Bliiller's Archiv. Jahrsbericht, p. 1G9. ยง MLiller's Archiv. 1812, p. 8(5. the cow. Upon the question how far these varieties in the structure of the ovum may be supposed to be related to the origin of Double- monsters and Twins, I must refer to Pro- fessor Vrolik's interesting article Teratology.* For the assistance of those who may wish to engage in researches of the same nature as those by which the above facts have been as- certained, I will state shortly the manner in which the ova of Mammalia may be procured either from the ovary or after they have left that organ. 1st. For the examination of the earlier ovarian ova and follicles, thin sec- tions of the ovarian substance are to be maile, especially towards the surface of the ovary; and some of these are to be teased out with needle points, and examined with the aid of compression, &c. 2nd. For the more mature ovarian ovum, Sic, the outer covering of the ovary is to be removed from the surface of one or more of the pro- minent follicles; and the latter may then, if large, be carefully dissected out of the ovary, and laid on a glass plate, where it is to be opened with a sharp-pointed knife, and its contents are to be gently pressed out on the glass. Tiie ovum may in general be easily detected in a part of the tunica granu- losa with a low magnifying lens, or even sometimes with the naked eye. In the ovary of the dog the ovum may sometimes be seen without any dissection towards the most prominent |)art of the surface of the ma- ture follicles, t 3rd. To procure the ova after they have left the ovary, or while they are in the tubes, two methods may be pur- sued : either the whole length of the tube may be opened with very finely-pointed and sharp scissors, and the surface then spread out and examined carefully with a low magnifying power under a good elumination, but this must not be done under water ; or another plan may be followed according to the re- commendation of Martin Barry, founded on a suggestion thrown out by Cruickshank, as follows : The Fallopian tubes being divided into several portions, the contents of each portion are to be separately pressed out by passing a blunt instrument firmly along the outside of the tube, and, being placed on suit- able plates of glass, are to be subjected to the necessary examination. The latter method is particularly convenient in small animals: in the larger I have followed both plans. The method of Barry certainly saves much time and trouble, and is on the whole sure enough.I 4th. Of the plan for obtaining the ova from the uterus, when of considerable size, as it belongs rather to the history of develop- ment, I will only say here that the greatest caution is necessary in cutting through the walls of the uterus in different layers so as to * Vol. iv. p. 973. Cyclopsed. of Anat. and Physiol. t See Von Baer's Commentary on his Epistola, in Breschet's Repertoire, 1828, p. 38 X See Barry's Second Series of Kesearehes, &c., Phil. Trans. 1839, p. 366.