SUPPLEMENT. OVUM. — In Animal Anatomy and Physi- ology, the Egg, the product of parental sexual generation, from which the young of animals are produced. The Functions of Re[>roduction, as observed in the higher orders of animals and in the human species, are generally divided into two classes of processes ; the one of which com- prehends those operations by which the parents contribute to the production of the germs from which the young are formed ; the other, those processes or changes which occur more immediately in the product of genera- tion itself, and which relate to the formation or ilevelopment of the new being from a germ or ovum, [n the Article Generation of this Cyclopaedia, the functions belonging to the first of these divisions have been described ; and it is proposed in the present Article to treat of the second class of reproductive phe- nomena, or those which relate more innue- diateiy to the origin, formation, and growth of the new being, and which are usually described under the titles of Ovology, Embryology, and Foetal Develo[)ment. In this, as in the former article, the history of the functions as they occur in the human species will receive the greatest share of our attention ; but in dcscriliing the process of development of the young, still more than in the history of the functions of the parents that are preliminary to the production of a perfect germ, it is necessary to extend our observations to the various members of the animal kingdom, and even in some degree also to plants, from which, as much as from direct observations or experiments in man, has been derived our knowledge of the individual facts and of the general laws relating to the process of embryonic development. The arrangement followed in that part of the article which treats of Development will be adapted more immediately to the consi- deration of human reproduction ; and the statements in regard to animals, or to organ- ised beings in general, will be made chiefly subordinate to, or illustrative of, the functions in tiie human species ; but the facts in hun)an and comparative emliryology are so intimately connected, that it will be expedient to incor- porate with the article such a descri|)tion of the formative process in different animals as may present a sketch of the general nature of Siqip. this interesting process in the whole animal kingdom.* In piu'suing this plan, the topics to be dis- cussed may be arranged under the following heads: viz.— 1st. Nature of the Ovum in general, with reference to the different forms of the repro- ductive function in various animals. 2nd. The structure, properties, mode of origin, and formation of the Ovum. 3rd. The changes which the ovum under- goes in the process of Fecundation, and (in so far as the ovum itself is concerned) the cir- cumstances which influence that process. 4th. The external circumstances which in- fluence the development of the ovum and embryo, especially Incubation and Utero- gestation. 3th. The Phenomena of Fcetal Development in general, and the history of the origin and development of each system, organ, and tex- ture of the body in particular. Cth. The Functions of the Embryo or Foetus as compared with those of the adult. The wide-si)read importance of embryolo- gical anatomy and physiology is now so generally acknowledged by all who have made them a subject of study, that to them no a[)ology is required for the length of this treatise. To those who have not made them an object of their special attention, it will be enough at this place to advei t to the exten- sive range of topics which must be embraced in an attempt to trace the history of the first origin and subsequent evolution of all the parts of so complex and various a struc- ture as the body of animals ; and to remind them that this department of science pro- fesses to describe not merely the successive changes of external form and rehition by which the several organs, spiinging from im- perce|)til)le beginnings, arrive at their [lerfect condition, but also the more minute pheno- mena of histological development, or changes of the several textures, which accompany the more obvious formative processes ; that, as in many instances the complete knowledge of * It was originally intended to have treated in the same article of tlie embryology of plants; but the extent and importance of that subject in con- nection with general jjliysiology makes it necessary to postpone its consideration to a separate article, under the head of Vegetable Ovum. II