[134] OV to be formed, is scarcely granular, and in some instances quite clear, consisting of a viscous blastema, and as it increases separating the ger- minal vesicle within from the ovarian follicle, which expands proportionally. Very soon, however, and in many animals indeed from the first, fine opaque granules make their ap- pearance, as if by precipitation or deposit, in the clearer basement substance, and thus the primitive yolk-substance of the ovum in all animals is formed. In most instances there is a time during which the ovum, consisting of germinal vesicle, with a small quantity of primitive yolk, exists, without any other co- vering than that given to it by the ovarian follicle; but as the deposit of the finely granular yolk increases, and at a very variable period in different animals, the vitelline mem- brane is formed round its exterior. The ad- dition of this covering may be regarded as the third stage in the formation of the ovum. The manner of the origin of the vitellme membrane has not yet been accurately ob- served ; and it is probable (as will be hereafter stated) that the coverings known under this name may have different modes of origin; but if we restrict our attention at present to such simple ova as those of Mammalia, I believe it may be stated as extremely probable that the so-called zona pellucida which constitutes the vitelline membrane of the Mammiferous ovum, takes its origin by the consodidation of the superficial part of the basement substance of the primitive yolk. It appears probable that in the large-yolked ova, such as those of the bird, the vitelline membrane, which we find enclosing the whole mass of the yolk, owes its origin to a dif- ferent source; and I am inclined to believe that in this and in many other animals the membrane which we term vitelline, as being the immediate investment of the yolk, is not of the same nature with the zona pellucida, or the simple homogeneous vesicle of the smaller ova, but rather a structure of later formation, which owes its origin to the fusion, or amalgamation, or to some other change in the outermost layer of cells which form the nutritive yolk of these animals. In connection with this view, it is import- ant to remark, that at that earlier stage of formation of the bird's egg when it consists entirely of formative or primitive yolk, there is an ai)proach to the formation of a zona, in the existence of a very distinct, clear, and consistent marginal portion of the yolk blas- tema, from which the yolk granules seem to retire. When the large cellular or nutritive yolk is formed, this temporary zona seems to disappear, and to be replaced externally by the permanent vitelline membrane already mentioned. In those animals in which the ovigerms arise by development within cells so as to be connected in groups (Gordiacei), and in some others, the vitelline men)brane, or a substitute for it, seems to be formed from the earliest )jeriod in a difierent manner from that now describeil. The germinal vesicle is unimacular in ge- neral in the small-yolked ova, and multima- cular in the large-jolked ova, and also in the intermediate kinds. In the latter it is rare to observe the earliest stage in which the ma- cula is still single: the multiplication of the maculffi takes place with remarkable rapidity, and apparently by a process of endogenous development, or possibly by division. The ultimate destination of these maculee is still a subject of doubt. 3. jMorjihology of the ovum ; homology of its parts, and relation of the ovum to other organic structures. Should the views be correct which have now been stated with regard to the relations of the parts in the mature ovarian ovum, and the manner in which they are formed, it will be apparent that a strict homology or ana- tomical correspondence can be pointed out in regard only to some of the parts which are recognised under similar designations, as re- spectively belonging to the ova of different animals. All physiologists will probably be disposed to look upon the germinal vesicle or ovigerm as corresponding or homologous in the ova of all animals, and, notwithstanding the great differences known as to its more simple or multiple condition, the same view may also be taken of the structure known as nucleus or macula. The primitive or finely granular yolk-substance, more especially that which immediately surrounds the germinal vesicle, and is afterwards employed in the formation of the blastoderm or embryogerm, seems also to have a similar origin, structure, and relation in all animals. But beyond this it is more difficult to trace the homologieal corresponilence ; for under the names of cellular yolk-substance and vitelline mem- brane it appears that there have been brought together parts of which the origin, structure, and relations may be dissimilar in different animals. There seems at least to be sufficient reason, from what is already known of the varieties of the enclosing membrane, or so- called vitelline membrane, to establish a dis- tinction between several forms of that struc- ture; as, for example, between the vitelline meml)rane, which exists from the earliest period as a pediculated sac in connection with the ovarium, as in Holothuria; that which is derived from the extension of the wall of the original germ-cell in grouped ova, such as have been described by Meissner in Gordiacei; that which is later formed round the ovum of Mammalia as a zona pellucida, by the consolidation of the outer layer of the primitive basement substance of the yolk; and that which in the bird and other animals whose ova are similarly constituted, appears to derive its origin in part, at least, from coalesced cells corresponding to those of the tunica granulosa of the ovarian capsule on the exterior of the cellular yolk. With regard to the cellular yolk itself, we must refrain from any attempt to establish its homology till we shall be more fully ac- quainted with the mode of its production ; for it is still undetermined whether it arises by cell formation within the primitive vitelline.