SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 437 cells, when the nerve-tubes come ofF at either them runs towards the periphery, the one at extremity, as they generally do, while one of the opposite runs towards the nervous centres. Fig. 286. Ganglionic corpuscles from one of the spinal ganglia in the Hay. In A, the granular contents reach quite to the margin of the vesicle; b, ganglion-corpuscle with a layer of clear round delicate bodies on the inner surface of its wall; c, showing a clear space be- tween the granular contents and the cell-wall, occupied by particles of oily matter similar to the contents of the nerve-tubes; D, a corpuscle which has been treated with chromic acid; E, ganglionic corpuscle of smaller size, with narrower nerve-fibre attached to it; F, one intermediate in size between the larger and smaller corpuscles; G, apparent apolar and unipolar corpuscles; ii, collapsed mem- brane of a ganglion-corpuscle; j, liberated contents of the same. When both nerve-tubes pass off, not at op- posite extremities, but from one side of the corpuscle, they both run, according to Bitlder, in the direction of the periphery. As regards the mode of connection between the ganglionic corpuscle and nerve-tube, the cell-wall of the former appears to be directly continuous with the membrane of the latter, while the contents of the vesicle seem to be prolonged down- wards into the nerve-tube, becoming continuous with its contents. The nucleated substance forming the capsule of the ganglionic corpuscle is also, according to Ktilliker, prolonged along the nerve-tube which arises from the corpuscle itself (/^/. 288. and 289.). All the nerve-tubes which are thus connected with the ganglionic corpuscles in the ganglia of the sympathetic belong to the finer variety of tubular fibres already described. In the spinal ganglia, according to Ktilliker, the nerve-tubes arising from the corpuscles are at first fine, mea- suring about 0-0013—0-0025 of a line; but in their further course many of them increase in diameter up to 0'003—0'004 of a line, or even to 0'005—O'GOG of a line, so as to represent broad nerve-fibres, or fibres intermediate be- tween the broader and finer varieties. Most of the cells which are seen in ex- amining the ganglia of the mammalia belong either to the apolar or bipolar variety. It is pos- sible, however, that many of them, as Wagner, Robin, &c. maintain, although apparently apo- lar, are really unipolar or bipolar cells, from which one or both processes have broken off during the process of preparing them for ex- amination. That the bipolar cell exists in F F 3