UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 678 covers the placenta, loses by degrees the cha- racter of active vitality, and its tissues are con- verted into molecular fat. Other and corresponding changes, of which an account will be hereafter given (see Pla- centa), occur in those structures in which the foetal blood circulates. The profusely de- veloped capillaries which ramify within the villi during the early and middle periods of gestation begin to suffer retrogression as the time of separation approaches, and the fcEtal blood flows in more simple and relatively fewer channels, while, not unfreqnently, entire villi become obliterated by calcification. While these changes are proceeding in the temporary structures that serve to connect the foetus with the uterus, structures which begin in part, at least, to become effete, even before the offices for which they are formed have been fully carried out,—the tissues which are to be employed in the process of expulsion are as yet only ripening into full strength, although they also, in turn, are about to suf- fer a like retrogression, but not until the ob- ject of their formation has been accomplished. The contractile fibre, which constitutes the principal portion of the uterine tissue, has gradually, during pregnancy, advanced to that more complete form which is reached com- monly about the sixth month. From this pe- riod probably no new development of nuiscular fibre takes place,although that which is already formed appears to increase somewhat in size and power. It constitutes now a contractile tissue, capable of exerting great expulsive force. How easily, and in how many ways, the contractile power may be evoked, has been already shown. It is probable that by the series of metamorphoses already enumerated as occurring in the parts which connect the foetus with the uterus, the entire ovum becomes gradually placed in the position of a foreign body within that organ ; a position which may be compared to that of the food within the alimentary canal. And just as the food is propelled onwards, peristaltically, by irritation of successive portions of the containing sur- faces, until, with the subsequent cooperation of muscles acting under the dominion of the s[>inal cord, it becomes finally ejected ; so the ovum is itself apparently the excitor of those first peristalses in the uterus which initiate labour. How these become coordinated and established, and how the rhythmic periods are probably determined, has been already con- sidered, as well as the means by which, during the further advances of the child over succes- sive portions of the generative track, other nerve and motor forces are aildeil to those with which the process commenced. Abnormal Anatomy of the Uterus. A. Defective development,— Imperfect or defective development of the uterus may oc- cur under two circumstances. There may be either an original defect in its organisation, arising from a failure of growth or imperfect formation of those portions of the generative canal out of which the uterus is developed ; or else the organ, having been regularly formed during embryonic and foetal life, may not have proceeded in its development, but may have retained the infantile character after the usual age of puberty has arrived and passed. 1st Class. Congenital defects. — Defects of this class may affect the uterus alone, or may be conjoined with corresponding imperfections of other organs. In order that their nature and origin, as well as the possibihty of their occurrence, independently of any malforma- tions of the other reproductive organs, may be clearly understood, it is necessary to remem- ber the mode in which the uterus is originally constructed. Formed by the coalescence of Fig. 460. TAe entire internal generative organs, from afcetus of ttiree monttis. (After J. 3Iiiller x 8.) a, uterus ; h, round ligaments ; c. Fallopian tubes ; d, ovaries; e, remains of Wolffian bodies. the inferior extremities of the ducts of Miil- ler*, the uterus will be materially modified in its construction according to the degree of perfection of those ducts, as well as by the amount of union which has taken place at their lower terminations. Taking these particulars as affording a basis for classification the malformations of the uterus which are dependent upon original vices of formation may be arranged in four groups, viz.: — Group I. The ducts of Midler being both imperfect or undeveloped, there results a more or less complete absence of the uterus. The examples of total absence of the uterus which have been recorded are probably cases in which the rudiments exist, but have been overlooked, on account of their slight deve- lopment ; for generally there may be traced a more or less distinct fold of peritoneum ly- ing behind the bladder and representing the broad ligament, within which are found some indications of a uterus. These rudiments consist of two uterine cornua, either conjoined at their lowei- extremities, or remaining sepa- rate in their whole course. They usually oc- cur under the form of two hollow rounded cords or bands of uterine tissue, extending upwards towards the ovaries, and united per- haps at the usual seat of the uterus by cellu- lar tissue, with which some uterine fibres are intermixed. Sometimes one or two little masses of uterine tissue are found. These are either solid, or they contain a small cavity ♦ Sec p. 642.