altered in texture after the whole of the cer- vix has been destroyed by carcinomatous ulceration. On the other hand it is the part Fis. 424. UTERUS—(Normal Anatomy). 625 inner surfaces are not in immediate contact like those of the uterine body ; but diverge slightly to enclose a flattened spindle-shaped cavity, termed the canal or cavity of the cervix. The situation of the widest or central part of this canal is indicated by an external late- ral bulging of the walls of the uterine neck. The posterior part of the cervix receives a loose investment of peritoneiUTi; but the whole or the greater portion of its anterior wall, as well as the lower or vaginal portion, is uninvested by that membrane. The vaginal portion.—The lower extremity of the cervix {Jig. 424. below, c c) projects Fis. 423. Section showing the regional divisions of the uterus. Os uteri, and vaginal portion of the cervix. Virgin. ( Outlined ad Nat.) (^Ad Nat.) from which polypi, that are not cervical in their origin, most frequently arise; and it is very commonly the seat of those large hyper- trophic growths of the uterine tif>sue, which are usually termed fibrous tumours. The fundus is also the part to which the upper portion of the placenta is most frequently attached. The body is included between the line above indicated, and another, b b, drawn through the narrowest part of the organ, or that point at which the tapering lateral walls of the uterus approximate in the greatest de- gree before they again diverge to pass into the cervix. The body of the uterus consti- tutes its principal portion. It is that part ■which, more than any other, expands to in- vest the ovum. It is freely supplied with blood-vessels, which, entering by the lateral border, ramify abundantly through the ante- rior and posterior walls. These walls are usually half an inch in thickness. They are separated from each other by a scarcely appre- ciable cavity, to be hereafter described, lying between the inner surfaces of the parietes. The extreme narrowness of this cavity is shown in figs. 427 — 430., which represent transverse sections of the uterine body, at various points between the fundus and in- ternal OS. The cervix, or neck, {fig. 424. b—c), is a cylindriform prolongation of the uterine body, to which it serves as an excretory conduit. It is composed in part of tissues similar to those of the body, hut the arrangement of these is materially different. The walls of the cervix measure 4'" in average thickness. Their Supp. into the vagina in the form of a flattened cone. The length of this conical projection is about 4'". It is of unequal diameter. Transversely it measures 11"'—12'" at the base, and G'"— 7"' at the apex ; but its antero-posterior dia- meters are only 7"'—8'" at the base, and 5'" at the apex ; so that a section of this part will represent an ellipse. Around the base of this conical portion the walls of the upper end of the vagina are attached. The vaginal attachment constitutes the line of demarcation between the lower or vaginal and the upper or supra- vaginal division of the cervix. It should be observed that the end of the cervix does not lie, as is commonly supposed, exactly at the extremity of the vaginal canal, but that it projects into its upper wall, so that the upper vaginal wall is shorter than the lower by the whole antero-posterior diameter of the cervix {fig. 426. and 433.). This ex|)lains the diffi- culty which is sometimes experienced in bringing the cervix into view when a tubular speculum is employed, the sides of which are all of equal length. There can be no doubt that this peculiar position of the extremity of the cervix prevents the part from suflFering injury in coitu, because the impulse of the introniittent organ is received upon the end of the vagina, and is distributed upon the adjacent parts, through the intervention es- pecially of the utero-sacral ligaments. See further, p. 689. At the apex of this conical mamelon is observed a transverse fissure 3"'—4"' in length. This is the lower or terminal orifice of the cervical canal, the os externum uteri, fig. 423., as distinguished from the os inter- s s