[93] OVUM. It is towards the centre of the dark super- ficial part of the yolk that the first changes of embry onic development always take place ; and it is apparent that this dark part corre- sponds more immediately to the germinal part of the yolk. It is beneath the central part of this dark covering that the germinal vesicle is situated in the ripe ovum. When taken from the ovary previous to impregnation, the ova float in water indifferently as regards the position of their parts ; but after impregna- tion, when the iinhihition of water allows of the free rotation of the yolk within its cover- ings, it is invariably found that the dark or germinal part of the yolk is directed upwards, and the whiter or grey spot downwards ; — a circumstance by which the difference between the fecundated and the unfecundated ova may readily be detected. We may dis- tinguish therefore, as the upper, dorsal, or germinal pole of the ovum, the central point of the dark part, and name the opposite point in the centre of the light-coloured .space the lower or ventral pole. The thickness of the dark layer of substance which covers the upper part of the ovum is throughout its greater part considerable ; viz. about one-eighth to one-tenth of the whole diameter of the yolk. It thins off somewhat at its edges below. Within this darkest layer the colour of the yolk-substance is slightly shaded off into the grey substance of the in- terior : the consistence of the inner substance is less than that of the superficial layer, and it contains a cavity situated considerably nearer the upper than the lower surlace of the yolk, in which the germinal vesicle is situated. This vesicle is not perfectly sphe- rical in its form, but somewhat flattened from above downwards, and it is surrounded by a peculiar mass of fine granules. The yolk-substance contains no cells nor large corpuscles ; the greater part of it consists in the mature state of peculiar flat or tabular cor- puscles, the largest of which are about ^-sVtj" in diameter. Most of these are quadratigular in sliape, but somewhat rounded on the edges and at their angles. There are also numerous smaller particles of the same kind of every di- mension from that already stated down to the smallest granules, and with some variation of shape, together with a considerable amount of molecules of very minute size, of which those in the darker part have the appearance of pigment grannies. These last are accumu- lateil in greatest quantity towards the surface ; but they do not cor stitute a separate layer, being rather interspersed with the tabular cor- puscles. There are also to be seen in the upper or germinal part a few rountled corpus- cles,somewhat largerthan the tabular particles, which seem to be formed by the aggregation of smaller molecules ; but these have no ex- ternal envelope nor clear nucleus, and only bear a distant resemblance to the cells which, after impregnation, are formed in the germinal part of the yolk-substance. The peculiar quadrilateral tabular corpuscles refract light strongly, so as to {jrescnt distinct outlines ; they have also considerable firmness, resisting pressure, but by force may be broken up somewhat in the same manner as would occur in small plates of wax. From this cir- cumstance they have generally been regarded as of a fatty nature, and were described by Vogt as stearine tables; but Virchow*, from a careful investigation of their reaction with different substances, throws a doubt upon this view, and is more inclined to regard these cor- puscles, both in Batrachia and in the ovum of the carp-fish, as composed of some albuminous or protein principle, the exact nature of which he has been unable to determine. He admits that they may also contain some oil. They are probably very analogous to the larger firm angular particles which were first de- scribed by J. Miiller as forming the greater part of the yolk-substance in the Sharks and Kays, and which also exist in the ova of Cephalopodous Molhisca.-f- The germinal vesicle of the Batrachian ovum is of very large proportionate size. According to Vogt, in the Alt/tes obxtefricnns its diameter is nearly equal to one-third of that of the entire yolk mass. In the common frog and toad it is somewhat less, but nearly of an mch. This vesicle may be obtained separate for examination by breaking open the yolk care- fully under water ; but it is much easier to observe its position, form, and structure in the ovum which has been hardened by some re-agent,—a plan which has been successfully adopted by a variety of observers. Cramer j recommends for this purpose alcohol, or more particularly dilute chromic acid; Newport^ employed alcohol, as I also have done with success; more recently Remak || states that he has found a mixture of a solution of sul- phate of copper with alcohol, to which a few drops of rectified wood spirit are added, pecu- liarly fitted to give the proper consistence to the various parts, without inducing any de- structive change in their structure or api'ear- ance. All observers agree that there is scarcely any other animal in vi'hich the re- lations of the germinal vesicle to the other parts of the yolk can be more favourably in- vestigated. The enclosing wall of the vesicle is of ex- treme tenuity, so thin, indeed, that some have doubted its existence. I have been able, how- ever, to distinguish the double outline of its thickness with a good magnifying power of 3.")0 diameters. The outer surface of the vesicle is not always of a regular circular or spherical form, but often presents viithin the yolk, both at earlier and moi e advanced stages, a notched * Zeitscli. fiir Wissenscli. Zool. vol. v. p. 241. \ See J. Miiller, iiber die Glatten Hal des Aristo- leles, 1842, p. 3G. J Benierk. tiber das Zellenleben in der Entwick. des Froscheies, in Miiller's Arcliiv. 184«, p. 20. § Eesearclies on the fmpvcgnation of the Am phibia. First Series, in Phil. Trans, for 1851, p. U)'J. et seq. II Untersuch. iiber die Entwickel. der Wirbel- Ihiere, Berlin, 1855, p. 127.