STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 413 fents may be seen exchanged for a dark soft- ened granular mass. Precisely similar changes are often seen in the matrix of the tubes and of the villi; in which latter situation they are generally accompanied by a loss of the in- vesting epithelium. The closed follicles of the alimentary canal are the seat of various changes : some of which are obviously connecteil with an in- flammatory state; while others prol)ably have an equally definite, though less direct, relation to it. An unusual number of these follicles seems to be one of their most frequent abnormal conditions. In such cases we may often find them strewn thickly through the submucous areolar tissue of tiie stomach, the small in- testine, the large intestine, or even the entire alimentary canal. But not only may it be doubted whether this increase in their number is due to an in- flammatory process, but even whether it is a real occurrence. For in many instances there can be little question, that these follicles are not so much really multiplied in number, as re- vealed in increased numbers by their universal and extreme distention. We have seen* that their apparent number varies greatly in different individuals ; that, in children, they aregenerally very numerous and distinct ; and that even that healthy afflux of blood,which obtains during the act of digestion, renders them unusually prominent and visible. Hence it is to the presence or absence of other circumstances indicative of disease, that we must look for evidence as to the really morbid character of an increase in the num- ber or size of these follicles. Wherever we find these alterations associated with a gene- ral dyserasia, or with marks of congestion, ha;- morrliage, or inflammation in the surrounding tissues, or with a change in the character of the contents of the follicle itself, there we are entitled to regard them as indicative of a morbid process. And conversely, where none of these appearances are present, we must be content to suspend our judgment on this point. In typhoid fever, these follicles become the seat of a definite morbid process ; which not only constitutes a specific element of the disease, but furnishes thepathognomonic lesion, which seems to dictate many of the de- tails that distinguish the typhoid from the other varieties of fever. The typhoid process in the intestine is almost limited to these follicles, of which it engages both the agminate and solitary va- rieties. Amongst the agminate follicles, those are most affected which lie nearest to the ilio- coecal valve. The same rule applies to the sohtary follicles, both in the small and the large intestine. In the latter segment of the canal, the change rarely extends beyond the follicles of the coecum and ascending colon. The process appears to commence by a stage of congestion or hyperemia. This is at first * See p. 360. general, and engages the whole mucous mem- brane of the lower part of the ileum. It sub- sequently increases in intensity, and at the same time becomes limited to the neighbour- hood of the affected follicles; so that these are surrounded with minute rings of injected vessels, which are visible from the mucous sur- face, or can be seen gleaming through the transparent peritoneum as dark vascular points or streaks. The microscope traces this conges- tion into the small vessels (and especially the veins) which intervene between the several follicles. The latter phase of congestion marks the access of the next stage: which corresponds to the exsudation and deposit of a new sub- stance within the follicles, and (to a lesser extent) in the submucous tissue of their im- mediate neighbourhood. The infiltration dis» tends the several follicles v/ith a mass, which gives them a grayish, grayish red, or bluish- red colour ; and a more or less firm or pulpy consistence. They thus acquire a thickness (1—2 lines) that raises them considerably higher than the adjacent surface, and causes them to stretch the mucous membrane above. Below, they rest on the muscular tunic. Of coiu'se the shape, extent, and situation of the follicles thus brought into view, is that of the original structures. Thus, in the case of the agminate follicles, we see an oval or elliptical patch that runs lengthwise along the free margin of the bowel. While in the solitary follicles, we find small round granules, of about the size of a millet seed, or a very small pea, irregularly scattered over the intestine. The mass itself exhibits under the mi- croscope, the ordinary constituents of the normal pulp of the follicle: mingled, however, with a variable quantity of blood; and with an amorphous granular substance in larger quantity, and of a browner hue, than natural. The softening and breaking up of this pulpy mass constitutes the next stage of the change. In general, it occiu's simultaneously over the whole of the agminate follicle : and thus de- taches from the subjacent muscular tunic, not only the new deposit, but the follicles them- selves; together with the areolar tissue by which they are connected to each other, and the tubes and villi of the mucous membrane by which they are covered. In other instances, the several follicles are softened and detached separately, or in clusters of two or three only; so as to leave some of the tubes and villi which normally occupy their intervals. In some cases, a portion of the patch undergoes a modified process ; in which the contents of the follicle seem to make their exit through small openings at their projecting summit, with little or no disturbance of the adjacent tissues. Finally, in certain instances, more or fewer of the follicles are said to undergo a retro- grade change, in which their contents undergo absorption, without either sloughing or de- hiscence. The removal of the new deposit leaves the characteristic typhoid ulcer ; the shape, size, and situation of which are therefore precisely