121 PELVIS. than in the true vertebras, and are first ma- nifest in the bodies of the three upper {Jig. B, a), at the second or third month of fcjetal hfe, and in the two lower at the fourth or fifth month. The hiteral points are de- veloped between the sixth and ninth fcetal months, and are united to the bodies (each after joining with its fellow opposite at the spinous tubercle^ at from the second to the sixth years of age, beginning, according to Quain and Sharpey, at the lowest or fifth ver- tebra, and going i(2}n>(irds. Besides these, there are two clidractcrislic points of ossification found in each of the three first sacral vertebra;, which are placed immediately above the three upper anterior sacral holes, exactly in the line of pressure from the ilia to the median line (b). These appear, from ahove down- wards, at the same time as the posterior la- teral centres just described. They unite first with the posterior lateral osseous points of their respective vertebraj, and with them join their respective central masses. Consequently, the three first sacral vertebrae have each Jive primary ossific centres, and the two last, each only tlirec; the wliole number of prhiiari/ points of ossification in the sacrum being thus twenty-one. At the age of sixteen years, the c[)iphysial or complementary ossific points begin to form, viz.: — On each articulating surface of the bodies of the sacral vertehrjE is developed, as in the true vertebrae, a Iwrizonlal plate of bone, which, after coalescing with the bodies to which they respectively belong, finally (ex- cept the first and last) become soldered to each other from below iipivards, connneneing with the two last vertebrae, at from the six- teenth to the eighteenth years, and com- pleting the formation of the sacral bone by the union of the two first vertebra;, at from the twenty-fifth to the thirtieth years. Be- tween the eighteenth and the twentieth years begins the formation, by scattered granules, of iovxv lateral plates of bone — one on each side, forming the iliac articular surfaces, opposite to the three first vertebras—and one on each side, op|iosite the two last. These unite with the sacral bone about the same time that its upper vertebrae coalesce. The niunber complementary points of ossification in the sacrum will thus be found to l)e fourteen, and the total number of sacial ossific centres thirty-five. M. Weber, however, assigns nine points of ossification to the first, seven to the second, and five to each of the three lower. The coccyx is ossified by a single centre for each of its four pieces. Occasionally, in one of the upper arc two ossific points. That of the highest piece first ajipears about the time of birth; that of the second bone is next evitlent, according to Beclard, at from five to ten years of age ; the third, at from ten to fifteen years; and the fourth, at from fifteen to twenty. The two upjier first unite together, then the two lower, the bone being consoli- dated by the union of the two resulting por- tions at various periods of life. In advanced life, and, more frequently, in the male subject, this bone is often found ankylosed to the sacrum. According to M. Weber, each coc- cygeal vertebra has tvv'o to four points of ossification. Pelvic Articulations and Ligaments. — The articulations of the pelvis arrange them- selves into; 1. those connecting the pelvis with tlie spinal column, or lunibo-'pelvic articu- lations ; 2. those of the pelvic bones with each other, or proper pelvic articulations ; 3. those connecting them with the thigh bones, or femoro-pelvic articulations. The second class of articulations are those with which we have more immediately to do. The first class may be alluded to as necessary for elucidation of the subject. The last class come more particularly under the consideration of the hip joint. The ligaments of the pelvis are of twc kinds: J. those which are closely connectei, with the several articulations, or intimate liga- ments; and, 2. those which connect distant portions of its osseous structure, and are com- plementary to the articidations or accessor;] ligaments. The former will he best described with the articulations of which they form part. Lnnibo-jyelvic articulations. — The sacrum, and through it the pelvis, is united to the last liunbar vertebra by exactly the same mean,> as the vertebrae to each othei", viz.:—First, by an amplii-artlirodial joint, com[)osed of a thick disc of fibro-cartilage intervening between, and adherent to, their ojiposing articular surfaces ; and strengthened by a continuation of the anterior and posterior common ligaments to the sacrum. Secondly, by two arllirodial joints invested with capsular ligaments, one for each of the articular pro- cesses. Thirdly, by tiie lowest members of the ligamenta suhfiava connecting the lamina of the vertebra' vvith those of the sacrum, and by the lowest inter-spinous and supra- spinous ligaments connecting their spines. And, lastly, by an accessory ligament, which is a representative of the inter-transverse or oblique trans verso-costal ligaments. This extends from the lower border of the last lumbar transvei'se process on each side, to the lateral masses of the base of the sacrum, its fibres expanding to the sacro-iliac S3m- physis and iliac crest. It is called the sacru- vertchral or lumbosacral ligament. The fibro-cartilaginoiis disc is composed, like the other intervertebral plates, of an obliquely intersecting layer of fibres externally, and of a central, soft, pul|)y portion, and diflisrs only by graihially becoming much thicker ante- riorly, like the hotly of the last hnnhar ver- tebra itself. This allows of the curve of the spinal coliinm at this |)art, which is the most salient point of the sacro-vertebral angle. The movements of this joint are a limited antero-posterior motion with slight lateral flexure, somewhat less than that of the rest of the sjiinal column. ProjJer or intra-pelvic articulations.— These consist of a joint uniting the sacriun and cocc} X by a miniatiu'c aniphi-artlirosis ; of a joint on each sitle uniting the sacrum to