28 OVUM. brought under the genus Tetrarh3nchus. In fact, this kind of animal undergoes such re- markable changes in its transition from its first simple Echinococcus-like encysted form to its free segmented sexual Ttenia-iike shape, that it is not wonderfid tliat its history should have been obscure, and that great doubts should still prevail with someHelminthologists as to its origin, development, and zoological relations.* It lias already been observed, that none of these three kinds of Cestoid Entozoa attain to sexual completeness while they are en- cysted ; and it seems probable that they are all subject, more or less, to migration, in order to gain their free habitation in the alimentary canal of animals, where their segments ac- quire the male and feuiale generative organs. The fecundated ova, produced in enormous numbers from each segment, do not in general, so far as is known, become developed into embryoes in the intestine of the animal in- habited by the Cestoid, but are evacuated along with the faces, either separately after being discharged from the oviducts of the Cestoid, or before their discharge by the disjunction of the more ripe terminal segments from the rest of the animal. The migrations to which the ova and young of the Taenioid animals are thus made subject have hitherto opposed so great an obstacle to the observa- tion of their development, that we are as yet in possession of very few continued series of observations in which the whole progress of development from the ovum to the complete segmented animal has been traced. Some important contributions of this kind have, however, recently been made, and the great modifications which the views of comparative embryologists have undergone, from the novel and various aspects in which many of the phenomena of development are to be regarded in instances of alternate generations, have already indicated paths of inquiry by which this very curious and intricate history may ere long be completely unravelled. The ac- companying figures Irom Dujardin's work show the progress of formation of a small Taenia inhabiting the Shrew, and give a suf- ficiently good idea of the nature of tliis pro- cess in a Taenia, which consists of compara- tively few segments {fig. 96. a to z.). Von Siebold has traced with care a part of the process of development of a minute Cestoid inhabiting the pulmonary sac of the red snail {Arion empiricovum) in the encysted condition. Into this situation the minute Tteniee are introduced from the exterior : they consist of the head with its double circlet of ten hooks each, and four suckers, and a body which is at first entirely destitute of segments, not longer than the head, and form- ing a soft vesicle, within which (as in other * Von Siebold proposes to substitute the genus TetrarbyncliHS for the following five genei'a distin- guished by Dujardin, viz., Rbynchobotbrius, Antho- cephalus, Tetrarbyncbus, Gymnorhyncbus, and Di- bothriorliyncliiis. Zeitsch. f. Wiss. Zool. 1850, and Anil, des Sc. Nat. 1851. Cystic Entozoa previously mentioned) the head is retracted, so as to give the whole a globular shape. V. Siebold regards it as nearly certain that these minute TiEniae only attain to their segmented and complete sexual condition when they have been located in the alimentary canal of Vertebrata (Birds and others) preying upon the snails in which the younger forms of the Taeniae reside. Fig. 26. Development of Tcenia pistiUum of ilie Shrew. (^From Dujardin.^ a, embryo within the ovum, just about to quit it, with three pairs of hooks ; h, embryo that has left the ovum, the hooks capable of rapid and exten- sive movements; c, embryo mo\'ing freely (of the Tajnia serpentulum of the magpie) ; d, e, very young embryoes of Tsenia pistillum; f, p, h, i, different stages of growth of this Ticnia; the separation of the segments gradually increasing, and the develop- ment of the reproductive organs in the posterior ones; k (more magnified), the proglottis, or tree moving separated segment of this Taenia.