224 REPRODUCTION, VEGE': tem take their origin, and, as its presence is essential to the existence of the plant, it may be considered to represent, functionally, the stem of other vegetables. 33. On the formation and development of the germ in the Fungi, comparatively very few researches have yet been made which are not so deficient either in completeness or accuracy as to be useless. This being the case, the best mode of treating the subject seems to be to select those isolated facts and observations which are most to be depended upon, and arrange them in such a manner as to serve as a foundation for a general view of the subject. The most simply organised Fungi known, are undoubtedly those which belong to the genus Torula. The well-known yeast-plant consists of a single ovoid cell, whose membrane is per- fectly simple, and encloses a slightly granular, transparent fluid. It multiplies by tlie budding out of its membrane at one extremity into a projecting nipple, which soon becomes sepa- rated from the original cell by a constriction. As the newly formed germ enlarges, the con- striction becomes more complete, and at last separation takes place. Alter the Torulae, which are the only examples we are acquainted with of one-celled Fungi, come the innumerable Hj/pfiomi/cetes or thread Fungi,so called because their reproductive, bears so small a proportion to their vegetative system, that it is in many cases altogether overlooked. The growing terminations of the mycelium filaments them- selves become individualised, so as to form the germs, which separate from their parent cells by constriction, as above described in Torula. It is this acrogenous mode of spore formation which Schleiden considers as the character which distinguishes the true Fungi from the Lichens*; the latter developing "many spores simultaneously in the interior of a larger parent cell or ascus." Among the higher Hyphomycetes, however, the reproductive sys- tem appears in a more distinct and developed form. Thus, in Penicillium it consists of fila- ments which spring perpendicularly from the stroma, and are formed of elongated, club- shaped ceils, joined end to end. These stalk- like filaments branch trichotoraously in the most beautiful manner. From their extremi- ties there spring others, which are much more slender, and consist of moniliform series of minute ovoid segments, separated from each other by constrictions, which are indistinct at the base of the filament, but become more and more complete towards its termination. At this point the segments detach themselves, and form the germs of the plant.-j- In other genera, the perpendicular sporiferous filaments are woven together into more complicated structures, the varieties of which it does not come within our present purpose to describe. As respects their component elements and the * Schleiden places all the ascophorous Fungi among the Lichens. We shall find, as we proceed, that such an arrangement is altogether inadmissible. (Schleiden, Principles of Scientific Botany, p. 167.) ■j- Corda, Icones Fungorum, torn. i. p. 21. ABLE (Vegetable Ovum). mode in which the spores are produced, they do not differ from those noticed above. Fig. 141. Srancliing sporiferous filaments of Penicillium verli- cillatum, about 150 diam. (Corda.) 34. Thebasidiosporous Fungi are character- ised by the presence of a distinct membrane (hynienium), on the surface of which the spores are developed by a mode which, though it is still acrogenous, is considerably more complicated. The hynienium always consists of elongated pouch-like cells, ar- ranged side by side, with their long axes perpendicular to its surface, and in close contact with each other. Some of these cells are longer than their neighbours, and from their free rounded ends, there emanate processes (usually four in number) in the form of pedicles. Upon the extremities of these are borne oval cellules, which, though in their Fig. 142. A hasitlium with its four basiiiospores, along with two other sterile basidia ( Geaster rufescens), oOO diam. earliest condition they do not exceed their pedicles in width, rapidly enlarge, and finally separate by a kind of constriction. In some basidiosporous Fungi, as in the Agarics, the hymenium is external, and its surface exposed to the atnios[)here; while in others, as in the Gasteromycetes, it is internal, the spores being thrown, when detached from their pedi- cles, into one or more cavities enclosed in the substance of the receptacle. Of the last- mentioned division, we select a well-known genus (Geaster), for the purpose of illustration.