149 PELVIS. L 3 there is much more proportionate pelvic ca- pacity.* The dimensions of the pelvis of a Negress of small stature, contained in Bonn's Museum at Amsterdam, are given by D-. Hull in his Second Letter to Simmonds, as follows: At the brim, the conjugate diameter, 4f inches; the transverse, 4^ ; the oblique, also 4^ inches. From the inner extremity of the superior pubic ramus, to the sacro-iliac joint jf the same side, 4i inches. At the outlet, the an- tero-posterior diameter (measuring from the apex of the sacrum) was, 4^ inches; the transverse, 3^ inches. The breadth of the sacrum was, 3?; inches, and the length the same. The angle of the sub-pubic arch measured only 671°. In this pelvis also, al- though a female, the prevailing size of the antero-posterior diameters, and the limited breadth of the sacrum and transverse dia- meter of the outlet, as well as the exceedingly small expanse of the sub-pubic arch, are very remarkable, and are hardly accordant with easy labours, unless from the special adapt- ation of the fcetal head. Dr. Vrolik of Amsterdam, who devoted much attention to this subject, remarks, that the Negro male pelvis is contrasted widely from the female of the same race, in being strong, dense, and massy, while that of the female is light and delicate in appearance, although not presenting the transparent thin parts that the pelvis of the European female exhibits. But the Negro male pelvis given in the table is remarkably light, slender, and well formed for a man of so considerable a stature, and the centres of the ilia very concave, and as thin as in most pelves I have seen ; nor are the ischial tuberosities at all dispropor- tionately large nor turned out, nor the pos- terior superior iliac spines elevated. Vrolik points out also, as marks of degradation in type in the Negro female pelvis, the vertical direction of the ilia, their elevation at the posterior superior spines, and the approxima- tion of the anterior ihac spines to the cotyloid cavity, together with the narrow transverse and antero-posterior diameters, the anterior sacral projection, the general elongation of the pelvis, and the greater acuteness of the sub- pubic angle. This author considers these pe- culiarities to resemble the formation of the pelvis in the Simice. But as far as I have myself seen, there are very few characters indeed, either in the Negro or Bushman pelvis, which assimilate to those of the widely-dif- ferent pelves of the Chimpanzee or Uran. * This opinion is given by Mr. Wliite, in his essay " On tlie Gradation of the Human Specks," on the authority of surgeons" employed in the Guinea trade; but I am informed hy Mr. Edwards, a sur- geon who has seen much of the West Indian Creole negroes, that difficult labours are, on the contrary, ^'^'■y frequent among the females of these Creoles, who are remarkable, like the males, for the thin- ness and narrowness of their flanks, and for the ' steady and easy walk which results from this formation. And he informs me also, that dystochia is not at all uufre(iueut even in the Afiican ne- gresses. From the structure of the female Bushman pelvis, given by G. Cuvier, in Hist. Nat. des Mammiferes, Dr. Vrolik draws the conclu- sion, that it presents greater animality of composition than even the Negro, as shown in the extreme vertical direction, narrow- ness, and height of the ilia, and the cylindrical form of the whole pelvis. The height of the ilia was much greater than in European females, while the width between the anterior iliac spines was less than even the smallest Negro pelvis. The spines of the ischia were, however, much wider apart, the sacrum more curved vertically, and the thinness of the iliac centres as little marked as in the Negro. The sacrum projected much forward at the base, and posteriorly was remarkable for the thick- ness and tuberosity of the lateral ])arts, and the posterior elevation of the coccygeal ar- ticulation, which were supposed to be for the purpose of affording attachment to the large gluteal masses of tiit, characteristic of the Bushman race. The thickness, breadth, and posterior elevation of the ischial tuberosities, the posterior inclination of the cotyloid ca- vities, the prominence of the pubic symphysis, and the greater sub-pubic angle, were also remarked by Vrolik. In the pelvis of a male Bushman recently added to the Hunterian Museum, I find the iliac wings to be short, broad, not much expanded, but considerably curved antero- posteriorly ; with a crest arched, /-shaped, and reaching as high as the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The centres of the iliac wings are not thicker than is propor- tional, and there is a well-formed and deep internal concavity or venter. The pectineal eminence is well marked, but the ischial spines not so, and the ischial tuberosities are small and slender. The sacrum is short, much curved vertically, and elevated in- feriorly, so as to project much behind, and diverging widely from the ischia, giving a wide and short appearance to the sacro-sciatic notch. The posterior lateral parts of the sacrum are not unusually thickened, but the sacral spinous processes are well marked and proportionally large, the two upper being very distinct, and sejiarated from the crest. The shape of the brim is somewhat oblong and inclined to the Negro type, as may be seen liom the measurements in the adjoining com- parative table. The whole i)elvis has a sym- metrical, though a light, slender, and diminu- tive aspect corresponding to the diminutive stature of the individual. The breadth of the sacrum is even less than in the Negro, being exactly the same as the Uran-utan. The distance between the ischial spines is, however, greater, though that of the ischial tuberosities is less than in the Negro. The pelvi-vertebral angle in this skeleton seems to be less than usual, as far as one may venture to a conclusion from a dried skeleton. In a cast of a female Bojes- man recently added to the King's Coileae Museum, however, the vrdva seems to be placed unusually far back, which may pro-