490 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. certain that any given spot of the mantle of a young bivalve must give origin, directly or indirectly, first, to "epiderm;" secondly, to prismatic substance ; and, thirdly, to nacreous substance; so that, on examining the free edge of a growing shell, we ought, since the " epiderm" is structureless and transparent, to be able to observe the gradual formation of the prismatic substance upon its under sur- face. This is, in fact, the case. Fig. 313, a, represents such a free edge of the shell of Anodon, a being the direction of the flexible zone; b, that of the perfect prismatic sub- stance. Fig. 313. A to c, Unio; D, Helix. Dr. Carpenter describes the appearances here figured in the following terms (/. c. p. 8.): " Although the prismatic cellular structure has not yet been actually observed in process of formation, yet certain appearances, which are occasionally met with in the marginal portions of its newest layers, throw great light upon its mode of growth, and indicate its strong resemblance to cartilage in this respect; for in these situations we find the cells neither in contact with each other, nor polygonal in form, but separated by a greater or less amount of intercellular substance, and presenting a rounded, instead of an angular form C/g". 314. c). Upon looking still nearer the margin, the cells are seen to be yet smaller and more separated by intercellular substance, and not unfrequently we lose all trace of distinct cells, the intercellular sub- stance presenting itself alone, but containing cytoblasts scattered through it. This appear- ance has been noticed by myself in Pinna and Unio, and by Mr. Bowerbank in Ostrea; so that I have no doubt that it is general in this situation. We may, I think, conclude from it that the cells of the prismatic cellular sub- stance are developed, like those of cartilage, in the midst of an intercellular substance, •which at first separates them from each other, that as they grow and draw into themselves the carbonate of lime poured out from the subjacent surface, they approach each other more and more nearly; and that, as they attain their full development, their sides press against each other, so that the cells acquire a polygonal form, and the intercellular substance disappears." I have given Dr. Carpenter's statement at length, because it appears to me to express very distinctly the interpretation which one is at once tempted to put upon the appearance, but which I must reject for the following reasons : — In the first place, if we examine that portion (a) of the margin beyond the smallest granules {cytoblasts, Carpenter), it is seen to be either absolutely structureless or obscurely striated, not a trace of a cell or endoplast being anywhere visible. Secondly, if any dilute acid be added under the micro- scope, the apparent nuclei and cells vanish with effervescence, and leave behind them clear empty spaces, of exactly the same shape and size as they themselves had. Thirdly, the supposed cells have a peculiar concen- trically or radially-striated structure, resem- bling sections of urinary calculi on a small scale, and still more the corresponding bodies in the integument of the shrimp {supra.) For these reasons I think it must be granted that the appearances in question, how- ever cell-like, are, in reality, not the expres- sion of the development of a cellular struc- ture at all, but merely that of the mode in which the deposit of calcareous matter takes place in the membranous basis of the shell. In fact, I believe that the calcareous matter appears first in small and distinct globules (the " cytoblasts"), and that more or less concentric deposits take place round these, the result of which is, that the membranous basis is more and more displaced, and that the deposited masses eventually come almost into contact. The regularity of the ultimate pris- matic structure results from that of the dis- tances of the granules primarily deposited, and the even rate of addition to each subse- quentl}'. There appears to me to be but one inter- pretation to be placed upon these facts; viz. that cells as such do not enter into the for- mation of the shell of the Naiades at all, but that it is constituted by the successive excre- tion of membranous laminas from the surface