UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 612 particular spot from which the ripe ovum is about to be expelled ; to convey the ovum in a direction opposite to the course of the fertilising fluid, so as to ensure the meeting and comminghng of the generative elements, an event to which the limited calibre joined to the peristaltic action of the oviduct probably in a great degree contributes ; to afford pro- tection to the ovum daring that brief sojourn in which tlie first effects of fertilisation are manifested upon its constituent parts ; to aid probably in certain changes which are operated upon the surface of the ovum, con- sisting first, in all cases apparently, in a strip- ping off" of the adventitious covering with which the ovum is invested on entering the tube, and secondly, in some instances, in the addition of certain materials which in- crease slightly the bulk of the ovum ; and lastly, in transmitting onwards the ovum, so altered and prepared for more complete de- velopment, to the cavity of the uterus, or in conveying away those which, for want of impregnation, are destined to perish. In reference to these conclusions regarding the offices of the Fallo])ian tube, which the present state of physiology appears to war- rant, the question here naturally arises, how far they are applicable to the female of man, or to what extent her case may be viewed as exceptional on account of certain differ- ences in her organisation and habitudes. One of the most observable of these dif- ferences is the absence of that marked dis- tinction of periods alternating with each other, such as are shown in a greater or less degree in the females of most mammalia in regard to the activity of the sexual functions. That these alternating periods of desire and aversion to the coitus are strictly sig- nificant of corresponding temporary states of physical capacity and incapacity for concep- tion, is placed beyond doubt, by the results of examination of the internal organs and their contents at these respective periods. In those animals in which the oestrus re- turns at short intervals, the male generally remains potent at all times. The temporary incapacity is on the side of the female, and occurs in the intervak between the successive acts of ripening and discharge of the ova from the ovary, together with their passage down the tube. It has been shown that during these events only will she receive the male, and therefore, on that account also, is con- ception then only possible. This circumstance is rendered more striking in animals in whom this interval is longest, as in the roe-deer, where the oestrus returns only once annually, and in whom the capacity for procreation is limited to a few weeks, for the reason stated by Bischoff", that then the ovary contains ripe ova and the testes ripe semen, and at no other time. But in the human female, whatever views may be entertained regarding the connexion of a separate act of ovulation with each menstrual period, it is certain that here a marked astrus is wanting, and that although the capacity for impregnation is apparently greatest about the times of menstruation, yet, notwithstanding the assertions of those who maintain that there is a perpetual recur- rence of temporary incapacity for procrea- tion, tb.ere is no period at which the healthy human female can be shown to be positively incapable of conception during any part of menstrual life. It may, however, be asked whether the oc- casional occurrence of impregnation during an intermenstrual period, at a date more distant than usual from the last menstrual act can be explained consistently with a strict interpretation of the law that menstruation and ovulation are contemporaneous acts. This appears to be reconcilable with the circumstance that although these acts, so far as observation has yet gone, are very fre- quently and perhaps usually coincident, yet exceptionally an ovum may be emitted during an intermenstrual period, the ripening and not the time or the act of emission of the ovum being probably the essential feature, or that the ovum, supposing it to have been emitted from the ovary at the time of men- struation, may possibly remain in the tube susceptible of impregnation longer in the human female than in the mammalia gener- ally, or may even be impregnated after reach- ing the uterus. * That the Fallopian tube in the human subject is, occasionally at least, the seat of impregnation, is demonstrated by the occur- rence of the tubal form of extra-uterine ges- tation ; while the numerous examples already quoted of other mammalia render it highly probable, by analogical reasoning, that this is the normal seat of that function in man. That the first encounter of the generative elements may also take place either in the uterus or upon or even within the ovary, is plainly possible. That it occurs sometimes at or near the ovary is evidenced by the varieties of extra-uterine gestation termed ovarian and ovario-tubal. It is even possible that, in some of these, insemination may have been so coincident with the spontaneous opening of the Graafian follicle, that the spermatozoa, penetrating further than usual, may have reached the ovary at that precise moment when a passage had been prepared for the ovum, and some may have actually passed into the follicle and have impregnated the ovum there. No argument certainly can be opposed to this on the ground of |)hysical impossibility f; while, on the other hand, it is also conceivable that impregnation may be delayed until after the ovum has entered the uterus, as in the case just suggested of a fertilising coitus occurring later than usual after the menstrual period ; but I am not aware of any good anatomical or physiological reason for regarding the uterus, as by pre- * These points are more fully considered under the liead '• Menstruation," p. 608. t See the aigument regarding the anatomical evidence for this form of gestation at p. 580.