14. OVUM. may be tletaclied and live independently, but they nevertheless constitute different animals, and cannot be regarded in any other light than as so many individuals distinct from the one producing them, although all are de- scended from one ovum, or all are necessary to make up the entire sjiecies. And it is further to be observed that each of these several animals may be subject to in- dividual metamorphosis, and that in some classes there is so gradual a transition from individual change to new production that it may be difficidt to determine to which of these forms of reproductive development their phenomena ought to be referred. In that part of the article which treats specially of development our attention may again be called to some of the more remark- able examples of individual metamorphosis that are known : at present it is intended rather to bring prominently forward those instances of alternate generation which have l)een discovered since the publication of the Article Generation, or which, if previously known, may now be viewed in a different light, in consequence of being brought into comparison with other observations of a similar kind and of more recent discovery. We may first consider some examples of this process, or of one very analogous to it, in which the new animal is single. Echiiwdermala.— In several orders of this class a variety of the reproductive process has of late years been pointed out, in regard to which it may be doubted whether it is most of the nature of a metamorphosis or a meta- genesis, but which, as it has been considered by J. Midler, the discoverer of the most in- teresting and remarkable of its phenomena, as in some measure analogous to the alternating generation, I will mention in this place; the more so, that it might almost be looked upon as forming the connecting link between the direct and the alternating processes of repro- duction. In some of the Echinodermata it appears from the earlier observations of Sars that the young produced from the ova are developed directly into the parental form, passing how- ever through several marked modifications in the early stages of development. Thus, some of the star-fishes (^Asteracanthion glacialis, Sars) leave the egg as a ciliated free moving animalcule, then they become pediculated and attach themselves, have four club-shaped |a"o- cesses developed on them, and, lastly, they pass by the development of the rays and the internal organs into the complete form ; but here the whole, or nearly the whole, germinal mass of the ovum is converted into the embryo or larva, and the whole, or nearly the whole, of this undergoes the farther changes of con- version into the complete and sexual animal.* From the researches of J. Miiller it ap- * Sars, Fauna Littor. Nors^egiaj, 184C; and Ann. des Sciences Nat.; Agassiz, Lectures on Comparative Embryology, New York, 1849; and a Letter from Desor to J. Bliiller, in Arcliiv. fiir Pbysiol. 1849, p. 79. pears that the mode of development now described is exceptional among the Echino- dermata, and that in other fomilies of the erder Asteriadae, and in the Ophiura and Echinidac, an embr^'o or larva of a peculiar kind, is formed by direct development from the fe- cundated ovum, v\ hich is not itself converted into the complete animal, but rather serves as a temporary stock from which the perfect animal is subsequently formed in a manner that may be compared to gemmation. But it does not appear that more than one individual is developed from each primary larva stock, and this gradually dies away, so soon as its attached offspring has made some advance in its formation. This body, described under the name of Bi|)innaria asterigera, as con- nected with an Asterias, is a comparatively large animal, with a long pediculated body, twelve or fourteen tentacles, an alimentary canal, consisting of mouth, gullet, stomach, in Fis. 7. Bipinnaria asterigera (^from Miiller). A, tlie young larva before the Ecliinoderm is formed. B, a more advanced larva, with the Asterias on its summit. c, the Asterias torn up to show its stomach, a continuation of the alimentary canal of the larva.