OVUM. [Ill] Fig. 75*. Micropyle in the ovum of Insects. {From 3Ieissner.') a. A portion of the upper pole of the ovum of Musca ■vomitoria from the Vagina. There are shown in succession the vitelline membrane, chorion and outer envelope, and at the upper part in profile the micropyle aperture situated in the middle of a nipple-like projection of the chorion, and with a number of spermatozoa involved in it. b. Direct view of the upper pole of the ovum of an insect belonging to the Pyralida. The micro- pyle aperture is seen in the centre of the radiated markings of the chorion. micropyle apparatus in tlie ova of Insects be- longing to the following genera, viz., Musca, Tipula, Culex, Lampyris, Elater, Teleoplio- rus, Adela, Pyralida, Tortrix, Euprepia, Li- paris, Pieris, Panorpa, and in more tiian one species of several of tliese genera. Tlie same author also observed and described in Musca vomitoria a number of spermatic filaments entangled in the micropyle. Leuckart's observations, which are fuller and more minute than those of Meissner, and differ in some of their results from those ob- &c., of the Ova of Insects, chiefly pupiparous, in Muller's Archiv. Nos. 1. 2. and 3., P'ebruary and July, 1855, p. 90., et seq., with five plates, with 122 figures. There can be no doubt that both of these autliors made the independent discovery of this curious structure. Perhaps the priority claimed by Leuckart, may be accorded to him, as he had pre- viously stated the probabilitv of its existence in his article " Zeugung," published in 1852, p. 90G. tained by that author, were extended over a very large number of Insects. Among nearly a thousand different kinds, he succeeded in de- tecting the existence of the micropyle in not less than two hundred; and his detailed ob- servations on this apparatus, and the structure of the membranes, extend to one hundred and Fig. 76*. Micropyle of the ovum of Lepidoptera. (^From Leuckart.) A. Side view of the upper part of the ovum o^ Sphinx Populi, showing the micropyle, the radiated markings surrounding it, and the cellular and other structure of the coverings of the ovum. B. More enlarged and direct view of the vicinity of the micropyle in the same. The dotted or punc- tated structure belonging to the chorion is here re- presented. eighty species. This must furnish ample proof of the universality of the existence of the micropyle in this class of animals, when we consider the minuteness of the object and the difficulty of obtaining specimens in a con- dition suitable for the investigation. Leuckart hasstated, indeed, that in all instances in which the ova were ripe and favourable for examina- tion, he was enabled to assure himself of the presence of this ap[)aratus. In a certain number of instances, amounting to about a dozen, Leuckart farther found that the spermatozoa adhere to the micropyle, and that a certain number of them pass into the ovum by this aperture. He observed that a