UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 668 sions, which furnish the sole opportunities for impregnation, bear the same constant relation to menstruation that the acts of ovulation and the times of conception in the mammalia bear to the CEStrus, it becomes necessary to exa- mine more closely the grounds of this belief; and for this pur[)ose the circumstances as yet ascertained regarding the times of conception in women, the condition of their ovaries, not only during menstruation but in the intervals also, and the actual relation which the oestrus, or period of conception in mammals, bears to menstruation, may be briefly passed in review. The precise period at which conception in the human subject occurs in most cases cannot, for obvious reasons, be determined, but when- ever conception can be traced to a single op- portunity, the process of impregnation, or the fertilisation of the ovum by contact with the spermatozoa, may be assumed to take place within a few hours after the act of insemina- tion ; for the spermatic fluid rapidly traverses the generative canal, while here spermatozoa cease to have motion within thirty hours at latest from the time of emission. From various methods of computation it is supposed that in a large majority of cases con- ception occurs during the first half of a men- strual interval, and most commonly during the first week. In sixteen instances noted by Raciborski conception occurred as late as the tenth day after menstruation in only one case.* The number of instances in which con- ception can be ascertained, or may be fairly assumed, to have taken place in the latter half of a menstrual interval is comparatively small. Nevertheless impregnation may unquestionably occur during this time, and even within a day or two of the next menstrual flow, which is then usually diminished in duration and quan- tity, or is reduced to a mere show. Now if we endeavour to explain these facts, relating to the times of conception, by the aid of an ovular theory of menstruation, the ques- tion may be brought within very narrow limits. One of two postulates may be assumed. An ovum emitted at or soon after a menstrual period either remains susceptible of impreg- nation through the whole of the succeeding interval, or it loses that susceptibility, and perhaps perishes before the recurrence of the next menstrual flow. The first hypothesis would sufficiently account for impregnation taking place at any part of a menstrual interval ; but it has little or no evidence for its support. Nothing, in- deed, is known regarding the length of time during which the human ovum remains sus- * These and similar facts have been commonly regarded as showing a greater aptitude for concep- tion shortly after menstruation; but tlie influence of mere opportunity hus not perhaps been sufficiently considered; for if, as in the case of the Jews under the strict requirements of the Levitical law, the whole of the first week, or that period -which is commonly regarded as most favourable to concep- tion, be withdrawn from the opportunities for im- pregnation, no diminution whatever of prolific power results. ceptible of impregnation after it has escaped from the ovary. The period of susceptibility in the mammalia generally is variable. In the bitch, as already stated (p. 606.), the ovum, after quitting the ovary, is supposed to re- main in the tube during six or eight days. Its passage is probably quite com|)leted in ten days. In the guinea-pig the period is much shorter, as the ovum enters the uterus at the end of the third day. In the rabbit also the pe- riod does not extend beyond the beginning of the fourth day. But by the time that the ovum reaches the uterus, or sometimes even the lower end of the oviduct, in most of the mammalia yet observed, the oestrus is past, and with it also the opportunity for impregnation. The evidence therefore obtainable from the mam- malia fails to support the conjecture, that in man an ovum detached during menstruation can remain susceptible of impregnation through the whole of a menstrual interval, consisting of twenty-three or more days, although the period of this susceptibility mai/ be longer in man than in the other examples cited. But if this first hypothesis fails, the second appears inevitable, viz., that an ovum emitted during menstruation loses its susceptibility of impregnation before the termination of the succeeding menstrual interval. M. Pouchet supposes, that in the human subject the dura- tion of this susceptibility does not exceed four- teen days. Consequently if, according to the strict formula of the latter physiologist, ova are emitted only at or shortly after the menstrual periods, there must remain a portion of each menstrual interval, during which every woman is physically incapable of conception. And this alternative M. Pouchet* does not hesitate to adopt. But since this conclusion is incompatible with the facts already stated regarding the occasional, though probably rare occurrence of conception during the latter portion of a men- strual interval, and especially towards its con- clusion, M. Coste, who shares with many others a belief in these facts, has proposed an explanation which constitutes a very con- siderable modification of the ovular theory of menstruation. To account for impregnation at a later period than usual of a menstrual in- terval, M. Coste supposes that a ripe or dis- tended Graafian follicle, having failed in reach- ing the point of rupture, maj'remain stationary, as it sometimes does in mammals \, and that the influence of the male is sufficient to de- termine the dehiscence of a follicle in such a state. And in order to anticipate the obvious objection, that if the emission of an ovum from the ovary is the cause or occasion of menstrua- * Th^orie Positive. — M. Pouchet believes that a slender decidua is always formed at the decline of each menstruation, which, together with the ovum, whenever the latter is not impregnated, is cast off from the uterus between the tenth and fourteenth da}^ and that after this event every woman remains incapable of conception until the next menstrual period, when the detachment of another ovum from the ovary renews her capacity for impregnation. t For a fuller statement of this view, with illus- trative examples, see p. 5C8.