UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 578 Hooper* "met with only two instances of abscess" of this organ. " The one was the size of a child's head at birth, the other not larger than an orange. There was nothing in these different from common abscesses ; the whole of the internal substance of the ovaries was gone, and the walls were formed of a thick and rather ligamentous cyst, covered by peritoneum." Suppuration occurs also occa- sionall}' in those cysts of the ovary which con- tain hair and teeth, together with other im- perfectly formed products. To the same class of suppurative diseases should also probably be referred that singular morbid condition of the part in which the entire ovary is reduced to the state of a diffluent pulp, of a yellow or brownish-green colour, of the consistence, and having somewhat the appearance of very soft putty, immiscible with water, and retaining sufficient tenacity to preserve its semifluid character, and yet not having firmness enough to admit of the part being preserved as a pre- paration. Of this morbid condition of the ovary, which, however, may possibly be can- cerous, I met with a striking example in a case of sudden death occurring in the seventh month of pregnancy. Both ovaries were of the size and form of a bullock's kidney, their natural structure was entirely destroyed, and was replaced by the soft substance just de- scribed. The circumstance that both ovaries were thus affected renders it evident that the disease could not have existed in any great degree at the time of impregnation, or that it certainly must have been then limited to one organ. From the comparatively scanty materials extant relating to ovarian abscess it may be concluded, that sup])uration may either com- mence at separate parts of the parenchyma, forming small collections of matter, which gradually coalesce, or it may be set up through- out the whole of the stroma at once. In these cases the parenchyma of the ovary is gradually consumed, and the organ is converted into a purulent cyst.f Whilst in other cases the Graafian follicle appears to be the seat of the suppurative action, which may either com- mence originally in the walls of one or more follicles constituting circumscribed abscesses of moderate size, or the suppurative stage of inflammation may be established in the walls of a follicle already considerably enlarged, and thus an ordinary ovarian cyst, with simple transparent contents, may be gradually con- verted into an abscess of enormous magnitude. Cysts.—A com[)lete anatomical description of the numerous forms of cystic disease which affect the ovary would occupy a far larger space than the limits of this article will per- mit. On this account the more im|)oriant varieties only can be noticed. These are chiefly Simple cysts. Compound cysts. Hy- datid cysts, Demoid cysts, or those contain- * The IMorbid Anatomy of the Huinaa Uterus and its Appendages, p. 3. t Rokitansky, Path. Anat. vol. ii. p. 331. Sjd. Soc. edit. ing fat, hair, teeth, and bones, and Colloid cysts. Simple Cysts.—The simple, barren, or uni- locular ovarian cysts are composed, as their name implies, of a single sac, which, accord- ing to its size, occupies the interior of the ovary, whilst the rest of the organ retains its normal condition ; or else the cyst, by en- larging, presses aside and distends the paren- chyma and tunics of the ovary, which thus form a common boundary to the sac, or the cyst, having originated in one extremity of the ovary, grows at the expense of that portion of the organ, whilst the rest, retaining its natural structure, becomes by degrees a mere appendage of the sac, and may be seen pro- jecting in the form of a small button-like pro- minence from its outer surface. These cysts vary in size from that of a pea to the bulk of the adult head ; they rarely, however, attain the latter tlimensions without becoming proliferous or multilocular, and they appear never to acquire as single cysts the enormous bulk which the compound cysts not unfrequently exhibit. This more moderate size of the single cyst is less frequently pro- ductive of those adhesions with surrounding parts which the pressure of the larger com- pound cysts so commonly occasions. Hence the precise locality of the single cyst, and its origin in the substance of the ovary, can generally be determined without difficulty. The distended sac is found hanging as an ap- pendage to the ovarian ligament, whilst the Fallopian tube is often seen partly spread out over its surface, one of the fimbriae being always closely adherent to the sac, and con- ducting the observer infallibly to any portion of the original ovarian structure which may have remained yet unchanged. The coats of these cysts vary much in density and thickness. Those of the single kind are more uniform throughout; they are generally thickest towards the base or seat of their vas- cular supply. Here they vary in thickness from 2"' to 12"', but become much thinner in other parts, so as at times to be nearly trans- parent. The outer coat always consists of peritoneum, which is smooth and shining upon its surface, except when adhesions have been formed with surrounding parts, or when fatal peritonitis has occurred, as from bursting of the sac. The condition of this coat has been already described under the head of morbid states of the ovarian tunics. The variations in its thickness are not generally so consider- able as materially to affect the bulk of the sac. The middle or intermediate coat is that ge- nerally upon which the greater or less density of the cyst wall depends. This coat is usually of a brownish-yellow colour, and firm fleshy texture. It is with difficidty split into a number of rough-surfaced laminae, exhibiting to the naked eye a coarse fibrous arrangement of their constituent parts, which, under the microscope, are seen to consist of inelastic fibrous tissue, mingled with granules, and undeveloped fibre cells in varying proportions.