[91] OVUM. of much larger size, and appears to occupy the whole or the greater part of the ovarian follicle or capsule ; more in the manner of that in birds and scaly reptiles. According to Professor Owen*, the ovaries of the Orni- thorhynchus present numerous elevations on their surface caused by the projection of ovi- sacs of different sizes and in different stages of development. The largest of these sacs have a diameter of two lines ; and, as in birds, though in a less marked manner, the right oviduct and ovary are less developed than the left. The unimpregnated ovum nearly com- pletely fills the ovisac or ovarian capsule. The germinal vesicle is of a comparatively large size, being about ^lo" i" diameter. Tlie vitelline substance is rich in nucleated (?) cells or granules, intermixed with clear co- lourless oil globules. The vitelline membrane is moderately thick and smooth, and refracts light strongly. The ovum is separated from the inner surface of the ovarian capsule by a very small ([uantity of fluid, and by a stratum of granules or cells. The ova found in the uterus of the Orni- thorhynchus were of a deep-yellow colour, with a smooth polished surface, and had no adhesion to the inner uterine membrane. In one animal the yolks were found enclosed in a more transparent mass, which was sur- rounded by a cortical membrane of some te- nacity, presenting in fact some resemblance to the albumen and shell membrane of a bird's egg. Leuckartf thinks it probable that Owen may have been misled as to the size of the ova by the examination of specimens which had been preserved in alcohol; but Professor Owen informs me, that he was fully on his guard against such an error, and was quite satisfied of the approach in the struc- ture of these ova to the oviparous type of birds and reptiles. I have examined the ovaries in a specimen of Echidna ht/strtx, which has been preserveil in alcohol ; and although the somewhat de- teriorated state of the specimen, and the cir- cumstance of the ovaries not being in the fully developed condition, were not the most favourable for minute observation, I was con- vinced that the ovarian ova of this animal, like those of its congener the Ornithorliyn- chus, belong rather to the oviparous than to the usual mammiferous type. The yolks, which quite filled the ovisacs, were some of them about J^" in diameter : they containeil a large quantity of granular globules simdar to the yolk corpuscles of birds ; the yolk, in fact, consisted of the nutritive as well as the formative substance ; and the whole aspect of the ovary, as well as of the individual yolks, recalled to my mind that of an oviparous animal in a somewhat undeveloped state. * See Prof. Owen's Article Monotremata in this Cyclopajdia, and his Memoirs in the Philos. Trans, for 1832 and 1835. See in particular figures I'Jl, 192, and I'Ji of the article Monotremata, Cylopied. of Anat. vol. iii. p. 393, et seq. t Article Zeugung, p. 783, The ova of a considerable number of the Invertebrate animals belong to the same group under which I have placed that of Mammalia; that is, they consist principally of formative or granular yolk-substance, un- dergo complete segmentation, and have a simple zona or structureless covering ; but yet the varieties in structure, relations, and mode of production among these ova them- selves, and their differences from the ova of Mammalia are so great, that I think it will conduce to greater clearness and prevent repetition, to defer treating of the ova of In- vertebrata till after I shall have given the description of the remaining ova of the Ver' tebrate animals, to which we shall now pro- ceed. Third Group of the Ova of Vertebrate Animals. —Under this head I have now to state some details as to the structure, relations, and mode of formation of the ova of amphibious reptiles or chiefly the Batrachia,and of osseous fishes. The ova of both of these tribes of ani- mals appear to occupy an intermediate place be • tween the very small and granular-yolked ova of the Mammalia and the large cellular-yolked ova of birds and scaly reptiles. They agree in both possessing a yolk of moderate size, in the substance of the yolk being principally or largely of the formative kind, and in the possession of a proportionally large germinal vesicle, in which the macula is not a single nucleus, but rather a large collection of nuclei or macula;. In both of them the segmentation is partial or not complete, affecting chiefly the superficial part of the yolk, in which the formative or germinal portion of the yolk is placed, but varying considerably in the depth and the extent of the surface which it involves in different s|)ecies and genera, more espe- cially among the Amphibia. In the predomi- nance of tile formative yolk and in its rela- tions to the process of segmentation, there- fore, they approach the Mammalia, while in the large size and structure of the germinal vesicle in all, and in the consiilerable amount of nutritive yolk in some, they more nearly resemble the group of large-^olked ova. It will be pro|)er, ou account of the differences between them, to describe separately the ova of AtTiplubia and those of Osseous fishes. Aii/jihiljia.—Batracliia.— The rijie ovarian ovum of the common frog or toad is a nearly spherical body of from -.l to ff an inch in diameter, of a dark colour, contained with- in and closely embraced by a thin vascidar sac formed by the dilatation of the ovisacs which hang into the general ovarian cavity. This capsule or ovisac is attached to the rest of the ovarian substance by a broad band rather than by a narrow pedicle; and when the yolk or ovaiian ovum is mature, it escapes from the ovisac by the formation of an aper- ture ill the remote or free side of this capsule, somewhat in the same manner as occurs in the calyces of the bird, but with a wider aper- ture. Through the apertures of the general ovarian capsule the numerous ova pass into the abdominal cavity, during the first period