478 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. that the frog is rudimentarj'. The horny ecderon presents both tubuh and laminae. The excrescences on the inner surface of the leg of the horse are identical with the sole of the foot in structure — consisting of a horny mass penetrated by long papillee. The hollow horns of the Ruminantia are, to all intents and purposes, Claws. The super- ficial cellular ecderon (epidermis) is continued upon them, and, when this is removed, we come to a laminated fibrous horny mass, which is formed and increased by apposition from the snlijacent process of the enderon, supported by its bony axis — a process of the frontal bone. The enderon has neither villi nor larnellse, presenting only small irregular ridges (Gurlt). The horn of the rhinoceros is commonly said to be constituted by a mass of hairs which have coalesced. However, it consists of an aggregation of tubes, round which the horny matter is arranged in concentric laminae, as in the horny excrescence of the horse's leg; and as there is no evidence of its having ever been enclosed vi^ithin a sac, it is more probable that it belongs to the series of the claws and nails. Glands, hairs, and feathers. — The Hairs and Spines of mammals, the Feathei-s birds, and the Integumentary Glands agree in one essential point, that their development is preceded by that of an involution of the ecderon, within which they are formed, and by which the former are, at first, entirely en- closed. At an early period, the rudiments of the hairs, and those of the cutaneous glands of a foetal mammal, are indistinguishable. They alike consist of solid processes of the ecderon, consisting of a homogeneous matrix, in which lie closely-set endoplasts, bounded internally by a clear, narrow, transparent " basement membrane," which at once sepa- rates them from, and connects them with, the enderon.* Externally these processes are con- tinuous with the rete mucosum of the ecderon. In the foetal lamb, in which I have carefully traced the development of these processes, they increase in size without change of struc- ture, until, in the ordinary hairs, they have attained a length of ^iu inch ; for the vi- brissae, that of inch. Having reached this length, it is seen that an accumulation of the indifferent tissue of the enderon has taken place around their coecal ends, which gradually become pushed in, so that, from being rounded, they appear truncated in section, and present a bulb with a hemisphe- rical involution, the rudiment of the papilla. In the ordinary hair no special accumulation of indifferent tissue takes place around the l)ody of the involution; but in the vibrissa, which are ultimately to possess a thick outer capsule, its foundation appears in this form, and a capillary loop may be seen penetrating the rudimentary papilla. In the furthest advanced vibrissas the * The further development of the glands will be most conveniently considered, together with their histological structure, below. tissue of the axis of the sac was converted into horny cells, the rudiment of the " fenes- trated " or of the inner, horny rootsheath. Over the papilla the rudiment of the hair shaft was indicated by a conical process, horny at its apex and marked by radiating lines. Finally, on each side of the neck of the sac there was a bulging process, the centre of which was occupied by a mass of fatty-looking granules, the future sebaceous glands of the hair. Hairs are not normally susceptible of inde- finite growth, but have, hke the teeth, a fixed form to attain. This form is always that of a more or less elongated spindle, inasmuch as the hairs are sharp at their points, becoming broader and thicker in the middle, and dimi- nishing again to their proximal ends. When fully formed, and ready to fall out, in fact, this end of the hair is either pointed, or more or less ragged and brush-like. As soon as the finishing process of any hair begins the foundation of a new one is laid by the development of a diverticulum of the outer rootsheath towards its base, in which a young hair is developed, in the man- ner already described, and gradually pushes out the old one. The varieties of form and appearance pre- sented by the hairs of animals (for which see the works of Hensinger, Eble, Busk, and Quekett, cited at the end of this article) are produced ; 1st, by the relative proportions of the medullary and cortical substances, and the arrangement of the former with respect to the latter. Thus the peculiar appearance of Rodent hairs is due to the disposition of the medullary substance. 2nd, by the deve- lopment of the cuticular layer, whence arise the whorled scales of bat's hair — the imbri- cated plates of seal's hair, &c. ; 3rd, by the shape of the shaft, which may be cylindrical, as in ordinary hair of the head in man ; or evenly flattened, as in the short curly hairs ; or narrow and cylindrical below, and wide and flattened above, as in the hairs of the deer tribe. The spines of certain mammals, such as Hi/stri.v and Erinaceus, present some inter- esting peculiarities of form ; offering, as they do, a sort of transition between hairs and feathers.* The porcupine's " quill," as it is called, is a cylindrical tube which gradually diminishes to a point above and below. At its apex the cavity of the quill is simply conicarl, but lower down its section becomes polygonal, and, the angles of the polygon being prolonged, resem- bles a four-rayed star. Still further towards the root of the quill, each ray of the star divides into two secondary rays, and then the secondary rays subdivide into two tertiary rays ; so that eventually the cavity of the spine is a complicated star with four and twenty branches. Below its middle, the quill dimi- nishes in diameter, and at the same time the complexity of its internal cavity likewise dis- * See Brocker (Reichert's Bcricht, 18-19), from whom the account in the text is taken, though tlio main points have been independently veritieil.