X X 4 UTERUS—(Abn lined by mucous membrane. This constitutes the condition designated by Mayer the uterus bipartitus. The concomitants of this condition may be a short vaginal cul-de-sac, together with riidimental Fallopian tubes, and perhaps well developed ovaries. In the latter case the external organs may be well formed, and there may be no deficiency of sexual charac- ter, or the vagina may be entirely wanting. The coexistence of this rudimental uterus with ovaries well developed is easily ex- plained. For the ovary is formed out of a separate portion of blastema from that from which the Wolffian bodies and excretory duct of the generative apparatus are developed,_/?g. 400. and 416., so that the failure in growth of the one does not necessarily involve a cor- responding defect in the other. Group II. If one uterine cornu retains the imperfect condition last described, while the second undergoes development, the one- horned uterus or uterus unicornis is produced. So that the organ here consists of a developed and an undeveloped half combined. The developed uterine horn may be either the left or the right. It then consists of a cylindrical or fusiform canal or body, curved outwardly in the form of an arch which ex- hibits various degrees of deflection from the meridian. To its upper extremity is usually attached a tube leading to the seat of a well- formed ovary. The second or undeveloped cornu, with its tube, is not always entirely deficient j but there often exists a rudiment in connexion with the developed horn, which, according to the degree of malformation, is either solid or hollow, or is traversed by a canal opening into the cervix of the developed half. In the case of the uterus unicornis, notwith- standing the imperfection of one uterine half, both ovaries may be found ahke developed. The type of this condition of uterus exists as a normal formation in the class aves, where one side only of the generative apparatus proceeds in its growth, and the other remains undeveloped from an early period of foetal life.* Group III. If, instead of an unsymmetrical growth of the two uterine cornua, such as occurs in the last example, both sides are alike developed, yet without any, or with only an imperfect, junction of tlieir lateral borders there is produced a uterus bicornis, falsely termed a double uterus (uterus du- plex). Here however there is no evidence of plurality, or true duplicity of the uterus, but only a deficiency of that union of the two separately formed halves by whose subsequent conjunction the organ is normally constituted. This conjunction should naturally com- mence from the level of the point of attach- ment of the round ligaments, and the varia- tions in the degree of malformation will be according to the height at which the union of the uterine halves stops short of that point. The highest degree of malformation in this iRMAL Anato.my). 079 group, or the greatest departure from the normal form, is that in which the two uterine halves do not coalesce at all, but remain com- pletely divided in their whole extent. This happens very rarely, and is co-existent with other malformations, such as fissure of the abdominal and pelvic walls. The division is here so complete that certain of the pelvic or abdominal viscera may occupy the space be- tween the two uterine halves. In the next tiegree of this kind of deformity a horizontal commissure occupies the angle in which the two uterine halves meet, and serves to unite them together {Jig. 461.). The Fig. 461. The hndij of the uterus divided into two halves, wliich are united at the cervix by a horizontal commissure representing the fundus. The as uteri and vagina are double. (^After Busch.') horizontal commissure is composed, like the cornua, of uterine tissue, and represents the fundus uteri. According to the height at which it is placed, the external form of the uterus approaches or recedes from the normal type. Rokitansky* has pointed out how the situation of this commissure affects the angle in which the two cornua meet, and conse- F,g. 462. The vagina, os uteri, and cervix, single. (^After Busch.) The botly of the uterus forming two cornua, ■which are still nearly horizontal, but are united by a commissure at a higher point than in fig. 461. (|uently the relative mutual position of the two uterine halves. The nearer the point of co- * See Fallopian (ube, p. 613. * Loc. cit. p. 274.