340 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. {hat. Intcstinum tenue,'Fv Iiitestin gi-cle, Gexm. Duenndarm). The shape of all this portion is cylindrical. Its average length is about 20 feet; its dia- meter about 1^ inches.* But apart from those varieties in its dimensions which it presents in different individuals, the yielding nature of the tube allows it to be narrowed by artificial extension. While, vice versa, it is just as easily shortened by dilatation. And it is very difficult accurately to estimate those minor degrees of distention to which it is liable. Hence little stress can be laid upon the statement of Cruveilhier, that the small intestine tapers away from the duodenum to near its extremity, where it suddenly dilates to enter the large intestine. The small intestine occupies the cavity of the belly. Its commencement, at the pyloric extremity of the stoniach, is placed in the right hypochondrinni; its termination, in the caecum that begins the large intestine, occu- pies the right iliac fossa, to which this part of the intestinal canal is fixed. The few inches of bowel immediately above this extremity frequently occupy the pelvic cavity. But almost all the intervening portion is so free to move, tliat each particular point of its length may be found in any part of the ab- domen or pelvis. * Trustworthy observations on this point are still to be desired. Meckel states that the length of tlie whole intestine is from three to ten times the .stature. And most autliors have been content to fol- low him in estimating its average proportion as six times the height of llie body. As 1 presume sucii a comparison of the two measurements was never in- tended to be more than an aid to the memory of the Anthropotomist, I need scarcely point out its in- herent improbability, as well as the difficulty of establishing a close ratio between a multiple assumed to be so high, and a multiplicand known to be so variable. Besides, differences in the dimensions of the canal are not easilj' established, unless their amount is very considerable. For the facility with whicli, in such a tube, length is convertible into width, forms one palpable source of error, wliich can pnl^' be obviated l)y a very careful comparison of both the above measurements. The effect of a more or less complete removal of the mesentery is almost as obvious; and perhaps entitles us to suspect Itiat all such estimates of the length of the separated bowel represent it as somewhat greater tlian it wou'd be in siiu. And we are still more unable to determine that alteration of both dimensions which the simultaneous dilatation or contraction of its two muscular strata would necessarily effect. While it is only after we have eitlier obviated, or al- lowed for, all the preceding causes of inaccuracy, that we can come to any valid conclusion respecting those differences whicli doubtless obtain in different individuals. The statement I have ventured upon in the text is based upon a number of measurements made by my- self. In making tliese, the healthy intestine was laid upon a board, and spread out to what seemed a proper width, before taking its length. Their number (less than forty) is too small to justify us in regarding their average as a very valid one. They afford no informal^ion as to the effect of age or obesity. But they give what is probably a more accurate estimate than that ordinarily adopted by autliors. And they agree with an average given by Cruveilhier, as well as with four cases, in which it eeems not unlikely that lie adopted precautions similar to those just alluded to. The duodenum.—That upper part of the small intestine which is directly continuous with the stomach, is distinguished, both from this organ, and from the lower part, by certain peculiari- ties. And though these chiefly affect its exter- nal anatomy, still we shall hereafter find that they are not unaccompanied by differences in the structure of its mucous membrane. Start- ing from the constriction before alluded to, as marking the site of the pyloric valve, the in- testinal tube forms a curve in the shape of a horse-shoe around the head of the pancreas ; F'ig. 2j4. Shape and arrangement of the duodenum. (^The stomach and liver are raised to show the pancreas.') st, stomach ; p, its pyloric valve; /, liver; g, gall- bladder ; d, duodenum; 1, 2, 3, its first, second, and third portions; pa, pancreas; h, head of tlie pancreas, wliich is received into the concavity of the duodenum ; sp, spleen ; a, aorta, behind the in- ferior transverse portion of the duodenum; sm, the superior mesenteric artery, in front of it. receives the duct of this gland, as well as that of the liver ; and is closely fixed by perito- neum to the posterior wall of the belly. This fixed commencement of the small inte.stine has been named the duodenum, in consequence of its length being estimated at twelve finger- breadths {SwSsKaSaLKTvXoi', zitioe/fflngerdarDi). It has also been called the rentriculus succentu- riatus, or supplementary stomach;—a vague term, which was probably based upon an in- accurate notion of its office. Beginning at the pyloric constriction, the duodenum proceeds outwards, backwards, and a little upwanls, to the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. It then turns down- wards, and a little inwards, in front of the right kiilney; so as often to impress a shallow fossa on the hepatic surface in front of that depression which corresponds to this organ. After a short perpendicular course, it finally makes a second bend, by which it regains a horizontal ilirection, and passes from right to left, anti a little upward, in front of the vena cava, the aorta, the right crus of the diaphragm, and the vertebral column. It terminates opposite the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, at a point which corresponds to the commencement of the mesentery. Here the intestine becomes free, and is named the jejunum. The length of all this curve, when unfolded, is about ten inches. But for the sake of