UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 664 decline, when tlie discharge loses its deep red colour and assumes the hue of water in which raw flesh has been washed. This is very com- monly the condition of the discharge during the last day or two of each period, especially in those women in whom the flow is of long continuance. M. Pouchet* has examined with great care the menstrual discharge at each of these periods. The following are the results of his observations : 1st invasion. A very few blood globules mixed with mucus may be observed, together with mucous-corpuscles and scales of epithelium, mostly entire, floating in an abun- dance of limpid fluid. Almost all the mucous- corpuscles contain smaller globules or granules which form in them a central nucleus. 2. S/asis. Menstruation havingreached its apogee, the blood-globules are much more numerous than at the onset. The plates of epithelium usually remain entire. 3. Dedinc. The fluid contains the same substances, and presents nearly the same appearances as at the time of commencement of the flow. These observations agree generally with my own, and also with those of Donne, who found the menstrual fluid to consist of, 1. Ordinary blood-globules of the proper character, and in great abundance. 2. Mucus from the vagina mixed with epitheli.d scales. 3. Mucous- corpuscles from the cervix uteri. The unmixed menstrualJiuid.—But in order to determine the nature of the menstrual fluid as it issues from the uterine orifice, unmixed with the secretions of the vagina, it nmst be collected by a speculum accurately fitting the uterine neck. The fluid so obtained possesses properties very ditterent from those of the flux already described. Its sensible character.s, as observed in more than a dozen specimens, are well described by Mr. Whitehead. Thus procured, the fluid is never so dark in colour as ordinary menstrual blood, so called, nor so fluid always as that of the arteries. Its colour varies slightly, but whatever is its tint, this is not subsequently afl'ected by intermixture with the vaginal mucus. It appears usually rather more viscid than systemic blood, pro- bably on account of its slow exudation. When thus collected it invariably coagulates, the separation into clot and serum being complete in three or four minutes. It sometimes passes off" in a continued stream as pure blood, but more often as a thin coloured serum mixed with small flattened clots, the size of orange seeds, which, becoming broken down and, as it were, dissolved in the vaginal mucus, appear at the external orifice in the usual uncoagulable fluid form. It is invariably alkaline. In menorrhagia the discharge is as fluid as arterial blood, and not being delayed on ac- count of the greater rapidity of escape, it trickles in drops along the tube. On account of the great difficulty which is experienced in obtaining the pure fluiil from the uterus in quantities sufficient for chemical ' The'orie Positive, Atlas, plate xii. analysis, the following results by Bouchardat are the more valuable. The woman, a multi- para, was thirty-five years of age. To explain the large proportion of water Bouchardat states that she had subsisted chiefly on a vegetable and milk diet. BonchardaCs analysis of pure menstrual blood. Water - - ... - 90-08 Solid matter - - - - 6*92 The solids were composed of— Fibrine, albumen, colouring matter - 75'27 Extractive matter ... 0'42 Fatty matter - ... - 2-21 Salts ----- 5-31 JIucus ----- 16-79 100-00 It will be observed that the proportion of fibrine is here much larger than in the former example. But chemical analysis is not needed to siiow that this element of the blood con- stitutes a part of the fluid exuded from the uterus. For in women who have died men- struating fibrinous clots have been found in the uterine cavity ; coagula have also just been described as forming at the os uteri and mixing with the fluid collected by the specu- hnn, and it cannot have escaped observation that clots sometimes form about the vulva, at times of menstruation, especially when the discharge is freer than usual. But the notion that the menstrual discharge differs from ordinary blood " in containing only a very small quantity of fibrine, or none at all,"* which view has gained general cur- rency of late, and in support of which the in- vestigations of Brande or Lavagna are usually quoted, appears to be altogether a modern one. For the older writers considered the menstrual discharge as identical with blood. Hippocrates says in reference to it, " procedit autem sanguis velut a victima, et cito coagu- latur, si sana fiierit mulier." Mauriceau-|- says that menstrual blood does not ordinarily diflTer in any way from that which remains in the woman's body. So also Haller and Hunter, both of whom regarded menstruation as a natural evacuation of blood. The results of these careful investigations therefore warrant the conclusion that the men- strual fluid, at the moment of its effiision, con- sists of pure blood, mixed only with the small quantity of mucus and epithelium which it receives in passing through the body and neck of the uterus, and that at this point it always has an alkaline reaction. But that in the course of its passage through the vagina the original fluid becomes mixed with the mucus of that canal, which there exists in increased quantities, and that in the acid of that mucus the fibrinous portion is so far dissolved as to render the detection, by chemical means, of fibrine, as a constituent of the secretion, diffi- cult or impossible. So much, however, of fibrine as belongs to the blood-corpuscles must always be present, for these bodies exist in * Muller's Physiology by Baly, p. ] 481. t Traite des Mai. des Fem. Gross, p. 45. 3rd ed. 1681.