FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT —(Functions). 605 as the arteries of the tube, frequently an- astomose with one another by transverse branches, which serve to connect together the two principal trunks. These gather the returning blood and carry it into the plexus of uterine veins placed along the sides of the uterus. The lymphatics of the tube have the same common source as those supplying the rest of the internal generative organ. The nerves, which are very slender, follow the course of the arteries. They are de- rived, according to Dr. Snow Beck, from the hypogastric and aortic plexuses. Functions of the Fallopian Tube. It has long been determined, with as much precision as the nature of the subject appar- ently admits, that the Fallopian tube performs the double office of receiving the ova from the ovary, and conveying them into the uterus, and of receiving the spermatic fluid from the uterus and conveying it in the direction of the ovary: the tube itself being, if not con- stantly, at least generally, the seat of im- pregnation ; or, in other words, the precise spot in which the material contact of the male and female generative elements takes place. These conclusions regarding the offices of the oviduct, are deducible from various ob- servations and experiments, both of a positive and negative kind, made upon mammalian animals, and the close correspondence which has been observed between these and similar observations, so far as they can be made upon the human female, leads also to the conclusion that there is little or no material difference between the mode in which these offices are performed in man and in the mammalia generally. With regard to the demonstrative evidence furnished by experiments and observations upon animals, as well as by observations upon the human subject, relative to the pre- cise offices of the oviduct in the conveyance of the ova from the ovary, the following points may be considered as established. The infuntlibular orifice of the Fallopian tube, together with the fimbriae by which its margin is fringed, at the time of the dis- charge of ova, becomes expanded over a cer- tain portion of the ovary, the extent of the surface covered varying according to the form and proportions of the infundibulum relatively to the size of the ovary. In some mammalia, the cat for example, the infunilibulum is sufficiently large to en- compass the entire ovary, so that an ovum escaping from any portion of its surface wouKI fall within the receptacle thus provided for it, and be conveyed to the orifice of the tube, and thence into its canal. But in many animals of this class, as well as in man, the size of the infundibulum does not suffice to cover more than a portion of the ovary at any one time, half or a third it may be of the entire surface of the gland; so that in all these cases a selection must be made of the exact s[)ot from which the discharge of an ovum is about to take place, or else the ovum would be lost, by falling into the cavity of the abdomen. That this occasionally hap- pens is rendered evident by those cases in which the infundibulum is glued as it were to a portion of the ovary by morbid adhesion. But while the extremity of the oviduct is thus immoveably fixed, the process of ovula- tion still goes on from all parts of the ova- rian surface indifferently, so that those ova only which might hap|)en to be discharged from the particular spot to which the tube is affixed, would by any possibility enter its Fig. 409. Ovary of a woman who died during nienstrtiatioii. The coats of the ovary are attenuated in two places. Three apertures, r r, two being in juxtaposition, lead to as many Graafian vesicles from which ova have been recently discharged, escaping ap- parentl)' into the cavitj' of the abdomen. The infundibulum is glued to the extremit_v of the ovary by morbid adhesion. The tube is distended by accumulated fluid; o, ovary; i, infundibulum; /, Fallopian tube; /, broad ligament. {Ad Nat.)