712 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. ill a ciil-dc-snc. The vestibular follicles are of tlie former kind and the urethral of the latter. All these vulvar follicles secrete a viscid mucus, the quantity of which becomes consi- derably increased under excitement or irrita- tion. It serves to lubricate the several parts of the vulva. The viilvo-vaginal glands, termed also the glands of Bartholin and of Duvernay, consist of two conglomerate glands of the size of a haricot bean, variable in {'arm, and of a pale reddish yellow colour, which are placed one upon each side of the vagina near the entrance {^fig. 480. g). They are loilged beneath the superficial perineal fascia, having their inner side united to the vagina by areolar tissue, and their outer surface in relation with the con- strictor muscle of the vagina. The lobules composing this gland send off tubules which at its upper and fore part unite to form an excre- tory duct that proceeds horizontally forwards as far as the vaginal orifice, upon the side of which it terminates just within the nympha; and externally to the hymen. The orifice of the duct (d) is covered by a falciform fold of mucous membrane, which renders its discovery sometimes difficult. This gland secretes a viscid fluid resembling somewhat the prostatic fluid and having a pe- culiar odour. Under excitement its secretion is rapidly formed and, like the contents of the salivary duct, is sometimes emitted in a jet. This gland is probably homologous with Cow- per's gland in the male. In infancy and early life it is very small, attaining its full develop- ment in the adult, and again diminishing and even disappearing in ok\ age. When the labia and nymphae are abscised a series of vascular erectile structures are brought into view, which, together with a s[)ecial muscle, surround the vaginal orifice. These are the vestibular bulb, pars biUrmedia, and constrictor vngincB muscle, Pars intermedia.—From the dorsal vein of the clitoris {Jig. iS\.d) several branches («,w) pass downwards round the sides of the organ to communicate with a double row of closely- set venous canals, which commencing ante- riorly at the glans extend backwards to the root of the clitoris in the form of a frill that completely occupies the angle contained in the curvature of the organ (Jig. 481. m and Jig. 4-82./). These venous canals enter the body of the clitoris by a double row of apertures along its under surface. They represent the communicating veins between the corpus s[)ongiosum urethras and the corpora caver- nosa penis. After receiving branches from the glans clitoridis (Jig. 481. /), nymphjE (>•), and labia (/;), they form on either side a series of convoluted veins (1), which spread- ing downwards and outwards ultimately termi- nate below in the bulb of the vestibule (Jig. 482. and 483. a). This is the structure termed by Kobelt the ^;fir;\s intermedia. It corresponds with the corpus spongiosum ure- thrte of the male, which in the female remains divided into two halves. The arteries of this Fig. 48-2. Lateral view of the forepart of the pelvis, attached to which are the clitoris and the vascular and erectile structures connected with it. (After Kobelt.) a, vestibular bulb of the left side; b, veins passing oft' from the lower and posterior border of the bulb, to the pudendal vein ; c, similar veins communica- ting with the luomorrhuidal; c', the spot at which the veins of the vestibular bulb pass off to tbe vagina; rf, pars intermedia; e, glans clitoridis; f, ascending communicating veins proceeding to the body of the clitoris ; g and i, lateral communicating branches between the vena dorsalis clitoridis and pars intermedia; h, vena dorsalis; h, bend of the clitoris; /, crus clitoridis; n, viilvo-vaginal gland. Structure {fig. 481. </) are derived from the pudendal. Bulbus vestibuli (Kobelt). Plexus retiformis V. reticularis (De Graaf). Crura clitoridis in- terna (Swammerdam). Plexus cavernosus (Tabarranus). Corpus cavernosum (Saiitorini). Scmihulb (Taylor). Bulb of the vagina. — Lying one on either side of the entrance to the vagina, and behind the nym|)h£e and labia, are tvvo masses of vascular parenchyma, composed almost entirely of tortuous veins enclosed in a fibrous membrane. These in their collapsed state are of the size and form of an almond; but when injected may be compared to a filled leech (Jig. 482. and 483. a). Anteriorly they are directly continuous with the structures last described, while from their sides commu- nicating branches pass back to the obturator veins (Jig. 483. /), and from their lower ends to the pudendal and hiemorrhoidal veins {Jig. 482. b and c). The bulb of the vagina, now commonly regarded as the homotype of the bulb of the urethra which is here bipartite, forms the principal portion of the erectile tis- sue surrounding the vaginal orifice. Constrictor ragince.— The clitoris together with its bipartite pars intei media and vestibu- lar bulb is encased in a thin sheet of mus-