REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 221 or six to forty), which differ from the zoo- spores, not only in their external form, but in possessing a distinct investing membrane. This complication of structure corresponds with the capability of retaining their vitality for a long period. They may be found in an unaltered condition in the water in which the parent plant has grown for many months after the total destruction of the latter ; and it is to them, doubtless, that we must attri- bute the extraordinary facility with which the Saprolegnia makes its appearance whenever the peculiar conditions it requires present themselves.* On the filaments which produce the above-described spore-cases, thi;re are developed among them, and at the same time with them, slender, worm-like branchlets. These, as they reach the spore-cases, attach themselves firmly to them, and even some- times wind round them in a regular manner. An actual interchange of contents, however, has not yet been observed.-f- 21. Rcjoroductivc organs of the red A/g(S or FloridccE.—In this group of plants weunfortu- nately know too little of the origin and deve- lopment of the germ-producing organs, to compare them with the forms which prevail in other groups. It is altogether beyond the limits of the present article to describe in detail all the perplexing varieties of structures to be found in the Florideae which may be supposed to have some relation with the re- productive function. It will be sufficient to mention the three leading forms that are met with, and which may at all times be easily identified, in spite of the innumerable subor- dinate modifications that they undergo. The first form, to which the term imlyspore is usually applied, is that of a gelatinous or mem!)ranous pericarp or conceptacle, in which an indefinite number of sporidia are contained. This organ may be placed either at the summit or in the axil of a branch, or it may be con- cealetl in or below the cortical layer of the stem. In other cases a number of sporidiuni- bearing filaments emanate from a kind of placenta at the base of a spheroidal, cellnlar perixpornn^min, by the rupture of which the sporidia which are formed from the endo- chromes of the filaments, make their escape. Other forms, which it does not seem neces- sary to mention, are observed : they all agree in one particular, viz. that the sporidium is developed in the interior of a cell, the wall of which forms its pt'rispore, and the internal protoplasmic membrane (endochrome), the sporidium itself, for the escape of which the perispore ruptures at its apex. 22. The second form is much more simple, and consists of a globular or ovoidal cell, con- taining in its interior a central granular mass, * Pringsheim, I. c. N. A. A. L. C. 1851. p. 417. All that is required to obtain a living specimen of this singular plant, is to allow the body of any small animal, such as a fly or spider, to float for a few days in rain water, exposed to the light. Jiy this method a crop of Saprolegnia may be obtained at any season. f Braun. I. c. p. 318. which, as the organ arrives at maturity, divides into four smaller quadrant-shaped spores, which finally escape by the rupture of the cell- wall. This organ is called a tetraspore; it takes its origin in the cortical layer. The tetraspores are arranged either in an isolated manner along the branches, or in numbers to- gether, surrounded by a whorl of smaller branchlets. In some eases the form of the branches which contain tetraspores is so com- pletely modified by their presence, that they assume the ajipearance of special organs, which are called stichidia, as, for example, in Dasya.* 2.3. It is with respect to the third kind of reproductive organ, the antheridium, that the greatest differences of opinion exist; all observ- ers, however, agreeing as to the general sig- nification to be attached to it. The antheridia are always produced on different individuals, but in precisely the same situations as the tetraspores and polyspores. They are " ag- glomerations of little colourless cells either united in a bunch, as in (iriffithsia, or enclosed in a transparent cylinder, as in Polysiphonia, or covering a kind of expanded disc of peculiar form, as in Laurencia."-j- According to the researches of Derbesand Niigeli §, each of these cellules contains a spermatozoid. Nageli describes it as a spiral fibre, which, as it escapes, lengthens itself in the form of a screw. Derbes, on the other hand, describes it as "a hyaline globule, furnished with a flagelliform appendage, by means of which it agitates itself with a very active motion, which lasts for some moments." According to M. Thuret, who certainly is to be considered a higher authority than either of the above men- tioned, each cell of the antheridium is occupied by a hyaline corpuscle, spherical in Polysi- phonia, ovoidal in other genera. These cor- puscles, however, whose contents are grarudar, offer no trace of a spiral filament, but are ex- pelled from the cells by a slow motion, which Thuret compares to that observed in the ex- pulsion of the tetraspores from their theca. The antheridia appear in their most simple form in Calithanmion, being reduced to a mass of cells, composed of numerous little bunches, which are sessile on the bifurcations of the terminal branches. The woodcut represents the antheridium of Griffithsia, in which species, it is produced like the tetraspores, in a sort of lateral involucre of verticillate branchlets. Each of these bifurcates, and bears at the bifurcation a pyramidal antheridium, which * See H. H. Harvey, Kereis Boreali Americana, Part ii. pasxim. Kew York, 18o2. The best descriptions of the organography of the Floridea; will be found in the Essay of Decaisne on the Clas- sification of the Algaj in the Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1842 ; and in Nilgeli's Zeitschrift, f. w. Bot. Heft. 3 & 4. Zurich, 1846. f Thuret, Ann. des Sciences Nat. 3™" Ser. xvi. 14. I Derbes, Ann. des Sciences Nat. 8""" Ser. xiv. 201.; Tlibse de Botanique, p. 25. Paris, 1848. § Nageli, /. c II. 3 & 4. S. 224. Zwei Bemer- ku'ngen, &c. Bot. Zeit. 1850. 32 StUck.