525 RUMINANTIA. Fis. 330. View o the deep muscles of the trunk in the Ox. (From Guilt.) levat. lab. super.; 2, pyramidalis nasi; 3, buccinator; 4, depressor lab. infer.; 5, masseter; 6, temporalis; 7, splenius capitis; 8, levat. ang. scap.; 9, rhomboideus ; 10, serratus major ; 11, caput secundum deltoidei; 12, scalenus anterior; 13, caput secund. sterno-maxillaris ; 14, abductor brachii superior; 15, serrat. post, inferior; lfi,obliquus internus; 17, iliacus internus; 18, gluteus medius ; 19, glut, minimus; 20, glut, maximus; 21, pi riformis; 22, levat. caudae brevis ; 23, lev. caud. longus ; 24, coccygeus; 25, rectus femoris; 26, vastus externus; 27, adductor magnus; 28, semitendinosus; 29, adduct. tibiae longus; 30, intertransversales caudae. processes of the anterior six or eiglit dorsal vertebra;. In tlie Camel it orij;inates from the posterior half of the cervical ligament and the s[)inous apophyses proper to the first half of the thorax. It is more limited in the Giraffe, where, according to the investigations of Prof. Owen, " it consists of two pretty distinct portions ; one arises from the trans- verse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae ; its fleshy part is thick and strong, but expands as it passes downwards and backwards, and finally is lost in a strong fascia overspreading the large shoulder joint. The second portion is tiiin and broad ; it arises from the ligamentum nucliae, and is in- serted into the fascia covering the sca[)iila."* That part corresponding to the clavicular or anterior division of the trapezius in the human subject is widely separated from the muscle just described, and is associated with the cleido-mastoldcns and dc/loidcs so as to form a tripartite mass, for which Cuvier pro- posed the name masto-lnoneralis. it is the levator humeri proprlus of Stubbs, the commu- vk capitis, pectoris et brachii of some, and the de/foidesof others (8,8,8,/g.349). In the Sheep and in the Ox it consists principally of two portions with an intervening smaller muscular bundle situated at the centre of the neck, and connecting the clavicular portion of the tra- pezius to the tendon of the cleido-mastoidens. The superior or more superficial belly be- comes implanted into the humerus, while the inferior or deeper division is inserted into the sternum. At their upper attachments the duplicity is very apparent, the broad muscular part being united to the ligamentum nuchae, and the rounded tendon being fixed to the mastoid apophysis. After removing the trapezius, our attention is at once directed to a large broad muscle, which in the human subject is represented by the splenius capitis and sjylen. cervicis. In the * Memoir, /. c. Ox and most other ruminants, the cranial division is alone present ; but in the Sheep, according to the researches of Meckel, there are two portions — an anterior or cranial, which is narrow and insignificant, and a posterior of large size, taking its origin by two bundles from the third and fourth cer- vical vertebrae, to be attached to the trans- verse process of the atlas. In the Camels both may be said to be absent, but there is a small muscular slip, proceeding from the ten- don of the digastricus to be inserted into the occiput, which Meckel thinks may constitute a rudimentary form of the splenius capitis. Beneath the .splenius, and often incorpo- rated with it, lies the trachelo-mastoideus, which is feebly devclo|)ed in ruminants and solipeds, but is of large size in the marsupials and edentate mammals. The great cowplexus and digastricus colli muscles are united into a sin- gle mass, as in the Horse, and in these animals this compound muscle arises by nine or ten fleshy and tendinous slips — intersected by aponeurotic prolongations — from the third cervical to the second or third dorsal ver- tebrae inclusive. In the Camel there are only seven bundles of oi'igin, and a single long aponeurotic septum, and in the Sheep all traces of the latter are absent. The transiersalis cervicis is closely adherent to the trachelo-mastoideus. Separated from the former, there is in some ruminants a nuisde, which—corresponding with that por- tion of the sacro-lumbalis in man, called the cervicalis descentlens—stretches from between the transverse apophyses of several of the lower cervical vertebrae to the oblique and transverse processes of certain of the dorsal segments. Meckel alludes to this peculiarity in the Horse. The scaleni muscles, three in number on either side, are very long and powerfully developed in the Camel and Girafi'e, presenting in the latter, according to Prof. Owen, four distinct masses, which take their origin "from