610 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. the latter and the zona pelkicida, which in- terspace is filled by a transparent fluid, has been noticed in many mammalia, as the Guinea-pig, rabbit, &c. Fig. 412. The ovum a little more advanced in. the tube. (^After Bischoff.) Tlie surface is perfectly smooth. Spermatozoa have penetrated the zona pellucida. The respira- tory chamber is formed between the latter and the yelk. The rotation of the yelk has commenced, as indicated by the arrows. The granular bodies ap- pear preparatory to the segmentation of the yelk. Several of these stages are seen commencing in the preceding figure. Rabbit. This change is preliminary to another oc- currence, which has been observed in the ova of many animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate, viz. the rotation of the yelk within the interspace just described ;— a ro- tation which is effected by the aid of cilia clothing the surface of the yelk. About this time may be observed one, or perhaps two, small granular bodies, whose formation has given rise to many and varied speculations regarding their signification and use. They occupy a portion of the space between the yelk and zona pellucida, and appear to be common to the mammalian ovum and that of other classes. The most probable supposition regarding their use con- nects them with the division or cleavage of the yelk which follows their appearance. Whatever doubts may be entertained as to the dependence of the phenomena already described upon a preceding act of impregna- tion, all question is set at rest at this point, by the direct experiments of Newport, who Fig. 413. Tlie ovum utiU more advanced in the tube. (After Bischoff.) The first stage in the segmentation of the yelk has taken place. Rabbit. ascertained beyond doubt, that segmentation of the yelk is the result of impregnation alone, and that it never takes place in the unim- pregnated ovum. This segmentation of the yelk consists in a spontaneous cleavage of that body, at first into two, and then into four, equal parts; the process of division continuing in geometric progression until the whole is broken up into a mass of finely nucleated particles, between which the original sperm-force is probably equally divided. Segmentation of the yelk of the mamma- lian ovum has never been observed in its commencing stages anywhere but in the tube. The extent to which it proceeds before the ovum quits the oviduct to enter the uterus appears to vary in different species. Bischoff never saw more than four yelk-divisions in the ovum of the Guinea-pig by the time that Fig. 414. The ovum from the lower or uterine end of the Fallopian tube. (^After Bischoff'.") The yelk exhibits four divisions. Rabbit. it had reached the lower portion of the tube ; and it is probable that a further division into eight parts occurs in the extreme end of the duct, since, in the next condition of the ova found in the uterus, the yelk exhibited 12 —16 divisions. The only remaining change in the condition of the ovum during its residence in the ovi- Fig. 415. Tlie addition of a layer of albumen in the lower por- tion of the tube—{observed only in the rabbit.) {After Bischoff.) The yelk exhibits eight divisions.