218 REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 12. In the process of the formation of zo- ospores in Saprolegnia, we have an intermediate step between that of the zoosporous Algse on the one hand, and that of a class of plants which is usually placed among the Fungi on the other. I allude to the Fungi included in the class Cystosporese of Leveille; on the intimate structure of this, as well as of many other allied groups, there are as yet but few re- searches. We have, however, enough in the beautiful monograph of Cohn, on Pilobolus, to enable us to discover that it is structurally more closely allied to the Algaj than to the Fungi. We shall take Pilobolus as an illus- trative example. 13. Pilobolus has an ephemeral existence. The spore germinates about mid-day; the plant grows till evening, ripens during the night. In the morning the spore-case bursts, and the wliole disappears, leaving scarcely a trace of its former existence. In correspondence with the future mode of life of the plant, the spore-cell displays in its germination, a tendency to development in two opposite directions, by the formation of two sacculations, the first, cylindrical — the root; the second, ellipsoidal — the stem. Shortly afterwards the young plant is seen to consist of two cells, of which the inferior is elongated and branched at its lower extremity—root-cell; while the superior is ellipsoid, and acuminated above. The former contains a quantity of pro- toplasma, which lines, as a distinct layer, the internal surface of its wall. The first change which is observed consists in the accumulation of this protoplasma towards the apex of the cell, at which point the membrane buds out, so as to form a bead-like head. Within the cavity of this organ—the future spore-case, further accumulation takes place, until it is entirely filled with a coloured granular material; while the rest of the cell, from which it is as yet undi- vided, contains only a clear fluid. The pro- cess is completed by the formation of a septum just as in Vaucheria, which takes place early in the morning. This is innnediately followed by the "cleaving" of the protoplasma, and its division into numerous small cells, which are the future spores. As the plant reaches the termination of its existence, the cell on which the spore-case is supported, enlarges at its upper part from the increase of its fluid con- tents ; the septum is pushed upwards, and presses on the contents of the spore-case. At last in the course of the forenoon, the tension of the wall of the spore-case becomes so great that it gives way at its junction with the sup- are pear-shaped, and possessed of cilia. These ob- servations I have been altogether unable to confirm, and am inclined to believe that the escape of the zoospores in the spheroidal form is to be attributed to an arrest of development, as in all cases which I have observed, the total disappearance of the spores has supervened shortly afterwards. — Anton de Bmy, Beit. z. Kentnisse der Achlya prolifera. Bot. Zeit. 28 St. 1852. For further information on Achiya, see Unger, Linn»a, 1843, p. 129.; Nageli Zeit. f. wiss. Bot. B. i. H. 1,2. Pringsheim, Nova Acta Ac. L. C. 1851. porting cell with such force, that it is thrown like a miniature bomb for several inches.* 14. The Fungi which agree in their develop- ment with the species above described, are limited in number, and belong for the most part to the genera Pilobolus and Ascophora (Mucor). The formation of the spore diflTers entirely from the process of strangulation, which Schleiden considers as characteristic of the Fungi. On the other hand, the analogies between Pilobolus and Vaucheria are of the closest kind ; even the ephemeral periods observed in the development and ripening of the reproductive apparatus, being the same. The root-cell of Pilobolus the inferior of the three of which the whole plant is composed, is as permanent as the tubular frond of a Conferva. From it emanate tubular, unjointed root-like processes, from the upper surface of which spring out at intervals young spore- cases, in every respect similar to the first- formed plant. These creeping rootlets con- stitute the vegetative system of the plant, which, like that of the Fungi, is perennial. 13. Reproduction by conjugation.—From the number of the observations which, during the last few years, have been made on the sub- ject of the phenomena of conjugation, no less than from the variety of the conditions under which they have presented themselves, we are bound to assign them an important place in a systematic description of the repro- ductive process. Decaisne included in liis group Synsporeae all the Algae in which the phenomena in question were then known to present themselves — namely, the genus Zygnema and its allies, along with Closterium, which last, for the same reason, he separated from the Desmideae. The beautiful researches of Mr. Ralfs have taught us that all the genera of the Desmideae conjugate in the same manner as Closterium. More recently analo- gous phenomena have been observed in the Vaucheriacese, and in that remarkable plant Saprolegnia ferox, which so closely resem- bles Vaucheria in every respect, except its green colour. We shall describe in succes- sion each of the examples which have been mentioned. 16. Among the Desmidete, conjugation has been more frequently observed and described, and was known to take place at an earlier period in Closterium, than in any other genus. Theearliestdescription is thatof Morren. which is to be found in the Bulletins of the Aca- demy of Brussels, for 18.36, and is among the most accurate that we possess. The crescent- shaped cell forming the frond of Closterium is, as in the Desmide£e, composed of two similar halves, to the plane of junction of which its long axis is perpendicular. It differs from other genera in the absence of a median constriction, the junction being only indicated by a faint line in the external mem- * Cohn, Die Entwickelnngsgeschichte des Pilo- hohis cnjstallinus. Nova Acta Ac. L. C. p. 496. 1851.