OVARY — (Functions). 565 o o 3 nal outer coat of the Graafian follicle, which in all the transformations of the latter suffers no change, lUitil the time arrives when the whole body finally shrinks and disappears. The position and relations of this coat to surrounding parts leave no room for doubt as to its identity. Nothing hounds it externally but the stroma of the ovary. Notiiing lines it internally hut the yellow ovisac. Neither between its outer nor its inner surfaces, and the correspondin;; structures just named, is there at any time found any substance or me- dium interposed. This coat has undergone no material thickening, and its histological elements are simply those of the outer coat of the follicle, the same as before impregna- tion has occurred. Proceeding inwards, the next coat is yel- low ; it has a nearly uniform thickness of ly. In its substance may still be seen traces of the original foldings or convolutions. These are more easily shown upon the sur- face of the first section {fig. 386.), but are less obvious in one carried deeper so as to inchule the centre of the follicle, where the Fig. 387. Deeper section of the same Graafian follicle as in fig. 386. T/ie cavity, which contains a remarkably clear fluid, is exposed. (^Ad Nat.) a, outer vascular coat (tunic of the ovisac) ; b, inner yellow coat, or corpus luteum (ovisac); e, white membrane lining the cavity (a new forma- tion) ; d, cavity empty. coat shows greater solidity (fig. 387.). Up to this time, however, and sometimes later, the vessels still traversing this coat in the lines of its former convolutions may be traced in many specimens, and the capillaries may still be filled by a successful injection to such an extent as to render the whole mass crimson.* Exa- mined by the microscope, the following results are obtained:—The yellow coat, 1-1,i^'" thick, is soft, swells in water, and is easily torn into fragments which nevertheless hang together, being connected by a tough flexible medium. During this process numerous oil droplets escape, and form, with the drop of water in which the pre[)aration is placed, a highly re- fractive fluid. This fluid, when examined, is seen to contain numerous particles of inap- preciable size endowed with molecular motion, minute granules, and oil globules, which are at first also very minute, but soon collect and * Montgomery, Signs of Pregnancy, p. 227. coalesce into larger drops that float to the surface of the fluid. The substance of the preparation also is everywhere pervaded by the oil drops which obscure its structure, and prevent further examination in this state. The preparation, having been treated next by ether, and subsequently washed in alcohol'and replaced in water, it is found that the oil has entirely disapjieared. The principal portion of the remaining substance has the appearance of a granular membrane, but in many places slightly wavy lines of connective tissue are perceptible. From the margins project in many places flattened bantis composed of 8-10 filaments of common connective tissue, uniteil by membrane, and having attached to them numerous granules. Separate fibres also a|)pear at the margin of the preparation, but only from forcible detachment. Tieated fur- ther by acetic acid, the oil globules, as well as the fibres, have totally disappeared. The course of the latter is now only indicated by nu iierous lines of round, oval, or elongated nuclei (fig. 388.), which are everywhere abun- dantly seen attached to a fine, structureless, transparent membrane. The outlines of the Fig. 388. X 330. nuclei are very sharp and distinct, and within them are contained one or two nucleoli. This coat is traversed by numerous blood-vessels and capillaries, and to their coats in all proba- bility many of these nuclei belong. The yellow coat is bounded internally by a third tunic which is white, having pre- cisely the milk-white colour, and very nearly the consistence, of articular cartilage. It is of variable thickness, but often |"' or more in diameter. It is very tough and cohe- rent in texture, and is with difficulty split by needles, breaking into irregular fragments. These, examined by the microscope, are seen to be composed of tough fibres of con- nective tissue, whose arrangement in wavy lines may be perceived through the mass, but which are so closely connected together by a semitransparent membranous medium as to be inseparable into distinct fibrillae, except at the margins of the fragments, where they are tolerably distinct ; where also the connecting medium may be seen in the form of a struc- tureless membrane. Minute granules are every- where seen scattered throughout the mass, and adherent to the detached fibrilla;. Treated by acetic acid, the fibres become trans[)arent and pale, their outlines being hardly distin- guishable. Oval nuclei, rather scanty, lie in the direction of the fibres. The whole sub-