4,7 OVUM. Fig. .31. Uiac/rainmatic representation of the three prbicipnl kinds of ovarian ova, in sections (the relation of size not, however, l/eing maintained), A. Mammiferous ovarian ovum; 2. zonapellucida ov vitelline membrane of some authors; v. granular yolk substance; g. germinal vesicle, witli its nucleus or germinal spot; a', young ovum of a molluscous animal. B. Young ovarian o\aun of a bird; v. m. vitelline membrane; v. large 3'olk corpuscles of two kinds— viz. those of the yellow external part, and those of the cavitj'; g. germinal vesicle without spot or nucleus, but granular diffused macula;; v. d. small granuLar yolk substance forming the vitelline disc. c. Ovarian ovimi of a batrachian reptile; v. m. vitelline membrane; v. d. vitelline disc, or forma- tive yolk-substance deeply coloured, and surrounding the large granular yolk substance, in one nearly entirely, in the other, c:', only half round the ovum; g. germinal vesicle, two kinds of organised particles,— viz., of smaller granules nearly similar to those which form the whole yolk in the last groiij), and of larger cells, usually non-nucleated, and fat vesi- cles, which constitute the greater part of the mass. The first or granular part of the yolk constitutes a thin disc, limited to one region of the surface, — viz., the upper side in the vicinity of the place occupied by the germinal vesicle, while the cellular substance of the yolk forms the larger spherical mass of the egg. Besides these two, tiiere are also various intermediate forms, which seem to be stages of transition between the other kinds of struc- Liu'al elements. The germinal vesicle in the ripe ovarian ovulum, is situated in the centie of the granular disc, and after its disappear- ance, the process of segmentation is limited to that disc. The germinal or blastodermic mem- brane, or layer of cells, extends, therefore,' at first, no farther than this granular disc, and consequently it is only a vei'y small part of the ovum which directly contributes to lay the first foundations of the embryo, or its accessory jiarts ; while the larger mass of cellular yolk comes only secondarily to take a jiart in the process of embryo nourishment. Hence, in such ova, the distinction may be broadly drawn between the germinal or for- mative, and the nutritive parts of the yolk. Such is the invariable relation of the parts of the ovimi to development in the whole class of birds, with some differences in scaly rep- tiles, in cartilaginous fishes, and perha[)s also in cephaloiiodous mollusca, and a few other invcrtebrata. Tliird group. — In another group of animals the structure and relations of the parts of the ovum are different from, but in some degree also intermediate between, those of the two groups previously described. In this one the }olk, or ovulum, may be stated to be of middle size ; its structural elements appear to be of two kinds, — viz., the smaller germinal or formative granules, and the larger, or luUritive corpuscles ; but these last are in less quantity, are subject to considerable variety, and exhibit less of the cellular structure which characterises the ova of the previous group. The germinal layer occupies a larger [jortion of the surface of the yolk than in the large-yolked ova (second group), but in ge- neral less than in the small-yolkcd ova (first group), and its extent is subject to consider- able variety ; in some, covering not more than a half, in others, extending nearly over the whole surface of the yolk. The segmentation is co-extensive with the germinal part, am! more or less of the yolk, therefore, contributes at the first to form the primitive parts of the embryo. Such is the condition of the ovum in the Scaleless Reptiles or Amphibia, and Osseous Fishes. The ova of the higher Crus- tacea, Arachnida, Insecta, and some other Invcrtebrata may perhaps be included in the same group. It will be perceived that in the three groups now mentioned, a distinction has been drawn between a part of the yolk, whicli is imme- diately employed in the formation of the em- bryo, and another, which is only remotely connected with that process. In the bird's egg, it has been stated that the latter part of the yolk is in large quantity, and that in the minute manmiiferous ovum the first part only exists, and that in batrachia the two kinds of yolk substance are more nearly equally ba- lanced. This tliffercnce among the ova of animals has been long known to [)h3 siologists in a general way; but its true nature, as con- nected with a difference of structure of the two kinds of yolk substance, and their relation to the earliest development of the embryo, has