602 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. surfaces may here be traced along the mar- gin where the tube wall terminates. Here the peritonea] or outer covering of the tube may be observed to cease suddenly in the form of a distinct boundary line, as in the example represented in jig. 407. But oc- casionally the peritoneal coat is prolonged upon the base of the principal leaflt'ts which crest the end of the canal, and in that case a closer examination is necessary in order to discover the line of union between the mu- ■ cous and the serous surfaces. The Jimbrice, lacinits (\aKis), or morsus dia- boli. —The structure and compos tion of these appendages differ in no respect from those of the plicae or folds of which they are merely continuations. These fimbriae present many varieties of form, but are generally either pe- tiolate, lanceolate, or simply filiform. Their margins are in some cases coarsely crenate, like those of the tubal plicse, while in other instances they are so finely indented, as to require the use of a lens for their examina- tion. The greater number of these fimbriae are attached to the sides or margins of the infundibuliim by their narrower extremity onlv, like leaves thickly clustered on the branches of a tree, vvhile the more obtuse ex- tremity of each leaflet is left free, apparently with the object of increasing the extent of surface of the tube-mouth, which may be applied to the superficies of the ovary. But very commonly one or two fimbrias are ob- served to be firmly attached liy both ends, while the body extends horizontally in the form of a flattened band among the rest of the fringes, as at Jig. 408. d. The backs of these are always covered by a continuation Fiff. 408. Abdominal end of right Fallopian tube, from an adult. {After Richard.') a, fimbriae irregularly formed; cc, bristle passed through an accessor}'pavilion ; rf, horizontal band across the mouth of the tube formed by one of the fimbriiE having both ends fixed; g h, pedun- cle ending in fringed processes, probably the terminal portion of the Wolffian duct. (See fig. 401. f, and explanation.) i, body of Fallopian tube; A, ovary. The tubo-ovarian ligament and fringes are well developed in this specimen. of the serous membrane. It is difBcult to imagine a use for them unless they are placed there as a safeguard to diminish the risk of a retrograde movement and escape of the ovum after it has entered the tube along one cf the furrows formed between the [ilicae. The length of the fimbriae ranges from to f". The principal leaflets, being con- tinuations of the 4 — 6 main plicee of the tube, exceed the rest in size, and these, spreading like rays, form the more salient points of the fringes, while the intermediate spaces are filled up by the smaller a|)pendages. Intermixed with the latter are often seen minute pedunculated cysts, and especially little white hard grains, the size of millet seeds, first noticed by De Graaf. Similar grains are often observed upon the mesentery of the tube, or attached to the outer surface of the tube itself {Jig. 404.). T/ie Tuho-ovarian ligament and fringes. — This so-called ligament {fig. 408.) consists of one of the fimbrijE, which is almost con- stantly prolonged upon the outer margin or base of the triangular mesentery of the tube. Extending in the form of a slight furrow or channel (Jig. 404. d and Jig. 403. e), be- tween the outer extremity of the ovary and the inner or lower border of the tube, it is mar- gined on either side by a row of leaflets, pos- sessing shapes as varialile as those which characterise the rest of the lesser fringes. These leaflets, as well as the furrow between them, are backed by a continuation of the peritoneal fold or mesentery, which, after enclosing the tube, here terminates abruptly on a level with its mouth, and thus is pro- duced the appearance of a ligament, whose use is simply to preserve the tubal orifice in contiguity to the ovary; but there is no