189 PELVIS. pubic rami being approximated at the angular bend to f of an inch. In a case wiiich was operated on by Dr. HEebeke, and described in U Experience (No. 140.j, the inferior pelvic outlet was nearly closed up entirely, the ischial tube- rosities being approximated to within two lines only, and the coccyx and pubes admitting only one finger between them.* In Mr. Kinder Wood's case, the deformit}' was rostrated, the most available space at the brim being a cii'clc of 1 inch iliameter to the left of tiie projecting |)romontory. The antero- posterior diameter was 11 inch, but less than I of an inch when the soft parts were at- tached f A somewhat remarkable variety of the ros- trated pelvis is figin-eil by Dr. Churchill {fig. 119.). In ihia'[){:W\^ superior jiubic ramus Fig. 1 19. Olihitg rostrated2'i'/i^is- {^'Ifier Clnirdiill.) is bent at its centre, so as to be nearly ap- |)roxiniated to the opposite pubis at tliat point, and the si/iii-phj/sis projects in a rostrum. The upper part of the sacrum and the pro- wo'ntorij is, however, thrown back, the cotijlo- sacral arch spread out, the antero-posterior diameter increased, and the transverse lessened, somewhat in the same manner, and, tloubtlcss, by the same mechanical conditions, modified only by the yieliling of the pubis, as in the oblong pelvis before described. I'lie acetabula in this pelvis are directed principally forwards and outwards. Causes of the foregoing pelvic distortions.— The principal causes of the preceding partial and complete distortions of the pelvis, are two diseases affecting the osseous system; viz. " rickets"—and " moUities ossium'^ or " malacos- fC07t." Rickets is a very common disease of early life, which is said to be more apt lo occur in scrofulous cliiUlrcn about the pciod of denti- tion, but which may occur even after puberty, according to some authors. It is characterised * Lancet, '840. t Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 2G4. by a simple deficiency of the earthy matter of the bones—chiefly of piiosjihate and carbonate of lime ; while the animal constituents, al- though softened, and rendered less elastic, retain nearly their normal composition. The bones thus rendered pliable, which lie in the lines of weight, pressure, or muscular action, yield slowly and give way to the operating forces, bending in such a manner as the re- sultant direction of pressure and muscular traction, &c , permits them. We must refer the reader to the Article on the Pathology of Bone (vol. i. p. 440.) for a more detailed account of this disease. In Rokitansky's Pathological Anatomy, the bones in lihachitismus infanta/is are described to present two separate pathological conditions. In one, the bones are very vascular, soft, fragile, and swollen, with erdarged mednllaiy cavities, and the areolar spaces filled with, antl often distended l.y, a pale, reddish jelly, which press- ing upon the areolar partitions, produces their absorption, and thus the enlargement of the cavities by coalescence. This jelly is also sometimes found effused under the periosteum. In the second variety, the bone is more or less reduced to its cartilaginous elements, the corpuscles (lacuna;) empt}', the rays obliterated, and the lamellar structin-e wanting, or fallen asunder, with corpuscles interposed between the layers. On the last condition the softening of the bones de- pends. The periosteum is more vascular than norn)al, tumid, and more closely adhe- rent, so as to tear off" with it a portion of the softened adjacent bone. It is said to differ from malacosteon in not being a painful disease, and in being ca[)able of cure, with a subsidence of the swelling and re:ibsorption of the ett'uscd substance. In high degrees of the disease, however, atrophy and fragility re- main permanently. The osseous structures affected by rickets are lighter, less marketl, thinner, and more porous than normal, or than those affected by moUities ossium, accoriliiig to Nacgcle ; — appearing as if tliey had been stec|)ed in weak acid. The analysis of a rickety humerus and scapula, is given by Rokitansky as follows : l-'hosphate of lime and magnesia - JS'OO Carbonate of lime - - 2'66 Soluble salts - - - 0-62 Total of inorganic matter - 18 88 Cartilage, vessels ami hit - 81 "12 100-00 In the humerus, also, was found 10'o4 per cent, of fat. Specific gravity of the bone, 0G12. Davy found in 100 parts from the tibia of a rickety child, 74 parts animal and 20 earthy; ami Bostock, in a vertebra aUected with the same disease, 79'T3 animal, and 20'25 earthy, in 100 parts. When this is contrasted with the norma proportions of the osseous constituents in the child, as given by Schreger— viz. 47'20 parts animal, and 48'48 earthy (or about one lialf