PELVIS. 162 still farther in tlie Inscclivorn and Cheiroptera. The increasing obliquity of the pubes also indicates an approach to the Bird type. The climbing habits of the Sloths produce a habitual vertical position of the trunk, re- quiring for the support of the abdominal viscera large open pelves. In the Ai (^Bradi/pus tridactylus) the pelvis { fig. 100.) is remarkably slender, expanded, shallow and horizontal in direction, the pelvic openings being very large and round, and the antero-posterior diameters little larger than the transverse. The ankylosis of the innominate hones to the sacrum in these animals gives a great firmness to the support of the otherwise feeble hinder extremities, and with the great distance of separation of the acetabula, which are small and shallow, assists to a considerable degree their climbing and holding powers, and to produce that slowness and awkwardness of motion which has given them the name of Tardigrades. Fig. 100. Pelvis of the Ai, aniei ior vieio. The sacrum is large, both in length and breadth, very flat, with large, open foramina, and presenting a flattened surface in place of the posterior spines and tuberosities. It is composed of five vertebrje, of which the three upper (c) as well as the last lumbar (g) are ankylosed to the ilia (6). The union of the last lumbar seems to result from an extension of ossification in the ilio-lumbar ligament (i), and contributes much to increase the steadiness of the spinal column on the pelvis. The coccyx is triangular, little curved, broad and short, and is composed of six pieces. In some species it is prolonged into a tail. The ilia are short and slender, with much- expanded wings, having an anterior concavity and a plane surface posteriorly. They are ossified to the sacrum at an early period. The ischia are short and slender, and united to the last sacral vertebra, and more slightly to the two above it, by ossification of the great sacro-sciatic ligament («), which gives to the angle of the bone an expanded appear- ance, and encloses a round, wide sacro-sciatic foramen (d), above and behind the cotyloid cavity. The tuberosities are small, and the inferior rami (f) are long and slender, enclosing with the pubis a very large obturator foramen, having its long diameter from side to side, and do not join in symphysis. The pubes (li) are long and slender, their rami united in a V shape, with the angles meeting to form a very short symphysis (c), which is sometimes ossified, and presenting a very slight ilio-pectineal spine (i). The lumbo-iliac angle in the adult Brad:ipits\s about 145°, and the ilio-pubic about 153°, being only about 23° from a right line as in the human pelvis. The ilio-ischial angle also approaches the human standard in being di- minished to 135°. This diminution of the ilio-ischial angle is still more remarkably shown in the Mi/- lodoii and Megatherium fossil gigantic Sloths, which approach more closely to Man in this respect than any other Mammalian. The osseous system of the fossil Mylodon robustus closely resembles that of the Sloths, differing from them, however, by presenting a continued sacral crest, and more expanded ilia (yzg. 101.). According to Professor Owen, in his valuable monograph on the specimen in the Hunterian Museum, the sacrum really con- sists of seven vertebra;, but by ankylosis with the three lumbar and last dorsal includes eleven vertebrae, and forms one strong and con- tinuous bony mass along the whole lumbar re- gion («). Its total length is 2 feet 4 inches, and it gradually increases in breadth to the sacro-iliac union (e), which is formed by the first, second, and third true sacral vertebras, and there presents its greatest breadth. It then contracts slightly, and, at the sixth and last, ex- pands again to join the ischia (rf). It is firmly united by ankylosis both to the ilia and ischia. Its anterior surface is curved both laterally and vertically. The spinal canal is very wide, and the foramina passing from it mark the primary vertebral divisions. The whole of the eleven spinous processes of the ankylosed vertebras form a remarkable curved crest pos- teriorly (g). There are twenty-one caudal ver- tebras, which doubtless, in the living animal, contributed to support the body by applica- tion to the limbs of the trees upon which it climbed, and were strongly supported by the sacro-sciatic ossification. The innominate bones are very large. The iliac wings are much spread out, widely con- cave anteriorly, and slightly convex posteriorly, these surfaces being directed forwards and backwards. The iliac crest presents a con- tinuous, well-arched curve, and at the inner part of its centre ()«) it is prolonged and curved forward in a lip which overhangs the anterior fossa, and contributes to support the bulky viscera. The lips of the crest are remarkably spread. The posterior superior spine is continued by an oblique crest of bone (a) to the lateral tubercles of the lower sacral vertebrae, as if from ossification of the oblique sacro-iliac ligament. The posterior inferior spines are continued by a ridge to the borders of the fifth, sixth, and seventh sacral pieces into the bony ankylosis of these with the ischia, which are ankylosed to the same