618 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. the tube-walls, whose over-distended capilla- the tube are patent, the fluid may escape into ries relieve themselves by sanguineous eifu- the uterus, or possibly, by the infundibulum, sion. In such a case, if both the orifices of into the cavity of the abdomen. Of such Fig. 421. The Fallopian tubes thickened by inflammation, and distended by collection of fluid, {After Hooper.) a, utenis; b, distended tubes; c, thickened lining of the same; d, round ligament. etfusions there are many examples on record. Or should the abdominal end of the tube be closed in the manner already described, and should the uterine end also be temporarily obstructed, as, for example, by slight conges- tion of the mucous lining at this point, then the blood, having no outlet, will continue to accumulate within the tube, and a distension of the parietes, more or less considerable, will result. But all collections of blood within the tube are not necessarily the result of haemorrhage. The menstrual fluid has been frequenly ob- served to have accumulated here. And these accumulations may occur under various cir- cumstances. Thus, in the case of imperforate hymen, when the menstrual function has been established for some time, this fluid, after col- lecting behind the obstructed orifice of the vagina, gradually collects in and distends the walls of the uterus, and ultimately mounts up into the Fallopian tubes, distending them also in the same manner as the uterus. But atresia of the vagina or uterus, causing such accumulations, is not necessarily con- genital, but may be consecutive on adhesive inflammation attacking these parts ; as in the instance of a woman, whose case is related in the American" Journal of Medical Sciences,"* and who, after her second confinement, had an attack of metritis, terminating in cohesion of the uterine walls and consequent occlusion * No. XXXV. of the cavity of the uterus. Behind this ob- struction the menstrual fluid accumulated until the Fallopian tubes became so enor- mously distended that at length one of them burst, and death resulted from the escape of the blood into the abdominal cavity. Or lastly, the menstrual fluid may collect in the tube after the manner of the blood in the case just described, where both the ori- fices of the tube are obstructed. Of such accumulations I have met with many ex- amples ; and it is interesting to observe that here, as under many like circumstances, the walls of the tube usually become hypertro- phied in proportion to the degree of pressure caused by the accumulations of fluid which they are called upon to resist. These collections of menstrual fluid within the tube, which I have found to be consider- able in some instances, where I have ascer- tained beyond question that death had taken place during a menstrual period, are instruc- tive, as showing, upon strong probable evi- dence, that the menstrual fluid is supplied in part by the walls of the Fallopian tube as well as by those of the uterus itself. For I have seen it in cases where both orifices of the tube were obstructed ; and therefore in cases where it was not probable that the fluid could have regurgitated from the uterus into the tube. Collections of scroiis fluid. Ht/drops tubes Hydrosalpinx.—In catarrhal inflammation of the mucous lining of the tube, whether oc-