68 OVUM. gradually acquires the peculiar dry hardness which characterises it after the egg is laid.* The view of H. Meckel that the animal basis of the shell is formed by the separation of a layer of the mucous membrane of the ute- rine part of the oviduct docs not appear to be established. During tiic time that the shell is forming, the distinction between tiie softer and thinner external albumen, and the more dense and deeper part, becosnes more obvious, and, at the same time, according to M. Coste, a cer- tain degree of liquefaction occurs in a layer of albumen immediately surrounding the yolk, which allows the latter body to float more freely within the superincumbent albumen. The egg remains in the uterine dilatation till it is about to be laid. The expulsion of it from this cavity through the narrow part of the tube, leading into the cloaca, requires very strong muscular contraction for its ac- complishment ; and, although the egg always descends in the oviduct, and usually lies in the uterus, with its narrow end downwards, both Purkinje and Von Baer state that they have sometimes seen its position inverted towards the end of the time of its residence there in consequence of the force of the mus- cular contractions of the wall of the oviduct. Ovarian ovum of birds ; ovulinn ; i/ol/c and its contents. — The yolk, yelk, or vitellus (Jaime, Fr. Dotter, Germ.) consists in the newly laid egg of the external enclosing vitelline membrane, of the yolk substance, a mass of vesicular, cellular, and granular matter of va- rious structure, to which as a whole the membrane gives a subglobular form, and on the surface of this mass, below or within the vitelline membrane, and on that side of the yolk which naturally turns u[)permost in the complete egg, the cicatricula, or embryo spot, a thin disc of organised cellular structure, in which, under the influence of heat and air, as during ordinary incubation, the embryo, and its accompanying foetal membranes, &c., are first formed. The cicatricula of the laid egg, as has al- ready been remarked, however, has, during its deticent through the oviduct, undergone some part of those changes which belong to the i'V. 49. d. c ■ Form of the FowVs egg and structure of (lie yolli as e.vhihited hy a seetion. A. Sectional view of tlie fowl's egg; a, j'olk enclosed by its vitelline membrane; l>, I/, inner and outer parts of the albumen: c, c, chalaza?; d, two principal layers of the lining membrane of the shell; e, calcareous shell; /, air-space between the two layers of the shell membrane. B. Outline of the yolk; a, cicatricula; b, nucleus of the cicatricula; c, yolk cavity or latebra, and canal; d, concentric deposits of yolk substance or halones; m, vitelline membrane. fecundated condition, and by which the found- ation is laid of that structure in which the future embryo is more immediately developed ; for it has now lost its germinal vesicle, and from being formed, as at first, of mere granules or simple spherules, it has acquired a true organised cellular structure. It now consists, in fact, of the delicate discoid collection of cells, which has been called blastoderma. It may be proper, therefore, to consider the mass of the yolk and the germ, in their unfecundated state, while still within the ovarian capsule, * It is to be remarked that the animal basis of the calcareous shell is of quite a different structure from the fibrous lining membrane of the shell; and tlie calcareous deposit is not to be regarded as taking place in that fibrous membrane. The outer- most layer of the lining membrane adheres very firmly to the shell, which may have misled some on this point, who describe the animal basis of the calcareous shell as of the same structure with the fibrous lining membrane. next, after the ovulum has entered the ovi- duct, and, subsequently, when it is laid; reserving, however, for a latter part of the article the account of the process by which the change in the cicatricula referred to takes place. In the newly laid egg the yolk forms an ellipsoidal mass, somewhat flattened on the upper or cicatricular surface, and with its long axis corresponding to that of the egg. Its largest diameter is about one inch and a quarter, its shortest about an inch: it floats within the white, capable of a certain degree of motion, which is controlled, as before ex- plained, by its own specific gravity, and by the attachment of the chalazEe. The yolk substance is not of the same nature throughout, there being a part of a lighter colour in the centre, about one fourth of the diameter of the whole; from this, a narrower prolongation extends upwards