375 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. hunger and need, as to be enal)led to extract nutriment from substances tl at would other- wise defy the action of their gastric and in- testinal juices. In short, these undissolved and insoluble—undigested and indigestible— constituents of the alimentary residuum may almost be said to merge into each other, ac- cording to the habits of the individual with respect to the ingestion of food. That element of the faeces which is derived from the digestive organs of the animal itself, consists chiefly of mucus and precipitated bile. This mucus is, for the most |3art, structure- less ; but is mixed with variable quantities of scaly epithelium from the rectum in the neigh- bourhood of the anus. In violent diarrhoea, colunmar cells from the intestine may also be found in the evacuations : — sometimes in the younger cell-form of abortive cytoblasts or nuclei, sometimes in the more advanced state of simple ovoid cells. The latter are sometimes met with in small numbers, even in healthy faeces; and constitute what are often termed mucus-corpuscles. The biliary constituent is found chiefly in the form of minute amorphous masses or molecules of a resinous character; crystals or plates of cholestearine ; and soluble colouring matter, that often stains the cells just mentioned, as well as the other mechanical constituents of the excrement. The crystals of ammoniaco-phosphate of magnesia, which arc so often found in the faeces, can iiardly be definitely allotted to either of the two foregoing sources. They are easily recognised by their characteristic shape. They were formerly supposed to be peculiar to the stools of diarrhcea and typhus. But they are found in the healthiest faeces. Their occurrence appears to be favoured by all circumstances which further decomposi- tion. They are therefore probably due to the action of ammonia (developed in the faces before or after their expulsion) upon that neutral phosphate of magnesia, which we shall see forms so large a proportion of the entire saline constituent of the excrement. The chemical composition of the faeces will of course exactly corres])ond with the nature and amount of those substances of which it forms the mechanical admixture. Hence, not only is it impossible to lay down any average that can apply to faeces generally, but it is even probable, that no two specimens of excre- ment are composed of the same proximate constituents mingled in the same proportions. Berzelius* analyzed the fa.'ces of a labourer who had fed on coarse, hard-baked bread, with moderate quantities of meat and vegetables. He obtained the following results:— Water 75-3 r Bile . . . i) \ Substances soluble J Albumen . -9 ( in water . . . ] Extractive 2 7 /" ^ (. Salts . . . 1-2 ) Insoluble residuum of the food .... 7'0 Insoluble substances added in the intes- ~j tinal canal: mucus, biliary resin, fat, V 14'0 and sundry animal matters ... J 102-0 * Lelubuch der Chemie. Bd. ix. p. 341. Without, however, impugning the accuracy of an analysis conducted by such an eminent chemist as Berzelius, it seems important to point out that, for physiological purposes, it is all but useless. For not only does it afford no inference as to the quantitative composition of the fasces generally, but it even suggests grave doubts as to the correctness with which its own chief results have been grouped toge- ther. Recalling, for example, our subdivision of the constituents of the faeces into alimen- tary and secretory, we inquire in vain how much of the soluble albumen and extractive of this analysis was derived from the food, and how nuich may be ascribed to the secre- tions poured into the canal. In like manner we are ignorant whether its fatty constituent was not partly t'le undigested residue of fat which had been introduced with the food. But from a comparison of this analysis with some observations on the meconium by Hoefle* and Lehmannf, we may conjecture, that while the protein compounds found in healthy ex- crement belong almost exclusively to the food, a small quantity of its elain and margain, and a larger amount of its muco-gelatinous ex- tractive, are derived from the secretions of the animal itself. The inorganic constituents of the excre- ment must also vary greatly with the nature and amount of its alimentary residuum. PorterJ states that healthy feces, when dried, contain on an average about 6-7 parts per cent, of mineral substances. Wehsarg reckons these salts at 4"1 per cent., from an average of seven analyses. But an analysis by Dr. Percy ^ estimates them at 1G"4 per cent. This proportion somewhat approaches that given in the analysis by Berzelius quoted above. It also corresponds with some ana- lyses by Macaire and Marcet || of the faeces of the Dog and Horse, which they found to contain 20 and 25 per cent, of ash respec- tively.!^ The soluble salts form between one- fourth and one-third of the whole ash. The phosphates of the earths and alkalies consti- tute about one-third of all the salts present. While the chlorides of the alkalies are reduced to the very small proportion of about one- thirtieth ; a proportion which is about equalled by the whole of the sulphates. Tlie chief re- maining peculiarities worthy of notice are, that the qu' ntity of potash is from 10 to 40 times greater than that of the soda; and that the magnesia reaches half the amount of the lime. Of these two quantitative disproportions, the first seems due to the food; while the latter has been referred by Berzelius to the more active * Chemie und Mikroskop am Krankenbette, p, 85. t Op. cit., vol. ii. p. 135. i Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie, bd. Ixxi. p. 109. § Day's Simon's Chemistry, vol. ii. p. 375. II Societe' d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneve, vol. v. p. 230. ^ This difference, like that of the nitrogen of the excrement in these animals (4-2 per cent, in the Dog to -8 in the Horse), probably depended on the con- trast between the animal and vegetable nature of their food. I! n 4