TEGUMENTARY ORGANS, 488 their hardness to a generally diffused, trans- parent, calcareous deposit, which allows the previous dotted structure of the laminas to be perfectly obvious. In some parts and in the superficial layers, this deposit is struc- tureless and homogeneous (Jig. 312. g, o), but in other parts the youngest layer presents very delicate polygonal meshes, whose areee were about ToVo i"- 'r" diameter (y?i^. 31:2. f, a). De- calcification completely destroys this appear- ance ; so that I imagine it to be caused merely by the mode in which the primary deposit in the membrane takes place, the areolae becoming almost immediately fused together by further deposit. Through these homogeneous hardened outer layers thus constituted, there are dispersed more opaque spots (fig. 312. f, g, b), more or less rouniled in their outline, and varying in diameter from -^^^ in. or less, to ten times that size. The smallest of these bodies have exactly the appearance of cells (fig. 312. f, b), consisting of a dark centre, with a circular more transparent wall, and every variety of form may be observed between these and large masses, such as that figured (fig. 312. g, b), with a lobulated laminated circumference, and an irregular centre, composed of small masses like dentine globules. In the former the dots of the original tissue may be still seen ; but in the latter they are not traceable and seem to be obliterated. If dilute hydrochloric acid be added while the object is still under the microscope, however, these bodies are gra- dually dissolved out with efFervescence,and the structure of the place they occupied is found to be identical with that of the other portions of the integument. They are, therefore, nothing but concretions of calcareous matter, whose deposit has taken place in a peculiar form, quite independently of the primary structure of the part; this form being, in the smaller concretions, most deceptively cell-like. It appears to me that this case, in which the assumption of structure without cell develop- ment may be so plainly demonstrated, has a most important application, not only to the mode of formation of Crustacean and Mol- luscan shells (vide infra), l)ut to the develop- ment of the teeth, strongly confirming, I think, the view which I have taken of that pro- cess. Integument of the Moil iisca.—The soft surface of the body of the Molhisca in general is con- stituted by an ordinary, commonly ciliated, cellular ecderon, which needs no special de- scription. The hard or soft shells which so many of them possess, arise in two modes ; the calcareous and horny integumentary append- ages being, I believe, invariably produced by excretion, while the Ascidian test, which con- tains cellulose, is formed by conversion. It will be advisable to treat of the structure and histological development of these two forms separately ; and, first, of the Excretionari/ integument of the Mollusca.— This is to be met with in its simplest form in the Polyzoa,in which the integument (ectocyst of Alhnan) is formed by a structureless membrane containing imbedded calcareous or sihcious particles.* An admirable example of the calcareous integument formed by excretio7i is to be found in the shell of Unio and Anodon. The outer surface of the shell in these Lamellibranchs is, as is well known, covered by a brownish or greenish irregular membranous substance, the so called "epidermis" of the shell. This substance, however, by no means constitutes a single membrane ; on the other hand, the surface of the shell is marked by an immense number of closely set, more or less parallel, concentric lines, some of which appear to be formed by rugae of the "epiderm," while others are the free edges of epidermic laminae cropping out under those of older date. Viewing this surface of the shell by transmitted light with a low power, a number of polygonal closely-set area come into view on depressing the focus through the thickness of the epiderm. The inner surface of the shell has, for the greater part of its extent, a pearly or nacreous lustre; but along the gape of the shell, at a distance of from less than one hue, to as much as two or three lines, from the free edge, the nacreous appearance ceases, and we find, instead, a brownish hue similar to that of the epiderm, and becoming gradually more intense till the very margin is constituted by a flexible brown membrane continuous and identical with the epiderm on the exterior. If the surface of the flexible zone be examined as before, its outermost portion appears quite homogeneous; as we pass gradually inwards, however, dots appear in it, and the hard portion of the brown zone presents polygonal area, precisely resem- bling those untler the epiderm on the outer sur- face. Where the nacreous appearance com- mences, these areae disappear, becoming ob- scured by an opaque white substance, which is marked by elevations and depressions, corre- sponding with, though less prominent than, the principal ones upon the external surface. If, now, a section perpendicular to the surface and to the concentric lines be taken, and viewed in the same way by reflected light, the cause of the various appearances which have been described will become obvious. It will be seen that the thick middle of the shell is composed of three substances; of a very thin external brown layer, the " epi- dermis," and of two other layers more or less equal in thickness ; an external, composed of minute polygonal prisms or columns set per- pendicularly to the surface, and an internal, which looks structureless, with a fracture like loaf sugar. The outer prismatic layer pre- serves its thickness as far as the " brown zone" above described, and then gradually thins out into the flexible marginal membrane. The inner nacreous layer, on the contrary, gradually thins out, and ceases at the com- mencement of the brown zone. The ends of the prisms are, therefore, bare in the brown * I am indebted to Mr. Busk, whose extensive researches on tliese animals are well known, for the information on which this statement is based.