OVUM. 48 of late attracted considerable attention, and appears to have been first clearly stated by Reichert in 1840, and afterwards in 1843 * ; and in accordance witli the views of that au- thor, vfe may with propriety distinguish the formative (or germinal) from the nutritive parts of the yolk. In the fowl's egg, for ex- ample (in which it must be admitted these two parts were long confounded together), the cicatricula, together with its so called nucleus, and a part, perhaps, of the lighter- coloured substance which occupies the centre of the yolk and the canal extending from it to the cicatricula, constitutes the formative or germinal part ; and the larger mass of the more deeply-coloured portion of the yolk forms the nutritive vitelline substance. In the mammiferous ovum, on the other hand, the latter part is either entirely absent, or is in small quantity, and the whole of the yolk substance may be looked upon as directly formative, or as analogous to that which forms only the cicatricula of the fowl's egg. Among more recent writers the distinction of these parts has been particularly insisted upon, and illustrated by M. Costef, and also by Messrs. Prevost and Lebert.J The difference in the relative amount of the formative and nutritive yolk substance, as well as in the size of the whole ovum, in birds and mammalia, is manifestly to be regarded as more imme<liately connected with the dif- ferent manner in which the embryo is to be supplied with the materials necessary for its growth in the two cases ; in the oviparous mode of development, the whole amount of nourishment required being provided in the egg itself, and detached along with it from the parent; in the truly viviparous mode, a con- tinual addition of new materials for growth, being made by transmission from the maternal parent in the placenta, or in some analogous structure, which accompanies utero-gestation. The smaller proportional size of the nutri- tive part in Batrachia and Osseous Fishes (though most of these animals are truly ovi- parous), may be attributed to the very early period of development, and consequent small size of the embryo at the time when in these aquatic animals it leaves the egg, and, taking upon itself an independent life, gathers nou- rishment in the same manner as the adult animal. J * Entwickelungsleben im Wivbelthierreich; 4to. Berlin, 1840; and in Beitriige zur Kenntniss des heutigen Entwickelungsgeschichte; 8vo. Berlin, 1843, p. 22. t Cours d'Embryoge'nie Compare'e, torn. i. Paris, 1837 ; and Histoire ge'n. et pavtic. du Developpement de rHomme et des Animaux, Paris, torn. i. 4to., 1848. X In Annal. des Scien. Nat. for 1844. 3rd Ser. torn. i. p. 193 and 265. § At the same time it is to be kept in mind that there are exceptions to these relations, which make it extremely difficult to state any general law of connection between the structure of the ovum and the mode of gestation and place of development of the embryo; as in the case of a few of the lizards and serpents, and some cartilaginous fishes, in which although the egg agrees in general structure with The above arrangement is by no means offered as exhausting the divisions which might be formed of the ova of animals, but rather as bringing forward prominently the most remarkable characteristics of those of vertebrata. It is not improbable that a more accurate acquaintance with the structure of the ova in the animals thus grouped, and more especially of the Invertebrata, may lead to some considerable modifications of the divisions here adopted; but the main distinction upon which they are founded is so important, that even with our present incomplete acquaintance with them, it seems advisable to call attention to it at this place. As I shall have occasion to refer frequently to these groups in the sub- sequent description of the ova of various animals, in the absence of more appropriate appellations, I will, for the sake of brevity, designate them severally, as follows,—viz., 1st group, Small-yolked ova, as in Mammalia ; 2nd group, Large-yolked ova, as in Birds, Scaly Reptiles, and Cartilaginous Fishes; 3rd group. Middle-sized yolked ova, as in Batrachia, Os- seous Fishes, &c. § 2. Further comparison of the ova of animals in general, as respects their size, number, form, and the relation of their parts. Size of ova. — In addition to what has been said on this subject in the previous section, it may farther be remarked that, in the second and third groups, the size of the ova of dif- ferent genera and species is to a certain extent proportional to that of the adult animal, or of the fully-developed foetus; but in the first group, or at least in Mammalia, in which the nutritive part of the yolk may be considered as wholly or nearly entirely absent, there is a much greater uniformity in the size of the ova; and, accordingly, the largest mammi- ferous animal may take origin from an ovum which, when mature, is even smaller than those of species of animals many hundred times less in bulk ; while in the class of Birds we observe the nearly regular increase of the size of the ovum in proportion to that of the parent animal, from the smallest hum- ming bird up to the ostrich, or the still larger egg of the ^pyornis, an extinct bird, of which some of the bones, along with the eggs, have recently been discovered in Madagascar.* that of animals which are generally oviparous, it is retained in the oviduct or uterus of the female during a part or even the whole of the time of foetal develop- ment; and there are also exceptions in the" third group—viz. that of batrachia and osseous fishes as in the Land Salamander and Viviparous Blenny. To this mode of gestation the name of Ovoviviparous has been given. There are many varieties of a similar kind among the Invertebrata, and on the whole it may be stated that there is no constant correspondence between the size of the ovum and the mode of gestation. The Marsupiata also, and the Blonotremata among the Mammalia, exhibit interesting modifications, in the first a partial, and in the second, probably a complete residence of the ovum in the uterus of the female parent during de- velopment; while the ovum in these animals ap- proaches, in some respects, the type which is more commonly ovijiarous. * The circumference of this extraordinary egg