425 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. wards of the sympathetic cord. According to Boiirgery *, tlie common iiipathetic trunk may be regarded as dividing at the inferior cervical ganglion into an anterior and a pos- terior portion; the former, corresponding to the continuation of the cord in the neck, he terms the carotid track, the latter, correspond- ing to the vertebral branch, he terms the pos- terior or vertebral track. He describes it as arising from the plexus formed around tlie subclavian artery : it is quite visible to the naked eye at its origin, but higher up its filaments become microscopic in point of size: the vertebnd branches, or tracks of opposite sides, unite together in the groove lodging the basilar artery, and communica- tions are also formed betvt'een them and the anterior, or carotid track, by means of fila- ments vvhich pass backwards with the pos- lerior communicating arteries. The vertebro- basilar nervous apparatus, as it is termed by him, supplies nerves to the vessels, which ramifv on the cerebellum and posterior lobe of the cerebrum. (c) Inferior or small Cardiac Nerve. — The inferior cardiac arises by one or two roots, passes inwards behind the subclavian artery, and terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. It forms communications with the middle car- diac nerve, as also with the cardiac branch of the recurrent laryngeal. Frequently, espe- cially on the left side, the lower cardiac branch becomes united with the middle car- diac, giving rise to what has been termed the Nervus cardiacus crassus. The connuuni- cating branch between the lower cervic;d and first thoracic ganglion is very short, some- times wanting, the two ganglia running into one another. 11. Thoracic portion of the GangUntcd Cord. — The thoracic portion of the gangliated cord ■of the sympathetic lies on each side of the spinal column, in front of the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra; and heads of the ribs, and beneath the pleura. It is continuous -above with the cervical portion, and below it passes into the abdomen, between the pil- lars of the diaphragm and superior extremity of tiie psoas muscle, outside the splanchnic nerves, becoming continuous with tlie lumbar portion of the sympathetic cord. The num- ber of the ganglia varies : they are commonly eleven, rarely twelve, on each side. They are, in general, situated between the heads of the ribs in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrse, and present commonly a more or less triangular form. The cord connecting the ganglia of either side runs in front of the heads of the ribs, and is ge- nerally single, though sometimes it is double. The liranches connected with the thoracic ganglia are the following: — (a) Communicating l)ranclics pass between each of the ganglia and the corresponding * M^moire sur Textremite c^plialique du grand sympatheti([ae dans riionime et lus animaiix mam- miferts. P;ir M. I. M. iiourgery. Comptcs Kuiulus, vol. XX, intercostal nerve : these are commonly double, sometimes three, short, and pretty strong. (b) Branches of small size pass from the ganglia to the descending aorta, forming a plexus around it; others pass to the pul- monary and oeso()hageal plexuses ; branches are also described by Krause as passing be- tween the ganglia of opposite sides in front of the bodies of the vertebrae. ((•) The chief branches leaving tlie thoracic ganglia are the greater and smaller splanchnic nerves. These are situated to the inner side of the main cord of the sympathetic, and also more anteriorly, upon the lateral and anterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrre. They are formed of branches derived from the six lower thoracic ganglia, and pass tlirough the diaphragm into the abdomen. The greater splanchnic nerve derives its roots commonly from the inner part of the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth, thoracic ganglia ; it often also receives a branch from the fifth, and, according to Di-. Beck, from the different ganglia as high up as the first. It passes obliquely downwards and slightly inwards upon the sides of the vertebral column, in front of the intercostal vessels, and covered by the pleura. It enters the cavity of the abdomen by perforating the pillars be- tween the middle and internal crura of dia- phragm, rarely through the aortic opening, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion of the cogliac plexus. The smaller splanchnic nerve, which is sometimes double, springs from the tenth and eleventh thoracic ganglia : following the same course as the greater splanchnic nerve, it is directed obliquely downwartls and inwarils upon the body of the twelfth tiorsal vertebra, passes through the diaphragm between the greater splanchnic nerve and the communicating cord, which unites the last thoracic to the first lumbar ganglion, or pierces the middle cms of the diaphragm. It terminates in the coeliac and renal [ilexuses ; the branch to the latter being generally stronger than that to the former. {(I) The comnuinicating cord between the last thoracic ganglion and first lumbar enters the cavity of the abdomen between the middle and external crura of the dia- phragm, or penetrates the latter, III. Lumbar portion of the Gangliated Cord. — The lumbar portion of the sympathetic cord generally contains five ganglia, some- times only three or four, and is situated upon the lateral and anterior aspect of the boilies of the lumbar vertebra;, in front of the psoas muscle, behind and to the left of the aorta on the left side, and behind and to the right of the vena cava on the right. The branches connected with the lumbar ganglia are: — (a) Branches of communication with the lumbar nerves: these are commonly two in niunber for each ; they are longer than those in the thoracic region, and pass between the heads of the psoas muscle.—{b) Branches also pass oil'from the ganglia to the aortic, spermatic, renal and superior liypogastiic plexuses. — (c)