OVUM. 15 testine, and anus, and moves actively through the water. Sars who had observed this body in 183.5, was the first to suggest in 1844. that it might he the early condition of a star-fish*, and this view was conhrined by the admirable researches of J. Miillerf, and by observations of Koren and DanielsonJ. who have shown that the Asterias is gradually formed out of a small granular mass which surrounds the stomach of the Bipinnaria, and becomes se- parated from the stock when in a compara- tively early state of advancement. The larva stock moves about afterwards for a few days, Fig. 8. Pluteus paradoxus (from 3IiUler). A, Pluteus before the commencement of the formation of the Ophiura. 15, Opliiura formed on the side of the gullet. * Wiegmann's Archiv. 1844, part i. p. 170. t Mem. of the Berlin Acad. 184U and 1848. t Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1847, p. 348. and then appears to die without giving rise to any farther progeny. The gemmiparous larva of some other kinds of the Echinodermata was first described by J. Miiller as a distinct animal, imder the name of Pluteus, before he was acquainted with the phenomena of its subsequent de- velopment: in 184G he traced the relation between one kind of this body which he had called Pluteus paradoxus, and the Ophiura, and between another kind of Pluteus and Echinus, ascertaining it to be the same that has just been stated to exist between the Bipinnaria and the Asterias. The Pluteus presents the form of a quadrangular pyramitlal frame, with four large ciliated limbs at the angles, and four smaller ones suspended from the miiklle below, while the upper part is surmounted by a sort of dome. It bears soma resemblance to a Beroe, and might be de- scribed as the ciliograde larva of an Echino- derm. The form differs, however, somewhat for various species of Ophiura and Echinus. In the centre of the dome and round the mouth of the Pluteus a granular mass is de- scribed, and from the side of this, non-sym- metrically, the gemmation of the new intli- vidual proceeds. The Pluteus moves at first with great activity through the water, pro- pelled by its ciliated limbs and cirrhi; but as the new Ophiura or Echinus buds from it and spreads more and more over its dome, the Pluteus shrinks, becomes less active, and at last disappears.* Various other forms of the Pluteus-like anin)al have been described by Midler, and the process of gemmation has been traced by which the new Echinoderm takes its rise within them. The result of these discoveries is already to throw an entirely new light on the nature and organisation of this class of ani- mals ; but the species of all of those observed is not yet determined, and something still remains to be learned of the exact mode of origin of the new animal. By some -f the process has been looked upon merely as a secondary develo[)ment from the remains of the 3olk attached to the parts first formed ; but the researches of Miider do not appear to give support to such a view; and would rather appear to show (as in Auricularia, Ji!^. 9.), that the new animal is formed from a minute germ in a determinate part of the parent animal without that germ being traced to the yolk of the egg. In a farther series of researches on the larvae and metamorphoses of the Echino- dermataj, J. Midler has pointed out that the Holothuridse are formed from a larva body somewhat analogous to the Pluteus, but that, instead of a process of new formation, the whole of the larva is converted by a very remarkable metamorphosis into the IIolo- thuria; and he has been enabled, from his * J. Miiller, in Mem. of Berlin Acad. 1846 and 1848; Derbes, in Ann. des Sc. Nat. 1847. t As Carpenter, loe. cit. p. !)39. j Memoirs of tlie Acad, of Scien. of Berlin, Nov. 1849, and April 1850, published in 1851, p. 35.