SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 431 much as the ganglionic corpuscles are not dis- tributed throughout the whole extent of the nerve, but are confined to certain limited parts. Remak believed it to be due to the presence of structures termed by him organic nerve Jihres : Volkmann and Bidder also believed it to be owing to a peculiar set of fibres, different, Fig. 281. 1. Tubular nerve-fihres from the thoracic portion of the si/iiipathetic cord in Man. 2. Fibres of Kemah {gelatinous fibres') and fine tubular nerve-fibres, from the nerves of the spleen in the Sheep, however, from those of Remak. Whetiier it be due to the fibres of Remak or not, it seems to be, at least, best marked in those branches of the sympathetic in which these fibres are most abundant. The sym|)athetic also differs from the cerebro-spinal nerves in consistence as well as in its appearance, being much softer and more readily torn across than the latter. This may be jjartly due to the want of the strong distinct fibrous sheath possessed by the latter, and partly also to a difference in the character of the nerve fibres themselves. The nerve fibres of the sympathetic are moreover not arranged into distinct fasciculi, but lie together imbedded in a mass of fibrous tissue wliich accompanies them, serving the purpose of a sheath. As regartls the constituents of the sympa- thetic nervous trunk, when a portion of one of the main cords is examined with a power of 250 diameters, it is found to be composed of the following elements: 1st. Tubular nerve fibres; 2nd. Structures which present a homo- geneous flattened appearance, and contain a number of oval nuclei imbedded in them at intervals ; and, .'ird. a quantity of white fibrous tissue. The tubular nerve fibres which are present in the sympathetic, ditler much in point of breadth fiom one another. Some of them measure about ^j-hrn to yctjtt ^.n inch in diameter : their contents present the arrange- ment of dinthle cuntour and axis ci/Under which characterise the fibres occurring in the cerebro-spinal nerves. Besides these fibres there are others present which have also the character of the tubular fibre, but are much finer, measuring only from the yniVcr the of an inch. They present distinct margins, but have a paler aspect than the above, and do not possess the double contour which is seen in the broader tubular fibres, and n)any of them often have a tendency to the formation of varicosities. Wlien running in buntlles they have, according to Volkmann* and Bidder, who first called attention to their anatomical characters, a yellowish grey hue instead of the white pearly aspect of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Sometimes the two sets of fibres are intermingled and run side by siile with each other, at other times they run in bundles more or less distinctly se[)arated. The number of fine fibres which are prer>ent much exceeds that of the broader or coarser variety. The two classes of fibres do not, how- ever, appear to be distinctly marked off from one another, there being present fibres which possess partly the characters of the one and partly those of the other. When one of the finer variety is examined at the same time with one of the coarser variety, and the two com- pared, the points of distinction are sufficiently Fig. 282. Broader, or animal, and finer, or sympathetic, pri- mitive nerve-fibres, from the common trunk of the vagus in the Frog. (^Bidder and Volkmann.') marked, but a gradual transition from the fibres l)elonging to the one set to those belonging to the other may, in some parts of the syn)pa- thetic, generally be traced. The finer the nerve tLibules are, the less distinctly do their contents appear to be sejjarated into central portion or axis cylinder, antl white substance of Schwann. 2. In regard to the structures No. 2. which have been mentioned as occurring in the sym- . pathetic, Remak-|-, their discoverer, describes * Die Selbstandigkeit des sympatliischen K"er- vensystenis von F. H. Bidder and A. W. Volk- mann, Leipzig ; 1842 ; p. 19. et seq. t Observcationcs Microscopicae, &c. Berol, 1838. §§ 13.13.