469 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Prochaska* seems to have attributed such properties to the ganglia, inasmuch as he ex- plains the contraction of the heart by sup- posing that the impressions which are made upon the inner surface of the organ are trans- mitted to the gangha by means of sensory nerves, and are there transferred to motor nerve-fibres. Grainger -j-, in like manner, holds that the ganglia are centres of reflex action, and moreover that each ganglion pos- sesses a distinct so-called excito-motory sys- tem of nerves. From what has been already stated, it will be observed that Volkmann also holds the view that, in the ganglia, trans- ference of impression from one fibre to another takes place. From his earlier experiments J:, however, he was led to conclude that such was tiot the case. He found, on applying a stimulus to the surface of the intestines in a newly-killed frog, that a contraction en- sued which was not confined to the part which had been stimulated, but extended for a considerable distance on either side. After destroying the spinal cord, and again applying the stimulus, he now found that the contrac- tion produced was merely local, confining itself to the part irritated. The extended contrac- tion first produced he believed to be due to reflex action, while the limited contraction in the second experiment he regarded as a mere stimulus movement. From the circumstance, moreover,that the former took place while the spinal cord yet remained, and the latter after it was destroyed, he concluded that it was thereby proved,—1st, that the spinal cord is the centre in which the act of reflexion takes place in the movements of the intestine ; and, 2nd, that the ganglia are destitute of such power. Longetji also states that it is only . while the spinal cord remains that contrac- tions extending over large portions of the intestine can be excited by local application of stimuli, the contraction so produced limit- ing itself, after the spinal cord is destroyed, to the point irritated. As was shown by Henle, however, there can be no doubt that move- ments may be excited by application of stimulus to the surface of the intestine after the spinal cord is destroyed, which are as extended as those excited in the same way while it remains. The contractions produced by local stimuli are so similar both before and after the removal of the spinal cord as to leave no doubt that it can have no share therein. The only question is, whether the difference in character between the extended contractions and those which are limited to the point irritated are due to reflex action, or not. By Valentin and others, the extended contraction is explained in the same way as they endeavour to explain that of the heart, by supposing a particular arrangement of the nuiscuhir fibres, by means of which the con- traction of one bundle acts as a stimulus to * Opera Minora, t. ii. p. Ifi9., as quoted by Longet. t Observations on the Structure and Functions of the Spinal Cord. X Mtiller's Archiv. 1838, Einl. Theil. p. 15., &c. § Op. cit. p. 577. the neighbouring bundles, exciting them suc- cessively to contraction. How far this is the case it is difficult to determine ; it seems, however, that the relation of the one bundle of muscular fibres to the neighbouring bundles in the intestine is not so different from what it is in the ordinary muscles as to explain the limited contractions which take place in the latter, and the extended contraction of the former, upon the application of local stinmli. The opinion of Hcnle*, that they are of a reflex nature, the centres of reflexion being the grey matter of the sympathetic ganglia, seems, therefore, to be the more probable. Kiirschner also adopts the view that the gan- glia are to be regarded as centres of reflex action. On repeating Miiller's experiment of irritating the solar ganglion with potash, he observed that the movements thereby pro- duced in the intestines did not commence at a single point, but in several different coils of the intestine at one and the same time. This may, he says, be explained in either of two ways: the stinmlus had either affiscted di- rectly all the motor filaments, by which these different parts of the intestine are supplied, or only a few of them ; and from these few a transference took place, in the ganglion, to the others. The latter he believes to be the true explanation ; for he found it is quite the same, as regards the extent of the movements, whether the irritant is strongly or slightly a])plied, and whether a finely-pointed rod of potash or a broad surface of the same is em- ployed. The contractions which are excited in the heart by application of local stiiiudi would seem to indicate more clearly that the ganglia are reflex centres. When a heart has just ceased pulsating application of a stimulus gives rise to a contraction affecting the entire organ, the contraction, too, taking place in the same rhythmical manner in which it takes place during life. After some time, the stimulus, when again applied, gives rise to a contraction which does not afl'ect the entire organ, but only the particular auricle or ven- tricle to which it is applied, and after some time farther the same stimulus gives rise merely to local contractions. The former two seem to be, as Volkmann regards them, movements of reflex action, while the last is a mere stimulus movement. The circumstance that stimulus applied to the ventricles in such a heart gives rise to contractions which com- mence in the auricles, and therefore at a point distant from that to which the irritation has been applied, seems explicable only on the supposition that the impression thereby pro- duced is conveyed to a nervous centre, and here transferretl to fibres proceeding to the part in which the contraction commences. The following experiment of Volkmann would also appear to favour the view in ques- tion. He destroyed the spinal cord in a newly beheaded frog, and satisfied himself * Froriep's Neue Notlzen, band xii. p. 247,, as quoted by Kiirschner. H H 3