STOMACH AND INTESTINE, 414 indicated by the preceding description. The floor of the nicer is formed by the muscular coat of the bowel, covered by a very thin stratum of areolar tissue. Its margin, some- ■what irregular in outline, is a reddish or bluish- gray edge of mucous membrane: which was formerly raised and almost detached from the subjacent tissue by the distended and pro- jecting follicles in its neighbourhood ; but has now fallen down upon it, so as to form a per- fectly flat, loose, and relaxed border, around the shallow ulcerated fossa of the patch. In its further progress, the ulceration may extend in two directions. In the horizontal plane, it generally follows the shape, and rarely much exceeds the size, of the original patch. In the vertical plane, it may gradually destroy the muscular and peritoneal coats, and thus give rise to perforation. Such a deepening of the ulcer is accompanied by a narrowing of its width, so that the aperture in the serous membrane is generally of very small size. The cicatrization of the ulcer, which follows the cessation of the local and general malady, takes place by the development of a firm, but very delicate layer of fibrous tissue, on the floor of the ulcer. This merges, by a gradual increase of its thickness, into the thickened margin be- fore alluded to, where the original mucous membrane becomes intimately blended with the new fibrous cicatrix. The latter exhibits under the microscope the ordinary characters of this variety of fibrous tissue, and is generally covered by one or two layers of irregular flattened cells. The junction of the old and new structures is often marked by wrinkles and puckers, which appear to radiate from the new tissue of the cicatrix ; and thus, as it were, measure and express its contraction. In very rare instances, this contraction gives rise to an obstruction of the canal. That it does not oftener do so seems due, not only to the limited extent of the ulcer around the bowel—an extent which scarcely ever exceeds id or ^th of its circumference—but also to the little injury generally inflicted on the tex- tures subjacent to the ulcer, and to the amount and situation of the new tissue of the cicatrix. So little of this is deposited, and so exclu- sively is it limited to the surface of the ulcer, that the process of repair might almost be regarded as resulting in a mere conden- sation of those superficial layers of the original areolar tissue which are left intact by the ulcer. The above series of morbid changes in the solitary and agminate follicles, is accompanied by a somewhat similar alteration in the lym- phatic or mesenteric glands connected with the affected segments of intestine. This process closely resembles the preceding, except in the fact that it scarcely ever ends in the ulce- ration of the structures it engages. A stage of hypertemia is soon followed by one of enlarge- ment; the latter being due to the deposit of a substance, which gives to the glands affected, much the same grayish or reddish colour, and soft firm consistence, as that seen in the folli- cles. This deposit next undergoes a limited degree of softening: which is sometimes ac- companied by haemorrhage, rarely by sup- puration, ulceration, or peritonitis ; and is followed by its gradual absorption. The latter process slowly restores the glands to their normal size and colour. Among the various inflammations of the different segments of the alimentary canal, there are only two to which we need accord any notice, apart from the general description as given above. These are, the gastritis pro- duced by tlie ingestion of irritant (or rather caustic) mineral poisons ; and the dysenteric inflammation which affects the large intestine. In the amte gastritis caused by caustic substances, the stomach presents appearances of two kinds : — one, which forms a series of effects produced by the mere chemical action of the poison on the tissue, and which might therefore be to some extent imitated by in- troducing it into the stomach of a newly killed animal; and another, which represents the subsequent vital reaction of the tissue against the poison, constituting the phenomena of in- flammation, properly so called. The first of these will of course vary, not only with the nature of the poison, but also with a variety of other circumstances; es- pecially with its quantity, concentration, and solubility, as well as with the amount and duration of its contact with the stomach. Thus according to the nature of the poison, the organ may either undergo softening and solution, or hardening and coagulation ; may either be blanched, or carbonized; coloured, or deprived of its colour; swollen by an im- bibition of fluid, or contracted by the loss of its own water of composition. The second or inflammatory class of ap- pearances will necessarily depend upon the ex- tent in which the first preceded them ; since it is chiefly in the tissue beneath the de- stroyed part, that the reactive inflammation is set up. Thus if the epithelium be the only structure which has been acted upon by the poison, it is soon replaced by the development of a new layer in the exsudation poured out ; a process which implies but a moderate hy- peragmia, and leaves no traces in the struc- ture of the part. While, if the direct action of the poison involve all the coats of the organ, it may give rise to a more or less extensive (and generally fatal) perforation. The intermediate degrees of this action are followed by a set of appearances which, with great difl^erences in particular poisons and in- dividual cases, may be summed up as follows. The vascular changes consist chiefly in the production of an intense congestion or hyper- Eemia. The blood-vessels thus injected com- municate to the mucous membrane a colour which takes every conceivable shade, from in- tense red to almost black. In the latter case, the microscope will often show that the blood is coagulated within the vessels, and here and there forms patches of haemorrhage externally to them. The exsudation which accom- panies this congestion, renders the mucous