REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 231 are placed above, the simple acrogenous sporule standing first. A similar arrangement may also be adopted in the description of the corresponding varieties in the reproductive phenomena which manifest themselves in con- nection with each variety of spore-like body. As regards the first of these, nothing further need be said, as the formation of the sporule by division, as described above, constitutes the whole reproductive process. It is exem- plified in the stroma of a Sphoeria, when in a condition corresponding to that which cha- racterises a Melanconium. The spermatium is found only in a special receptacle, the general form and structure of which remain always the same, as in the Cytispora-like capsule of the Disco- and Pyreno-mycetes and the spermogoniae of the Lichens. The stylospores are also formed in special organs (pycnides, and the corresponding organs among the Fungi), which differ from the last only as regards the structure of the parts upon which the spore is immediately sup- ported. Lastly, the receptacles which bear thecas are of larger size, more complicated in their structure, and later in making their appearance than any of the rest, as in the instance of the disc of Peziza, the closed re- ceptacle of Sphoeria, and the apothecium of the Lichens. 51. The Pyreno- and Disco-mycetes are, as we have seen, so closely allied to the Lichens as regards their reproductive organs, that the characters of the two families seem in this respect to merge into each other. The dis- tinction is to be sought in the vegetative system. The thallus of the Lichen differs drical bodies, more than twice the length of from the thallus-like stroma of the Fungus in the spermatia (from -^xsutj Tstrir '^'^ inch), its possessing two additional elements, the obtuse at both ends, very slightly curved, cortical layer and the gonidia. We observe colourless, and containing only granular pro- their first appearance in the mosc simple form toplasma. They are supported on pedicles, in Verrucaria. which have the same arrangements as in the 32. Tliere is as yet no sufficient ground for spermogoniae. They are simple, linear tubular definitively concluding that the reproductive filaments, which taper towards their extre- functions of the asci and spermatia are com- mities. Just as the spermogonia; correspond to plementary to each otiier; or, in other words, the spermatium-bearing organs of the Fungi, that these organs are sexual. There is, how- the pycnides correspond to those receptacles, ever, good reason for considering it probable; containing stylospores, which we have had first, because, when spermatia and asci are occasion to describe both in the Discomycetes produced on the same mtjceUum, the former and Pyrenomycetes. always precede the latter in their develop- 30. Summarij.—The reproductive organs of ment by a considerable |)eriod, just as among the Fungi and Lichens are of five kinds:— the higher Cryptogamia, the antlieridia precede L Sporules, which are formed by the con- the archegonia ; and, secondly, because the striction and subsequent separation of the organs on which the s|)ermatia are supported, extremity of a simple cylindrical filament; 2. and the asci, stand in an anatomical relation Spermatia with their supporting pedicles ; 3. to each other, and to tlic receptacle within Stylospores, with their styles ; 4. Thecas or or upon which they are formed, which closely asci; 3. Basidia, with their basidiospores. resemblesthose of the antheridia and e[)i^pores Of these the last mentioned are to be found of theFuci,orof the antheridia and tetras[)ores only, as we know at present, in Fungi which of the Florideae. We are well aware that are provided with no other reproductive organ, these analogies do not afford the slightest The first four, on the other hand, all of them proof of an actual correspondence between occur in plants belonging to one family of the organs in question. All more direct Fungi—viz. the Disco- and Pyreno-mycetes : evidence, however, is absent; no observations they also all occur, with the exception of have been made to show that the spermatia or the first, among the Lichens. They maybe stylospores exercise any influence on the thccse arranged, as regards the complexity of their or their contents, and on these important form and structure, in the order in which they points, therefore, we mast look to further ob- a 4 is no less important, as forming another con- necting link between the Lichens and Fungi. The special characteristic of these organs is to be found in their containing, instead of thecae or paraphyses, stylospores, supported on stipitiform pedicles or basidia. In their Fig. 134. Pycnidis of the same, about 150 d'lam. The stylospores are escaping from the upper ori- fice of the organ. (The figures from 143 to 154 in- clusive, are after Tulasne.) general form they resemble the spermogoniae, but their walls are thicker and they are larger. Like them they are provided with a vertical ostiole. The stylospores are oblong, cylin-