PANCREAS. 81 PANCREAS (ndyicpeas*, Gr. ; Pancreas, Lat.; le Pancreas, Fr.; die Bauchspeichcldruse, Germ.; Pancrea, Ital.). The pancreas is an azygous, non-symmetrical, glandular organ, possessing a duct, and, therefore, belonging to the category of true glands; connected anatomically with the alimentary canal, and physiologically with the function of digestion. On taking even the most superficial and general view of this organ, two or three things cannot fail to strike the attention : one is, the close affinity and strong contrariety which it at the same time displays to the salivary glands-f—affinity in point of appearance and structure, being, like them, a typical represen- tation of a conglomerate ghuid, — contrariety in point of situation and function, the one being placed at the very threshold of the ali- mentary canal, the other at an advanced po- sition in it; the one acting on raw material, and having in part at least a mechanical use J, the other having to do with material far gone in the process of assimilation, and possessing a function, whatever it may he, certainly not mechanical in any degree. Another striking circiimstance is its wide diffiision. It exists in all vertebrata ; — mam- malia, birds, reptiles, and most fishes, all possess a pancreas, and that quite independent of what the nature of their food may be, animal, vegetable, or mixed; a fact that one would have imagined would itself have pre- vented the adoption of the old views with regard to its function. Another circumstance, not less striking, is its constant relation to the duodenum : whatever may be the other modifications of the alimentary canal, from the straight and simple tube of some carnivora to the volu- minous apparatus of the vegetable feeders, or whatever may be the modified form of the pancreas itself, still, if the organ exists, its relation to the duodenum is invariable; if there is a duodenal fold, it is placed in it; and if there is not, it makes the closest approxi- mation to an analogous position that is pos- sible : indeed the uniformity of this relation is so invariable, even under circumstances where it would appear to be indifferent, that one cannot but regard it as one of those in- stances of conformity to type in which uni- formity appears to exist for uniformity's sake. The arrangement of the subject of this paper that most naturally suggests itself, is to treat first of the structure, and then of the functions of the organ. 1 shall therefore arrange my observations under the following heads : — 1st. The descriptive anatomy of the human pancreas, including an account of so nuich of its structure as may be made out by a naked- eye examination. 2nd. Its minute or general anatomy. * Trai/ xpsaf, alf ffesh. t Tliis striking resemblance suggested to the older anatomists tlie name of "salivary gland of tlie abdomen," an appellation first given to it by Sicbold. —Historia Systematis Salivalis. X See Bernard's experiments on the secretion of saliva. 3rd. Its comparative anatomy, including those modifications both of the form and ulti- mate structure of the gland that the animal series exhibits. ith. The physiology of the pancreas, — the role that it plays in the function of digestion. Lastly. A short account of some of the most striking pathological changes that the organ is liable to. I. Human Anatomy. Situation. — The pancreas is so placed that for its display it is necessary to open the ca- vity of the great omentum. This may be done either by dividing the gastro-hepatic omentum and depressing the stomach, or by detaching the gastric layer of the epiploon and turning the stomach up, or by dividing the transverse mesocolon and turning up both transverse colon and stomach. In either of these ways the cavity of the omentum is opened, and the organs concealing the pancreas are removed. Placed transversely across the upper part of the abdominal cavity, and closely applied to its posterior wall, the pancreas extends from the duodenal fold on the right to the hilum of the spleen on the left, across, therefore, the epigastric into both hypochondriac regions. It is not perfectly transverse, however, but ex- tends from the right a little upwards as well as to the left; it corresponds to the level of the first and second lumbar vertebra and to the splitting of the two laminae of the trans- verse mesocolon : it is post-peritoneal, being invested by that membrane only on its an- terior surface. Relations. — By its right extremity it is closely engaged in the curvature of the duo- denum, to the inner border of which it is intimately attached, and which it often re- ceives into a groove more or less deep, formed by a projection of the gland to a slight extent on the anterior and posterior surface of the intestine. Sometimes this groove is very slight, and the relation of the margins of the gland and intestine merely that of apposi- tion ; at others, the inner margin of the duo- denal fold will be deeply imbedded in the gland substance, the projection both in front and behind being considerable. More fre- quently, however, the gland trespasses much further behind the intestine than it does in front, so much so occasionally as to se[)aratc it in a great degree from its posterior rela- tions. The structures on which the posterior surface of the pancreas rests are, the vena cava, the bodies of the vertebrae, the aorta, the crura of the diaphragm, the left kidney, its sujjra-renal capsule ami renal vessels, the lower part of tlie solar plexus with the com- mencement of the plexuses thence pro- ceeding, as the aortic and superior mesenteric ; the splenic vein passing from left to right, the superior mesenteric vein and artery, the vena porta;, the connnon bile duct, many lym- |)hatic vessels and glands, and the commence- ment of the thoracic duct and vena azygos. To all these structures it is intimately at- tached by cellular tissue, and to the irregular surface which they form it is, as it were, moulded or modelled, so that when it is care- o