STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 362 what resembles that of the cells lining the smaller branchesof thestraight urinary tubules. Where the smaller tubes converge to form the efferent duct that perforates the mucous membrane, these cells are exchanged for short cylinders, the structure of which rapidly merges into that of the ordinary columnar epithelium of the general intestinal surface. As regards the secretion of these racemose glands, we can only state that their ducts contain a structureless mucus, which has an alkaline reaction. With such an imperfect knowledge of its na- ture, we can scarcely wonder that the office of this fluid remains unknown to us. Like many other animal matters, it converts starch into sugar. But until the precise rapidity and energy of this change have been established, it is im- possible to determine how far this action is really comparable to that of the saliva. From the close resemblance between the sub-mu- cous glands of the mouth and these of the duo- denum, many have assumed them to prepare a sahvary fluid. But, besides that we are not warranted in regarding the secretion of the buccal glands as identical with the saliva (of which it forms but a very small ingredient), a very moderate knowledge of histology might suffice to indicate the danger of inferring the nature of any secretion from the mere arrangement of the structures by which it is furnished. Hence it must remain for the present undecided, whether this mucus is a salivary or pancreatic fluid ; or merely a more concentrated form of intestinal juice, secreted by glands which here reach a liigher degree of development than that attained by the short cylindrical tubes of the rest of the bowel. Large inteatine. — Tlie remaining portion of the alimentary canal forms the large intedine Fig. 274. Large intestine, as seen in situ, in a state of moderate inflation. The anterior wall of the belli/, atid the small intestine, are supposed to have been removed. c, caecum; a, ascending portion of the colon; t, transverse portion ; d, descending portion; s, sig- moid flexure; r, rectum. (catds r,fig. 276.) (intestimm crnssum, Lat.; gros intedin, Fr.; dickes Gedarm, Germ.): — a name which alludes to the size that is one of its chief characteristics. Beginning at the termi- nation of the ileum, in the right iliac fossa, it passes upwards to the under surface of the liver. Here it turns at a right angle, and runs horizontally below the stomach, to the left extremity of this organ. By a second bend, it here resumes the vertical direction, and then passes downwards towards the left iliac fossa. In this region it undergoes a remark- able curvature, which has the shape of the italic letter S. From the lower end of this "sigmoid" flexure, it passes obliquely towards the median line; where it terminates in a straight, short tube, that runs vertically through the pelvis to the outlet of the anus. Hence the entire segment of large intestine has the shape of a horse-shoe; and forms a large bend, which is concave downwards, and passes almost round the confines of the abdomen before ending at the inferior extremity of this cavity. While its general arrangement is such, that the intestinal canal, which diverges from the median line at the lower end of the oBsophagus, returns to it shortly before terminating in the posterior or lower segment of the trunk. An accurate measurement of the length and width of this tube is opposed by the diffi- culties already alluded to in the case of the small intestine. My own observations would indicate an average length of from four to six feet, and a mean diameter of about If to 2f inches: —the two measurements usually vary- ing inversely to each other, except in the cases of extreme distention or contraction, when both respectively increase or decrease simul- taneously. Hence the large intestine has about a quarter the length, and twice the width, of the small. From such an estimate we may conclude that, while its capacity is almost equal to that of the narrower tube, its active surface is scarcely half as large. And even this great difference is much in- creased by the absence of villi and valvulas conniventes from the interior of ths large in- testine. Like the rest of the canal, the wall of the large intestine is composed of the serous, mus- cular, and nuicous coats; and of vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, which are distributed to them. The nature and arrangement of these tunics vary, however, in the several parts of the tube. And these difttirences, aided by others which affect its size, shape, and situa- tion, subdivide the large intestine into the following segments:—the c(Eciim ; the verwi- forni appendix; the colon, in which we dis" tinguish an asceiiding, transverse, and descend- ing portion, and a sigmoid flexure; and, finally, \herectum. The anatomy of each of these will demand a brief notice. The ccBcum {c, figs. 276, 277.) (formerly Mhs? gut. Eng.; blind Darm, Germ.) is the first and largest of these segments. Its arrangement may be described as due to the fact, that the small intestine, instead of being simply continuous