410 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. variety. But even here, just as it is evident that lesions of the vessel themselves always constitute the immediate cause of the ex- travasation, so we can liardly doubt that such lesions may (and often do) form a predomi- nant, though not an exclusive, element in the process. Inflammation. — Inflammation constitutes the most frequent and important of all the morbid conditions of the alimentary canal. Indeed, tliere are very few of these condi- tions with which it is not more or less directly concerned. It is generally, if not al- ways, preceded by hyperaemia; often by down- right hsemorrhage; and itself usually precedes the occurrence of ulceration and gangrene. It is the necessary result of mechanical in- jury to the various tissues of the tube ; and is often an immediate consequence of the dis- eases or injuries of neighbouring organs. There is little doubt that it is often concerned in the production of those conditions which we at present include under the name of hypertrophy. And it is also capable of being evoked by the presence of adventitious growths, even though their origin may be regarded as independent of its presence. Finally, it constitutes one of the most charac- teristic phenomena by which various diseased states of the blood declai'e their influence on the system. Such a diversity in the forms of the inflam- matory process, as it affects the intestinal tube, might well lead us to expect variations at least as considerable and numerous in its nature. These, however, the space allotted to the present article will not allow us even to sketch. As little can we enter upon the dif- ficult subject of its true pathological relations to the other morbid processes just alluded to. We must be content to accept the term in- flammation as it is ordinarily made use of; and to enumerate its appearances, as they are usually seen in the dead body. The mere existence of congestion we have already found to be no certain indication of the inflammatory state ; but, on the contrary, one which would often deceive us, if viewed in this light. And though the presence of an exsudation forms a test which is far less frequently fallacious, yet even it requires some qualification, before it can be accepted as tantamount to proof of inflammation. For just as, to speak physiologically, it is the very office of the blood-vessels to mediate and permit an exsudative process of definite na- ture and amount, so slight differences of the exsuded fluid in both these respects, from that normally poured out, are not even in- compatible with health, much less character- istic of inflammation. Hence, in saying that "exsudation" is a main feature of inflamma- tion, we are using the word, not so much to express an isolated fact, as to imply a com- parison :— an exsudation, of such a quality, and in such a quantity, as to offer a marked contrast with the specific fluid which is poured out by a secreting organ, on the one hand ; or with the healthy nutritional fluid ■which bathes the interstices of its tis- sues, on the other. Of the two contrasts thus implied, that of quality is obviously much the more important. Thus, while the copious interstitial juices of the swollen but flaccid intestine of a very corpulent person, offer little difference from those of the typical healthy adult, save in their (so to speak) more diluted state, — or while the intestine of a dropsical abdomen is chiefly enlarged by an increase of the ordinary fluid of its submucous tissue,—the vessels of the inflamed alimentary tube take on what is more or less a new, as well as an increased action ; by virtue of which they pour out, into the tissues or the cavity of the canal, fluids which a-e very different to those nor- mally present in this situation. Using the term " exsudation" in this restricted sense, we should scarcely do wrong in regarding it as the chief feature of the inflammatory pro- cess ; and as an appearance which, when seen accompanied by the ordinary marks of hy- peremia, quite entitles us to affirm that the part in which it is situated, was the seat of inflammation during life. And not only does the presence of exsuda- tion form the characteristic mark of inflam- mation, but the basis of the classification under which we maj' best arrange the varie- ties of this process. Thus according as the characters of mucus, pus, or amorphous protein, predominate in the exsudation poured out, we distinguiBh the process which has given rise to it as catarrhal, puriform, or croupy inflammation. The ra- pidity of its efflision is at least a frequent and important element of these peculiarities which are summed up in the epithets "-acute" and " chronic" And finally, as regards its extent and situation, it not only ranges from an in- flammation of the mucous surface only, to one which successively involves the subjacent muscular and peritoneal coats, but may even specially affect the submucous areolar tissue of the canal, or engage certain parts of its secretory apparatus in the shape of its tubes or follicles. Each of these modifications will be noticed in a few words. The catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane offers precisely the appearances seen in catarrh of other raucous surfaces. The numerous vessels of the membrane exhi- bit a state of more or less intense hyperemia, giving it a corresponding shade of that red colour which is generally producible by vas- cular injection. This increase of vascularity is stated by Rokitansky to be chiefly visi- ble, sometimes in the villi, sometimes around the follicles. But it seems to me that its being limited to the latter is often due to the contraction of the villi * having thrown back the blood they contain, into the adjoining fol- licular network with which they anastomose. The exsudation thrown out in this form of inflammation, may be traced in two situations ; '—in the textures of the canal itself, and in * Compare p. 54.