604 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. axis of the tube. Tliis, iiuleed, appears to be entirely so at the surface; but deeper towards the central canal, numerous flat bundles cross- ing the former at right angles are encoun- tered, and these become more abundant still nearer to the mucous membrane, although, so far as I have been able to trace them, they do not constitute so distinct and separate a layer as the outer longitudinal stratum. The general condition of the lining mem- brane of the tube, and its peculiar arrange- ment, having been already described, it is only needful here to explain the composition and texture of this coat. This membrane, although commonly regarded as a mucous membrane, contains neither discoverable glands nor villi. It is composed of a very delicate pink or white soft layer, consisting of undeveloped connective tissue, mixed with numerous fusiform formative cells. This thin layer is united to the fibrous coat by a small quantity of submucous tissue, which is also found lying between the folds of membrane forming the plicae, or ridges, and serving to connect together the two layers of which they are composed. Covering this coat upon its inner surface is a thin layer of long cylindrical epithelial cells of a form peculiar to the Fallopian tube, of which Henle has given a minute account.* These, which are conical or filiform, are fur- nished with an oval flattened nucleus, and have at their broad, unattached end a dis- tinct row of cilia. These cells may be traced through the entire length of the tube, from the uterus to the free border of the fimbriae, where they gradually diminish in size, and, at the point of junction with the peritoneum, acquire the flattened form of the cells of pavement epithelium. Under ordinary circumstances, and when the organs are healthy, the canal of the Fal- lopian tube contains only a small quantity of slightly viscid mucus. But when death has taken place during a menstrual period, the fluid is found to be replaced by blood which is usually of a dark colour, and uncoagulated. This fluid presents, under the microscope, the characters of ordinary blood, with which numerous epithelial scales, derived from the walls of the containing tube, are intermixed. Blood vessels and nerves. — M. Richard is, so far as I am aware, the only author who has been at the pains to examine and de- scribe with anything like minuteness the pre- cise arrangement and distribution of the blood-vessels supplying the Fallopian tube. The following is his accoiuit, the general accuracy of which I have verified by frequent injections of these vessels. " There exists always a special artery for the tube. Springing from one of the nume- rous branches of the uterine artery, near the angle of the uterus, this vessel takes a direc- tion from within outwards, from the com- mencement of the oviduct, as far as the neighbourhood of the pavilion, describing, * Encyclop. Anat. Gen. t. i. like the tube itself, a curve, the concavity of which looks towards the side of the ovary. The artery, which is lodged in the substance of the mesentery of the tube, takes a slightly sinuous course, parallel with the oviduct, and at the distance of one or two finger breadths from it. Situated in the middle of the fila- mentous cellular tissue, which exists between the two layers of peritoneum, it passes con- stantly behind the organ of Rosenmiiller ; so constantly, that keeping this relation in mind, one could immediately, if the neighbouring organs were removed, distinguish the anterior from the posterior face of the lesser wing of the broad ligament. The artery is accom- panied by the two veins of the tube, and sur- rounded by very delicate nervous filaments. " The branches furnished by this artery are lateral as well as terminal. Tlie lateral branches are generally three in number. The first enters the inner third of the body of the tube, at a distance of three or four centi- metres from the uterus ; the second supplies the middle, and the third the outermost ex- tremity of the oviduct. These three branches before arriving at the tube bifurcate, the twigs resulting from which bifurcations are directed the one to the right and the other to the left to inosculate with each other. From this results a series of arches furnishing branches to every portion of the body of the tube. The innermost bifurcating branch anastomoses with a branch derived from the proper artery of the uterus, so that a well-marked analogy between the distribution of the tubal artery and that of the mesentery is here observable. The terminal division is distributed to the pavilion. It separates into a greater or less number of tortuous branches, each of which goes to supply a fringe of the pavilion ; the tubo-ovarian fringes also receive each a twig of the tubal artery. Sometimes, however, a small branch of the utero-ovarian artery, from which it is detached opposite to the external extremity of the ovary, establishes one of the anastomoses between the uterine and the utero-ovarian vessel. From the concavity of the tubal artery very small branches pro- ceed to the organ of Rosenmiiller, and to the neighbouring cellular tissue." But no adequate notion can be formed of the extreme richness of supply of vessels to this and the neighbouring organs until, after a successful minute injection, the parts have been dried and preserved in balsam. Nume- rous vessels which the opacity of the parts had previously concealed are then brought into view. They are seen running parallel with the surface of the tube, and mostly con- vei-ging towards the fimbriae, upon and in the substance of which they lie as thickly as the pile of velvet, previously to their dis- persion into their final capillary terminations. It was probably this exuberance of vascular supply that led some former observers to imagine that the tube possessed an erectile tissue, a structure of which the most minute injections do not suffice to exhibit a trace. The veins, which follow the same course