52 OVUM. ash-coloured. In the land-newt, which is ovo- viviparous, the yolk is of considerable size, and of a dark yellow, approaching to orange. In osseous fishes, which are almost all oviparous, the ovule receives, apparently in the ovarian capsule itself, before leaving that cavity, an external covering (or chorion) of considerable firmness. This membrane ap- pears to consist of a substance deposited on the external surface of the vitelline membrane, and becomes coagulated under the action of water ; so that its density increases greatly after the ova are deposited, while it is sepa- rated at the same time from the yolk by the imbibition of water. The ova are in spawning either deposited separately, or are united in chains or bundles, and in some less common examples* in pecuUar nida- mental structures, more after the manner of some of the moUusca. The structure of the ovarian ovule, or yolk, and its relation to the germ, diflfers somewhat from that of the batrachia ; for while in the latter animals the yolk substance consists of granules and cells of nearly uniform size, and the germinal layer covers the greater part of the surface, in osseous fishes this layer is more circum- scribed, not extending at first over more than a third, or, at most, a half of the yolk, and the remainder of the yolk, which contains a much greater quantity of transparent fluid than in most other vertebrate animals, presents al- most invariably a peculiar heap or mass of large oil globules, which float to the upper part of the fluid below the germinal layer.-f The minute ovula of mammalia, when they have reached maturity in the Graafian capsules of the ovary, are nearly spherical bodies, of from ^-irr of an inch in diameter, and consist of a mass of finely granular yolk sub- stance, more loose in the interior and more dense towards the surface, and enclosed in a thick firm and transparent vesicular envelope, the vitelline membrane, or so-called zona pellucida. While still within the Graafian capsules, they occupy a situation near the most projecting part of the capsule, or towards the external surface of the ovary, being there imbedded in a layer of granular cells, the discus j'roligeriis of Von Baer, which lines the ovicapsule, and lies on the exterior of the clear coagulable fluid with which this capsule is filled. A portion of this lining membrane of granular cells, remains adherent to the ovum after it leaves theGraafian capsule, and has passed into the Fallopian tube; but as it descends towards the uterus, these cells gra- dually loosen and fall away from the surface of the ovum, the zona pellucida or vitelline membrane of which is thus finally left free. In the farther progress of its descent, there is formed, in some mammalia at least (rabbit), * As Gobius. See Prof. Owen's Lectures on the Compar. Anat. and Physiol, of Vertebrated Animals, part i. p. 304. A. Hancock on the Nidification of the Gasterosteus aculeatus, &c., in Annals of Natu- ral History, Oct. 1852. t See a paper by Dr. Davy on the chemical pro- perties of tlie vitellus of Osseous fishes in Trans. Roy. Soc. for 1851. on the surface of the zona by a new deposit, in others, perhaps, by conversion of the zona itself, the external membrane of the ovum, which at a later stage constitutes the chorion. But, in accordance with the destination of the ovum in this tribe of animals for true utero- gestation, this external membrane has then no longer the character of mere inactive limita- tion of the exterior of the ovum, or defence from injury, which belongs to it in the lower animals ; but it becomes an organised and growing texture of active functions, which is the more immediate means of uniting organi- cally the blood-vessels of the mother and foetus, in such a manner as to allow of the transmission of nourishment from the one to the other. Varieties of form of the ova among the invertebrata are too numerous to allow of their being described in this place. In the greater number, an external envelope, besides the vitelline membrane, exists ; but it must be admitted, that there are some in which these two coverings cannot be distinguished. In some, as in insects, arachnida, polypes, &c., the chorion, or outer surface, presents pecu- liar markings, ridges, tubercles, or long spines, and is strong and opaque; in others, it is Fig. 34. Ovum of Cristatella nuccedo. (From Turpin, Annal. ties Scien. Nat. 1837. torn, vii.) Showing peculiar spinous projections from the outer shell. smooth, delicate, and transparent, so as to allow the whole internal structure of the ovum to be seen through it, and thus to afford most favourable opportunities of wit- nessing the early changes of development. In most of the invertebrata the germinal part of the yolk covers the whole, or a con- siderable part, of its surface ; they present, however, great varieties of colour and struc- ture, and may, probably, belong to various modifications of the second and third groups before distinguished. It does not appear that any essential dif- ference has yet been observed in the structure of the ova of those animals which are subject to alternate generation, and those of animals in which the adult form is directly developed from the ovum. ยง 3. Of the ovary in general as the forma- tive organ for the ova of animals.