SYMPATHETIC NERVE. U7 examined, after addition of dilute solution of soda, with a power of 40 diameters, it is not difficult to observe, in the cat or other small animals, that the fibres composing the white portion run towards the centre. Many of them bend directly inwards to the cord, while others sink into the spinal nerve, more or less obliquely, still, however, in the direction of the centre. That the fibres in question are not to be regarded as fibres sent from the sym- pathetic to the cerebro-spinal nerves is ren- dered further probable by the fact tliat they can all be traced beyond the corresponding sympathetic ganglion into the cord above and below. Moreover Kiilliker has traced them not only past the ganglia in the main chain of tiie sympathetic, but into the periplierical branches, and, in small animals, even through the ganglia occurring upon these latter He also finds that the fine fibres in question differ from those wliich arise in the sympatlietic ganglia in presenting a darker contour and in being somewhat broader. As regards the proportion between the fibres in the communicating branches which may be regarded as proceeding from the sym- pathetic to the cerebro-spinal nerves and those which are sent by the latter to the sympa- thetic, we have already seen that in tlie frog, according to the observations of Bidder and Volkmann, tiie former exceed the latter con- siderably. In the higiier animals it would appear that the reverse is the case ; in the rabbit, according to Kolliker, by far the greater portion of the ravii eonuminicantcs run towards the centre. In man also, according Fin. 293. Coiviectina between the. sympathetic and the sixth intercostal nerve in the liabhit. ^ K c, communicating branch; c P, intercostal nerve; c, its central extremity; p, its peripheral extremity. Most of the fibres of tlie communicating brancli run toivards the centre ; several of these, «, a, disappear among the fibres of the intercostal nerve, rather in tlie direction of the periphery. (Mag. GO diam.) to the same observer, much the greater number of the fibres contained in tiiese brandies I'un inwards towards the spinal colunm. I examined most of the rann coinmunicantcs in a foetal calf about 2^ feet in length, and have little hesitation in saying that in this animal the pi'oportion of fibres which are directed towards the spinal cord greatly exceeds any that appear to riui towards the periphery. At the point of junction with the spinal nerve the communicating branch, when examined with a power of 40 diameters, was seen to spread out somewhat, most of the fibres bent directly inwards towards the spinal cord, others passed into the nerve, eitlier obliquely or at right angles to it, and then curved in- wards towartls the spinal cord. In some of the conmiiinicating branches, a few of the fibres were seen to join the nerve in the direc- tion of the periphery. In the cat also, the fibres of many of tlie communicating branches were found to run exclusively in the direction of tlie spinal cord. Tlie fibres in the different communicating branches, as shown by Wiitzer, Midler, and others, are connected both witli the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and it seems probable that the fibres which are sent from the cerebro-spinal system are ile- rived from both. Volkmann*, however, as will be afterwards noticed, believes that all the fibres sent to the sympathetic are derived from the posterior root alone. As regards tlie further course of the fibres which are derived by the sympathetic fi-oin the cerebro-spinal system, Valentin f, hoUling the view tliat this nerve is entirely comjjosed of such fibres, believed that on joining the * Nerven-Physiologie in Wagner's Ilandwiirter- buch, Eilfle Lieferung, p. ti09. f De Functionibus iS'ervorum, § 152. 155. See also Quain's Anatomy, by Sharper.