535 RUMINANTIA. M M 4 septal fibro-cartilaginous aponeurosis (which we take to be the liomologue of the true lingual bone), is strongly indicated. Much confusion has arisen in regard to the muscles constituting the cortex of the tongue. The general term lingualis has been applied to numerous muscular bundles situ- ated on the dorsum immediately beneath the lingual fascia. According to Gerdy they may be arranged in four groups * ; of these the most superficial layer appears to be quite distinct from the rest, and on this account it has been separately described as an indepen- dent muscle by Bauer and Zaglas, the latter aptly designating it the no/o-g/ossus. This superficial muscidar mass spreads over the whole upper surface of the tongue ; it ap- parently exists in all mammifera, being more highly develo[)ed in some than in others ; it is feebly indicated in the Camel. Without accepting the following inference, we may remark that Dr. Mercer, in his " Anatomical Observations on the analogous Structure of the Lingualis and Panniculus Carnosus," en- deavours to show that one of the principal offices of the lingualis is to erect the rasp- like papillae; and it is evident that he only attributed this function to that portion of the muscle, since denominated the nolo-glosstts, for, he adds, " the first " layer of the lingualis, " which is the most conspicuous, can alone act on the surface of the tongue and its pa- pillae."-)- The fibres of the lingualis, properly so called, take their origin from the lingual margins near the root, and pass transversely or obliquely inwards to a point a little be- yond the middle line ; in the short-tongued quadrupeds and in Man the bundles reach as far forward as the tip, but in the ruminants their extension is comparatively limited. Re- specting the disposition of the associated muscular filaments, collectively termed the transversus, considerable difference obtains in regard to what may be called the fibres of insertion. In the ruminant type, where no lingual septum is present, the fibres decussate with those of the opposite side, extending therefore beyond the mesial plane, while on the other hand, in Man and animals having a well-marked linca albescens — such as is seen in Carnivora — the fibres do not pass beyond the middle line, but are intimately united to the septum (Zaglas). The perpcndicitlaris externm offers nothing remarkable, and the glosso-'palatimis and glusso-pharyngcus have no existence in this order. The distribution of the vessels and nerves of the tongue have the same general arrangement as in other Mammalia; but in consequence of the greater longitudinal development of the organ they exhibit a corresponding aug- mentation. Prof. Owen remarks a disparity of calibre affecting the lingual arteries of the Giraffe, that of the left side being paramount and anastamosing freely with the vessel of * Gerdy, Anat. et Physiolog. de Langue : Ar- chives Generales de Medecine, torn. vii. p. 363. t Anatomical Observations, &c, Edinburgh, 1841. the right side as far as the commencement of the prehensile portion—judging from the lithographed representation appended to that distinguished anatomist's " Memoir." Our own specimen exhibits this peculiarity in a still more striking degree, the left vessel being — as compared with the right — a mere arterial twig. We have not found this vas-. cular anomaly in the Cervidae proper, neither is it present in other allied genera. The lingual veins in Camelopardalis are particularly broad and somewhat plexiform, and the nerves, in the retracted condition of the tongue, are beautifully tortuous. The salivary glands are chiefly noticeable on account of their large dimensions and elongated excretory passages. The orifices of the Whartonian ducts, are visible at the anterior part of the mouth beneath the tongue, and in the Giraffe are protected by two small membranous valvular folds fringed with pa- pillae. The tonsils are bidky, and in the Camel communicate with the oral cavity by numerous canals, the apertures of which are surrounded by slight prominences of the mucous membrane. In Camelopardalis, the amygdala assume a higher type of structure, and open by a short conmion duct capable of admitting the tip of the little finger. There is yet another peculiarity in the faucial region of this aberrant cervine genus, arising oat of the presence of a rudimentary uvula, which on close inspection we find to be made up of three minute papillas, intimately conjoined at their bases. The ccsQphngv.s, in accordance with its functional activity in this family, is thick and fleshy. It is surrounded by two distinct layers of muscular tissue — an outer and inner : the fibres of the former being trans- versely circular, those of the latter ob- liquely longitudinal. They have a deeper colour than obtains in the non-voluntary muscles, but do not exhibit any transverse striae ; in some particulars, however, micro- scopic investigation has shown them to resemble very closely the voluntary type (Owen).* The ruminant stomach affords a striking illustration of the special evolution of a com- plex mechanism from the general or more simple type of structure, and to the mind of the unprejudiced truth-seeker it irresistibly indicates evidence of tiesign; this train of reasoning is not weakened by the fact that two, if not three, of its divisions are essen- tially dilatations of the lower extremity of the oesophagus. The first compartment or Paunch (J),Jig. 359.)—otherwise called the Rumen, Inglu- vics, or Panse — occupies a considerable proportion of the abdominal cavity. It is the largest of the four stomachs, and its gene- ral form is that of a square with rounded angles. Externally there are two well- * The sharks, ■which possess the power of eject- ing their stomachal contents, have the muscular fibres of this viscus marked by transverse strias. We have seen this in Lamna cornubica.