TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 494 fill examination of fresh specimens can alone decide this point. Fis. 314. The simplest form of Ascidian test is that presented by the Salpas. Here, we have merely a gradual growth of the periplast and a deposit of cellulose within it, the endoplasts either remaining as such or becoming sur- rounded by cell walls. The resulting tissue, in fact, is identical with cartilage, if we suppose cellulose to have taken the place of chondrin. In the Pyrosoiiiata, the test has a struc- ture which, on the one hand, resembles bone, on the other some forms of fibro-carti- lage. The endoplasts, in fact, have become surrounded by cell walls, wiiich are produced into long, frequently anastomosing processes (Jig. 314. d) ; these retain their animal com- position, while all the immediate tissue is strongly impregnated with cellulose. This is the fundamental structure of the test in the Phallusiae and Clavelinas also ; but here an additional complication results from the development in the substance of the test of a series of rounded cavities, which gradu- ally enlarge until they almost come into con- tact, and give rise to a spongy texture. The intervening septa at the same lime frequently become obscurely fibrous (fig. 314. c). Now these " vacuolae," whose origin and nature ap- pear to me to show their identity with the " cancelli" of bone developed from cartilage, have been described by Lo wig and KoUiker, and by Schacht as cells ; and the latter has even stated that they possess a nitrogenous lining membrane. This is, however, a mistake, arising from the imperfect operation of the reagents by which the cellulose is detected ; it is simply less abundant close to the cavities of the vacuolae, but may with care be demon- strated to exist up to their very edges. Botryllus, Synoicum, Syntethys, Boltenia, and the Cynthias, present a new series of ap- pearances : here the periplast of the ecderon is metamorphosed into fibres, which, however, are not composed of pure cellulose, but of a nitrogenous substance impregnated therewith. In Synoicum the test is soft, and presents very much the structure of some forms of rudimen- tary connective tissue. We find, in fact, a more or less distinctly fibrillated basis with scattered endoplasts ; some of these are in- vested by round granulous nitrogenous cell- walls, while in others the cells are spindle- shaped and prolonged at each end into fibres (representing thus the elastic element of or- dinary connective tissue), or they may be stellate. Botryllus, Syntethys, and Boltenia, present a similar structure, varying, however, in the extent to which the nitrogenous cell- walls on the one hand, and the periplast im- pregnated with cellulose on the other, have undergone development. Thus the periplast is broken up into very obvious fibres in Bo- tryllus, while in Boltenia the fibrillation is pale and indistinct. On the other hand, I have nowhere met with so great a develop- ment of the nitrogenous cell-wall as in Synoicum. In Boltenia a more or less distinct lamina- tion makes its appearance in the test, and this peculiarity, as well as the fibrous structure altogether, attains its maximum in the Cyn- thia. In Cynthia papillata, for instance, the middle substance of the test is composed of numerous, very obvious laminae, which con- sist of fibres directed alternately parallel with, and perpendicular to, the surface of the test (314. b.) At first sight, they appear as Lowig and KoUiker have described them, to be decussating sets of longitudinal and radiating; but on a careful examination of their sections I invariably found that the apparently radiating fibres bend round as they approach the apparently longitudinal set, and in fact pass into the latter. The longitudinal bands are, however, no thicker at one end of a section than at the other, so that the trans- verse fibrils cannot be merely given off from them. A transverse section, again, exhibits the same appearances as a longitudinal one ; so that I think the fibres must in reality have a more or le.* regularly circular arrange-