2 OVUM. the structure and function of an organ is only to be obtained by the observation of its foetal conditions, the study of development is acces- sory or supjilementary to many departments of anatomy and physiology ; that, in recent times, no branch of inquiry relating to organic nature has made more rapid progress, has presented a greater amount of new dis- coveries, or has influenced in a greater degree the views of scientific men on allied subjects, than the science of embryology ; tiiat it is coextensive with, and illustrative of, the whole range of comparative anatomy; that no system, therefore, of zoological classi- fication can be regartied as philosophical or complete which neglects the facts and princi- ples of foetal development: finally, that some departments of pathological anatomy receive considerable illustration from our science, and tliat more especially the scientific study and comprehension of teratology or congenital malformations is founded entirely on an accu- rate knowledge of the phenomena and laws of development. Our subject, therefore, is not only interesting by itself, but deeply important as an essential branch of philosophical ana- tomy and physiology.* Before proceeding with the particular his- tory of the ovum, and its development in man and the higher animals, which will form the greater part of the following article, some topics of a general and preliminary nature present themselves for our consideration. The investigation of the process of repro- duction in the lower animals has made so inuch progress during the last few years, that it becomes necessary to place before the reader a sketch of the aspect in which more modern researches enable the physiologist to view the relation of the ovum to the sexual generative function, and to the other means by which individuals are multiplied, or species are reproduced in the whole animal kingilom. In the Article Generation, the connnonly received distinction was drawn between the sexual and the non-sexual modes of genera- tion ; and under the latter form a variety of processes of Gemmation and Division were alluded to as occasional or constant substi- * A variety of circumstances have contributed to cause delay in the appearance of the present article, some of them of a nature beyond the con- trol of the author. He is sensible, liowcver, that an apology is due by him to the readers of this work on account of the protraction of that delay. He has only to say, that in the contemplation of the vastness and imperfectly known condition of the subject, he has ever felt more disposed to engage in the investigation of some of its details, than to appear before the public as a systematic writer in regard to it. The delay may have this advantage, however, that it will enable him to in- troduce a greater number of new discoveries, a more accurate statement of individual facts, and more correct and extended general views of the subject than might have been possible at an earlier period, and that it will afford him an opportunity of cor- recting and amplifying various statements con- tained in the previous Article Genekation, which the progress of discovery since the time of its pub- lication has rendered necessary. tutes in a certain number of animals for the more permanent sexual form of the reproduc- tive process. At the time of the publication of that article, the sexual organs had not been discovered in a considerable number of the lower animals : but since then, the assiduous and accurate researches of enibryologists have gradually diminished the number of animals so situated, by bringing to light the male and female reproductive organs, or their essential products, in nearly every species of the animal kingdom ; so that now only a very few, and those of the simplest organisation, remain, in which the bisexual condition has not been detected. These animals belong exclusively to the division of the animal king- dom recently established by Zoologists, as Protozoa, comprehending the Polygastric In- fusoria, Rhizopoda and Porifera.* In all other animals it is now ascertained that fecundated ova, formed by an act of sexual generation, are the means of secui'ing the permanent reproduction of the species ; but in several of them, as is . especially well known among the Polypine tribes, a vast multiplication of individuals, sometimes living separately, but more frequently associated in groups, or living in united colonies, takes place by a non-sexual process of reproduction, which may be compared in many instances to the growth or repetition of the parts of a tree or plant by budding. Recent investigations have made it more and more apparent, that the non-sexual multi- plication of animals ought to be distinguished into several kinds, according to the different circumstances in which it may occur. In a few, as already remarked, it is entirely with- out known sex : in others, the non-sexual pro- cess of gemmation, or division, gives rise to new individuals, which are simply the repe- titions of the perfect or complete animals ; and in a third set, the non-sexual multiplication occurs more frequently in an incomplete con t dition of the animal, and often consists in the production of one or more series of dissimilar forms of animals, the last generation of which alone becomes sexually complete, and propa- gates the species by fecundated ova. This constitutes the variety of the reproductive process recently distinguished by the name of Alternating Generation. Three forms, therefore, of non-sexual animal reproduction, or multiplication, are to be dis- tinguished from the sexual mode of generation, as in the following enumeration : — I. True sexual generation, direct or indi- rect, in all animals, excepting the Protozoa. II. Non-sexual multiplication, occurring only in some of the invertebrated animals ; 1st. In Protozoa, in which sexual organs have not yet been discovered. * The first two of these divisions may be described as simple unicellular microscopic animalcules, the third rather as a compound or congeries of micros- copic animalcules; the Porifera, or Sponges, are in- cluded in this division of Protozoa, because the balance of evidence is decidedly in favour of their animal nature.