FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT — (Normal Anatomy). 603 reason to think that it performs, as the an- cient anatomists supposed, the office of a muscle in ch-<iwin^ these parts together. The length of the tubo-ovunan ligament determines the distance to which the mouth of the tube can be separated Irom its corre- sponding ovary. This, in most instances, is sufficient to permit the tubal orifice to be easily applied over any portion of the gland of the same side; so that from whatever part of the surface of the ovary an ovum is dischargeu, the reception of the latter by the tube is rendered possible by the range of motion which the mouth of the tube enjoys in relation to the ovary Tlie average length of this ligament, measiu-ed from its com- mencement at the margin of the ovary to the centre of the tubal orifice is ii". StructIIre of the coats or tunics. — The Fal- lopian tube is composed of three coats : — viz., 1. an external investment of peritoneum ; 2. a proper coat composed of fibrous tissue ; and 3. a mucous lining covered by epithe- lium. The tube has been already described as running horizontally within two folds of peritoneum, formed by the upper border of the lesser wing, or ala of the broad ligament, which serves also to form its mesentery, and to conueLt it with adjacent parts. This fold encircles the tube somewhat loosely, and con- stitutes the peritoneal coat. Between this covering and the middle or pro- per fibrous coat of the tube is found a small quantity of fine and rather tough connective tissue, which serves to bind these coats to- gether. This intermediate tissue being more abundant in quantity towards the uterine end, permits a greater freedom of movement of the serous investment of the tube in this region than at the opposite or tree extremity, where, in most subjects, the serous and pro- per coats cannot be separated without much difficult}'. The middle or fibrous coat has been very generally regarded as containing muscular fibres, and as having a contractile power. Saniorini described external, longitudinal, and internal circular fibres, and his state- ment has been reasserted by Meckel, Boivin, Velpeau, and many others. By Kolliker, also, the middle layer of this tube is legarded as a smooth muscular coat, composed of a doul)le layer of fibres. These statements have been called in question by Robin and Richard, who assert that there are in the proper walls of the oviduct only fibres of cellular tissue and fibro-plastic elements, but no muscular fibres of organic life. M. Ri- chard declares that it is impossible to recog- nise two distinct layers, at least they can be only artificially ])roduced. The number of longitudinal fasciculi appears always to ex- ceed that of the transverse fibres, but these elements are interlaced in every direction, both longitudinally and transversely. The question is important, for unless we consider, with Haller, that the proper tissue of the tube resembles the cavernous body of the penis and clitoris, and that, as some have supposed, the tube, when filled with blood, is ca[)able of erection, for which conjecture there appears to be no good foundation, it is impossible, in the absence of a contractile fibrous coat, to explain those movements of the oviduct, which nuist necessarily occur whenever the abdominal orifice is applied to the surface of the ovary — or that peris- taltic action of the tube, witnessed by Bi- schofF in the (niinea-pig, by means of which the ova are carried backwards and forwards within the canal. See p. 611. With a view of resolvini; the doubts raised by these conflicting statements, I have micro- scopically examined the fibrous coat of the oviduct in the human subject at different pe- riods of life, as well as in several genei a of mammalia, and especially in isimia, Bos, Cer- vus, and Delphiuus. With regard to these latter examples, I find the evidence of the presence of a smooth muscular layer, consti- tuting the mitldle coit of the oviduct, more or less decisive in different genera, but the existence of such a coat was most satisfac- torily determined in Delphiuus phocsena (preg- nant). Here not only were the smooth muscular fibres, collected into long bundles, easily distinguished, but they were still more distinctly shown at the broken extremities of the latter, which exhil>ited the characteristic fusiform terminations of the individual fibre in such a manner as to leave no doubt as to the muscular nature of the tissue forming the principal portion of this coat, which contained besides an abundance of nuclear elements and common fibres of connective tissue. With regard to the human subject, it ap- pears to me that the assertion that the middle coat of the oviiluct contains only fibrous tis- sue, may have been based upon the examina- tion of specimens taken from females advanced in life ; for, applied to such specimens, the statement is generally true, but in younger subjects, and when the f)roper reagents have been used, I have experienced no difficulty in finding more or less satisfactory evidence of the presence of smooth muscular fibres, provided only that a sufficiently high power, and the mode of illumination suitable to the discrimination .of such tissues, were em- ployed. It must be observed, however, that the condition of this tissue is very variable. In some subjects, the greater portion appears to consist of nuclear elements which here and there are seen intermixed with fusiform fibres of greater or less length. In other instances, the tissue is more distinctly fibrillar, the fibres being collected in bundles consisting of flattened filaments with distinct fusiform ter- minations intermixed with bundles of white fibrous tissue; while in some, and, I believe, generally in older subjects, the latter form of fibre, as just stated, abounds, and appears to constitute the |)rincipal portion of the middle coat of the tube. The arrangement of the fibres constituting this coat is chiefly in the direction of the