PANCREAS. 108 The whole subject is singularly full of contra- dictious and discrepancies, and it must be con- fessed is also singularly full of sources of fallacj^ If Bernard's description of two kinds of pancreatic fluid, normal and morbid, be correct, it may go a great way to explain ■why those who, like Frerichs, have experi- mented with a watery fluid, poor in albumen, have failed to verify his results, and there- fore it will vitiate their objections. It is almost impossible to help seeing something like a national bias in the adoption of one or the other set of opinions; for while Lehmanu follows Frerichs and Schmidt and Bitlder, tlie French physiologists as implicitly adopt the vievs's of Bernard, and confirm his results. Even the action on starch, though a function of the secretion, can hardly be said to be l/ie function; for the relative size of the gland is greater in carnivorous than in herbivorous animals (the weiglit being a-^oth of that of the whole body in dogs and cats, and only ^ Joth in that of rabbits*), and further, as Bidder and Schmidt have shown, the greater part of the amylaceous food of the sheep is con- verted into sugar before it enters the duo- denum. With such patent facts as these, and with objections to Bernard's views so many and so grave, I feel disposed to adopt the words of the learned translator of Leh- mann, and say, that " we may fairly conclude that the principal uses of this secretion are still unknown." V. Morbid Anatomy. The interest that attaches to the deranged anatomy of the pancreas is the interest of ob- scurity— the interest of diagnosis; I may add, too, the interest of situation ; in fact, it is fi om the situation of the organ that the importance and obscurity of its pathological relations at once result. Close to the stomach, duodenum, liver, spleen, kidney, aorta, cava, mesenteric glanils, and coeliac axis, it finds itself in im- mediate relation with the great vascular, nerv- ous, 'digestive and absorbent centres of the abdomen, and may either affect them second- arily, be affected by them, or furnish a source of I'allacy and doubt as to whether it be it, or thev, or both that are iniplicatetl: and while it is thus placed at the most important point in the whole range of medical anatomy, its situ- ation almost completely precludes it from the advantages of physical diagnosis. The pancreas enjoys an immunity from * It is a singular tiling that the very reverse of this fact, the assertion, namely, that the pancreas was larger inherbivora than earnivora, was advanced by Valentin in support of his views of the metamorphio action of the pancreatic fluid on starch. I had myself made some extensive tables of the absolute and re- lative size of the pancreas in carnivorous and herbivorous animals, and carnivorous and grani- vorous birds, those of a mixed diet, and in reptiles, also in young and old of the same species, but they are unfortunately lost ; all I can say from recollec- tion is, that in conformity with the statement in the text, I found the gland largest in carnivora, smallest in vegetable feeders, and intermediate in those of a mixed diet; its relative size was also inversely as the age, though apparently in uo re- gular ratio. disease greater than most organs, but I be- lieve this immunity is in part real and in part only apparent; for it cannot be doubted that one reason why the records of its morbid ana- tomy are so scanty, is that in so large a num- ber of post-mortems, no examination of the organ is made at all. It is the last to be got at, and the cause of death having been as- certained, its examination is looked u[)on as supererogatory ; besides, it is often obscured and mutilated in the removal of other organs, and its careful dissection from its situation, which is necessary to examine it satisfactorily, is troublesome and not very easy. Its simplest morbid conditions, and most common, are those of — a. Quantitativelij perverted nutrition—hij- pcrtrophy and atrophy, induration and soften- ing; and the commonest of all is, Hijpcrtrophi/. — It is difficult to say pre- cisely at what point hypertrophy of the pan- creas commences, because the limits within which the size of the gland may normally vary are so extensive that a considerable excess of volume is evidently quite consistent with anatomical and functional liealth. Generally, the hypertro[)hy is not pure, but is associated with some induration ; and in the majority of cases both the intluration and hypertrophy appear to result from chronic infiannnation, giving rise to some increase in the proper gland structure, but more to an effusion of lym[)h between the lobes and lobules by the partial organisation of which a great increase in the amount of the interlobular tissue is pro- duced. This gives rise to an ajjpearance of intersection by opaque membranous septa, giving the gland a scii-rhoid character; and hence, by some this morbid alteration has been considered as the first step towards scirrhous degeneration, and by others as actual scirrhus. Whenever the colour of an enlarged pancreas is deeper and redder than natural it may be inferred that the hypertrophy is due to this chronic inflammatorv action. Sometimes the enlargement is slight, sometimes it is very great. Dr. Fearnside* mentions a case in which the gland was four times its natural size, and could be felt as a large tumour during life, although the emaciation was not extreme. The results of the hypertrophy are very various ; sometimes it gives rise to jaundice by pressure upon the gall-ducts ; to dilatation of the stomach, dyspepsia, &c., by pressure on the duodenum and pylorus ; to occlusion, even, of its own ducts f, and to many distin-bances, functional and organic, oi neighbouring parts, produced by its altered volume and relations. Atrophy of the pancreas, mere diminution of volume unaccompanied by any other change, is sometimes idiopathic, but much more fre- quently caused by neighbouring disease, as for example, the pressure of some tumour. Morgagni found the pancreas atrophied from the pressure of a tumour in the liver. Dr. Hall found the same condition caused by a * Medical Gazette, vol. xlvi. t Copland's Med. Diet., art. Pancreas.