6T3 UTERUS — (Functions). When labour is about to commence, the uterus having previously taken a lower posi- tion in the pelvis, begins to contract gently, and often without pain, so that the only or chief evidence of its action is an occasionally recurring tension and hardness of the organ. These contractions commence apparently at the cervix, so far as it is possible to analyse them, and travel onwards towards the fun- dus * : the whole organ soon becoming firm and resisting to the touch, and its upper part rising and assuming a more prominent posi- tion in the abdomen. This hardness and tension is occasioned partly by the rigidity of the whole fibre, in a state of tonic contraction, and parti}' by the resistance offered by the in- compressible contents of the organ, for which there is no exit so long as the cervix remains closed. The contraction having overspread the uterus, a sense of pain is now first felt; the pain, like that of cramp, being usually propor- tionate to the sensible tension and hardness of the organ. After enduring for a time the state of con- traction gradually subsides, and is replaced by one of relaxation. In subsiding, the con- traction observes the same order as in com- inencing, the os and cervix yielding first, while the upper portion and fundus remain longest tense and hard. From this it results that the antagonistic force, exerted by the two ex- tremities of the organ, not being throughout contemporaneously and equally employed, the excess of the fundal over the ostial contrac- tion will represent the measure of the unop- posed, and consequently efficient, propelling power. The period of action is followed by one of repose, in which the organ remains relaxed, and no pain is experienced. After an interval of variable duration con- traction returns, and continues to recur in rythmical order, but with a gradually diminish- ing interval, while at the same time the con- tractions, especially at the fundus, increase in intensity and duration. As a result of these successive contractions, the OS and cervix slowly yield, and a portion of the foetal membranes, containing some liquor am nil, protrudes, in the form of a pouch. This, as the os uteri becomes still further opened, is followed by the head or some other portion of the child, which, having entered the vagina, ultimately fills up the pelvis, and distends the perineum. At this period the abdominal and pelvic nmscles are brought powerfully into play. Their cooperative action is occasioned by the parts of the child occupying the pelvis irri- tating structures which are abundantly sup- plied by spinal nerves. And now the chief use of spinal reflex action, in relation to sideration in a separate article (Parturition, Meohanism of. Vol. III. of this Cyclopaedia), tlie vital endowments only of the uterus, as far as these relate to the parturient act, are here examined. * Wigand, Die Geburt des Menschen. Berl. 1820. Siipp. labour, becomes manifest, not so much in regard to the uterus itself, whose contractions are probably still mainly dependent upon its own sympathetic nerves, as in that correlation with other parts, between which and the uterus it is essential that consentaneous action should be occasionally established. The powerful cooperation of the abdomi- nal muscles, which form as it were an addi- tional sheet of contractile fibre, nearly sur- rounding the uterus, being thus enlisted, the passage of the child is completed with greater rapidity and certainty ; and, after a pause, the placenta and membranes are expelled, the liquor amnii having, either altogether or in part, escaped at some earlier period of the labour. This general sketch of the operations of the uterus in labour will suffice as an intro- duction to a more detailed and critical exami- nation of the nature of the forces employed, and of the manner in which these are called forth. Of the peristaltic action of the tttcms, and its cause. — From direct observation upon many mammalia, it is known that the action of the uterus is in them peristaltic, i.e., the contrac- tions commence at certain points, and pass on from segment to segment slowly, and in a ver- micular manner. If a single point of an organ so composed is irritated, the action starts from the point of irritation, and spreads outwardly, and by irritating different points, other peri- staltic centres may be obtained. Although the human uterus does not admit of the same direct methods of observation which can be employed in animals, yet from all that is known, we may conclude that its mode of contraction does not differ in any important particuhir from that of other simi- larly constructed hollow muscles, when en- gaged in pro|)elling or expelling their contents. The principal circumstances bearing upon this point in regard to the human uterus are the gradual and slow contraction, followed by an equally slow return to a state of relaxation —phenomena easily observed, when the hand is placed upon the abdomen of a woman in labour—a certain tremulous motion of the os uteri, when contiaction is commencing, fol- lowed by a sensible gradual hardening of the uterus, before the woman is herself conscious of pain ; the longer abiding of the contrac- tion at the funtlus than at the cervix ; and the occasional segmental contraction of the organ after labour, commonly termed hoicr- glass contraction*, which may occur at any point intermediate between the fimdus and cervix, and which resembles similar contrac- tions of common occurrence in other hollow muscles, whose action is peristaltic. These several circumstances, added to the general analogies, suffice to show that the action of the human uterus is peristaltic. Peristaltic action, as it occurs in vertebrate animals, is found to depend u[)on the struc- ture of the organ displaying it, rather than * See p. 702. X X