688 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. render the morbid conditions of this coat, re- garded singly, of less pathological importance than the abnormal states of the other tissues. The pathological conditions of the serous coat are chiefly those of acute or chonic meii'operi- tonitis, terminating often in exudative processes and the subsequent formation of ailhesions be- tween those portions of the uterus which are invested by peritoneum and adjacent struc- tures, such as the Fallopian tubes, ovaries, Jig. 420., small intestines, and the like. These adhesions are occasionally so exten- sive as to affect the figure of the uterus, and in most instances they deprive it of its natural mo- bility, and impede or destroy the functions of the parts or organs appended to it, so that an abiding sterility frequently results. The ova- ries becoming invested by a capsule of false membrane, are tied down and atrophied, while the tubes lose their power of motion or their canals become obliterated. The uterine peritoneum is sometimes alone affected, while the appendages escape. If the inflammation has not proceeded to the form- ation of bands of adhesion, there may result only some slight processes of false membrane which remain and fringe the surface of the organ. These little fringes or processes, con- sisting of delicate folds of membrane, often contain vessels which are easily injected. The peritoneum suffers considerable dis- tension with correlative hypertrophy in the case of tumours which project from the outer surface of the uterus. These become inva- riably covered by an extension of the peri- toneum, which is especially strong about the base of the peduncle occasionally acquired by such tumours. 2. Patliological conditions of the sub-peri- toncaf fibrous tissue. a. Perimetritis. Partial chronic metritis. Peri-uterine phlegmon. Retro-uterine tumours. — The subperitoneal fibrous tissue which con- nects the peritoneum with the uterine sub- stance, like the peritoneal coat itself, is subject to inflammation. In those situations where the union of the outer and middle coats of the uterus is very intimate, the distinction be- tween a peritoneal and a subperitoneal inflam- mation may not be possible, but where this connexion is very loose, and is effected by the interposition of a lax fibrous tissue, inflamma- tion may ap[)arently have an independent seat without afTecting at all, or with only a |)ar- tial inclusion of the uterine parenchyma, and sometimes of its peritoneal investment. The term "peri-utei-inc" has been employed by some authors*, with a view perhaps of avoiding confusion, though at the cost of a solecism, to distinguish these affections from others commonly termed perimetrial. In this article, however, inflammation of the subpe- ritoneal fibrous tissue will be designated peri- metrilis, while inflammation of the peritoneum * Monat, Observation Medicale (Gazette des Hopitaux. 1850.) Bernutz et Goupil. Recherches Cliniques sur les Phlegmons pe'ri-uterines. (Ar- chives Ge'ne'rales de Mc'decine. Mars 1857.) itself, which some include in the latter term, is distinguished as metro-peritonitis. Perimetritis consists in an acute, or more often a chronic inflammation of the tissue, which loosely attaches the peritoneum form- ing the base of the broad ligament to the proper substance of the neck and lower por- tion of the body of the uterus. The relation of the peritoneum and of the loose fibrous tissue surrounding the cervix uteri have been described at page 631.,where also attention was called to the peculiar lax tissue of this kind which unites the posteriorcervical wall with the portion of peritoneum forming the retro-ute- rine pouch (/^. 4.33. G.). Here, particularly, this inflammatory affection has its seat, although it occasionally extends around the sides of the cervix, so as partially to encircle that part, or more rarely it may involve only the fibrous tissue connecting the anterior cervical wall with the posterior surface of the bladder (fig. 426. b b, and Jig. 433. p.). The anatomical conditions of these peri- metrial inflammations are deep congestion of the vessels, accompanied by serous, and occasionally by sanguineous, and possibly fibrinous infiltration of the loose tissue of this part, which, on account of its extreme laxity, readily admits of a great degree of distension. In this way is rapidly formed a tumour which almost invariably occupies the space between the peritoneum and the posterior wall of the uterus, at the point where the body joins the cervix (retro-uterine tumour). The recognition of such a tumour or swell- ing during life, by physical signs, is not difficult. The finger introduced into the vagina, so that its extremity reaches the point of reflexion of the posterior wall of that canal forwards on to the uterine neck, discovers, just above tiiis spot, a hard or semi-elastic projection, which seems to grow out of the cervix just at its point of junction with the body of the uterus. The surface of the tumour towards the rec- tum, upon which it encroaches, is convex, and is either smooth or irregularly nodulated, while between the tumour and the neck of the uterus is usually perceived a notch more or less deep, and comparable in form to that which separates the body from the neck of an ordinary retort. Hence this condition may easily be mistaken for the retorted uterus, which it closely resembles in many particu- lars. The surface of the tumour is exquisitely tender, while the adjacent uterine structures are free from tenderness. The comparative frequency of this aflfec- tion *, and the constant and severe suffering which result from it, especially in married women, in whom it is usually found, may justify here a brief exposition of the peculiar anatomical condition and relation of parts which appear to me to conduce to its production. From the view of the pelvic viscera given in * I believe that it is often confounded not only with retroflexion, but also with retroversion, fibrous tumour, and hypertrophy of tlie posterior uterine wall, and tliat hence tlie frequency of its occur- rence has not been commonly recognised.