351 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. extremities, on the bulging surface of the fol- licle. Racemose, or Srunii^s glands. — The re- maining constituent of the compound intes- tinal membrane is one which, unlike all the preceding minute organs, is limited to a very small segment of the canal. It consists of a number of highly ramified tubes, which are usually termed the glands of Brunn, but might preferably be named the racemose or duodenal glands. These glands occupy that upper part of the small intestine already distinguished as the duodenum ; of which segment they are thus, as it were, the natural index, or the characteristic structure. The racemose glands are small " conglo- bate " masses ; which in their size, structure, and position, closely resemble those accessory salivary organs that stud various parts of the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the mouth. Like these " labial " and " buccal" glands, they occupy the sub-mucous areolar tissue : and are therefore best examined by pinning out a piece of the duodenum on some flat surface, with its mucous side downwards, and then carefully removing the serous and muscular coats. Such a dissection easily ex- poses ihem, as small roundish white granules of about the size of a millet seed. They vary considerably in size and arrange- ment. Immediately beyond the pylorus, they are of one-tenth to one-eighth of an inch in diameter ; and are present in such num- bers, as to form what is almost a glandular layer around this part of the intestine. But lower down in the duodenum, their size dwindles to one-half or one-third of the above: and their scattered grains gradually become more sparing in number; until, shortly before the termination of its inferior transverse portion, they cease altogether. On tracing out the structure of an isolated duodenal gland under the microscope, it is seen to consist of numerous lobules; which are aggregated into a single mass (c c^fig. 272.), by an enveloping layer of fibrous tissue. And on applying a still higher magnifying power, each of these lobules may be again resolved into smaller ones, which resemble a bunch of gra[)es, and constitute the true or ultimate acini of the gland. As seen in situ, these vesicles have a globular or slightly polyhedral form; and a diameter which is about -j(joth to a^yth (on an average, 3 Jyth) of an inch. But when separated from each other, they often exhibit more irregular shapes {d,Jig. 273.). They are the terminal dilatations of tubes, which are themselves about two-thirds of this size. On tracing these minute tubes towards the general mucous surface, they will be fountl uniting with other similar ones, to form larger ducts. The successive union of these with other ducts formed in the same way, and of these larger ducts with their neighbours, gradually causes all their cavities to converge into a sintjle canal of outlet, which is the proper efferent duct of the gland. This duct now passes between the intestinal tubes before described, to open on the free surface of the intestine, in the depres- sion.s which intervene between the rudimen- tary villi present here. The valvule conni- Fiq. 272. Racemose or duodenal gland, as seen in a vertical section of the duodenum. Magnified 40 diameters, a, intestinal tubes; b, muscular stratum of the muooiis membrane ; e, c, acini of the duodenal gland, which occupies the submucous areolar tissue; d, transverse layer of the muscular coat; e, longitudi- nal layer of the muscular coat; /, peritoneal tunic of the bowel. ventes are not permeated by any such ducts. But in all other parts of its surface, the general mucous membrane is pretty evenly Fig. 273. Diagram of the arangement of the lobules of a duode- nal yland. a, duct of the lobule ; b, collateral branch of tliis duct; c, tlie acini around sueb a duct in situ ; d, the same separated, and the duct unfolded. Studded by their apertures, two or more some- times passing through it in company with each other. Hence each of these glands may be briefly described as a tube, which branches repeatedly, and ends in very minute canals, with some- what vesicular extremities. The whole of this involution of mucous membrane is composed of tlie usual elements ; namely, limitary membrane and epithelium. The former constituent offers no peculiarity worihy of note. The latter consists of a single tesselated layer of cells. These have a poly- gonal and slightly flattened shape, which some-