RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 264. fibres proceed, under a modified form how- ever, over the walls of the intercellular pas- sages and air-cells. The muscular and fibrous structures are discoverable in the walls of the bronchi 'nftcr these latter have penetrated within the bounds of the lobuli; but never the cartilaginous. This latter element, how- ever, exists in the walls of the smallest of the extra-lobular bronchi. The extreme end of each bronchus is the common mouth of the infundihulum of Rossig- nol; the peduncle of the pulmonary vesicles of Reisseissen ; the origin of the interlobular passages of Addison. The bronchi divide mi no constant or regnlar jilan. — Small branches sometimes proceed from a large stem, at different angles, from every point of its circumference. Fis. 210. Diagram of portions of the human lung imperfectly injected loith wax, exhibiting the mode in which tite intercellular passages a, a, a, spring from the ultimate bronchi b, b. These are smooth-walled, those alveolated. {Original.') Frequently they multiply dicliotomously (6, Jig. 210.) ; that is, a single tube divides into two of equal diameters. Sometimes the main bronchus exhibits a zigzag outline, the branches proceeding from the alternate angles. This latter method obtains with great con- stancy in the case of the intralobular bronchi. The number of branches within the lobule into which a bronchus subdivides bears a general proportion to the size of that lobule. In the smallest, the intercellular passages begin from two or three bronchial peduncles; in the largest, from eight or ten. In some instances a second or supplementary bronchus enters a lobule at the side. It is, however, the rule, that each lobule is supplied only with a single central bronchus. The point of attachment of the bronchus is the f//;r.r (ri) of the lobule (A) ; the opposite point being the base. The angle of division in the bron- chial tree is, for the most part, the obtuse. This disposition of the tubes favours, mecha- nically, both the ingressing and the egressing column of air.* It has been maintained by Dr. Radcliffe Hallf, that the contractility of the bronchial tubes is called into action rhythmically in each expiratory movement, to assist in emp- tying the lungs. But no evidence has been adduced in support of this doctrine. If the contraction of the bronchial tube, through muscular or any other force, occurred at the first stage of the act of expiration, it is ob- vious that it would arrest rather than favour the egress of the air. It is not, however, im- probable, that a certain regulated power over the outgoing column of air is exerted by the parietes of the bronchial tubes. This is more likely to consist in a shortening and length- ening of the tubes. They may also serve to regulate the supply of air to the lobules, in accordance with the wants of the system, just as the contractility of the minute arteries regulates the supply of blood to the organs to which they proceed. J It may possibly be through this channel that the remark- able variation is elFected in the amount of respiration which adapts the quantity of heat produced to the depression of the external temperature. It has been further suggested by Dr. W. Gairdner^ that the contractility of the smaller bronchi may serve to expel col- lections of mucus which may accumulate within them, and which neither ciliary action nor the ordinary expiratory efforts suffice to displace. Ultimate pulmonary tissue. — Lobules.— Historical bibliography. — From the dawn of anatomy to the present age, " the struc- ture of the lungs " has proved a fertile theme for disputation. Anterior to the era of Mal- pighi, anatomists were wont to regard the lungs as consisting of " a spumous tissue," in which air and blood became directly inter- mixed. Malpighi || first demonstrated the untenableness of this view. He placed the fact beyond doubt, that the air and the blood were contained in separate channels.H He described the air-cells, and contended that they communicated among themselves, but not with the blood passages. In the year 1665, Bartholin wrote to de- * " Kien n'est plus varie que la longueur de ces ranicaux, le mode do ramification qu'ils subissent, le jiombre de leurs siibdivisions et la direction que celles-ci aff'ectent. On peut cependant les rapporter h. deux types principaux: le premier comprend les tubes aeriens qui sont sourais au mode de division par ramifications alternes; le second, ceux qui sub- issent la loi de dichotomie ou de tricliotomie."—Re- clierches snr la Structure intime du Poumon de I'Homme, &c. par M. Rossignol. Bruxelles, 1846. t Trans, of Prov. Med. Assoc. 1850. J Carpenter, Principles of Human Physiology, p. 514. § Edinburgh Monthly Journal, May, 1851. II iMarcellus Malpighi, Opera omnia, Lugd. Ba- tav. 1687, p. 320. Lettre premiere. 1 "Ex trachea in ipsas mox ex una in alteram paleiis sitaditus et tandem dcsinent in coutinentem membranum."