KUMINANTIA. 521 ated. This is especially the case in the Giraffe, w here the breadth increases towards the posterior border, at which point it is extremely thick. It is more or less curved in the Camel and Giraffe, particularly in the latter. We have observed in the skeleton of an Arabian Camel, preserved in the Edinburgh College of Surgeons' Museum, tliat the se- cond boiif of the sternum is of very great bulk, whiie the first is small and tlat ante- riorly. The pelvic bones are broad and strong in the Camels and bovine tribes, and compara- tively slight in the Antelopes and Deer. In the Giraffe and in the Camelidse the crest of the ileum is rounded, the neck long, and the upper surface of the bone concave. The ileum is extremely prominent and large in the Ox and Bufftilo, and in respect of the neck, acquires an almost vertical position ; the prominence of the ischium is placed on a higher level than the cotyloid cavity. In ruminants generally, the posterior angle of the ischium presents the appearance of a tripod. The ischiatic notch is deep. In Qigosceridffi. Cervidee, and Antelo|)idae, there is a depression immediately in front of the cotyloid cavity for the insertion of the ten- don of the straight muscle of the thigh. In Moschus, according to M. F. Cuvier, the sacro-ischiatic ligament and connecting apo- neuroses ossif)', in consequence of which there is formed in this region a shield-like osseous plate extending from the crest of the ileum to the ischial tuberosity.* Bones of the anterior exlremUy. — There are no traces of a clavicle in this order. The scapula is long, and has the form of an isosceles triangle, the base of which is repre- sented by the spinal border, and the apical angle by the glenoid facet. In Camelidce the spine of the bone is prolonged downwards over the neck, forming, in this respect, an approach to the pachydermatous type. The acromion apophysis is likewise developed in Bovidse; but it can scarcely be said to exist in other ruminants. In every division of the family we find the neck of the scapula much elongated, and the extreme manifestation of this peculiarity in the Giraffe, together with a nearly vertical direction of the bone, pro- duces the remarkable elevation of the shoulder, characteristic of that animal. The coracoid process exists only in a very rudimentary condition, or is altogether absent. The rela- tive disproportion between the supra and infra-s()inal spaces is very striking; usually the former consists only of a narrow plate of bone, but its development in the Camel is more cogent. In Bovidae the root of the spine is blended and continuous at its acro- mial end with the anterior scapular border. The humerus, according to its thickness and bulk, affords a very fair criterion of the comparative activity and strength of the different species. In Camelidse and Bovidae this bone is very massive, and the tuberosities * For details, see Art. " Pelvis." are of great size, the lesser prominence being more elevated than the greater in the first of these two tribes, and hollowed out in front by a capacious channel. The linea aspera stands out boldly, and the external and in- ternal condyles are drawn back, as it were, to deepen the olecranon cavity. The tro- chlear grooves and ridges are also well marked. The foramen for the passage of the nutritious artery is generally situated at the commencement of the lower third of the bone ; but a slight variation is occasionally observed. Thus, in regard to its position in the Giraffe, Professor Owen states that the " medullary artery enters the bone at its inner side about the junction of the upper and middle third," while it is added, that in the skeleton preserved in the Museum of Comparative Anatomy at Paris, the vessel enters the left humerus at the point of union of the middle and lower third.* We have found a similar disposition to occur in our example. The foramen enters at the posterior and inner surface of the right humerus, and is situated very near the centre of the shaft; but in the bone of the left side it is placed further down, as in the Parisian specimen : the opening is likewise rather smaller. The bones of the forearm (Jig. 346., A. 2,3) are Fig. 346. ^ 13 Bones of the fore and hind limbs of the Deer. (From Lond. Coll. Surg. Museum.) * Memoir, foe. cit.