259 RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. range of motion within which the hirynx is capable of changing phice. The diameter of this tube is greater in the male than in the female, at the lower than the upper ex- tremity ; it is nearly cylindrical in figure, and permanently patulous. It is composed in the human subject generally of about eighteen cartilaginous rings ; of these rings the pos- terior fourth is deficient; the circle is com- pleted at this interval by a musculo-mem- branous structiu'e. The tracheal muscle stretches from one extremity of each cartila- ginous ring to the other: the trachea is therefore contracted in diameter by muscular action, and enlarged by the elasticity of the ring- cartilages. The rebounding property of these cartilages results physically from their ring- like figure : they tend constantly to straighten themselves; this perpetually acting force preserves the patency of the tube. The con- vexity of the tracheal rings is directed for- wards, the membranous interval being placed posteriorly : by this arrangement the exemp- tion of an important organ from external injury is secured. Against the accident of occlusion during the movements of the neck artful provision is made in the flexible and elastic nature of the structures by which the rings are tied together. The trachea externally is everywhere em- braced in loose areolar tissue; upon this circumstance depends the great range of its longitudinal mobility. Its posterior aspect is in contact with the oesophagus, which is interposed between it and the vertebral column. The recurrent laryngeal nerve, ascending to the larynx, is placed in the in- terval between these tubes. In front of the trachea are situated the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles, which leave an interval in the median line, through which the deep cervical fascia enters to embrace the windpipe. The brachio- cephalic and left carotid arteries, leaving the chest through the episternal notch, lie on the trachea near the top of the sternum : above this limit is observed the plexus of the inferior thyroid veins, and near the larynx it is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body : on either side and parallel to it are the carotid vessels and the lobes of the thyroid gland. Entering the limits of the thorax, the trachea is in relation anteriorly with the first piece of the sternum, anil the sternal extre- mities of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid, and to the left, in a descending order, with the in- nominate vein, the commencement of the inno- minate and left carotid arteries, which tend towards the sides of the tube, with the arch of the aorta and the deep plexus of nerves, and at the point of its bifurcation it is in contact with the pulmonary artery at the place at which this vessel subdivides into branches. Lying between the two pleurae, the trachea is contained in the posterior mediastinum ; on its right side it is in relation with the pleura and pneumogastric nerve, and on its left, with the carotid artery, the pneumogastric, re- current and cardiac nerves. Structural anatomy of the trachea. — The tra- chea is constructed of cartilage, yellow and white fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, blood- vessels, lymphatics, and glandules, the whole being internally lined by a dense stratum of ciliated epithelium. These parts may best be described from within outwards. Tlie tracheal mucous memhrane is a develop- ment of the pharyngeal. (Henle). It forms a Fiz. 204. T^eriical cutting tJirough the epithelial mid sub-epi- tlielial layer of tlie trachea. (After Kijlliher.') a, h, basement or homogeneous membrane; c, the first race or growth of epithelial cells; c, d, the last, further evolved; e, the adult, surface, ciliated cells. layer of 0*024—0-04'" in thickness; it re- solves itself into two distinct layers, including severally two equally distinct orders of cells ; the undermost, resting immediately on the basement membrane, is composed of orbicular and fusiform particles, measuring from 0 004 to 0'005"', and bearing a clear conspicuous nucleus of from 0-0025 to 0 003.'" The superficial stratum is constituted of the adult cells; they consist of club-shaped bodies, armed at the free outermost end with cilia (each single cell carrying about 50 cilia)*, and elongated at the proximal end into a long tapering tail : in length these cells average Fiiy. 205. Separate cells taken from the epithelium of the trachea, tlie loioest, smallest, and globular, being the youngest; the uppermost, elongated, and ciliated, the oldest. * According to Valentin's counting, each cell supports no more than from ten to twenty-two cilia; but I have often reckoned many more, ' s 2'