467 SYMPATHETIC NERVE, by Diipiiy, on the other hand, it was de- scribed as the immediate consequence of the same. Reid found in his experiments that the contraction of the pupil invariably takes place in the dog and cat, but in the rabbit the result is not so constant. Reid also showed that it was not the section of the trunk of the vagus, but that of the sympa- thetic, that was the cause of the contracted state of the pupil. According to Valentin the effects produced differ considerably in different animals : in the dog the pupil be- comes very much contracted : the contraction is not immediate, but ensues within about half a minute after the nerve has been di- vided. Stimulus applied to tiie nerve still causes the pupil to dilate, but in a few mi- nutes it again contracts, until it is not larger than the head of a pin, and remains so for months. The contracted pupil has generally a circular form ; there are, however, occa- sionally seen particular inequalities in its margin which change from time to time. When belladonna is applied the contracted pupil dilates, but does not reach the size which the sound pupil attains under similar circumstances. When the aqueous humour is tapped the contracted pupil becomes slightly widened, while at the same time it assumes a longish round form. In the sound eye when treated in this way the pupil be- comes diminished in size. Bifii fonnd that slight dilatation of the pupil followed irritation of the ascending or carotid branches of the sympathelic, division of these being also followed by contraction of the pu[)il, though to a less extent than takes place after division of the sympathetic cord in the neck. Irritation of the superior cervical ganglion gives rise to the greatest dilatation of the piq)il; so also when the same is extirpated the contraction of the pupil is very great. A number of researches have recently been made, in regard to tiiis subject, by Budge * and Waller. When the stimulus of the mag- neto-electric apparatus is applied to any part of the sympathetic cord in the neck, dilata- tion of the pupil takes place ; the part of the nerve nearer the chest being, hovvever, less irritable than that higher up. The superior cervical ganglion is not only more susceptible of the stimulus than any other part of the nerve, but the efix;ct proiluced upon the pupil also lasts longer. The dilatation of the pupil may be produced by the application of the galvanic stimulus to any part of the sympa- thetic, from the inferior cervical ganglion to the ophthalmic ganglion. Irritation of the sym[)athetic below the inferior cervical gan- glion, however, has no effect upon the pupil. As regards the origin of the fibres in the sympathetic which influence the pupil, they might be supposed to proceed from three sources:—1st. They might be regarded as prolonged upwards from the thoracic portion of the main coril, the inferior cervical gan- * See Budge, in Vierordt's Archiv. fiir pliysio- logische Heilkuude, 1852, Ergiinzimgs Heft. glion being an organ interposed to prevent the transmission of stimuli. Against this view, however, there is the circumstance that the fibres still pass through three ganglia before they reach the eye, the superior cervical, Gasserian, and ophthalmic. 2nd. They might be su[)posed to arise in the inferior cervical ganglion, or to be derived from the spinal cord through the medium of the rami communieantes. If they arise in the gan- glion, the section of the sympathetic cord below this, or of the branches which are con- nected with the ganghon, ought not to give rise to any contraction of the pupil, this de- pending, according to Budge, upon the separa- tion of the nerve-fibres from their centre. In a dog which had been put under the influence of chloroform, the inferior cervical ganglion was sought, and the main cord of the sym- pathetic below the ganglion, as well as all the branches in communication with the latter, were divided one by one. Of all these, only one was found which acted on the pupil. Division of this branch sometimes gave rise to as decided contraction of the pupil as division of the sympathetic cord in the neck. In order to ascertain whether the branch in question has its origin in the spinal cord, the following experiment was made. A rabbit was put under the influence of ether, and the sympathetic of the left side divided in the neck ; the spinal column was then opened and the spinal cord cut across in the region of the third dorsal vertebra, and galvanic stimulus applied to the upper cut extremity of the cord ; straightway the pupil of the right side dilated, while that of the left side, on which the sympathetic had been cut, did not vary in the slightest. From further ex- periments it was found that stimulus ap|)lied to the spinal cord below the sixth dorsal ver- tebra has no action on the pupil ; above this point, however, and as high u() as the fifth cervical vertebra, dilatation was observed on ajjpiication of .stimulus ; the portion of the sjiinal cord which has most influence on the pupil being that in the region of the first three thoracic vertebrae. As regards the particular fibres in the sym- pathetic on which its sensory and motor en- dowments depend, Volkmann* believes that none of the fine fibres, described by hm as sympathetic fibres, are possessed of sensory properties in their normal condition. In support of this view, he states, l.st. That the number of these fibres is greatest in parts which are least sentient, as is the case more or less with all the organs of vegetative life, and especially with the pia and dura mater, and arachnoid, with the [)eriosteam and with the blood-vessels. The circumstance that these parts are so very seldom, and some of them never, the seat of impressions which are transmitted to the sensorium, must, Volk- maim observes, raise a suspicion that the very rich network of nerve-fibies which occurs in them are not possessed of sensory properties, and the results derived from experiments, as * Loo. cit. p. 601. 11 H 2