88 PANCREAS. mate structure of glands, has contributed more than any other author to our knowledge of this pai'ticular section of general anatomy. In the human pancreas the follicles are so closely packed that their individual shape cannot well be seen ; but in the rodents the arborescent arrangement of the gland exhibits them well; and they are seen, when isolated, to be ovoidal or nearly spherical*, although, in the central part of the lobulcj they become variously pol3'gonal from mutual compression. The outline, however, even where they are not compressed, is not that of smooth sphe- rules, but presents slight convexities cor- responding to the epithelium within them ; br.t the endosmosis of water, by detaching the epithelium from the basement membrane, and at the same time distending the follicle, causes these convexities to disappear. There is great difference in the size of the follicles, some being as much as -^^ih of an inch in diameter, some as small as g-jj^jth ; and the extremes in size will often be contiguous, a very small one packed among many large. The average size of a pancreatic follicle is about TnTrr'^'i °^ inch. The number of fol- licles in a single group varies still more, being from half a dozen to a hundred or even more. In the rodents these groups are often entirely separate from one another on every side; but in most of the mainnialia their isolation is not so complete, and they are more or less massed and fused together. Fi^. 58. loose and unattached appearance, the simi- larity of their granular contents to that of the secretion when free, and the want of definite- ness of outline in many of them, which seem dissolving in their own contents, the cell-wall having disappeared, and the cluster of con- tained granules merely marking its situation. (See^g, 37.) In neither of the stages can I detect nuclei. From the great opacity of the more advanced cells, and their grouping towards the centre of the follicle, they give a portion of pancreas, viewed with a low power, a mottled appearance, a dark spot marking the centre of each follicle, and the number of dark spots showing the number of follicles, which, in some parts, from their close packinj, could not be otherwise counted When the follicles are ruptured, the epi- thelium escapes, and the two forms may be seen floating freely about. Fig. 38. repre- sents some of the more advanced cells ; they are magnified 400 diameters, and are seen to be filled with the particular granular matter which imparts to them their darkness and opacity, and which differs only from the free granular matter floating about in the secretion in being localized and confined by the vesicular envelope of the cell. What might be called the granular or molecular base of the pan- creatic fluid, is evidently the contents of these mature cells, liberated by the rupture or solu- tion of the cell-wall. The cells that have attained this appear- ance, although they may be grouped together, as seen in Jig., 57. are never adherent to one another. The less advanced cells, however Fig. 59. J Isolated cells of mature secreting epithelium from tJie pancreas of the Rat, showing their opaque g7-anular contents. (^Magnified 400 diameters.') /8. The epithelium is of the glandular type, spheroidid or polygonal in shape, varying in diameter from ^_L^th to TioVuth of an inch, and presenting two distinct appearances, in- dicating, I think, two stages of development — an early stage, and one of more complete ■ maturity. The cells of the early stage are \ smaller, more spherical, homogeneous in i structure, and most abundant at the peri- 1 pherae of the follicles or in immediate contact i with the basement membrane. The more ! advanced cells are larger, of more varied shape, full of granular contents, and loosely aggregated towards the centre of each follicle. I consider the form first described to be the early stage because the cells are so small, are in contact with or near the cell-generating surface, and are free from secretion con- tents. The others, I imagine to be the more advanced stage, from their greater size, their * In Cruveilhier's Anatomy, p. 633. note, it is said that the ultimate follicles of the pancreas are c\ liiuhical, while those of the salivary glands arc slightly dilated. (.') Epithelium hherated Iji/ rnpttire of the follicles, show- i)i<ltlie iiutliod of (ii iaciiiiieiir,undtiie mutual lateral adhesion, of the cells. Front the 3Iouse, (^Mag- nified 200 diameters.) or those in contact with the membrane of the follicle, are often so closely adherent, that when they escape from their containing fol- licle they form little crescentic masses, as seen in fg. 39., the convexity coinciding with the follicle-membrane, the concavity with the central space, and the adherent surfaces of the cells presenting the appearance of radiat- ing lines, passing from convexity to concavity at right angles to them : this close package of the epithelium gives it a columnar appearance ; and, indeed, some of the little crescentic groups referred to closely resemble the scraps of sheaths of columnar epithelium shed from an intestinal villus during digestion. Sometimes, instead of the follicles being filled with distinct epithelium cells, they ap- pear to contain a number of variously-sized globules, of a smooth, homogeneous, and highly refracting appearance, surrounded by a me- dium of much less refracting power, and