PELVIS. 161 (/) in the Kangaroo, Phascognic, and Potoroo, is not parallel with the spinal column, but Fig. 99. Pelvis of the Kaiic/aroo, showing the marsnpial bones {ad) and inter-sciatic epiphysis (c). oblique in the opposite direction to the human symphysis, so that if prolonged forwards the hne of direction would cut the spinal column at an obtuse an^le. This makes the posterior opening larger in its antero-posterior diameter than it otherwise would be, and allows for the great encroachment of the caudal ver- tebra posteriorly. The sciatic notch is long and narrow, corresponding to the great lengtii of theischia ; and the foramen obturatorium is large and elongated antero-posteriorly liom the same cause. In the Dasi/urus and Pe- taumts, the ischio-pubio synifihysis is oblique in the opposite direction. The antero-pos- terior diameter of the anterior outlet in the Kangaroo is greater than the transverse by about half an inch ; but at the posterior outlet, the transverse is a little greater, from the pro- jection of the caudal spines before mentioned. The pelvic cavily is deep in the Marsnjnalin, and its openings are small in proportion to the size of the animal, since the foetus is expelled before it is fall grown, and placed on the nipples in the marsupial pouch to com])lete its deve- lopment into a state of independent existence. But the proportion between the pelvic open- ings and the size of the foetal head, at the period of expulsion, is very remote. Even in the Petaurists, whose pelves are the smallest, the cavity and openings are six times the size' of the foetal head. The muscles of the tail and legs attached to the pelvis are, in the Kangaroos, very powerful to perform their prodigious leaps, especially the gracilis and biceps. The glutei, however, are not large, since the trunk is not held erect on the legs by these muscles, but is suspended, as it were, between the femurs, and supported in front by the largely developed psoiE muscles, and iichind by the powerful tail, used as a propelling organ by the sudden action of its flexor nuiscles. The pelvis of the Monotrcmala resembles in general appearance the reptile type, although Su2)p. in some other respects these curious animals, especially the OvnUhorhyncus, approach the Birds. The sacrum of the Ornillwrhijncus is composed of two vertebrte, separated, as in the Saurian reptiles, and placed in the line of the lumbar curve, differing little in appearance from the lumbar vertebrae. In the Echidna are three sacral vertebras, also separated and all uniting with the ilia. The ilia are short, thick, and prismatic, and project above the spine at an angle of 140° as high as the sacral spines, and presenting, in the Ornithorhi/ncus, considerable eversion of the alse, and, in a much less degree, in the Echidna also. The ischia are short, bent upwards in the former, and project backwards at the tuberosi- ties in an angular spine, most marked in the Ornithorhyncus, and giving a reptile-like ap- pearance. The jjubes are broad and short, placed at a markeil angle with the ilia, 110° in the Echidna hijstrix and 120° in the Ornithu- rhijnciis, and uniting by broad plate-likc rami with the ischial rami, which form with them a long ischio-pubic symphysis. The ischio- pubic plate thus i'ormed is very like that seen m the reptiles. The marsupial bones are also present, and are very large and strong in this class, allhough not provided with a pouch. In the Ornitho- rhi/ncus they are broad and triangular, articu- lated by the base to the whole length of the pubic crest meeting in the median line, and with their rounded a|)iccs directed forwards and outwards. In the Echidna they are longer, rounder, more pointed ami less everted, with two articular processes at the pubic extremity i^sce Jig. 177. Art. JSIonotrcmata). The ilio-pectineal spines are also very lai'gc in the Ornilhurki/Hcus, and in a less degree in the Echidna. The obturator foramina are small. The three pelvic bones are united at the colyloids by bony union in the Ornithorhi/ncus. In the Echidna hi/strix, the union of these bones is, however, effected by cartilage only, and the acetabula are perforated by a consider- able opening into the pelvic cavity,constitutmg another remarkable reptile-like peculiarity. Having traced the Mammalian pelvis to a form presenting somewhat of the reptile type in the IVIonotremes, we may now recur back to an order of animals which, from thei'' general organisation, are connected closely to the order of primates, and are usually placed much higher in the animal scale than the position here assigned to them. These are the Sloths or Tardigrades, which form the connecting link between the Simia- and Edentata proper. Their pelvic peculiarities, however, ally them more closely to the Birds. The most striking of these is the ossification of the ilia and ischia to the broad sacrum, by transformation of the sacro-iliac and sacro- scialic ligaments. We have already noticed an exceptional example of this coalescence in the Kumiiiants, in the Meminna or pigmy Chevrotain. But the pelvis of the Edentata also presents a diminution of the [)ubic sym- physis, and the absence of the ischia from this junction, a separation which is carried M