UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 666 down, and subsequently discharged, along with the menstrual fluid. According to the observa- tions of Pouchet*, such an exfoliation of ute- rine epithelium takes place monthly in women and the mammalia generally. Pouchet, indeed, maintains that not only is there a monthly desquamation from the uterus, but that this extends to the separation and expulsion of a deciduous membrane on each occasion, and that this expulsion, which takes place in the form of the broken down elements of the deciduous lining of the uterus, constitutes the process described by him under the title of intermenstruation. Such an exfoliation, if it extended only to the epithelial cells sur- rounding the uterine capillaries, would sim[)ly leave them bare, but if proceeding to the ex- lent of removing the whole deciduous uterine lining, would of necessity carry off with it the whole capillary network of vessels, (see 539.) lying upon the face of this membrane, and consequently would leave a surface of torn capillaries, from which the haemorrhage might occur-j-, and this in fact takes place in cases when dysmenorrhoeal membranes are discharged {fig. 448.). (rf.) The blood is supposed to escape by permanent vascular orifices. In the present state of our knowledge, the evidence in support of this view is not more conclusive than that upon which the preceding hypothesis is built; yet many circiunstances lend colour to it. The (juestion of a termina- tion of the uterine vessels by open orifices has been occasionally, though obscurely, touched upon by different authors. Thus, Madame Boivin %, a most careful observer, after speak- ing of the " perspiratory orifices of extreme minuteness," visible upon the inner uterine surface, evidently meaning the orifices of the now well-known uterine glands, describes the manner in which the blood may be made, by pressure, to appear in droplets upon the inner surface of the uterus when death has occurred during menstruation; and,without giving a per- sonal opinion, she elsewhere quotes the then prevailing views, that the blood is furnished by the exhalent extremities of arteries termi- nating upon the inner surface of the uterus. Dr. Sharpey ^ endeavoured, by various ex- pedients, to determine what is the precise re- lation of the blood-vessels to these orifices * The'orie Positive, Huitifeme Loi. \ Pouchet, who does not enter upon the question of the effect which such a monthl}' denudation of the inner surface of the uterus would have upon its capillary vessels, nor, indeed, at all upon the con- sideration of the precise mode in wliich the menstrual fluid escapes, makes this supposed exfoliation and expulsion of the menstrual decidua occur at the periods intermediate between those of the menstrual ifiix. Thus the idea of a separative process, which might liave been made comparable with that occur- ring in labour, when tlie entire ovum is thrown off and a bleeding surface is left, from which the lochi- al discbarge takes place, loses its significance from the circumstance that tliis phenomenon is said to happen at periods when there is no bleeding. X M(;m. de I'Art des Accouch., quarto ed. p. 61. et seq. § Mliller's Physiology by Baly, p. 1579. in the decidua a little more advanced*, as, for example, in early pregnancy; but after express- ing his conviction upon the subject, the pre- cise anatomical connection between the two is left undetermined. Ordinarily, in injecting the uterus with fine coloured fluids, I have ob- served the cavity to become filled, the injec- tion apparently escaping by the glandular ori- fices, which also themselves may be seen filled with injection. In some specimens a capillary branch may be observed passing to and stop- ping short at one of these canals or orifices, and having much the appearance of an open vessel. Without personally expressing an opinion upon this point until I have carried further some experiments now in progress, I may observe, that the idea of a permanently open termination of vessels here need not be set aside upon the objection that such an ar- rangement would produce a constant bleeding, because the vessels supplying the blood must first pass through a dense muscular tissue, amply sufficient to control or arrest bleeding, as indeed it does effectually after labour, when much larger mouths are laid open, and also occasionally when menstruation is suddenly arrested by powerful mental impressions,acting apparently upon the inuscular fibre of the uterus; while many positive facts might be adduced in support of such a view, such as the frequent bleedings of uterine polypi, which are always invested by mucous membrane, the ready passage of fluids through the surface of the latter when their main vessels are injected, and the like. What is the jjurpose of menstruation ?— To this question no reply will be satisfactory which does not include the consideration of many other circumstances besides the mere escape of blood. Menstruation has evidently a much deeper signification than is declared simply by the flux, which is probably not the most important part of the function, although it constitutes the external sign or evidence of it. Amid all the crude hypotheses of former times, such as that menstruation is due to fer- mentation, lunar influence, and the like, some of the older writers appear nevertheless to have had a dim perception of the truth when, under the form of an elegant type, they shadowed forth that which appears to be the real pur- pose of the menstrual act. The French term, "fleurs," and the English, "flowers," are now fallen into disuse; but they were employed in earlier times as designations of menstruation, for the purpose of suggesting that, after the example of trees, which do not bear unless the fruit is preceded by the blossom, so a woman does not become pregnant until she also has had her flowers.f Menstruation is not established until the ovaries have reached a certain stage of de- velopment, and the maturation and discharge * It must be observed that throughout this article the terms " decidua" and " mucous or lining membrane of the uterus" are employed as strictly synonymous. " t Mauriceau, Malad. des Fernmes grosses. 1681.