139 PELVIS. 8"7 millimetres above the sacro-lumbar joint, or just above the pelvic arch. .All v^eight on the arch, such as that of the trunk, is sup- ported most easily when its line of gravity falls through this part, and coincides with that of the whole body in the transverse vertical plane, and the trunk will ,be found to be thrown into such a position, when supporting heavy weights, as will tend to produce this effect. And, according to the researches of Rokitanski, when the sacro-vertebral angle and pelvic inclination is increased, as by hip disease, there is alvcays a compensatory curve of the spine backward, to keep the centre of gravity above this point. In artificial constructions for the purpose of transmitting a weight downwards from a central to two lateral points, a segment of a circle, or arch is most commonly made use of, and generally consists of two lateral curved portions, composed of separate parts or voussoirs, with an interposed substance between them called a keystone or crown- piece, of a wedge shape, and placed with the broad end uppermost. This wedge shape exactly corresponds to the interval which would be left between the lateral curved pieces, having their ends cut square. Any force operating on the keystone from above tends only to di ive the broader part of the wedge further between the lateral pieces, at the same time pressing them nearer to each other, and so to increase the firmness of the arch, so long as the extremities are firmly fixed in the ground and prevented from start- ing outwards, which is generally accomplished by means of abutments. Constructed upon this plan, the pelvis pre- sents two lateral curved thickened buttresses or columns, passing from the cotyloid to the sacro-iliac articulations, and two others pass- ing on a plane posterior to these from the tuberosities of the ischia along their de- scending rami, and through the ilia to the same sacro-iliac articulations ; and interposed between each of these corresponding lateral pieces is the common keystone of both the arches thus formed, the wedge-shaped sacrum. The sacrum thus forms the common cul- minating point of two arches, viz., the coli/lo- sacral or standing arch, and the ischio-sncral or sitting arch. And the planes of these two arches are so directed as to coincide or be- come applied to each other at the top of the great sciatic notch, as may be seen by reference to the diagram {Jig. 80. A, a a ). In this comparison, however, it must be borne in mind, that the extreme tenacity and strength of the material used, bone, obviates the ne- cessity of the use of many pieces in the lateral portions, such as the "voussoirs" of stone arches, and is more analogous to the iron materials sometimes used for this purpose. And it is in these lines of pressure that we find the bulk and strength of the osseous structure of the pelvis most displayed. The span of the cotylo-sacral arch being greater, and more elliptical in the female than in the male, where it is almost circular. renders them less ableto support heavy weights; and on account of the greater distance to Fig. 80. A, diagram of the pelvic arches:—J, a, i', cotj'lo- sacral arch; c, a, c', ischio-sacral arch; l>, d, V, cotj'lo-pubic tie; c,d,c', ischio-pubic tie. li, diagram of pelvic levers : — c,a, line of gravity; r, b, pubic lever; B', w, cotylo-sacral lever; w, p, posterior spinal or iUac lever; p, c, direction of spinal power; w, c, direction of spinal weight; F, cotyloid fulcrum; d, femoral support. which it separates the femurs, contributes to produce the waddling gait in running which is characteristic of this method of female pro- gression. Instead of abutments to prevent the extre- mities of the arch starting outwards, we often see, in artificial constructions, a connecting link or tie extending between these extremi- ties to hold them together, or the circle of which the arch is a segment is completed below, as in tunneling. Such a tie and completion of the circle we have in the horizontal rami of the pubic bones, for the cotylo-sacral arch, and in the united ischio-pubic rami, for the ischio-sacral arch ; and they are connected in front, at the pubic symphysis, exactly as these two arches themselves are behind at the sacro-iliac joints. By the vertical ischio-pubic arch thus formed, that portion of the pressure which has a tend- ency to push forward and upward the extre- mities of the ischio-sacral arch, is supported and thrown upon the cotylo-sacral arch, the whole weight of the trunk, in a sitting posture, being thus divided between them The ischio- pubic rami are the parts of the pelvis most liable to fracture, according to Cruveilhier, from the application of force acting on the ischia. The cofi/Io-pubic arch not only resists the starting outward of the ends of the cotylo-