SYMPATHETIC NERVE. i2i carotid canal in the temporal bone, it com- monly cliviiles into two branches which pass along the canal with the internal carotid artery, the one being situated rather to the inner, the other to the outer side of the vessel; they form numerous intercommunica- tions with each other, giving rise to what is termed the internal carotid plexus. (r) rhaiyiigealBranches.—These, from three to six in number, leave tiie upper and inner margin of the ganglion, pass inwards and down\\'ards, and unite with the pharyngeal branches of the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves to form the pharyngeal plexus. (rf) External lateral Branches.—These vary in number ; sometimes there are only two present; at other times as many as six or eight. They have a greyish-red colour, and from the softness of their texture were termed by Scarpa nervi moUes, from their being chieHy distributed to the blood vessels, they were named by Soemmering vascular branches. They arise from the front of tiie ganglion, and pass downwards along the internal carotid artery to the point of division of the common carotid, where they give rise to the external carotid plexus. Some filaments also unite with the superior laryngeal nerve. (e) Sivpcrior or long cardiac Nerve, named also the superficial cardiac branch, varies in thickness, and is sometimes absent. It arises from the anterior and lower portion of the superior cervical ganglion, sometimes from the intermediate cord between that and the middle cervical ganglion, and sometimes it derives filaments from both sourc^-'s. It runs downwards upon the longus colli muscle and to the inner side of the sympathetic cord, and passes behind or in front of the inferior thyroid artery. In its course through the neck it forms conmiunications with the ex- ternal laryngeal and descendens noni nerves; it also comnnuiicates with the vagus and re- current laryngeal nerves, and sometimes with the phrenic. Not unfrequently it is joined by the cardiac branches, which leave the middle and inferior cervical ganglion. It passes into the chest in front of or behind the subclavian arterv, and along the arteria innominata, to terminate in the cardiac plexus. The nerve of the left side, after entering the chest, runs along the left carotid artery to the arch of the aorta, passing sometimes in front and sometimes behind that vessel. (y) Communicating cord between the su- perior and middle cervical Ganglia.— The con- necting cord between the superior and middle cervical ganglia is commonly single, but occa- sionally consists of two distinct portions. It passes from the inferior extremity of the superior cervical ganglion, which sometimes seems to be prolonged downwards into it, along the surface of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, behind the carotid artery, and rather to the imier side of the pneumogastric nerve, as far as the inl'erior thyroid artery. Before sinking into the miildle cervical gan- glion it sometimes divides into two portions, one of which passes in front, the other behind the vessel just mentioned. The communi- cating braULhes with the third, fourth and fifth cervical nerves frequently join it instead of passing to the cervical ganglia. There is also, according to L. F. Meckel, sometimes formed upon it, above the inferior thyroid artery, a small ganglion termed by some the superior thyroid ganglion, and by others the middle cen-ical ganglion. 2. Middle cervical ganglion, smaller than the superior ganglia of the same name, pre- sents an irregularly oval or triangular shape, and is situateil on or near the inl'erior thyroid artery. Communicating branches pass be- tween it and the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; it is also sometimes connected by filaments of communication with the vagus and phrenic nerves. From the inner side of the ganglion several delicate greyish filaments pass off which surround the inferior tliyroid artery forming a plexus, which is termed the inferior thyroid plexus. These branches communicate with the recurrent and internal laryngeal nerves, as well as with the upper cardiac nerve. The middle cervical ganglion also gives a branch which is sent to the cardiac plexus. This branch, termed the middle or deep cardiac nerve, arises from the ganglion by from two to four roots which unite into a single or double stem. It passes into the chest in front of the subclavian artery, but sometimes behind that vessel, and runs along the arteria innominata to the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side it enters the chest be- tween the left carotid and subclavian arteries. 3. Inferior cervical ganglion, varies in its size and form, which, in general, is more or less semilunar; its convexity being directed downwards, its concave margin upwards. It is situated between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, behind the subclavian artery, and behind and to the outer side of the root of the vertebral artery, {a) Branches of com- munication pass between the ganglion and the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, as well as the first intercostal nerve. It also sometimes comnnuiicates with the phrenic nerve and recurrent Iar3 ng3eal. (J)) From the ganglion proceed several fine twigs, which surround the subclavian artery as well as its branches, forming small plexuses about them. One of these accompanies the vertebral ar- teries ; according to some it passes up along with the artery into the cranium, subdividing into as many secondary plexuses as there are branches of the artery. Blandin states that he has followed the branches of the nerve along the basilar artery, upon the posterior cerebral and cerebellar arteries. Whilst situ- ated within the canal in the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebra it communi- cates with several of the cervical nerves. According to M. De Blainville several gan- glia occur on this branch, equal in number to the cervical vertebra, and hence he regards the vertebral branch as the continuation up-