OVUM. 72 Fig. 52. Microscopic structure of the elements of the yolk and ovarian, ovum of the Fowl. A. Large granular corpuscles of the yellow part of the vitellus; one of them quite spherical, as they are seen when free; two others angular from mutual compression, from a boiled yolk. B. Various corpuscles found on the confines of the yellow yolk and the cavity and canal, showing transition forms to the next set. c. Clear vesicles containing oil globules and de- tached oil globules of various sizes from the cavity and canal. D. From the cicatricula; a, various-sized granules and globules forming the vitelline disc of the yolk before its discharge from the ovaiy; b, the organised nucleated cells forming the upper layer of the cicatricula in a laid egg; e, larger cells of the lower layer; d, cells of the cicatricula from an egg in its descent through the oviduct in process of formation. A scale with divisions of -J^. of an inch is appended. spherical; as, for example, in the cartilaginous fishes, in which a remarkable variety occurs of a cubical form, and sometimes these mixed with tetrahedral forms, as in the skate.* When free, these corpuscles in the yolk of the bird's egg roll easily on the surface of a plate of glass as perfectly distinct spherical bo- die.s. They present (see Jig. 52, a) a minutely molecular or granular aspect, but with quite a smooth outline or margin to the whole cor- puscle. If subjected to pressure, or cautiously ruptured with needle points, they break readily at one or more places, and allow the escape from their interior of the thick granular fluid, which flows slowly out of them in a stream. The granules are in large quantity, as compared with tiie fluid in which they are suspended, and are most of them of an ex- tremely minute size, probably below -aotroo- of an inch in diameter. '■ See Miiller's Pliysiolog)', vol. ii. Although the yolk corpuscles present the distinct external margin now mentioned, and thus constitute capsules containing the gra- liular fluid, yet we cannot, in most instances, detect any vesicular membranous envelope surrounding them. One may sometimes ob- serve a delicate limiting line ; but it has been impossible for me to determine whether it consisted really of a membrane or of a thin condensed layer of the granular substance or plasma containing it. At an earlier period it is probable that these corpuscles have mem- branous envelopes, but when fully formed the greater number are certainly destitute of them ; for occasionally a larger corpuscle may be observed to divide into smaller ones, the outlines of which are nearly as distinct as that of the larger corpuscles. Nor is any nucleus in general to be per- ceived in these corpuscles. I have occasion- ally seen in those from which the granular matter was escaping, and which had thus be- come less opaque than usual, a slight ap- pearance of a clear hyaline circular space, but it scarcely deserved the name of nucleus ; and if these spherical bodies are to be regarded as cells, which 1 think they ought, it must be in a somewhat different acceptation from that in which the term cell has hitherto been gene- rally applied to vesicular organised structures. But recent researches on the early condition of cells seem to have rendered it necessary that we should include under this denomina- tion several simple spherical minute forms of organised or organising matter, which were not at first regarded as true cells by the authors of the cellular view of organic struc- ture ; and when we consider the mode of their formation, it is more than probable that the vitelline corpuscles now under consideration may be included among the number.* They probably constitute, at all events, as Schwann has first shown, one stage of deve- lopment of a cellular structure; and, in the meantime, they may with propriety be styled the larger granular yolk corpuscles. There is considerable uniformity in the ap- pearance and structure of these corpuscles in nearly the whole of the deeper-coloured por- tion of the yolk; but immediately below the vitelline membrane, several layers of them are of a smaller size, and the outermost layer of all consists of cells which are much smaller and more compressed, distinctly nucleated and of a short cylindrical or prismatic shape. In some places also, corresponding to the con- centric lighter lines which run through the yellow yolk, some approach is seen to the next kind of yolk cells or corpuscles, which I shall have to describe—viz., those of the cavity. The substance of the yolk-cavity and canal, which in the unboiled egg may be distin- guished from the other part by its lighter * The above observation has a general application to such minute spherical masses of matter as are destitute of external envelope or nucleus: but in reference to the corpuscles of the yolk, I ought to observe that Schwann regarded them as cells in various stages of growth.