435 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. characteristic specimens of cither are examined the diiference is sufficiently marked ; yet in Fig. 285. f'rnm a branch of the coccygeal nerve inside the dura mater of Man. {Mag.BoOdiam.) After Kolliker. some parts of the branches of the sympathetic in the higher animals it is difficult to hmit the two species of tissue, and between the most characteristic of the fibres and many em- bryonic tissues the most marked resemblance exists. In the ultimate distribution of the sympathetic there seem to be, as Kolliker observes, none but fine tubular fibres present. If, then, the fibres of Remak be kept out of consideration, as not being possessed of the properties of nerve-fibres, are there any fibres in the sympathetic which can be regarded as differing in their anatomical constitution fi-om those occurring in the nerves belonging to the cerebro-spinal system ? In 18^-2 iSidder and Volkmann described particularly the distinc- tion in point of structure between the tubular fibres, which have been mentioned as being present in the sympathetic. They measured the tubular fibres, and found that wliile some of them had a diameter of 0-00016 to 0-00068 of an inch, others measureil only 0-00012 to 0-00022; and between the two sizes they observed no fibies of intermediate breadth. They also measured the branches which enter and those which leave the ganglia in tlie frog. The latter were found to exceed the former in point of thickness, which coulil on\y be at- tributed to the addition of structures arising in the ganglia, anil on examination they ob- served that the increase in thickness of the one over the other was due to the presence of a greater number of tul)ular nerve-fibres belonging to the finer variety ; and hence it was concluded tliat these are the peculiar organic or sympathetic fibre. The coarser variet}'they regarded as arising in the cerebro- spinal centres, while the fibres belonging to the finer variety always, according to them, take their origin in the ganglionic system. They describe these fibres as being about half the diameter of those belonging to the cerebro- spinal nerves ; they are furtlier ilistinguished by tiieir |)alcness ; the absence, under all cir- cumstances, of the double contour, and the small quantity of curtllike contents which they present even when examined some time after death, and by their yellowish-gray colour when in bundles. 'J'he distinctions between the broad and fine tubular fibres, as given l)y Volkmann and Bidder, were denied by Valen- tin, who stated that the fibres of these au- thors were nierely fibres of Reniak. Reichert, on the other hanti, confirmed the observations of Bidder and Volkmann as to the difference in point of size and structure between the cerebro-spinal nerve-fibres and the sympathetic or organic fibres. The description which is given by Remak of the gelatinous fibre does not, as Volkmann and Bidder maintain, apply to the fibres which they have described : they are much finer, ten times finer, than the cerebro-spinal fibres, whereas the fibres of Bidtler and Volkmann are generally only a half narrower than these fibres. The relations of the two structures towards reagents as well as their general characters are also very dif- ferent. Kolliker agrees with Bidder and Volkmann that there are nerve fibres in the sympathetic which are not derived from the cerebro-spinal system, but arise from the ganglionic cor- puscles ; he farther confirms the observation of these authors, that all the fibres which arise in the sympathetic belong to the finer variety of tubular fibres, and that they present the characters which they were described by Bidder and Volkmann as possessing ; he de- nies, however, that they are peculiar to the sympathetic system. Fme fibres agreeing with these in structure arise, according to him, in the cerebro-spinal system, as well as in the sympathetic. Again, the diameter of the coarser and finer varieties of the tubular nerve fibres is by no means so strictly limited as Bidder and Volkmann believed, there being transitions from the finer to the broader or coarser variety. Besides occurring in the sym- pathetic, they are likewise present in tlie anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, especially in the latter; and in the brain and spinal cord they exist in large num- bers. Another objection to the views of Bidder and Volkmann as to the peculiar na- ture of these fibres is derived from the fact that it is by no means uncommon for the broader tubular fibres to divide into finer fibres during their course to the periphery, becoming narrower and narrower, and at the same time losing their distinct double contour; ami hence in their ultimate distribution they consist almost entirely of fine fibres, which cannot be distinguished from those described by Bidder and Volkmann as constituting the peculiar fibres of the sympathetic system. Volkmann himself now admits that the dis- tinction between the broad or animal nerve- fibre and the fine or organic is by no meiins always strictly defined, and also that the broad tubidar or animal fibres, in their peri- pherical distribution, assume the characters of the others. It would appear, then, as Kiil- liker maintains, that there is no absolute dis- tinction between the fibres of the sympathetic and those belonging to the cerebro-spinal system ; the difference is merely one of rela- tion and degree : while the nei'ves of" the latter system consist chicjlij of broad tubular fibres, the sympathetic is chie/iu composed of fine ones. r I.- 2