61 OVUM. men 58, the yolk 31 J, and the shell with its lining membrane, lOJ. When eggs are kept exposed, they gradually sustain a small loss, due chiefly to the eva- poration of water, and amounting to about one grain per day. When putrefaction ensues, an additional loss from chemical changes occurs. During incubation, the loss of weight is more considerable, amounting in twenty-one days to 16 or 17 per cent., or nearly one sixth of their entire substance.* The loss by an egg during incubation, therefore, is eight times as great as that which occurs in an egg kept at the usual atmospheric tem- perature for the same period—a circumstance which depends partly on the higher tem- perature, but principally on the evolution of carbon from the oily matters of the incubated egg, in combination with the oxygen of the air, or as carbonic acid, &c. Of the 17 parts per cent, lost during incu- bation, not more than 5i or fi consist of water, and the remaining two thirds, that is 10 or 11 parts, are derived from the oily and other substances of the egg which undergo chemical changes attendant upon the process of orga- nisation and respiration of the embryo. By evaporation to dryness of the whole egg without the shell and membrane, about 27 per cent, of the substance are left; the oily ingredients of this residue, amounting to about lOf, are almost all contained in the yolk, and the remaining 16i parts of solid matter are nearly equally divided between the yolk and the white. The yolk, therefore, is much richer in the fixed and solid parts than the white ; but its specific gravity, as will afterwards be seen, is considerably reduced by the larger quantity of oily matter it con- tains : the per-centage of solid matter (inde- pendently of the oleaginous substance) con- tained in the yolk and albumen, is in the pro- portion of 32 in the first to 14 in the second.-j- The solid residue obtained by evaporation of the white at a low temperature, amounting to nearly one seventh of the whole, consists chiefly of albumen ; along with which there is also some animal matter which has hitherto been named by chemists as extractive, and a small amount of salts, which are principally alkaline sulphates, muriates and phosphates, with phosphate of lime, some free soda and sulphur. The yolk contains little more than half its weight of water, or 54 per cent. The remain- ing 46 parts consist of about 17 of albumen, or analogous principles, 28 of oily matter, and 1| of salts. These last are chiefly alkaline mu- riates and sulphates, phosphate of lime and magnesia, and traces of iron, suljihur, and * See Prout, On the fixed Principles of the Egg, Philos. Trans, and Annals of Philos. for 1822. Also, by the same author, On the Changes of the Egg in Incubation, in the same Journal, for 1823.; and, Paris, On the Physiology of the Egg, in Linnean Soc. Trans, vol. x. p. 3U4, and Annals of Philos. 1821. t See Prevost and Morin, in Joarn. de Pharmacie for 1846, and Sacc, in the Eggs of the IJantam Fowl, in Annal. des Scien. Nat. for 1847, p. GU. phosphorus. The albumen has an alkaline, the yolk a neutral, reaction.* The membrane lining the shell consists apparently of a protein compound, analogous somewhat to that of the elastic yellow tissue. The shell consists of earthy salts deposited in a delicate matrix of animal matter, which last constitutes not more than 3 per cent, of the whole. The earthy ingredients are in great part carbonate of lime, together with a little carbonate of magnesia, and phosphate of lime and magnesia. Of the ingredients of the egg before men- tioned, the albumen and other animal prin- ciples, together with the sulphur and salts, are no doubt more immediately employed in the growth of the embryo; while the oily matter, besides contributing, as it appears, in some part, to the same purpose, serves more directly and in greater quantity for the re- spiratory process, in which it is consumed largely during incubation. The alkalinity of the white of egg appears to depend on the presence of caustic soda, which albumen has the property of separating from its carbonate. The following tabular view exhibits in a general way the change in the relative pro- portion of the ingredients of the egg resulting from incubation f : — Fresh Incubated egg. egg. Shell and membrane - . 10-G7 10- Albumen, &c.- ... ly-g 19-4 Oily matter, &c. - - .18-83 G-5 Water 52-7 47-1 X r Water - 5-Gl l0ilymatt.,&c.n-4| 100-00 100-00 When an egg is examined immediately on being laid and while yet warm, or still better when taken from the egg-bag of the fowl pre- vious to laying, the yolk and white fill com- pletely the interior; but immediately on cooling, a small space or vacuity appears ge- nerally towards the obtuse end of the egg, and this air-space increases gradually in size as the eggs are longer kept and the natural evapora- tion of water proceeds. This space is formed by the separation of the two principal layers of the lining membrane of the shell. Duriiio' incubation the air-space increases much more rapidly; and indeed towards the end of this * Composition of the yolk, according to Gobley, in Journal de Pharmacie, 8e. se'r. torn. ix. p. 174. Water, about - - - 53- Vitelline, albumen, and protein com- pounds 16-5 Oily matters ----- 29- Salts, &c. 1-5 100-0 These salts are the following—viz., chloride of sodium and potassium, sulphate of potassa, muriate of ammonia, pho.sphates of lime and magnesia, lactic acid, colouring matter, iron. t From Sacc, loc. citat.