SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 432 pearance. The lower cervical ganglion pre- sents an irregularly oblong sha[)e, about i-th of an inch in length and Vy^th of an inch in thickness, and still has the appearance of being pro'onged downwards into the first thoracic ganglion. The thoracic giinglia are much smaller, measuring about —th of an inch ; and are more or less triangular in shape, present- ing the lobulated aspect above described. The connecting cord between the different ganglia has a reddish grey colour, is flattened, mea- suring about T.V'h of an inch in breadth, and presents the appearance of consisting of dis- tinct bundles of fibres. A portion of these can be traced over the surface of the ganglia, others appear to sink into them, while a con- siderable number can be traced into the rami communicantes. The latter are very distinct; some of them in the thoracic region appear to be almost as thick as the cord of the sympa- thetic itself, and all of them present the same greyish red appearance. On turning inwards to the sympathetic, many of their fibres are seen to be prolonged into the main cord of the S3mpathetic, and merely run along the sides of the corresponding ganglia ; these pass both upwards towards the head, and down- wards in the direction of the pelvis. They join the spinal nerves at the point where the anterior and posterior roots become united into a common trunk. By far the greater portion of the fibres in the rami communi- ciuites run inwards towards the spinal cord. The splanchnic nerve, which is about |th of a line in thickness, has a whiter aspect than the main cord of the sympathetic. The nerves on the surface of the heart are very numerous and distinct, presenting the same arrangement as has been already de- scribed. The coeliac and epigastiic plexuses are also large ; the latter containing several ganglia. There are also several small ganglia ill the plexus upon the abdominal aorta. The ganglia on the cerebral and spinal nerves [iresent much the same appearance as those in the animal after bii th, only they are softer and have a redder colour. As regards the development of the sympa- thetic in the human subject, it would appear from the observations of Lobstein*, that in the embryo of the 14th week, about three inches in length, the main cord of the nerve was very apparent. Lithe chest it constituted a thick cord of a red colour, the ganglia being closely approximated towards one another. The superior cervical ganglion was very well formed, and about two lines in length, and half a line in thickness. The great splanchnic nerve existed as a very delicate filament: the semi- lunar ganglia were almost imperceptible. In an embryo male, about five months, old and measuring six inches in length, Lobstein found the trunk of the sympathetic very dis- tinctly developed. It constituteil an uninter- rupted cord extending from the base of the cranium to the pelvis. The superior cervical * De Nervi Lj-mpathici humani fabrica, usu, et morbis, cap. iii. p. 47. ganglion was rounder than in the adult: it was three lines in length, and about half a line in thickness. The greater splanchnic nerve was very distinct, but verj' delicate, and arose by three roots. The semilunar ganglia were small, indistinct, and measured only about half a line in their greatest diameter. They were adherent to the supra-renal cap- sule and to the vessels. The thoracic ganglia, with the exception of the first, constituted little enlargements about half a line thick. According to Kiesselbach, the solar ganglia do not make their appearance until about the 7th month. At the 3th month, he found the ophthalmic and submaxillary ganglia formed ; and about the 6th month, the spheno-palatine ganglion a[)pears ; and in the 3th month, ac- cording to the same author, the communi- cating branches between the sympathetic and cerebro-spinal system appear. In the foetus of eight months, the superior cervical ganglion, according to Lobstein, mea- sures about five lines in length, and a line and a half in breadth. The greater splanchnic nerve is very distinct, but very fine, and terminates in an imperfect semi-lunar ganglion. In the foetus, at the full period, the superior cervical ganglion, according to Lobstein, mea- sures about 8A lines in length, and furnishes four filaments to the branches of the external carotid, while a fifth is lost on the crico- thyroid artery. The thoracic ganglia are well formed, and measure about a line in diameter, with the exce[)tion of the first, which mea- sures about 3 lines. They are of a red colour; and nearly all of them receive two branches from the intercostal nerves. The trunk of the sympathetic is very thick ; the interval between the ganglia is about ith of a line. The lumbar ganglia are very apparent. The semilunar ganglia are of small size com- pared v/ith the other ganglia. Lobstein failed to find the coccygeal ganglion in the child immediately after birth; according to Kiessel- bach, on the other hand, it appears about the fifth month. <3 © ®©*© 0 © A, ganglionic corpuscles from the Gasserian ganglion of a calf li ineli in length ; B, nerve-tibres from the same; c, tVom one of the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic in the same animal. With respect to the minute structiu'e of the ganglia and nerves in the foetus, the Gas- serian ganglion in the foetal calf, U inch in length, consists of the following elements: 1st, bodies measuring from the ^o^^.th to the