640 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. tion of the papillae, all but the finer kinds may be viewed as consisting of the same elements as the mucous membrane itself, for they apjiear to be produced by mere notchings or indenta- tions, extending more or less deeply into that membrane ; they are, in fact, little more than repetitions of the plicae and sulci upon a smaller scale, with a slight difference of form. They serve to extend the secreting surface, and possibly to expose a larger aggregate superficies of vascular and nervous tissues. One or more long and slender blood-vessels may usually be traced from the muscular coat running into each papilla. These are suf- ficiently conspicuous in thin sections without the aid of injections. By the aid of the latter they may be seen to terminate in vascular loops upon the ends of the papillae, just as similar vessels maybe observed to form wavy coils upon the crests of the plicae by which the cervix is lined. The filiform papillae, both larger and smaller, are more finely-constructed than the rest. They often end in a slightly bulbous extremity. Those upon the outer portion of the cervix are usually single, their length being from two to six limes that of their breadth. The free uncovered filiform papillae of the cer- vical canal and margms of the os are relatively much longer. These latter are commonly branched, and in conformation occasionally resemble the early villi of the chorion. Each villus, whether single or ramified, contains usually a single capillary loop, which returns upon itself, and at the base passes on to an- other villus. Covering the capillary loop is a delicate basement membrane, uniting toge- ther the clear granule-holding nucleated cells, •which constitute the epithelial covering as well as the substance of the villi, and of which a description has been already given. No nerves have been traced into the papillae, though Kilian* is of opinion that they are spe- cially tactile or sensitive structures, and from various circumstances to be hereafter con- sidered, it will appear probable that they are connected with the special nervous attributes of the cervix. I am disposed, however, to regard the sensibilities of the cervix, such as they are, as resident chiefly in the filiform papillae. The mucous crypts or follicles of the cer- vix are, for the most part, simple depressions in the mucous membrane, although in cer- tain situations they penetrate more dee|)ly, and approach in form the ramified and tortu- ous canals of the uterine body. Scarcely any portion of the cervical canal is free from these follicles, which serve to increase the extent of mucous surface, and apparently to furnish the special secretions of this part. They not only fill all the interspaces between the pri- mary and secondary folds, but they are dotted over the ridges and prominences of the cervi- * See a valuable paper by Franz M. Kilian, en- titled. Die Structur des Uterus bei Tliieren, in Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitscluift, IX. Bd. cal lining membrane in countless numbers, extending from the internal to near the ex- ternal OS uteri. They commonly cease at a short distance from the margins of the latter, where a smooth space is often observable in one or both cervical walls. But they may be sotnetimes perceived at the very border of the lower orifice, and when in such a case one or both lips are slightly everted, as for example in certain hypertrophies of the cervical lining membrane, this follicular portion becomes protruded, while its florid colour, limited by an abrupt margin of the unaltered and |)aler squamous epithelium here suddenly commencing, an appearance is produced which may also easily be confounded with an ulcer. The mucous crypts seldom extend beyond the border of the os, except in the cases just quoted, when, in fact, the relative situation only of the parts is changed. A few, how- ever, may be sometimes seen scattered at tole- rably regular intervals over the vaginal por- tion of the cervix. They sometimes also occur here, as well as within the cervix, and even in the uterine cavity, in the form of closed vesicles containing an opaline fluid, and |)er- haps may be regarded as in some instances pathological new formations. The cervical mucous crypts are lined by epithelium and basement n)embrane. They contain a small quantity of mucus, together with granule cells. Those upon and near the margins of the os uteri may be sometimes observed to contain short papillae within their margin. Shod Vessels of the Uterus. The Arteries are derived from two sources, viz. from the internal iliac and the ovarian or spermatics. The vessels supplied from the former source are termed the uterine arteries. These are two in number, one for each side. They arise from the anterior division of the internal iliacs, and proceeding downwards and in- wards pass between the folds of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus. Here they take an upward course along the lateral border of the organ, describing several flexuo- sities, and giving off, in succession, branches to the upper part of the vagina, the neck, body, and fundus of the uterus; the latter inoscu- lating with the branches derived from the spermatics. Free inosculations also take place in the substance and upon the surface of the uterus between the branches of the two sides, so that the entire uterus may be injected from either set of vessels. The branches derived from the spermatic or ovarian arteries also enter between the folds of the broad ligament, and inosculate with the superior divisions of the uterine vessels near the fundus of the organ. , , When, after a successful injection, thin slices are cut from the substance of the uterus and dried, and afterwards placed in Canada balsam, the whole appears to be a mass of vessels ; the arrangement of which, however, may be easily