180 PELVIS. was only 4 feet high, and had never walked nor menstruated, the sacrum and innominate bones were connected bj' cartilage only, but the ischio-pubic rami were united. It pre- sented, in size as well as form, the charac- teristics of that of a child of six or seven years old. The conjugate diameter was larger than the transverse, the ilio-pectineal line little curved, and the cavity funnel-shaped, the sub-pubic angle being only 30j°. The bones were not rickety. Tlie organs of generation, both internal and external, were infantile. The measurements and appearance of this pelvis are contrasted by that author with those of the dwarf previously described. The arrest of development seems to have tciken place in the present case at a period long before the changes of puberty, as shown by the imdeveloped genital organs; so that the cases differ only in the degree of immaturity. Such cases as the latter are not likely to require the aid of the accoucheur. In accouchements at a premature age, how- ever, some of the yet-remaining peculiarities of the infantile pelvis may [iresent difficulties in parturition, among which the contraction of the diameters, if not their want of adult propor- tions, will be the chief. At the period of puberty, the transverse and oblique diameters eidargemuch more rapidly, in the female, than the antero-postei'ior, anil begin to preponderate over them, while, at the same time, and in a great measure in consequence, the pelvis begins to assume its adult " standard " appearances. The full ilevclopment of size, however, is somewhat later in being accomplished, and depends upon the completion of the ossifi- cation. These changes of the pelvis take place, as explained by iVIr. Shaw *, somewhat later than those of the upper parts of the body, in the transition from the infant to the adult state, but proceed to a greater extent, so as to reverse the excess in proportionate size from the upper to the lower extremities. The pelvic growth and the developments of puberty may, according to the same authority, be retarded to a later period than the usual age, fourteen years, by a weakly constitution or rickets ; and the female, adult in age, still remains infantile in pelvic development. In a case mentioned by De Fremery f, the three parts of the innominate bone were distinctly separate in a female at so late an age as seventeen years. Some remarkable cases of extreme mobility of the pelvic bones in chil- dren are also related by Deventer. But the development in size may proceed to its ftdlest extent, and yet the development in shaj)e and jjrojwrtioii be arrested, and the transitional form unchanged. In a spe- cimen given by Dr. Murphy, of a female adult pelvis, the diameters were above the standard size, but the antero-posterior dia- meter was 5^ inches, and longer than the transverse ; the transverse of the outlet pro- portionately diminished ; the cavity shallow ; and the general ibrm of the pelvis infantile ; * Op. cit. t Dissertatio de Mntatione Figurre Pelvis. Levdcn, 793, p. 14. but the bones perfectly ossified. The pelvis has the shape and proportions of that of a child, and the size of an adult female {see Jig. 113 ). To judge from the appearance of this specimen, as seen in the drawing given by Dr. Murphy, it seems to be a pelvis in which the transverse processes of the last lumbar vertebra are enlarged, ank^ losed to the sacrum, and ar- ticulated with the ilia, giving the appearance of five sacral holes instead of four. This would account for the increased antero-posterior diameter, and apparent elevation of the sacrum. Cases of this kind are more especially de- scribed in the latter part of this article. Dr. Knox has observed that the male pelvis also sometimes permanently retains the infan- tile form, to which it is normally more ap- proximated than the female. In one of this kind in his possession, the greatest transverse diameter was nearest the sacrum, and only Aths of an inch larger than the conjugate. Fig. 113. Adult pelvis of infantile J nrm. {After Slurphy.') Masculine pelvis. — In females of a robust frame and powerful development of muscle, and accustomed to hard masculine labour, the pelvis often presents the character of the male in many important respects. The transverse measurement of the brim is proportionately smaller, the antero-posterior diameter being often increased, and the shape of the brim is thus rendered more oblong; the sacrum is narrower, the pubic symphysis longer, and the cavity deeper, and rendered fuimtl-shaped and less roomy, by the approximation of the ischial tuberosities ; by which also the sub-pubic angle is diminished to 60° or 70°. The ischial- spines are longer, sti'onger, and project more inwards ; the ilia are less expanded, and the bones larger, more massy, and more marked than in the standard'''' pelvis. Dr. Knox is of opinion that in many in- stances the true pelvis may be of normal size, and yet the haunches be remarkably narrow, owing to a want of proportion of the true and false pelvis ; so that while the walls of the latter are flat, upright, and approximated, the true pelvis is of proper dimensions. He adds, moreover, that the opposite dispropor-