STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 392 poorer in all the solid ingredients : and the further continuance of lactation appears chieHy to increase its casein and salts, and diminibh its sugar. The copious ingestion of fatty or starchy substances seems to increase the buttery constituent. The over-feeding of a wet-nurse causes her to secrete a milk abnor- mally rich in butter and casein, and injurious to a delicate child. Finally, vigorous exercise appears to diminish both these constituents, especially the former. Butler.— The composition of the butter contained in milk is as yet but imperfectly known. That of the Cow is stated by Bromeis * to consist of about C8 per cent, of margarine, with 30 of elain, and 2 of fatty matters specific to butter. The exact nature of the latter constituents probably varies in different animals, as well as in different speci- mens of the secretion ; and also seems very liable to be altered by that rancidity which butter so easily acquires from a short expo- sure to the air. Such circumstances quickly give rise to the formation of a variety of vola- tile fatty acids : — which are known under the names of butyric, caprylic, capronic, capric, and vaccinic acids. The dietetic value of butter can scarcely be rated too highly. It is probably by far the best and most natural form in which hydro- carbons can be supplied to the healthy organ- ism. It is not only attractive to the taste, but is easily assimilated : — even by children or adults, whose delicate digestive organs resent the introduction of the ordinary adipose tis- sue of animal food. The quantity which may be advantageously consunieil will of course vary with the nature and amoimt of other food, and with the rate at which combustion proceeds in the body. But the very large amOLmt of this substance habitually consumed by the Hindoos, and by the dairy-men in many of the Alpine highlands of Europe — in the latter case often reaching a pound daily — is a striking testimony alike of its harm- lessness to the digestive organs, and its value to the system generally. Cheese. — The substance known by this name consists chiefly of casein; which has been precipitated from the milk in company with a variable quantity of its buttery con- stituent. Its dietetic value is of course very high. But its digestive properties vary greatly; according to the proportion of fatty matter and salts which it contains, the mechanical aggregation of its mass, and the degree of decomposition which it may have experienced. Thus as regards its admixture of butter, we may distinguish three varieties of cheese :— one which is made from cream, or from milk with the addition of cream ; one from pure milk; and one from milk which has been skimmed or deprived of its cream. its watery ingredient. This view is corroborated by the fact, that colostrum-corpuscles have been found in the milky contents of the male breast. * Annalen der Chem. vmd Pharni. Bd. xlii. s. 4C. et seq. In respect to its salts, the chief distinction hitherto established appears referrible to the way in which the casein has been precipitated from its solution in the milk. Where the process has been effected by the addition of rennet, the caseous deposit contains a large proportion — about 5 or 6 per cent. — of phosphate of lime. But where the precipita- tion has been produced by the lactic acid which is gradually developed in milk as the result of its own spontaneous decomposition, the deposit contains scarcely one per cent, of this salt. In such a case, however, the smaller amount of phosphates appears to be partially compensated by the presence of some free phosphoric acid. The changes which cheese undergoes by keeping are chiefly manifested in the forma- tion of various volatile fatty acids, that gene- rally communicate their characteristic odour to the whole mass. Such alterations are usually most marked in those varieties of cheese, in which but a small proportion of rennet has been used, and much fatty matter is present. Hence they seem at least par- tially attributable to a metamorphosis—pro- bably an oxidation — of the buttery con- stituents themselves. In addition to this change, however, the casein also undergoes a somewhat similar fermentation ; which is ac- companied by the production of oxides of casein, and volatile fatty acids. Occasionally the process is carried so far as to constitute a kind of putrefaction, in which the nitrogen originally present is given off in the form of annnonia. The highly poisonous properties which decayed cheese sometimes possesses, and tlie repulsive odour which it often gives off, may illustrate these statements. The value of cheese as an article of food may be to some extent inferred from the large amount of its proteinous constituent, which often forms more than 70 per cent, of its whole weight. This quantity of casein would correspond to about 1IJ per cent, of nitrogen : a quantity far beyond that contained in any other ordinary variety of azotized food. But just as this unexampled chemical com- position may suffice to indicate how largely such a proportion of the " histogenetic" prin- ciples would require to be diluted with the "respiratory" or "combustible" substances,in order to constitute a food in the true accep- tation of the term, — so it partially explains the fact, that cheese is anything but easy of digestion. With many persons even milk is only digested with difficulty; so that much of its casein may be traced through the bowels, but little changed by the action of the gastric juice. And the mechanical aggregation of niany kinds of cheese—their extreme hard- ness, dryness, and density,—often enable them almost to defy digestion. But minute division, cooking, or careful mastication,will obviate one of these objections; and the other is easily met by a proper admixture of vegetable food. With such precautions, cheese becomes a most valuable article of food. So that we need be little surprised to find the extreme