[U2] OV quite different from those of Crustacea in their composition, containing albumen, fatty matters, and a large quantity of a substance precipitable by water. The ova of Mollusca differ greatly in com- position from those of other animais : more particularly in the entire absence of fat from them. From these researches it appears that there are considerable differences in the chemical composition of the ova of animals of different great groups, and even among those not far removed from each other in the zoological scale, and that there are also considerable differences according to the state of advance- ment of the ova of the same animal, more especially it would appear that a marked change of composition takes place at the period of complete maturity. The researches referred to appear to have brought to light several new organic principles which are modifications of albumen or belong to the same class, and which may be considered as Vitelliiie 2»'incip/es as belonging to the yolk of different animals : such are Vitelline, Ich- thine, Ichthidine, Ichthuline, and Emydine. The full citations of different works and memoirs on the subjects of this article render it unnecessary to give any detailed bibliogra- phical list at its termination. I may, how- ever, call the attention of the reader to the following works already cited, as forming the principal basis of modern knowledge of ovo- iogy and development, viz.: The Inaugural Dissertation of Pander on the Development of the Chick, published in 1817. The His- tory of the Egg before Impregnation, by PiirMnje, in 1825. The Epistola of Von Baer, in 1827. The contributions of Von Jiaer and Rathke to Biirdach's Physiology, in 1827 and 1828. The various Memoirs by Rathke at different times, and Von Baer\ Lectures on Development, completed in 1837. The Systematic Manual of Develop- ment by G. Valentin, in 1833. The Prodro- mus and contributions by R. Wagner, in 1836. and the Manual of Physiology by the same author. J. Miiller's Physiology, and especially the English translation of the more recent edition. The researches o( Martin Barry, in 1838 and 1839. The various contributions of ^«c/i();f; beginning in 1838 : His Systematic Treatise on Development in 1842, and his Monographs on the Development of the Eabbit in 1842, of the Dog in 1845, of the Guinea Pig in 1852, and of the Deer in 1853. The researches of Coste beginning in 1833; his work on Comparative Embryology in 1837, and his large and beautifully illustrated work, as yet unfinished, beginning in 1850. The works of C. Vogt on the Alytes Obste- tricans (Batrachia) and on the Embryology of the Saimonidce, in 1842. Lastly, the re- cent and valuable researches of Rema/c on the Development of Vertebrata in 1853-1855 ; and the republication of R. Wagner's Icones Physiologic^ by Ecker. The works relating to the invertebrate animals are much too numerous for quotation. I will only mention the researches of Kdlliker on the Cepha- lopoda, of Qiiatrefages, Vogt, and others on the Mollusca, Annelida, &c., and those of J. Muller on the Echinodermata. I would also refer the reader to the excel- lent report on the progress of discovery in regard to the Ovum by Thomas W. Jones in the Brit, and For. Medical Review for Oct. 1843, to Bisclwff's article on the History of Discovery in Development, and its application to the explanation of Malformations in Wag- ner's Dictionary of Physiology, to Leuck- ai-fs Article on Generation in the same work, and to Vrolilc's Memoir on the Explanation of Monstrosity from the History of Deve- lopment, and to his article Teratology in this Cycloptedia. A large amount of information on the whole of our subject will also be found in C. Vogfs interesting Letters on Living and Fossil Animals in 1851 ; in Victor Carus's System of Animal Morphology in 1853 ; in Va7i der Hceven's Manual of Zoo- logy, with additions by Leuckart in 1850- 1856 ; and in the English works of Carpenter, Owen, and Ri/mer Jones on Comparative Anatomy and Physiology. In now bringing this article to a close, the author owes an apology to the conductors and the readers of this Cyclopaedia for the extreme tardiness with which it has appeared. The delay has arisen, in part, from personal circumstances which need not be mentioned here, and in part from the nature of the sub- ject of which the article treats. In the ori- ginal plan of the article, it was intended that it should comprehend, along with the history of the ovum, an account of the development of the embryo. But as time advanced, and every successive year added new and im- portant matter to our knowledge of the science, and greatly modified the statement of facts previously regarded as established, it became more and more difficult, especially in the hands of one interested in the experimental investigation of many of the individual facts, to present a systematic and at the same time clear and brief description of the researches of physiologists on the subject of develop- ment. The author regrets deeply that he should thus be prevented from furnishing the readers of the Cyclopaedia with this part of the article as originally intended. But at the same time he believes that when the recent rapid progress of many departments of the subject is considered, and the vast number of details which would be required to embrace even the shortest account of the origin and formation of all the textures and organs of the animal body, the knowledge of which forms a science that is coextensive with the whole range of anatomy and physiology, it may be thought that he has in present cir- cumstances judged rightly in abandoning the attempt to compress into a limited space the statement of so extensive and important a branch of physiological inquiry. {Allen Thomson, M. D.)