[128] OVUM. means of true ova, as well as by attached buds, which last are then covered by a strong corneous envelope, and have received Fig. 93*. Formation of burls in Paludlcella. (^From Van Beneden and DumortierJ) a. One of the Polypes of Paludicella Ehrenbergii contracted within its cell, showing at the upper part towards the right the commencement of the formation of the bud by the growth of cells be- tween the outer and inner layers of the cell-wall. b. The same bud a little more advanced and more highly magnified, represented by itself. The vesicular cells whicli separate the ectocyst and en- docyst are seen more distinctly. c. A more advanced stage of the same, internally; the part from which the embryo polyped arises is seen bulging out from the rest. This figure has been introduced to show the difference between the process by which a true bud arises and that by which ova are produced. the name of propagula. In Fredericella they describe a propagation by means of buds and by ova provided with the strong horny envelope. In Alcyonella and Lopho- pus, besides the usual propagation by buds, and by the common ova, these authors have stated that there is also a viviparous produc- tion of ciliated embryos from ova which re- main within the parent animals ; but they have not stated particularly the manner in which these ova originate, nor their difference from those which receive the corneous en- velope. The difticulties presented by these varieties seem to be in some measure re- moved by the view offered by Professor All- man of the nature of the bodies last men- tioned, to which I will now advert. It has long been known that the so-called winter ova, or the bodies provided with the corneous envelope, are formed chiefly towards the autumn and winter season ; and the strength of their covering has generally been re- garded as a provision for the protection of the germ from the hurtful influences of the winter season. During two seasons I have observed the production of these bodies from the Plu- matella repens ; and I have kept them through the winter till the polypes were developed, and issued from them in the ensuing summer. From his careful observation of these bo- Fig. 94*. Winter ovum and embryo of Lophopus Crystallinus. (^From Van Beneden and Dumoriier.) This is the same as that represented by Turpin under the name of " Cristatella mucedo." In a. the flat surface, and in n, the narrow edge of the ovum, is represented. The two valves of the egg cover- ing have opened supcrioi^ly, and the embryo, which already possesses three crowns of tentacles, is seen escaping. dies in several genera, Professor Allman has arrived at the conclusion that they are not, as was previously supposed, true ova, but rather separated gemmules; and he conceives that Van Beneden, who has described their form and structure so well, must have confounded them with some other bodies in their first or earlier stages, or has failed to distinguish be- tween them and the true ova. This distinc- tion Allman has succeeded in making by as- certaining that the true ova and these bodies do not arise in the same situation, and that these winter ova or gemmules do not in their earliest stages present any germinal vesicle or macula as the true ova do, and do not after- wards undergo any segmentation. They are formed, according to Allman, in the funiculus which connects the bottom of the stomach with the inside of the cell of the polypide, the same body which was described by Van Be- neden and Dumortier as an ovary, but which Allman regards rather as analogous to the gemmiferous stolon of the solitary Salpae. These bodies Professor Allman proposes to call stato-blasts. He farther discovered that there is a true ovary with genuine ova which may be distinctly observed in Alcyonella, and which is situated in the walls of the cndocyst