UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 554- First Stage. Origin of the Graafian Follicle. —The time of the first appearance of the fol- licle within the ovary is subject to considerable variation in the different orders of Mammalia. In all it occurs at a much later period than the first appearance of the seminiferous tubes in the male. Bischoff, who has devoted much attention to the examination of the follicle in its earliest stages of formation, has never been able to discover the least trace of it in the dog and rabbit before birth. This is also the case in most instances in the human embryo, although examples occur of the ovarian fol- licles being already formed in the new-born Fig. 377. Represents the mode of formation of the Graafari follicle. {After Bischoff.) A, portion of ovary of a foetal dog. The Graafian follicles are seen in the first stage of formation, consisting of little groups of primary cells in the midst of a tissue of similar structure. B, Portion of ovary of a dog four weeks old; a de- licate fibrous coat now surrounds the groups of nucleated cells. c. Portion of ovary of a pig three weeks old. The follicle is here composed of transparent membrane, the outer su^■face of which, in the larger ones, is become fibrous. Its inner surface is lined by an epithelium of pale cells (merabrana granulosa); within this is the germinal vesicle, surrounded by granules resembling yelk granules. These contents are seen dispersed from a ruptured follicle at (/. infant, and in atlvnnced embryos. At first nothing is distinguishable in the ovary except a uniform mass of primary cells and cell nuclei. When the follicle or ovisac is about to form, there may be perceived little round or ovoidal aggregations of primary cells, forming gi'oups which are distributed in considerable numbers through the ovary. These, from the circum- stance that the substance of the ovary is like- wise composed of similar cells, are scarcely distinguishable from the stroma in the midst of which they arise {fig. 377. a ). Now Barry, who also very carefully exa- mined the early formation of the follicle in the rabbit, maintains that within these little groups of cells the germinal vesicle is already contained. Barry represents the germinal vesicle at its first formation as surrounded by minute oil globules, and a collection of gra- nules, forming together little elliptic masses which are distributed through the ovary. A comparison of the descriptions and illustrations of these two observers leaves no doubt that both refer to precisely the same oliject. Round these little groups of cells is now perceived a delicate transparent membrane, which is at first apparently destitute of or- ganisation. This is the ovisac in its first stage of formation (Jig. 377. b, c). The precise mode of its development has given rise to much speculation, which is interesting chiefly with reference to the question whether the ovisac is to be regarded as the vesicle of evolu- tion of the ovum, or whether the ovum, or parts of it at least, are previously formed, and the ovisac is afterwards superadded. Bischoff explains the formation of the fine homogeneous membrane which is first seen surrounding the little groups of cells by sup- posing that those which form the peripheral layer become confluent, and that by their junction they constitute this boundary wall, whilst the original cell contents are dispersed. This membrane soon afterwards becomes lined with a stratum of endogenous cells, which form an epithelium upon its inner surface. A close examination shows further that this cell layer is bounded by a homogeneous tunica propria. Hence Bischoff concludes that the follicle is, as Henle asserts, a primary secreting fol- licle, which, like all secreting follicles, is not composed of a primary cell membrane, but results from a confluence of cells. He has never seen in it, when still in the condition of a homogeneous transparent membrane, a cell nucleus, as would be the case in a primary cell. The contents of the vesicle, according to Bischoff, consist of a clear fluid containing cell nuclei and granules ; the latter closely re- sembling the subsequently-formed yelk gra- nules. Somewhat lateris observed within these follicle vesicles, which in the meantime have become more developed and numerous, a se- cond transparent spherical vesicle, containing a nucleus which closely resembles, and is con- sidered by Bischoff to be the germinal vesicle. Hence, whilst the observations of Barry, con- firmatory of the views of Baer, and supported