318 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. by, a contraction of the muscular coat of the stomach itself. But there is no sufficient reason for supposing that an anti-peristalsis ever obtains, far less for imagining that it constitutes a special element of this expulsive process. We may, perhaps, find some corroboration of this statement in the circumstances which constitute, so to speak, the juvnntia and laidentia of this complex act. Perhaps the easiest variety of vomiting is that which fre- quently occurs in the sucking child. Here it is probable that three conditions, each of which might have some influence in facilitating the return of food, are all present at once: — namely, a distended stomach, an active gas- tric movement, and the peculiar form of de- glutition which continuous sucking would imply.* The first of these three circumstances would mainly act by affording a greater re- sistance to the abdominal pressure; which although probably reduced to a minimum, is no doubt necessary to the process. And the second may perhaps constitute one of the chief occasions of this regurgitation, by impelling the contents of the stomach through the cardiac orifice. While the latter aperture might be thrown open by some slight and accidental f irregularity in the act of degluti- tion. These conjectures are strengthened by the observation, that distention of the stomach, from any cause whatever, appears greatly to facilitate the occurrence of vomiting. That experience of this act, which a sea-voyage affords, may suffice to recall to most readers how much more easily the process goes on in a moderately full stomach than in an empty one. It is for the same reason that copious draughts of water are used to assist the action of emetics. And during the vomiting of both Man \ and animals ^, the stomach is often gradually distended with air by a series of involuntary " retchings," which thus probably afford a similar assistance to the process. || In like manner, it is to that distention of the whole belly which intestinal obstruction pro- duces, that we must ascribe the peculiarly easy character of the vomiting that is then set up. The easy vomiting which occurs in cases of pyrosis may be similarly explained. In addition to these mechanical elements of the process of vomiting, there are others which, though less constant, must not be overlooked. * Schultz and Salbach (Valentin's Lehrbuch, vol. i. p. 281.) seek to explain the vomiting of infants by the peculiar form of the stomach at this age. But comparative anatomy entitles us to ^oubt whether the mere absence of a cardiac pouch would imply such a result. And I believe that their de- scription somewhat exaggerates this peculiarity. For the stomach of the mature foetus often has a cardiac extremity not much less projecting than that of the adult. t Compare Beaumont, p. 62. j Lepine, loc. cit. § Magendie, Inc. cit. II This so-called deglutition of air has a close re- semblance to that which precedes voluntary eructa- tion. Its chief conditions seem to be, a spasmodic action of the oesophagus, and a patulous cardia. For not only do they take a frequent share in the phenomena of this act, but they also remarkably indicate its co-ordinate nature and arrangement. Thus the act is generally ushered in by a feeling of indistinct uneasiness, distention, or even pain, in the gastric region ; which is often attended by an increased secre- tion of saliva, and a loathing of food, that is soon heightened into positive nausea. This is shortly followed by giddiness, dimness of sight, and languor: — symptoms which are evidently of cerebral origin. Next occur the retchings, or efforts at vomiting, before alluded to; which arc probably irregular movements of the oesophagus, unaccompanied by abdominal pressure. Where the stomach is but little distended with fluid, these movements often seem to favour the subsequent occurrence of vomiting, by filling the organ with air. Finally, an uncontrollable effort so far re- verses the ordinary action of the muscles of respiration, as to bring into one period con- tractions which usuall}' occupy different and alternate times. An energetic closure of the glottis follows the descent of the diaphragm ; so that this muscular septum is fixed by the distention of the thorax, as well as by the contraction of its own fibres. And the abdominal muscles now contract violently upon the stomach. During each actual effort of vomiting, the compression which is ex- ercised by the muscles of the trunk causes the head to become greatly congested; so that the features are red and swollen, and the large veins of the face and temples visibly dilated. The pulse is also quickened ; and the skin often rises in temperature, and per- spires. The expulsion of the contents of the stomach from its cavity is sometimes attended by great pain, which is i-eferred to the lower part of the oesophagus. And in spite of what is apparently a tolerable (though reversed) imitation of the movements of deglutition, a good deal of liquid generally eludes the curtain of the soft palate, and gushes through the respiratory channel formed by the nasal fossEe and nostrils. The subsequent pheno- mena mainly depend on the origin of the vomiting. Where, as is often the case, its immediate cause is removed by the expulsive act itself, the patient soon recovers his normal condition. A proper consideration of the various causes of vomiting would belong rather to a medical than to a physiological treatise. We need but point out that they may all be divided into two classes:—(I) those in which there is an irritation of the nervous centre it- self ; and (2) those in which an irritation, applied to the nervous periphery, is trans- mitted thence to the centre, from whence it is reflected into the various organs which con- stitute the agents of the expulsive process. As examples of the first class, we may adduce the frequent instances in which vomiting ac- companies a cerebral injury * or disease. As * To such centric irritations might also be referred that kind of vomiting which sometimes results from