723 PLACENTA — (Functions). that flows around it, becomes thinner, and finally gives way by extension. But long be- fore this stage arrives, the whole of this por- tion is shnt out from the maternal circulation, and the subsequent metamorphoses are di- rected to the strengthening of the more limited space which remains. It is on this account that the strong border of decidua is formed around the margin of the now restricted area. The base of the placenta now consists of the tough and resisting chorion; while that por- tion alone of the decidua which is strength- ened externally by the uterine walls is retained to form the opposite boundary. Ultimately, as the current of maternal blood flows with increasing force into the placenta in propor- tion to the growth of the latter, this becomes subdivided by the decidual septa, which ap- portion the entire organ into separate placen- tulae, and thus the larger supplies necessary to the increasing exigencies of the foetus are disposed of without danger of rupture to any portion of the organ. The changes in the more minute structures which belong to the foetus are not less inter- esting. The profuse development of fine capillaries within the foetal tufts, which is so conspicuous from the third to the sixth month, is connected not only with the functions of respiration and nutrition of the foetus, but also with the growth of the villi themselves. But when the period of viability of the foetus has arrived, the proportionate amount of capillary vessels within the villi becomes greatly re- duced, until finally only the original stems of the vessels are left. And this relative reduc- tion of the channels through which the foetal blood flows, becomes more marked, until, as the time of birth approaches, many of the villi become more or less obliterated, and cease to admit blood, often in consequence of that calca- reous degeneration which, from the frequency of its occurrence, may be regarded rather as a normal process significant of natural decay than as an evidence of any morbid or preter- natural change. The series of metamorphoses is closed by the degeneration of the materials which bind the placenta, and consequently the foetus, to the uterus. The layer of decidua forming the connecting medium between the uterus and the foetal structures, in common with the rest of this membrane, suffers slow disintegration, and its component cells are converted into molecular fat. And now the strength of the adhesion being gradually diminished, it only remains for the contractile power of the ute- rus to be evoked in order to accomplish the separation together of the foetus and placenta, like ripe fruit detached fi'om the parent bough. The illustrations of this article marked, " ad na- turam," are from original drawings and preparations in tlie possession of the autlior. For the rest of the figures the authorities are given. The usual signs are employed: for an inch "; for a line "'; and for the amplification x. The following tabulated arrangement of the prin- cipal contents will facilitate reference to the several subjects, as well as to the books quoted in the foot notes of this article. UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. OVARY. Normal anatomy. foim, •')47. dimensions and weight, 547. position and connections, 548. Component parts: 1. protecting parts or tunics, 548. peritoneum, tunica albuginea, 548. 2. parenciiyma or stroma, 54y. 3. Graafian vesicles, 550. 4. hlood-vessels and nerves, 552. Functions of the Ovary. the developmental changes in the ovicapsules, and the process of emission of ova. 552. 1st stage, origin of the ovicipsules, 5-54. 2nd stage, growth, maturation, and prepara- tion for dehiscence, 555. 3rd stage, rupture or dehiscence, and escape of ova, 5.58. 4lh stage, decline and obliteration of the ovi- capsules, 5fil. A. without impregnation, 561. B. after impregnation, 563. spontaneity of the emission of ova, 566. nature of the corpus luteum, 564. 569. classified arrangement of all the conditions which the Graafian follicle exhibits during evolution and involution, 570. summary of the conclusions which these conditions afford with reference to questions m obstetric and forensic medicine, 571. Development and Involution of the Ovary. the origin of the ovary, and the alterations which it undergoes at different periods of life, .571. Abnormal Anatomy of th^ Ovary. effects of extirpating the ovary, 573. deficiency and arrest of development, 573. atrophy and hypertrophy, 573. displacement, liernia, 573. diseases of the tunics, infl.imniation, 574. ulceration, rupture, 574. hypertrophy, calcification, 674. diseases ol the proper tissues, hypera?mia, 576. inflammation, 576. suppuration, .577. simple, multiple, multilocular, and proliferous cysts, .578. the contents of ovarian cysts, 582. fluid contents of cysts. 582. quantity and rate of efl'usion, 582. composition of the fluids contained in ovarian cysts, 583. hydatids, ,584. solid contents of ovarian cysts; sebaceous and sudoriparous glands; fat; hair; teeth; true bone, .584. origin of the solid contents of cysts, 586. foetus contained in the ovary (?); tlie question of ovarian gestation consideretl, 58iJ. examples of supposed ovarian gestation, 587. solid enlargements of tlie ovary, 591. cartilaginous and ossific formations, 591. cancer, colloid or alveolar; medullary and scirrhous, 591. scrofulous tubercles, .593. THE TAROVARIUM. .Structure .ind development, 593. Abnormal states, 597. THE FALLOPIAN TUBE OR OVIDUCT. Normal Anatomy. lorm ; dimensions, .597. situation and connections, 598. separate parts and divisions, 599. internal orifice, .599. uterine portion of the tube, 600. canal, 6(i0. external orifice, 600. pavilion or infundibulum, 601. fimbria, 001. tubo-ovarian lig.iment, 602. structure of the coats or tunics, G03. blood-vessels and mrves, 604. Functions of the Fallopian Tube. reception and transmission of ova and spermatic fluid, 605. first steps in the process of impregnation, 60S. the changes which the ovum undergoes in the tube, 609. Developtncnt of the Fallopian Tube. formation of the oviduct out of the duct of MUller, 613. 3 A 2