OVARY—(Abnormal Anatomy). 573 Abnormal Anatomy of the Ovary. Effects of extirpating the Ovary.— A natural deficiency of the ovary together with the oviduct of one side is known to prevail in the class Aves, but this deficiency, which is oc- casioned only by a want of development of one half of the generative organs previously existing entire in the embryo, does not affect the reproductive power of birds. Mr. Hunter, wishing to determine the effect of extirpating one ovarium upon the number of young produced in Mammalia, procured two young sows of tlie same farrow, and having removed a single ovarium from one of them, he kept both animals under the same circumstances, in order to observe the comparative effects of breeding upon them. They commenced breeding when two years old. 'J'he spayed animal took the boar earlier than the perfect female, and both continued to breed at nearly the same times. The spayed animal continued to breed until she was six years old, and in that time she had eight farrows, producing in all seventy- six pigs, but she did not take the boar after- wards. The perfect sow continued breeding until she was eight years old, and had thirteen farrows, yielding one hundred and sixty-two pigs. She then ceased to breed. The result therefore of this experiment was, that the perfect animal continued to breed two years longer, and produced in all ten more than doul)le the number of the spayed one, although she had not double the number of farrows. But few opportunities have occurred for observing the effects produced by the removal of the healthy ovaria upon the human female. The case in which Mr. Pott removed both these organs at the same time constitutes the best example on record. A young and healthy woman, twenty-three years of age, was received into St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital, on account of two small swellings, one in each groin, which had for several months been so painful as to prevent her from following her occupation as a servant. The swellings, which were not inflammatory, were soft, uneven upon their surface, and moveable. They lay directly upon the out- side of the tendinous opening of the oblique muscle through which they appeared to have passed. The woman was in full health, was large breasted, and menstruated regularly. On account of the inconvenience occasioned by the presence of these tumours in the groins, Mr. Pott was prevailed upon to re- move them. They were found upon exami- nation to be the two ovaria which had de- scended in the form of a double inguinal hernia. The woman subsequently enjoyed good health, but became thinner and more apparently muscular; her breasts, which were large, were gone, nor did she ever menstruate after the o[)eration ; the last observation of her having been made several years subsequent to that event.* Deficiency of the Ovary. — Complete con- * The Chirurgical works of Perci val Pott, by Earl, vol. ii. p. 210. genital absence of both ovaries, except in the case of the non-viable foetus, is of extremely rare occurrence. It is almost always asso- ciated with deficiency or imperfect formation of the uterus, and generally with incomplete development of the vagina, nymphce, clitoris, and mammae. The sexual appetite in these cases is wanting. Menstruation is absent ; the secondary sexual characters are but feebly expressed, and there is of necessity a total in- aptitude for reproduction. The ovary may, however, be deficient on one side only, without any of these accom- panying conditions. There may be nothing e.Nternally to mark the defect, nor is there necessarily here any impediment to the ex- ercise of the sexual function. Arrest of Devrlopmeiit. — The ovary, like the uterus, long retains its infantile condition, but as the period of puberty approaches it expands and soon attains its full size. This change, however, may not occur. The ovary may cease to grow after the third or fourth year, and, under these circumstances, the whole organism manifests a corresponding tardiness of development. An interesting example of this is preserved in the museum of King's College. The preparation consists of the entire internal organs of a young wo- man who died at the age of nmeteen without having menstruated. The ovaries, as well as the rest of the organs, are no larger than those of a child of three years (see 7%. 465.). In these cases the mammae are small, the ex- ternal organs only partially developed, and the whole frame is formed upon a feeble scale. Atrophy and Hypertrophy.— Atro[)hy has been shown to be one of the conditions at which the ovary inevitably arrives when a certain period of life is passed. It is under these circumstances a normal condition, just as the state last described is also a normal condition when associated with a certain epoch, but both become abnormal states when they occur out of their usual course. Thus, an early atrophy of the ovary on both sides will of necessity bring with it a premature failure of procreative power, although an atrophied state of the organ on one side only, like atrophy of one testis, will but httle, if at all, aftiict this power. Of hypertrophy of the ovary a more par- ticular account will be given in the descrip- tion of morbid growths and abnormal deve- lopments of its special parts. Displacements of the Ovary. — The ovary, in consequeu-ce of its peculiar mode of attach- ment to surrounding parts, enjoys great free- dom and range of motion. This is rendered most conspicuous, when, during the gradual enlargement of the gravid uterus, the ovary is carried upwards from the pelvic into the abdominal cavity. Under these circumstances the ovary certainly vindicates the character assigned to it by the older anatomists, of being an appendage to the uterus, for it necessarily follows the movements of the larger or<;an to which it is attached. Thus, the ovary is sometimes a pelvic and sometimes an abdo-