630 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. into folds whose offices will be presently more either side of the lateral plicEB, and, crossing specially considered. At the lateral lines of the fnrrows between them, subdivide again junction of the two cervical walls, where a and again until the whole surface presents crease or furrow is formed by the sudden that cribriform aspect which can be just dis- bending of the parietes, an imperfect raphe is cerned by the naked eye, but cannot be accu- sometimes found, uniting a portion of the rately examined without the aid of the mi- plicae; but more commonly the laminae of one croscope. Here also are found in countless surface either pass over and become united numbers these mucous crypts, which appa- at their extremities with those of the oppo- rently furnish the peculiar secretions of this site side, or else upon reaching the lateral portion of the uterus (7%. 4'32.). angles they split up into smaller divisions. Structure and arrangement of the tissues which are again gathered into the single folds composing the uterus.— The uterus is usually upon the opposite side, their junction being described as consisting of three coats, viz., an then effected by the interposition of a cribri- outer or serous, a middle or muscular, and an form surface. , inner or lining membrane, commonly termed The central raphe and lateral plicee pro- the mucous coat. But these coats cannot, like ceeding from it, under whatever form they the three coats of an intestine, for example, may appear, constitute together a series of be separately displayed, because each passes primary folds, from which others of a secon- so imperceptibly into the others, that although dary order are produced. These emerge from to the naked eye an apparent distinction may Fig. 433. Section offemale pelvis and its contained viscera. {After Koldrauscli*—reduced.^ A, uterus; B, bladder; oc, rectum; D, anterior, and E, posterior lip of cervix uteri; F, connective tissue uniting the anterior wall of tlie cervix to the bladder; G, lax tissue between the posterior wall of the cervix and the peritoneum; H, vagina. * Zur Aiiatomie und Physiologie der Beckenorgane, von Dr. 0. Kohlrausch, Leipzig, 1854.