133 PELVIS. By an inverse method, proceeding on Roederer's plan from the horizontal plane {Jig. 84. (I), Naegele determined, with great care, the angle of the inferior p/ane of the pelvis in the living female. In 500 well-formed living females placed in the erect position, he mea- sured the respective distances from the ground, of the tip of the coccyx, and of the lower border of the pubic synsphysis. He found that in 4-54' the exti'emity of the coccyx was higher than the symphysis pubis, the greatest ditference being 22 lines. In twenty-six only was it lower, the greatest difference here being 9 lines, and in twenty they were equal in height from the ground. In eleven pelves where he had the ojiportunity of verifying his observations after death, he foimd and figured one perfect pelvis, in which the ti[) of the coccyx was 8 lines higher than the lower border of the symphysis, which corresponded very nearly with the mean elevation of the coccyx above the symphysis, viz. 7" I lines, tiravvn from the observations above detailed. From this he deduced the inferior angle of inclination of the pelvis (fgd) to be 10° to 11° with the horizon (g,(l). In a similar manner, in fifteen living males the brothers Weber ascertained the range of the altitudes of the coccyx and pubis to be from 10 millimetres, the extreme ditference when the coccyx was lower, to 33'3 millimetres when the coccyx was higher than the lower border of the symphysis pubis, the mean height of the coccyx above the pubis being thus 23'1 millimetres. Then, fiy measuring the distance between thp plumb lines dropped from each of these points, the coccyx and pubis, they ascertained the mean distance to be 75'8 millimetres. From these measiu'ements they obtained the angle of the inferior pelvic plane with the horizon I6°'51. By measuring, in two dead subjects, the depth of the symphysis pu- bis, and the direct vertical distance from tiie ti|) of the coccyx to the sacral promontory, thev deduced the angle of the superior pelvic plane. The superior angle, however, cannot with any certainty be calculated from the inferior in the living subject, on account of the un- certain length ami curve of the sacro-coccygeal column. In a well-formed or standard pelvis the two lines of the superior and inferior planes, when prolonged anteriorly, cut each other about li inch anterior to and below the pelvis (at c), containing an angle of about 50° (c of) ; but this will vary with the length of the sacro-coccygeal colunm. According to Naegele the point at which the superior plane emerges posteriorly is also very variable. Most frequently it is the spinous process of the second lumbar vertebra, often that of the first, and sometimes between the second and third. Generally the upper border of the symphysis pubis was 3 inches, 9 to 10 1 ines lower than the sacral promon- tory, and on a level with the union of the second and third coccygeal bones. The sacro- vertebral |)rojection I have generally found to be about the level of the anterior sujjerior iliac spine in the male, and a little below this point in the female, in a straight position of the body. The following table shows the pelvic angles of inclination in the sexes, and their difference in this respect, and is drawn from the above- mentioned experiments of the Webers on male, and of Naegele on female subjects. Angle of Inclination of superior plane, or pelvic brim. Male (Wel)er). Female (Nae- gele). With transverse ) vertical plane - ) AVitli horizon 1.5.5° G.5° 150° to 151° 59° to G0° Of inferior plane, or outlet. With transverse > vertical plane - i With horizon 10G°51' 1G°51' 101° to 102° 10° to 11°* By the inspection of the above table the greater inclination of the pelvis to the spine in the male will become evident, constituting another distinguishing characteristic of the sexes. The older observers estimated the pelvic angles too low, as in the incorrect drawings of Albinus, Levret, and Cloquet, where the superior angle is given as 35° Vi'ith the horizon, and, by Osiander, at 30°. Cams gives the superior at 55°, and the inferior at 11° with the horizon. Angles of the anterior and posterior pelvic walls with the transverse vertical plane.— The pelvic inclination, in the opinion of Cru veilhier, depends u[)on the angle which the sacrum forms with the spinal column, giving more or less of obliquity to the innominate bones on each side. This angle {fig. 84. next page, a e and 112. \. f a g, page 173), which may be called tlie sacro-verlebral angle, I have, in as many opportunities as have oc- curred to me, endeavoured to ascertain and establish, with a view of comparing it with the pelvi-vertebral angle in the two sexes. To do this I made a vertical section of the pelvis (with as many vertebras as possible attached to it), from behind forward in the median line, which showctl cleaily the angle made by the sacrum. Then, by intersecting the line of the transverse vertical plane of the spinal column drawn as before mentioned, by a line drawn in the mean direction of the three first sacral vertebrae through the centre of their bodies, angles closely approximative to the sacro- vertebral angle in the living subject were ob- tained, showing the following results: — * Weber, however, fuuiid the angle of the inferior plane with the liorizon to be but little less marlved than that of tlie male; making it 4°-5 more than the angle of Naegele here given. Naegele remarlcs that tlie inferior angle is ninch more vaiiable than the snperior in oi'dinary cases. K 3