OVUM. 199] tides become more and more circumscribed in a layer on one side of the egg as it ap- proaches maturity, so as to form a germinal disc ; and this occurs independently of fecun- dation. The germinal vesicle is not easily perceived in the ovarian ovum when it has attained some size. This proceeds in part from its ex- treme delicacy anil traii.sparency, and also from the opacity of the granules of the yolk within which it is situated. But it is to be observed also, that it disapfjoars proportionally sooner than in other vertebrate animals. It is of con- siderable size in proportion to the rest of the ovum, having a diameter not unfrequently of ^'^ or J^" in ova of J^". It is never to be found in ova that have left their capsules in the ovary; and according to LerebouUet's* observations in the pike and perch, it has already disap- peared for a considerable time before it attains complete maturity. In the earlier stages of the growth of the ovum the germinal vesicle contains numerous distinct maculas ; but in the progress of development these multi|)ly to a great degree, so that the vesicle is at last completely filled with fine clear cells, or bril- liant vesicles, and extremely minute granules. When the vesicle bursts, its contents are dis- persed over the yolk, and very probably are mingled or combined with the layer of germi- nal granules ; but it is not probable, as Lcre- boullet supposes, that the whole of the forma- tive layer of the germ (afterwards undergoing segmentation) is produced from the effused contents of the germinal vesicle. Tliis mul- tiplication of the maculas and filling of the germinal vesicle with fine cells appears to be of an analogous kind to that which has been described by Vogt and Newport in the Ba- trachia; and it seems not improbable that in both classes of animals the dispersed maculae may in some way or other, not yet fully ascer- tained, contribute to the origin and develop- ment of the blastodermic cells in the forma- tion of which the process of segmentation re- sults. It appears certain at least that, after the disappearance of the germinal vesicle and the dispersion of its contents, a marked change takes place in the disposition of the germinal part of the egg by its granular disc or layer becoming more circumscribed and distinct ; and, as Lereboidlet supposes, it may then be mingled with the brilliarit i)oints which pro- ceed from the contents of the germinal ve- sicle. The process of segmentation, into the de- scription of which it is ni)t intended at pre- sent to enter, is co-extensive with the grarui- lar layer or germinal disc of the ovum. The larger yolk globules and the fat cells are not immediately concerned in this process.f * Resume d'un Travail siir rEmbryogdnie du Brochet, de la Pi'rohe, et de I'Ecrevisse, in Annal. des Scien. Nat. 1854, torn. i. p. 237. et seq. t M. Coste (Comptes rendus, 1850, vol. xxx. p. 692.) has described the germinal disc as being formed only after fecundation ; but from the obser- vations of Vogt, Aubert, L^reboullet, and Ransom, it is ascertained that it exists previously. The membranes of the ripe ovarian ovum of osseous fishes have been described by most recent observers as two in number; viz. 1st, the external tough membrane which some have called chorion or shell-membrane, and others vitelline membrane, which possesses a peculiar structure, hereafter to be described more particularly ; and, 2nd, an extremely delicate film of membrane lying close to the yolk-substance and destitute of visible struc- ture. The latter of these membranes is just discernible in the ovarian egg at the later periods of its growth ; but in ova of two thirds their full size I have failed to perceive it. Dr. Ransom has observed, that in the Stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus,this mem- brane becomes more distinctly marked off from the substance of the yolk subsequent to impregnation, and that it follows the inflec- tions of the surface of that substance during segmentation ; from which he infers, that it is not to be compared with the vitelline membrane as heretofore described by authors in the ova of other animals. The observa- tions which have been obligingly communi- cated to me by Dr. Ransom leave no doubt as to the existence of this inner membrane, and have shown the new and interesting tact that it is possessed of some vital contractile power. It seems probable that it proceeds from a consolidation of the outermost layer of the basement or clear substance of the J oik, in a manner somewhat analogous to the zona pelbicida. But I refrain from saying more of it at present, as Dr. Ransom will ere long probtibly communicate his observations to the |)ublic in detail. The external membrane of the Fish's egg which has been deposited in spawning or has been extracted from the ovary when a[>proach- ing maturity, presents a remarkably well de- fined line internally, and is also generally smooth on its outer surface, in some fishes, however, as the |)erch, it is covered externally with villous, reticular, or other appendages, which serve to connect the ova in masses or strings, in the same manner as occurs with the albuminous matter addetl to the ova of some Batrachia, but in a less degree. In other in- stances, as the Stickleback, these villi or project- ing [)rocesscs are limited to one portion of the exterior. This membrane possesses consider- able thickness and tenacity, and usually gives the ovtnn a nearly regular spherical form when imbiliition is complete, as is the case after impregnation. Previous to that change, how- ever, the outer covering of the Fish's egg is more yielding, and possesses so little elasticity, that it usually retains dimples or impressions matle upon it from without. Two peculiarities of structure have been observed in this mem- brane which both merit farther attention, and one of which is of great interest. The first of these to which I will refer is the dotted or porous structure of the external membrane. Von Baer* had remarked that the external membrane of the ova of the Cyprinus * Entwickelungsgesch. der Fiache, Leipzig, 1835. [h 2]