lOl PANCREAS. obviate the cscnj^a of the secretion through a second pancreatic duct, which, he says, he found very common, he closed this second orifice by an ingenious method of compres- sion. With this ap[)aratus he succeeded in getting a free supply of pancreatic fluid, as clear as spring water, but shghtly viscid, and varying in taste, from salt to acid, rougli, acidulo-saline, orinsi[)id. De Graaf's memoir is well wortli reading, and is, considering the time in which it was written, and in spite of the necessary admixture of a good deal of niediiEval physiology, a model of sagacious forethought and patient research. He insists strongly on the acidity of the fluid, not only in the dog, but in man, antl affirms tliat he and many otiiers found it to [jossess an acid taste in a man who had been suddenly killed, and whose body was still warm. But it is necessary to bear in mind his coarse and superficial means of examination, and the bias with which he luulertook his researches from his strong attachment to both the physio- logical and patiiological views of Sylvius. 8chuyl*, also a disciple of Sylvius, adopted a process analogous to that of De Graaf, and succeeded in obtaining a quantity of the secretion, amounting to two or three ounces, in three hours ; he pretends tiiat what he collected hat! an acid taste, and afiirins, more- over, that it coagulated milk. The researches of Wepferf, Pechlin J, Bruniieri), and Boim || did not confirm the assertions of De Graaf and Schuyl. These observers found the pancreatic secretion turbid, whitish, not aciti, l)ut having a taste slightly saline, like that of lymjih. Succeeding experimenters agreed no better with regard to the (jualities of this liquid. Viridctir said that he found it acid in most animals, and pretei.ded that it sen- sibly reddened litmus. Hduermann**, on the contrary, denied that it had this effect. Fordyce f f found that of the dog to be co- lourless, waterj', and salt in taste, antl afUnned it to be composed of water, mucus, sotia and phosphorus. Meyer J J has examined the pan- creatic juice in a cat, which he found in the vesicular reservoir which is sometimes met with in that animal. It appeared trans|)arent, viscid, and had an alkaline taste ; it coloured the mallow dye red, and red litmus paper blue. Meyer says fin-ther that he found in it albumen, chlorides of soilium and ammonia, and a peculiar matter giving a violet pre- cipitate, with chloride of tin. Lastly, Ma- gendie found iji) the pancreatic juice in a dog to be yellowish, inoilorons, and with a saline taste. He adds that the liquid is alkaline, * Tractatns pro Vetcri Bledicina. Leyde. 1670. t De Cicuta Af|iiatira, p. 200. i L)e Puv'jaiUiuiii Medic. Facult. Leyde. 1G72. § Experinieiita Nova circa Pancreas. Amst. 1083. ^^Ij^Circutug Aiiatomico-pliysiologicus. Leipsig, t De Prima Coctione, p. 26G. ** Physiologie, th. iii. p. 807. It Versuche fiber das VerdauuriKSCicscfuift, Leip- sig, 1793. ' XI Journ. compl. et Diet, du Sc. Med. t.iii. p. 2S3. §§ Precis F.lementaire de Pliysiologie, t. ii. p. 207. that it coagulates with heat, and that in birds it is altogether albuminous; at least, that, ex- posed to heat, it coagulates like albumen. With such various opinions as to the qua- lities of the secretion, it is not sui prising that the views of its function should have been discrepant, and accordingly we finil that many hypotheses, often far-fetched and extra- vagant, were ado|)teil to explain the pait which the pancreatic fluid played in digestion. Some thought that it had for its destination the separation of the chyle from the excre- ments ; others, that it served to temper the acridity of the bile; otheis, again, thought that it diluted the chyme, or that it dissolved that portion of the footi which had not been digested in the stomach ; that it contributed to its assimilation, &c. Ilaller, after ex- hausting himself with conjectures, can only say, " Plura possnnt esse officia liquoris non- dum satis noti ;'" and Magemlie, fifty years later, admits that it is impossible to say what the ro/c of the pancreatic fluid may be. Such, then, were the opinions expressed, or rather the ignorance confessed on this subject, when in 182.3 the Academy of Paris pi oposed the function of digestion as the subject of a prize dissertation, and two of the essays sent in, which were considered by the Academy worthy of honourable mention — the one by Professors TicLlemann and Gmelin, antl the other by MM. Lenret antl Lassaigne — threw so much atlditional light on the subject, and furnished results which so loiig constituted the staple of our certain knowledge of the function of the pancreas, and so much of which still remams untjuestionetl, that they deserve special consideration. Lenret and Lassaigne, thinking that the failures of recent experimenters to get any of the secretion arose from the smallness of the duct in the animals em|)loyed, selected the horse, and succectled in olitaining three ounces in half an hour of a limpitl liquid, with a sli/ihtly salt tastt\ alkaline reaction, specific gravity of P002G, and containing '9 percent, of solid matter. Sulphuric, nitric, and hydrt)chloric acitl slightly troubled it, ant! alcoliol formetl a more abundant cloud, precipitated after a time in white flocculi ; an aqueous solution of chlorine dcterminetl a li^ht flocculent preci- pitate ; infusion of gall-nuts occasionetl a yellowish tleposit ; lastly, nitrate of silver and protonitrate of mercury showed the existence of chloritles, antl oxtilate of ammonia that of lime. On treating the sohd resitluuni with alcohol antl evapoi'ating, it yielded a transpa-^ rent viscid matter, with a salt and sharp taste, the non-crystallizable portion of which con- sistetl of an azotised substance precipitable liy many metallic salts and solution of gall-nuts. That portion of the residuum of the pan- creatic juice which had been exhausted bv the alcohol was then heated with tlistilletl water, when this latter showed on evaporation a certain viscosity, indicating the solution of an animal principle in it. The result of the en- tire t|Uiilitative analyses, the further details of which I ii^ cd not give, was as follows : —