RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 266 will be found on the strncture of the lungs. The works of the Wiirzburg Professor (Kiilliker) contain the most recent, and probably the most conclusive and important, researches upon this subject. * In the details which are now to follow reference will be fre- quently made to the views taught by this distinguished anatomist. Fig. 211. A group of lobules lonsc7ied from llieir vndunl attach- ments, indicating the nindv in irhiih each /n/mlc (b) receives a single bronchial tube (a). (^Original.) Ate is represented the diehotomous manner in wliich the primary and secondary orders divide; at c, d, and/", is shown the irregular arborescent method in which the terminal lobular bronchi project from every side and point of the circumference of the secondary bronchial tubes. 3Itnute Anatomt) of the Lobule.—The proper pulmonary tissue {b,Jig.2 \ 1.)begins where the bronchial tubes 21 l.),end. The latter are convective channels,and fulfil onlya mechanical purpose; theformeris the immediate seat of the respiratory process. These two parts differ no less in anatomical structure than in mecha- nical conformation. The bronchi terminate in the " intralobular bronchial ramifications " (Addison) ; " lobular passages" (Todd) ; " in- tercellular'passages" (Hainey); "mouths of the infimdibula" (Rossignol). These are different designations only for one and the same thing. The passages in which the bronchi end are greater in diameter than the bronchi themselves. Their sides are at first .jwioo/// («), like those of the bronchial tubes; they become afterwards loculated (r) with cells or alveoli, like the terminal air-cells (e, b) (vcsiculcs s. celhdcB aerecB s. MaljughiancB, alveoli jndmonum * Mikroscopisch-Anatomie, Sweiterbund, Leipsic, 1850, and I-Iandbuch der Gewebelehre des Men- scheu, von KoUiker, Leipsic, 1852. Rossignol. Liiftzellen oder Lungenbl'dschen of the German writers). Looking doivn along a section through one of these passages, it is perfectly easy to define either an " infundibu- Inm," or a broad-based passage bounded by Malj)igliian cells. It is, however, perfectly certain that Rossignol has given in his illus- trations far more regularity of outline to these Fig. 212. (^After Hurting.') a is the termination of a bronchial tube properly so called, ending abruptly in an intercellular pas- sage marked by its cellulated parietes. b, e, cell- tissue. parts than they present in the actual prepara- tion. The intercellular passages (Rainey), then, are those continuous channels in the lobule which are laterally sacculated by cells. They conduct the air to and from every part of the lobule. They give rise to secondary passages (b. e. Jig. 208.}, which again lead to a third, &c., all communicating with a group of air-cells. Each of these passages with its appended system of cells, if bounded by an imaginart/ outline, may certainly be called an " infundibulum." The intercellular passages unite and divide {a, fig. 210.). They thus inter- communicate. In this particular they are distinguished from the bronchial tubes {b, fig. 210.; c, fig. 212.), which never inosculate. The latter are merely convective passages; the former are expressly organised for the ofiice of respiration. The bronchi diminish in ca- libre as they divide; the intercellular passages rather enlarge in diameter (f, fig. 213.). The former preserve in their branchings one main direction ; the latter run through the lobule at every angle. They are perforated at every point by secondary passages («, 6, e, fig. 212.) of vary- ing lengths and directions : sometimes only by a deeper cell than ordinary. M. Bourgery saw in this arrangement only a " labyrinth of canals" (cananx ramifies bronchiqnes.) Home and Bauer, mistaking the intercellular passages for the bronchi, remark, " the cells of the human lungs are not dilatations of the bron- chial tubes, but are regular cells in which the