UTERUS — (Abnormal Anatomy). 681 the menstrual molimen may not be thereby hindered, but the escape of blood can only take place, if at all, from some unsuitable situation producing the so-called menses devii, or vicarious menstruation. Regarding the influence of these malforma- tions upon insemination and a resulting im- pregnation, much of necessity depends upon the condition of the vagina; for this canal may be in so rudimental a state as not to admit of intromission. The canal leading to the ovary also may be either open or closed. In the case of the rudimental lube attached to one side of a single developed cornu, the passage may open into the cervix of the de- veloped half, and thus a channel for the se- minal fluid will be established in connexion with an ovary that may be normally formed, and thus impregnation and gestation, even in an undeveloped cornu, is possible.* Greater difficulties and considerable danger indeed to life arise, during the progress of gestation^ in the higher deformities of this class. Pregnancy in a rudimental horn would probably be attended by rupture and fatal haemorrhage at an early period, as happened in Rokitansky's case quoted in the last note, and as usually occur also in the not dissimilar example of ordinary tubal gestation. But even in the case of pregnancy occurring in the developed horn of a uterus unicornis, the undeveloped half will exercise a marked in- fluence upon the progress of gestation, by impeding the due expansion of the developed side; while the supply of blood usually fur- nished in pregnancy being here provided b}' only one set of vessels, the course of the pregnancy will probably suffer in a corre- sponding degree. In the cases of the uterus bicornis and bilocidaris, either horn, or either uterine half, may become separately or alternately the seat of gestation, or pregnancy may proceed simul- taneously ill both. There is even reason to suppose that twins have been developed in one half, and also that superftetation has obtained in such a condition of parts. In those cases where the vagina is parti- tioned into two canals impregnation may take place more frequently or even exclusively on one side, in consequence of the one channel or half being more favourably formed for in- tromission than the other. Regarding the influence which these ano- malies may have over the last office of the uterus, viz. parturition, it is only necessary to observe that in both the uterus bicornis and bilocularis the organ will be deprived of the advantageous use of the fundus, which so ma- terially aids expulsion in a normally formed nterus, while in the case of the uterus uni- cornis and bicornis, where the impregnated half usually forms an acute, or even nearly a right angle with the axis of the body, the effect, as Rokitansky has shown *, will be, that during the act of parturition the axis of the impregnated half meeting with the vaginal axis in an obtuse angle, the direction of the uterine force and of the expulsion of the foetus will cross the axis of the pelvis, and fall upon the pelvic parietes that lie opposite to the vertex of the pregnant half of the womb, and thus the act of parturition will be rendered correspondingly difficult in such cases. 2nd Class. Defective development after birth. The pre-pid}crtal uterus. — The or- dinary age of puberty may have arrived and Firr. 465. Tlie uterus undemloped after the ordinary period of puberty lias arrived. Tlte cavities of tlie body and cervix are laid open. (^Ad Nat.) a, cavity of the body retaining the triangular form and the lines or ruga? characteristic of infancy ; b, the cervix, the extent of which is indicated by the penniforin rug« ; c, anterior lip of the cervix ; d, ovaries ; e. Fallopian tubes. From a female aged 19, who had never menstruated. (Compare with^/7jr. 442.,repre- senting the uterus of an infant. Both these figures are of the natural size.) passed, and yet no corresponding enlargement or growth of the uterus may have taken place; * See a remarkable case of pregnancy in the rudimentary half of a uterus unicornis, ending in rupture of the sac and death in the third month, by the organ retaining the form and size which Rokitansky. (Pathol. Anat. Syd. Soc. vol. ii. p. 277.) The preparation is preserved in the Vien- nese Museum. ' Loc. cit.