26 OVUM. called by H. D. Goodsir ; and they have been observed, in some nistanees, attached in pedi- cahited vesicles,singly oringroups, to tlieinner Fig. 22. licMnococcus liominis. (^From XVilson.') A and B, grouped and single Echinococoi, at- tached by peduncles to the inner membrane of the cyst, c, a contracted, and d, an expanded Echino- coccvis; a, the peduncle. e, a more advanced animal, shrivelled. surface of the cyst.* While enclosed in the pediculated vesicles, the head of each echino- cocciis is retracted within the short vesicidar body in a manner which seems to be general among the young of encysted Entozoa. They are afterwards set free, and in this state are found floating as minute whitish particles in the fluid of the cyst. They then present the appear- ance of minute heads of Taenise, with a short bodj' scarcely larger than the head ; the latter part being furnished with a terminal double circle of booklets, and four suckers.f The mode of gemmation may probably vary in different circumstances, more particularly in regard to the extent to which the progeny of gemmation may or may not repeat the for- mation of others of the same kind ; but every thing that is known of the acephaloc) stic productions seems to point to the vievjf that they are all nearly allied, and that they are abnormal or aberrant conditions of Taenia- larvaj, which, when they become encysted, are incapable of development into the cestoid form which belongs to those that have reached the free intestinal iiabitation. The Caenurus, which has been met with principally in the brain and some other parts of the sheep and some other Ruminating ani- mals, consists of a large cyst or vesicle with a number of small heads projecting on its ex- ternal surface: each head resembles closely that of an echinococcus animalcule, presenting the same circle of booklets and four suckers. According to H. D. Goodsir, they are at- tached to the middle membrane of the cyst, from which they sprout at first, carrying the outer one along with them : the neck contains * E. Wilson's paper in Med. Chir. Trans, xxviii. 1815; and H. D. Goodsir, Anat. and Path. Ohs. f See Curling, in Med. Chii\ Trans, vol. xxiii.; and Miiller, in Jahrsbericht of Archiv, 1836. p. 106. cells, from which it is supposed other young animals or lieads may be formed.* Fig. 23. Canurus cerebralis, magnijied. After Bremser.') a a, part of the general vesicle; h, an expanded head ; c, a shorter head, showing the double circle of booklets. The Cysticercus has been described in two forms ; 1st, in its simply vesicular state, and 2nd, in its fasciolated condition, or in its transition, as it may be held, to the cestoid, or tai)e form. The vesicular Cysticercus has Fig. 24. Cysticerci. A, Cysticercus longicolh's (from Bremser), en- larged. B, C3'Sticercus from the liuman eye (ex- tracted by Dr. Macltenzie), magniiied live dia- meters. only one head ; but the structure of that part is precisely the same as in the Caenurus and Echinococcus, and, we may add, not far different from that of the Tjenia itself. They are usually developeil singly, that is each vesicle with one head: but some ob- servers-j- allege that they have seen internal vesicles near the neck, which they look upon as young, or as a progeny of gemmation in that situation. Tiie Cysticercus fasciolaris, as it has been observed in the rat and mouse, presents the remarkable fact of a Teenia in various states of development, from the vesicular condition of * H. D. Goodsir, loc. cit. f As Rose and H. D. Goodsir, loc. cit.