39 OVUM. with the development of flowers. It is not without considerable interest, that the same conilitions as to tensperature, season, supply of nourishment, &c., seem to determine the one or the other kind of production in both the animal and the vegetable bodies. Many botanists regard the plant as an assemblage of individuals; and zoologists are for the most part agreed as to the distinct individuality of the parts united in a compound polype. But the tendency to spontaneous separation of these individuals, especially in their sexual form, is very frequently exhibited in the animal kingdom, while it is rarely, if ever, met with among plants ; and among the polype tribes, as well as in other examples of alternate generation, the striking dif- ference of form, structure, mode of life, and functions, of some of the sexual indivi- duals developed by non-sexual generation, seem to warn us against extending the compa- rison farther than the admission of the general analogy above adverted to, or, at all events, precludes us in the mean time from drawing any arguments as to the nature of animal pro- duction from that whicli is as yet only imper- fectly understood in the vegetable kingdom.* These considerations raise another ques- tion on which recent writers are at issue in regard to the theory of Alternate (icnerations, viz. whether the various animal bodies formed by the non-sexual process within one act of sexual generation are to be regarded as so many ind'widunh composing the species, or whether they are to be considered only as the different states of one and the same indi- vidual. I have abstained from entering directly on the discussion of this question, from the desire to avoid the confusion which is apt to arise in it from the use of terms in other than their usual significations. In re- gard to connected animal forms, such as those which coexist in a Compound Polype, less difficulty might be felt than in those instances in which a com|ilete separation of the progeny from its producer has taken place ; but it seems to require a greater departure from the ordinary signification of a conmion term than is warranted by our present imperfect know- ledge of the phenomena, arbitrarily to de- termine to regard as merely one individual all those bodies which may be formed by a non- sexual process from the product of a single ovum, notwithstanding the great variations in their structure and mode of life, and the com- plete separation anil apparent independence to which they may attain. It is unquestion- ably important to acknowledge the integrity and permanence of the species as maintained in the midst of all these variations by gene- ration from an ovum ; but there does not seem to be any obvious impropriety in the instances in question in regardinn; the species as made up of individuals differently con- stituted among themselves, and produced one out of another by a non-sexual process. The * For farther roiTiarl;s on this suliject the reader is refeiTed to an account of vegetable production, under the Article VjixiisTABLE Ovum. term Zcioid suggested by Huxley, or Zoonite previously employed by Milne Edwards and some other French autliors, or any such term agreed upon as implying a relation of affinity among the various bodies included in one act of true sexual generation, may perha])s re- move some of the ambiguity; but I confess I do not think the present state of the inquiry warrants the total abnegation of individuality to the various animal bodies produced in the non-sexual manner.* In reviewing, then, the whole subject of Alternate Generation, it seems to be equally [)remature to refer the whole of the pheno- mena included under this term, which may hereafter be discovered to be very various in their nature, to a simple process of gemmation or individual development, or to attribute them to the existence of certain powers, such as a germ-force or spermatic power, remaining in certain germ-cells, or to reject altogether the hypothesis of Steenstrup of Alternate Generations, which indeed is little more than the expression of the course of the observed phenomena; until we shall know more exactly the minute structure of the germ from which a bud arises, and the difference between that and the germ of an ovum, and until we shall be more fully acquainted with the whole structure and series of changes of the various animal forms that have been the subject of consideration in the preceding section. We regard it, therefore, as more consistent with the actual state of our knowledge of the facts to describe the phenomena of Alternate Generation as a peculiar mode of existence belonging to some of the simplest kinds of various classes of Invertebrated animals, which seems to have especial reference to the preparation of the sexual organs ; and of this nature, that the animal innnediately developed from the fecimdated ovum does not usually arrive at sexual completeness, but has formed front it, by a non-sexual i)rocess of production, another individual of a different form, or a succession of them, which finally attain to sexual completeness, and produce the fecun- dated ova that originate the generative cycle ; and the effect of which is, to render two or more successive generations of dissimilar ani- mals necessary to the completion of the species to which they belong. * Some acute and interesting remarks by Mr. Huxley on this subject will be found appended to a sketch of J. Miiller's discoveries on the Echino- dermata, in the Annals of Natural History, 1851, vol. vii. p. 1. I would also refer at this place to the Lectures of M. Agassiz on Comparative Em- bryology, Boston, 1849, as presenting a most en- gaging view of the influence which the study of tlie metamorphosis of animals, along with the history of alternate generations, must exercise on the systematic views in Zoology and Comparative Anatomy, and I also take this opportunity of refer- ring to some remarks by Mr. C. Spencer Bates in a paper on the Develojiment of the Cirripedia, in the Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist, for 1851. vol. viii. p, 331. for a st.itement of the relations subsisting be- tween the various forms of animals considered in their sedentary and free states, cither in indivi<lual species or in different genera or families of the various classes of animals. D 4;