82 PANCREAS. fully dissected away, it presents eminences for instance, the longitudinal furrow occupied and depressions corresponding to them, as, by the splenic vein, and the deep groove in Fig. 5 k Human Pancreas, shown in situ hy throwhig up the subject in which the curvature of the head of the ticulai'ly well shown. which the superior mesenteric artery and the vena portae are received. In front it is in relation vpith the posterior surface of the stomach, which rests on it when empty (tanquam pulvinar, Smnni.), and moves freely upon it; but when this organ is distended with food, it recedes from it, and its lesser curvature comes into more immediate relation with the gland. In cases in which the stomach is situated lower down than usual, as in emaciated individuals, where a great part of the small intestine occupies the cavity of the pelvis, the pancreas comes into relation in front either with the liver, or with the anterior wall of the abdomen, from which the gastro-hepatic omentum alone separates it, and through which it may be easily felt. This disturbance of the normal relations al- ways exists, according to Cruveilhier, when- ever the vertebral column can be felt im- mediately behind the walls of the abdomen. The pancreas is also in relation, in front, with the angle formed by the ascending and trans- verse colon and with the commencement of the duodenum. The upper border is in relation with the splenic artery, for the reception of which it is grooved, and which often runs in a canal formed in the substance of the gland through stomach. This drawing was taken from a j'oung pancreas, following that of the duodenum, was par- its entire length; it is in relation also with the Spigelian lobe of the liver, with the first portion of the duodenum, and the coeliac axis. The lower border is bounded by the inferior horizontal portion of the duodenum, from which it is separated, near the middle line, by the superior mesenteric vein and artery, which notch it, and which also separate it from its reflected portion or head. The right extremity is engaged in the duo- denal fold in the manner described, and is in relation with the ductus choledochus. From the intimacy of its attachments to the duode- num, it always accompanies this intestine in its displacements, so that when the duodenum is situated lower down than usual, which happens in displacements of the stomach downwards, the head of the pancreas is al- ways removed in the same direction. The left extremity is in relation with the left kidney, and with the spleen upon which it is sometimes flattened and blunted, and sometimes slightly enlarged, and to which it is attached by the intervention of the splenic veins, which send many branches into its sub- stance : sometimes it does not extend quite so far as the spleen by half an inch or an inch. Shape. — From its elongated form, the pan-