429 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. substance of the diaphragm, -where they com- municate with branches of the phrenic nerve. (b) The superior coronary plexus accom- panies the left coronary artery of the stomach, along its upper border, and is distributed to the anterior and posterior walls of the organ, its filaments uniting with the branches sup- plied by the pneumogastric nerves, chiefly with those which are distributed to the posterior wall of the stomach. It extends to the pyloric orifice, where it joins branches of the hepatic plexus. (c) The hepatic plexus, of considerable size, ascends along with the hepatic artery ; it receives some filaments from the pneumo- gastric nerve, and also communicates, as has been already mentioned, with the superior coronary plexus of the stomach. Branches leave it for the duodenum and head of the pancreas ; and others pass with the right gastro- epiploic artery, along the greater curvature of the stomach, fornnng the inferior coronary plexus of the stomach. On entering the trans- verse fissure of the liver, the hepatic plexus divides into a right and a left portion, which accompany the divisions of the hepatic artery and vena portae, ramifying upon them—an off- set from the hepatic plexus passes to the gall-bladder, along with the cystic artery. (f/) The splenic plexus suiTounds the artery of the same name, passing with it and its branches to the spleen. Offsets pass from the s[)lenic plexus to the pancreas, and to the stomach, wliich form the pancreatic and left gastro-epiploic plexuses. 2. The superior mesenteric Plexus appears as a prolongation downwards of the coeliac plexus, and is the largest of the offsets fur- nished by it: it also receives some filaments from the right pneumogastric nerve. It sur- rounds the superior mesenteric artery, form- ing for it a close plexiform sheath, antl sends offsets along its branches, which accompany them as they pass between the layers of the mesentery to the duodenum, small intestine, coecum, and ascending and transverse colon. The highest of these unite with the nerves which pass along the pancreatico-duodenal ar- tery, while those which are disti'ibuted to the transverse colon communicate with the nerves derived from the inferior mesenteric plexus. The nerves which accompany the arteries to the intestines present at first a plexil'orm arrangement but in their course through the mesentery, several of them are seen to run alongside the vessels, sometimes separated a short distance from them. Communicating branches pass between them in the same way as between the arteries. On reaching the intestine they enter it at the [)art where the mesentery is attached, and dividing into finer twigs, soon disappear in the sidistance of its coats. Many appear to become lost in the muscular coats, while some may be traced through these, ending apparently in the mu- cous coat, or in the sub-mucous cellular tissue. 3. Renal Plexuses.—The right and left renal plexuses are formed by branches which pro- ceed from the cceliac and superior mesenteric plexuses, and likewise derive filaments from the aortic [tlexus. In their course along the renal arteries they receive filaments, which are sent offfrom the smaller splanchnic nerves, and others from the superior lumbar ganglia. Several small ganglia are present in the nerves of the renal plexus. They divide along with the branches of the renal artery, each ai'terial branch being generally accompanied by two nervous twigs. From the renal plexus fila- ments are sent off, which, with others derived from the coeliac and phrenic plexuses, form the su|)ra-rena! plexus destined for the supply of the supra-renal capsule. 4. Spermatic Plexuses.— The right and left spermatic plexuses consist of some delicate nervous filaments, which are derived from the renal plexus. As they pass downwards with the spermatic arteries, they receive some ad- ditional filaments from the aortic plexus, and appear to give off several filaments to the uretei-s ; in their course to the testes they are connected with the nerves which accon)pany the vas deferens. In the female they are dis- tributed to the ovaries and uterus. 5. T/ie aortic plexus, situated along the abdo- minal aorta, and extending from the superior to the inferior mesenteric arteries, consists of filaments derived from the superior mesenteric and renal plexuses. In its course downwards it also receives branches from the lumbar gan- glia : it terminates in the inferior mesenteric and superior hypogastric plexuses, and also, as has been already stated, contributes to the formation of the spermatic plexus. 6. Inferior Mesenteric Plexus. —The inferior mesenteric [)lexus, formed by the left lateral portion of the aortic plexus, is less dense and less distinct than the superior plexus of the same name: its fibres present, however, the same whitish aspect and firm consistence, and sometimes have small ganglionic enlai'gements developed upon them. It accompanies the inferior mesenteric artery, dividing along with it, and forming secondary plexuses arountl its branches, which pass with them to the de- scending colon, sigmoid flexure, and upper half of the rectum. Above, the branches of the inferior mesenteric plexus form communi- cations with those tlerived from the superior mesenteric, and below, with others derived from the superior hypogastric plexus of the lelt side. 7. Hi/pognstric Plexus.—The hypogastric, a single plexus, situated in front " of the fifth lumbar vertebra and promontory of the sacrum, between the two common iliac arteries, pre- sents an irregularly quadrilateral and flattened aspect. Nervous branches, about twelve in number, pass down to it on each side from the aortic plexus, and additional filaments are derived from the lumbar ganglia. From the plexus small offsets proceed along the common iliac arteries, and a few join the hemon hoidal filaments derived from the superior mesenteric plexus: it then divides into a right and left