5)7 RUMJNANTIA. L L 3 coronal suture passing transversely across the centre of each osseous expansion, from side to side. The bones are easily detached by maceration (at least in the younger ani- mal), and when withdrawn, there is brought into view an intervening sheath-like perios- teum, which can also be separated from the concavity at the base of the horn. This cup- shaped hollow, owing to the columnar dis- position of the osseous laminae, and the very numerous perforations for the passage of nutrient vessels, presents the appearance of a sieve, depressed into a conical form. Both in the Cape and Nubian varieties a sexual difference obtains in reference to the extent to which the horns are developed. In the male adults they are larger and more closely approximated at the base than in the females, and, according to Prof. Owen's observations on the horns of the Cape Giraffe, " their expanded bases meet in the middle line of the skull, so that they would entirely conceal the coronal suture even if it were not early obliterated in this sex." * The basal portions of the horns in the females are widely sepa- rated. In our specimen (a Nubian male) the internal and lower margins of the horns remain, severally, half an inch apart, and the interfrontal suture is still distinct throughout its entire length. In regard to the asserted existence of a third horn surmounting the anterior central protuberance, an examination of the cranium, above alluded to, only serves to confirm the extended observations and conclusions of Prof. Owen on this subject. We have shown that this elevation is due to an enlargement of the subjacent frontal si- nuses, and in this respect it resembles the posterior horn-shaped apophyses. It must be remarked, however, that although, in our example, there is no superimposed osseous deposit, there is, nevertheless, a cartilaginoid thickening of the periosteum in that situa- tion; this, we can readily believe, might con- stitute a nucleus favourable to the formation of an epiphysis similar in all respects to the true horns lately described. We have not had an opportunity of inspecting the crania in the museum of the Royal College of Sur- geons, London, but, through the kindness of Dr. Ball, have examined the skeleton of a male Giraffe which died (during sexual ex- citement) at the Dublin Zoological Society's Gardens, and which is now preserved in Dr. Harrison's Anatomical Museum. In this in- dividual the central cranial eminence is not smooth as in our specimen ; on the contrary, it is particularly rough, owing to the deposi- tion of osseous nodules, which bear a marked resemblance to the irregular bony laminas prolonged from the attenuated margins of the bases of the true horns. If these rough prominences could be shown to be separable by maceration, we might with good reason infer the rudimentary existence of a third horn ; if, on the other hand, they are merely exostoses or outgrowths (and to this opinion * Memoir, he. cit. we incline), we think their deceptive aspect offers, in some measure, an explanation, of the incorrect description of this structure recorded by Cuvier, and the inaccurate figure given by Riippell.* The deciduous branching horns of the deer present two well-marked morphological types, — one group possessing rounded antlers, and the other having them more or less flattened and pahnated. Of the former, characteristic examples are seen in the horns of the Roe- buck (C. capreolus) and Red Deer (C. ela- phus), — and of the latter, in the Elk (C dices) and Fallow Deer (C damas). The re- markable periodical development of these cra- nial outgrowths is most interesting in a physio- logical [loint of view, and both types of struc- ture exhibit the same general law of increase. The male calf of the Red Deer at the sixth month differs from the female of the same age, in having two small elevations or " bos- sets," which represent the first indication of horns. These processes acquire, in the second year, the form of simple unbranched stems or " dags " {a. Jig. 339.), at which date the deer Development of the horns in the Red Deer. (From Cuvier.) is designated a " brocket" by the English, and by the French a " daguet." The dagger- like horn being shed, its place is occupied in the third year by another, carrying usually one, hut sometimes two, and even three branches or " tynes " {b, c); in this condition he is called a"spayard." The horn of the fourth year assumes a more complex aspect i(l,e), and the summit or "crown" of the stem begins to spread and divide; at this stage he is styled a " staggard." At the fifth year there are five or six branches, and at this period he is termed a " stag." At and after the sixtrh and seventh years the number of " tynes " is very variable, and the growth of the horn being now perfected, the individual is technically denominated a "hart" (/). The pahnated horns of the Fallow Deer exhibit similar gradations of development. At the second year the " buck-fawn" or * Atlas zu der Reise in Norcllichen Afrika, voa Edouard Riippell, PI. 9. Since the above was writ- ten Prof. Quekett has politely afforded us an op- portunity of inspecting the crania in the Hunterian Collection. The osseous nodules noticed in the Dublin specimen not only exist in one of these crania, but tbey could be partly raised from the subjacent bone by the easy insertion of the linger- nail under the margin.