OVUM. 44 The first modern discovery, which intro- duced a far greater accuracy into the study of ovology than existed previously, was unques- tionably that of the germinal vesicle in the ovarian ovum of birds, by Purkinje, of Bres- lau, in 1823*, an observation which led di- rectly to the ascertainment of the general fact that such a vesicle exists invariably in the ovarian ovum of all animals. The extension of this discovery to a variety of oviparous animals, we may consider as due, in the first instance, to Von Baer and R. Wagner. The next important discovery in chronolo- gical order, which contributed, in an eminent degree, to remove one of the greatest difficul- ties in our subject, was that made^by Von Baer, in 1827, of the minute ovum of mam- malia, or true viviparous animals, f The dis- covery of the nature of the mammiferous ovum was rendered complete in 1834, by the observation of the germinal vesicle first by Coste and somewhat later but independently by T. Wharton Jones % ; and the knowledge of the mammiferous ovum was greatly ex- tended and confirmed by the observations of G. Valentin and Bernardt, of Breslau. § Malpighi, Wolff, Dbllinger, Von Baer and Pander took a prominent part, but only that which belongs to the structure of the ovum itself. * This discovery was first announced in a small work, entitled Symbolse ad Ovi Historian! ante Incu- bationem, Auct. Joann. Evang. Purkinje; printed at Leipzig in 1825, on the occasion of the celebration of Blumenbach's Semisecular Jubilee. A second edi- tion m 4to, with two lithog. plates, appeared in 1830. Purkinje is also the author of the Article Ei in the Berliner Encyclopaidisches Wiirterbuch, in 1834. t See the Epistola de Ovi Mammalium et Hominis Genesi, Auct. Car. Em. De Baer, published in 4to., at Leipzig, in 1827; and the interesting Com- mentary on or Supplement to the same in'Heusinger's Journal; and the translation of both of these writings in Breschet's Repertoire d'Anatomie et de Physiologic. 4to. Paris, 1829. As I shall have occasion to'return to the history of this dis- coverv, I will not enter on farther details here; but it is right to state that Messrs. Prevost and Dumas may in some measure be considered to have shared in the merit of the discovery; as, in an extended and highly illustrative series of experiments, instituted by them as early as 1824, they were led to the conclusion that the ovules of mammiferous animals, of extremely minute size, were really contained in the Graafian follicles previous to conception ; and they even appear to have twice seen in the contents of very advanced follicles, a small spherical body which could be no other than the ovule. See An- nal. des Scien. Nat., torn, iii., 1824, p. 135. But Von Baer first demonstrated this body with precision, and explained its relations to the follicle, &c. J Coste's discovery of the germinal vesicle in the rabbit, was communicated to the public in the Comptes rendus for 1833; it is fully described in his liecherches sur la Generation des Mammifferes, &c.; 4to. Paris, 1834. In 1835, Thomas Wharton Jones read a paper to the Royal Society of London, containing an account of his observations on this vesicle iii^the mammiferous ovum, made without a knowledge of those of Coste in the autumn of 1834; but this paper was not printed in the Transactions of that year. It was afterwards published in the Lond. Med. Gazette, in 1838, p. 680. This dis- covery was confirmed and extended by Valentin and Bernardt, whose observations are recorded by the latter in his work, Symb. ad Ovi Mammal. Hist, ante Pra-gnationem, Vratislavia;, 1834. § See G.Valentin's Handbuch der Entwickelungs- The nature of the germinal vesicle itself next attracted the attention of ovologists, and a farther addition to the knowledge of its structure was made by Rudolph Wagner, of Gottingen, in 1835, by the discovery in it of a minute particle or mass of fine granules, to which he gave the name of macula germi- nativa, or germinal spot.* The subsequent researches which that author instituted on the earliest condition of the ovula ni the whole series of animals, contributed," more than any others of the same fperiod, to establish the doctrine of a general uniformity in the struc- ture and mode of origin of the ova of animals.-j- Although it appeared, from the researches of R. Wagner, and has been made still more apparent from late observations, that in several classes of animals the germinal macula loses its determinate form and is subdivided and diffused, as it were, in the germinal vesicle, yet the more circumscribed form of this body, in its earliest condition, and its general preva- lence, as a constituent part of the vesicle in almost all animals, seem to indicate the analogy of that vesicle with the true nucleated cell of other parts of the animal body. After the general nature and structure of the ovum had been ascertained by the several discoveries now mentioned, numerous and important researches followed one another in rapid succession, giving greater extent, minuteness, and accuracy to, and in some instances modifying and correcting, the know- ledge previously acquired. Among the authors of these researches, besides those already mentioned, the names of Rathke, J. Miiller, Prevost and Dumas, Barry, Reichert, Bi- schoif, KoUiker, and Vogt, occupy the most prominent place. Of these, and others, more special mention will be made in the progress of our history of the ovum and its develop- ment. But, as my present object is to place before the reader only the principal disco- veries which may be regarded as the ground- work of the scientific knowledge of our subject, I will only farther call attention at this place, to the influence which the ob- geschichte des Menschen, &c.; 8vo. Berlin, 1835, at p. 14. The part of this work relating to the structure and formation of the ovum, was translated and published by Dr. M. Bari-y, in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, No. 127. * The observations of R. Wagner on this subject, were made towards the end of 1834. This discovery was first published iu the 1st Edit, of his Lehrbuch der Vergleich. Anat. 8vo., Leipzig, 1834 — 35, pp. 320 and 352, and in MUller's Archiv. for the latter year, p. 373. f His more extended researches are described in the work entitled, Prodromus Historite Genera- tionis Hominis atque Animaliuni; folio, Leipzig, 1836. Witli two copper-plates and very numerous figures. These and the researches of Valentin, are, with reference to the ovum, peculiarly interesting and important as the immediate precursors of the Microscopic Researches of Schwann. See also, the Beitrage zur Geschichte der Zeugung iind Entwic- kelung, by R. Wagner; published in the Trans, of the Roy. Bavar. Acad, of Sciences, 4to., Munich, 1837. R. Wagner is also the author of the Article Ei in Ersch and Griiber's Encyclopaedie.