346 STOMACH AND INTESTINE, This tunic everywhere consists of the ordi- nary elements of a mucous membrane : — namely, a basement membrane, an epithelium, and a layer of areolar tissue that contains an admixture of the muscular fibre-cells. But, instead of forn)ing a simple, flat expanse, it undergoes numerous modifications; which, un- der the names of valvulce conniventes, intestinal tubes, villi, agminate follicles, solitary follicles, and racemose glands, will especially claim our notice. ValviilcB comiivenles. — Almost all the small intestine is complicated by the presence of transverse folds of mucous membrane ; which project from its inner surface into its cavity. These projections, which were known to many of the earlier anatomists, were named by Kerkring the vahiihe conniventes;—apparently from his thinking that they delayed the intes- tinal contents, but still as it were, connived at their passage. They begin in the second portion of the duodenum, and only cease in the lower fifth or sixth of the small intes- tine. They are best shown by moderate dis- tention of the tube with alcohol; which slowly hardens them, so that they retain their shape, even after a portion of the wall of the bowel has been removed to display its interior.— Fig. 255. Small intestine distended and hardened bi/ alcnhol, and laid open to sliom the valvnlcB conniventes occvpi/ing its interior. t^From a preparation in the 3Iuseum of King's College.) Extreme distention greatly diminishes their size, but never effaces them altogether. And such a permanent character sufficiently distin- guishes these folds from those temporary creasings which are seen generally throughout the stomach and intestine, and which are sometimes spoken of as preceding them in the first part of tiie duodenum. At first they are very small and scattered, rise little above the general mucous surface, extend but a short distance across the tube, and break uj) at their extremities into st'll more minute creases, which often pass obliquely to join those next them, above and below. In the lower part of the duodenum, they gradually fic(juire a number and size, which are retained throughout the whole of the jejunum. But from the beginning of the ileum, they again diminish; first in frequency, and latterly in length and depth. And in the lower third of this segment, they generally disappear alto- gether. Each of these folds consists of a duplica- ture of mucous membrane, enclosing a process of the loose areolar tissue which everywhere separates the mucous from the muscular coat. Opposite the attached border of the valviila, this layer is somewhat thicker; but does not appear to contain more than its ordinary small quantity of fibre-cells. The process which it gives off to each of the folds con- tains vessels, nerves, and lacteals. The relation of this tissue to thevalvula is well shown by the result of its inflation; which produces a kind of artificial emphysema, that completely oblite- rates the whole projection. When the cavity of the intestine is forcibly distended, the valvulce are placed vertically to the general surface. But in the ordinary state of the bowel, they are easily moved by any ex- ternal force; so that their free margin is generally directed obliquely upwards or dow n- wards. Their direction is nearly transverse to the axis of the tube. Their variable extent around the wall of the bowel forms one-half, two-thirds, or even three-fourths of a circle. Their greatest projection occupies the middle of their length, where they are often from one-fourth to half an inch deep. But towards either extremity, they gradually sink into the general mucous surface. In doing this, the valves usually swerve a little from their hither- to transverse and parallel course; so that each joins by one or both ends with the fold imme- diately before or behind it. And sometimes a bifurcation of the tapering fold unites its extremity to two of its neighbours. The office of these permanent folds has been a matter of considerable speculation. It is evident that they increase the extent of the mucous surface to at least twice or thrice what it would be in a simple hollow cylinder of equal size. It is equally obvious, that their transverse position is peculiarly calculated to render this enlarged surface an effective one. For they are at right angles to the direction of peristalsis, and therefore to the general course of the intestinal contents. Such an arrangement of the mucous membrane, taken in connection with the great mobility of these folds, must not only insure a thorough ad- mixture of the various constituents of the chyme, but, by delaying its direct passage onwards, bring every portion of it into con- tact with the greatest possible extent of the active intestinal surface. hileslinal tubes. — The structure of the remaining constituents of the intestinal mu- cous membrane can only be seen distinctly by the aid of the microscope. Amongst these minute organs, the intestinal tubes — or, as they are commonly called, the folli- cles of Liebcrkuelin — are the first to de- mand our notice. For, with slight modifica- tions, they occupy the whole of the small and