OVUM. 45 servations and doctrines of Schwann, as to the cellular origin and constitution of the textures of plants and animals, published in 1838, have exerted on the progress of ovo- logy and embryology. In accordance with his general views, Schwann regarded the ovarian ovum as constituting an organised cell, of which the vitelline membrane is the outer cell-wall, the yolk substance the con- tents, the germinal vesicle the nucleus, and the macula or"maculae the nucleolus or nucleoli.* While the observations of Schwann do not present us with any very important new facts as to the structure of the ovum in particular, and although it may be necessary even to modify, in some degree, the view we should now, with our increased knowledge, be dis- posed to take of its relation to other organised cells of the economy, still it cannot be doubted that the great generalisation matured by this author has exerted, and still continues to exert, upon the progress of discovery and the scientific aspect of our subject, a no less re- markable influence than that which has been ap[)arent since its first promulgation, on al- most the whole range of physiological ana- tomy ; furnishing the key to the structure of the ovum itself, laying the foundation of the histological laws of development, bringing a vast amount of observed facts under a con- sistent doctrine, and stimulating and guiding the embryologist in new paths of research.f * Schwann, after hesitating somewhat whether to regard tlie entire ovum or tlic germinal vesicle as a true cell, gave the preference to the above view, chiefly from a consideration of the manner in which the ovum was believed to be fonned, and its corre- spondence, as he conceived, witli the invariable and necessary mode of formation of cells in general. These latter views have themselves imdergonc some modification since the publieatiun of .Sclnvaiin's Researches, and we shall probably find (as after- wards be more fully stated) that a study of the structure and mode of production of the ova in a variety of animals, may render it necessary to mo- dify also the comparison of the parts of the ovum to the organic cell, adopting rather the view of E. Wagner and Henle, according to which the germinal vesicle is regarded as the true cell, and the other parts of the ovum as of the nature of superadded structures. t Mikroskop. Untersuch. iiber die Ubereinstim- mung in der Struktur und dem Wachsthum der Thiere und Ptlanzen, von Dr. Thomas Schwann. Berlin, 1839. The interesting Researches of M. J. Schlciden, on the cellular structure of Plants, en- titled Beitrage zur Phytogenesis, published in Muller's Archiv. for 1838, immediately preceded those of Schwann; and they may be considered as forming in some measure, along with his, the basis of modern histology: the researches of the latter author were independently made, and an extract of them published in the beginning of 1838, in Froriep's Notizen; and the two first parts of his fuller treatise were sent to the French Academy, in August and December of 1838. An interesting analysis of both these works in the British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. ix. for 1840, made their contents generally known in this country; and an excellent translation of them both by Mr. H. Smith has since been published (1847) under the auspices of the Sy- denham Society. It may be observed, however, that the great and imywrtant generalisations which Schleidcn and Schwann have, with so much merit, The most important general facts that have been ascertained in regard to the ova of ani- mals may now be stated shortly as follows : — 1. The ova of animals begin to be formed in the ovary of the female parent at an early period of hfe, and are produced more com- monly in vesicular, more rarely in tubular, cavities or ovisacs of these organs. 2. In those instances, in which it has been possible to detect the earliest stages of forma- tion, the ovum appears very generally to take its origin in the form of a miiuite spherule or vesicle. This soon enlarges, and is converted into a nucleated cell, which forms the germinal vesicle, and this remains as a constituent part of the ovulum, till the latter is about to leave the ovary, or till the first formative changes commence. 3. The vitellus, or yolk substance, begins to be formed a little later. It is gradually accumulated, either in the vicinity of or round the germinal vesicle, in some rarer instances being produced in a separate organ; it con- sists of an albuminous fluid in which are suspended a large quantity of granules and oil spherules, or of larger corpuscles, having the form of non-nucleated simple cells. The structure of the yolk substance is subject to considerable variety. 4. The yolk substance and germinal vesicle are together enclosed, in the mature state of the ovarian ovum, by an almost structureless vesicular vitelline membrane, which in most animals is formed later than the other parts, in some at an early period, in others com- paratively late, and which is not, therefore, to be invariably regarded as a true cell-wall, or as an original part of the ovum. 5. The germinal vesicle presents several of the characteristics of a true organised cell: the macula, or germinal spot, has in many animals the form and relation of a nucleus; but in some, the subdivided structure of this macula, which succeeds in the progress of formation of the ovum, causes it to lose its simple nuclear character. G. When the ovulum, or ovarian ovum, attains maturity, it generally leaves the place of its formation in the ovary, and about the same time — in some animals before, in others after it—the germinal vesicle disa[)|)ears, bursts, or dissolves. In the greater number of ani- established, may in some measure be regai'dcd as the fulfilment or amplification of, and true deduction from, a variety of detached observations, which had been accumulating, in regard to both kingdoms of nature, for some years, more especially after the im- provement of the achromatic microscope had given increased facility and precision to the minute ex- amination of the tissues; such as the discovery of the nucleus of the vegetable cell by Robert Brown, in 1831; the discovery of the cellular structure of the chorda dorsalis by J. Bliillcr; the observations of Henle on epithelium, of Valentin on several similar subjects, and of Turpin and Mirbel on plants, together with the observations previously referred to on the ovum of animals itself. But these detached ob- servations had not led to any important general views before the publication of the Researches of Schleiden and Schwann.