THE PAROVARIUM—(Normal Anatomy). 595 distinct from the duct of the Wolffian body (Jig.400. f). In the male, however, he has been able to detect no vas deferens distinct from the excretory duct of the corpus Wolffianuni; but on the contrary, the testis and the excre- tory duct of the former body seem to become connected by means of vasa efferentia. This is an important point, because it will be found so far to bear out the views of Kobelt re- garding the homologies of these structures. In the mammalia generally, and in man, the Wolffian bodies are less extended. They, however, possess the same arrangement of transverse csecal tubes ( Jig. 401. a—d), ter- minating in the side of a conjmon excretory duct (e), which leads from the lower extre- mity of the oriian to the uro-genital sinus. These structures are all formed indepen- dently of the kidneys and supra-renal cap- sules, as well as of the ovaria and testes, which parts occupy the same relative position in mammalia as in birds. But here, according to Miiller's researches, a different arrangement is observed in regard to the efferent duct of the generative portion of these structures. At first the oviduct and the vas deferens have each the same confor- mation, and each terminates by a free extre- mity. This, in the female, Tiierely acquires an open mouth, and thus the Fallopian tube is formed, the ovary continuing, as at first, distinct and separate. But in the male the efferent tube and the testis become connected by transverse vessels, which are afterwards converted into the coni vasculosi of the epi- didymis, whilst the rest of that organ is com- posed of the convolutions of the efferent tube itself. " The Wolffian bodies entirely dis- appear in both sexes, and are not converted into any other organ." * These views, however, leave unexplained many peculiarities which are observable in the permanent condition of the parts or or- gans developed from the foetal structures ; and it is the great merit of Kobelt's re- searches that they serve to render these in- telligible. According to this observer, there exists, in the earliest periods of intra-uterine life, a contlition of indistinction of sex in every in- dividual. This depends upon a temporary co-existence in each individual of all the ele- ments of the reproductive structines. For at the highest point of sexual indifference, that is, shortly bel'ore the beginning of the division of sex, the Wolffian bodies consist of — 1. The so-called cascal tubes (Jig. 401. a—cl). 2. Of the common duct (e) running along the outer side of this body, into which the caecal tubes o])en. 3. And of a second longer cord (/i), which begins in a blind [)ouch (?), and takes its course inwards over the Wolffian body, pa- rallel with the excretory duct of the latter (<?), in order to enter the uro-genital canal (je), by a separate orifice (k). This last cord, * MUller's Physiology, by Baly, p. 1637. discovered by John MUUer, is throughout destitute of any connection with the cascal pouches. (See also Jig. 400. g.) Fig. 401. The left Wolffian body at the period of indisthictton of sex. (After Kobelt.) a a, entire collection of its component tubules divisible into three sets, viz., 6, upper; c, midiUe; d, lower set; e, excretory duct of tiie Wolffian body into which all the tubules open, subsequently con- verted into vas deferens in the male, and becoming atrophied in the female; /, terminal bulb of the same, becoming afterwards the so-called hydatid, often seen altnclied, in the male, to the head of the epididymis (Jig. 40-2. /), and in the female to the broad ligament (fg. AOo. f i>x\A 408. ) ; 9, open- ing of the Wolffian body into x, the uro-genital canal; //, duct of MUller, afterwards Fallopian tube in the female, and becoming atrophied in the male ; i, ter- minalbulbof the same, becoming the hydatid of Mur- gagni {fg. 40l'. i) in the male, and the hydatid often seen depending f'rom the mouth of the Fallopian tube in the female (Fig. 403. i and 368. ee ); h, junc- tion of the duet of MuUer with the uro-genital canal ; * shows the subsequent horizontal position of tliis duct when it has become Fallopian tube. The organ destined for the preparation of the reproductive material, the generative gland, (fg. 401. Z ), consists of a longish, clearly defined structure, l.\ ing upon the inner side of the Wolffian botiy, so as to cover a portion of the bulbs of the caecal pouches. Its white colour serves to distinguish it, at a glance, from the yellowish brown Wolffian body. As yet, no material nor actual distinc- tion of sex can be discovered in any one of these parts ; and yet the whole alreatly con- tains all the elements of the male, as well as of the female, reproductive apparatus, without; any true exhibition of bi-sexuality. The nature of the first impulse towards a division of sex, in one or other direction, is unknown, but the subsequent separation ma- nifest-s itself with the commencing distinctive development, and correlative retrogression of each sevei'al clement ; for the cardinal organ, the generative gland (Jig.40\. I), may be con- verted into testis (Jig. 402. /), or ovary (Jig. 403. /), and through the doubly existing ex- cretory duct of this gland, viz. the duct of Miiller (Jig. 401. A), for the female, and the Q Q 2