209 PELVIS. spongy texture, and deep-seated position. When fractures of this bone do happen, they are most commonly found at the lower part, which is less protected by the above pecu- liarities. They occur chiefly from direct and great violence, which generally injures also other parts of the pelvis extensively, seriously affecting the nerves of the sacral plexus, so as to produce paraplegia and retention of urine, as well as extensive injury to the soft parts, such as result in effusion of blood, peritonitis, and sloughing of the integuments. Fractures at the lower part are much more easy to diagnose than those of the upper, which are seldom discovered till after death. In the former case, the lower fragment is generally drawn forwards by the action of the great glutei and coccygei muscles, so as to press upon and interfere with the functions of the rectum, through which it may be felt by the finger. It will also produce great pain on moving the legs, which may lead to its discovery, when more serious injury is not present. The coccyx when normally placed is rarely fractured, on account of its great mobility and small size. It always happens by di- rect violence. When ankylosed, it is more frequently broken, and instances of this have been before mentioned, in relation to the obstruction of the outlet in parturition which it occasions. It is diagnosed by the mo- bility and grating of the fragments, and by the pain caused by the action of the great glutei muscles. Dislocation of the coccyx is said to have occurred backward in difficult labours, and to have been followed by abscess, but these cases have been most probably fractures like those just mentioned. Fractures of the innominate bone generally occur on one side only, where the greatest part of the force has fallen, but sometimes on both. They are most frequently found in the ilium—which is most exposed, but often impli- cate both the ischium and pubes. They may be confined to one part of the bone ; in which case they are found chiefly about the iliac crest and wing. Boyer relates a case in which the inferior anterior iliac spine was broken off by the kick of a horse. Cases are not un- frequently seen where the anterior superior iliac spine and a portion of the crest are broken oS. Sometimes they are comminuted in, and ratliate from, the cotyloid cavity, such fractures generally resulting from direct vio- lence against the lateral pelvic arch, and act- ing on the head of the femur so as to drive it inwards through the pelvic wall. Fractures of the pelvis, like those of the spinal cohmni, are seldom present without ffe- location also of the sacro-iliac or jjubic joints. This results from the circular arrangement of its bones, and from the laws of its mechanism, explained in the first section of this article. Thus, when force is applied so as to compress the pelvic circle from before backward (as commonly the cause of these fractures is such compression hy the wheels of a loaded cart or other vehicle), then the cotylo-sacral arch Supp. yields inwards at its haunches,—thesaci'o-iliac joints, the anterior ligaments of which are torn, and the articular surfaces separated in front. At the same time the pubic tie yields either at the symphysis or in the superior rami. The innominate bone may be entirely dis- located upward or backward, generally on one side only. A case is related by Cloquet, in which this was the case on both sides, the pubic symphysis, at the same time, separated \ an inch, the pubis and ischio-puhic ramus were broken, and the bladder ruptured. Another case, where the left innominate bone was dis- placed upwards, was treated successfully by Chaussier. The ligaments and fibro-cartilage of the sym- physis pubis are usually torn, the latter ge- nerally carrying with it a portion of one of the bones ; or tlie su[)erior ramus is broken at its weakest part, above the obturator fora- men, or it separates from the other innominate pieces. In most cases the ischio-pubic rauius of the same side also yields at or near the point of suture, which is its thinnest and weakest part, and the obturator foramen is again penetrated. This results from the ope- ration of the force upon the unsupported ischio-sacral arch and its tie, after the other has yielded. A preparation exhibiting such a fracture is found in the King's College Mu- seum. In this case the superior pubic ramus has separated in the acetabulum from the other pieces of the innomin;itum in the line of the Y-shaped suture, while the fracture through the ischio-pubic ramus extends up- wards, along the side, and into the centre of the pubic symphysis (^fig. 120.). Fig. 120. Fracture of tlw jyubis and ac( tubulu:a. This fracture, accompanied by that of the supeiinr pubic ranuis, may also happen from a fall from a great height upon the breech, on one siile or both, as the force happens to fall. The great strength of the body ot the ischium renders a fracture there of less frequent oc- currence than in the other pieces of the innominat:uu. Fractures of the innominate bones seldom occur w\l\'\outdii>placevie)it, produced usually— not by subsequent muscular action, which is kept in check by their balanc.- of power, and by the extensive ligamentous and fascial at- p