PELVIS. 177 These are represented in Man and Mam- malia generally by the sacro-sc'tatic ligaments, and appear to be ossified by extension from the epiphysis of the ischiadic tuberosity, and from the ischiadic spine. In Birds, they constitute an important element of the pelvis, and are separated, more or less, from the ischium and sacrum by a fainth' marked suture, more evident, however, at the sacral extremity. Taken in a scientific point of view they represent two additional pelvic rib shafts, or flnira'pophijses, of tlie two last sacral vertebras, and are implanted on the sacrum, in the human pelvis, in the site of the two lower lateral epiphysial plates of that bone, exactly as the ilia are articulated upon the three upper. Their extension to the coccyx would also seem to connect them with tlie elements of the first coccygeal vertebrae ; — and their attachment to the ischia would be, in this point of view, a repetition of the kind of union of the latter bones with the descending pubic rami, as the cartilages of the false ribs are connected consecutively to each other in the thorax. The uhtiirator and sacro-sciatic foraviiua, considered in this light, constitute simply consecutive and enlarged intarrhondral and intercostal spaces respectively ; the lesser sa- cro-sciatic foramen becoming, in the Sloths, Bats, and Birds, entirely obliterated. This manner of viewing them explains the ap- [)arently indifferent way in whicii the boun- daries of these openings, especially the ob- turator, are left incoin[)leted, or entirely obliterated, in Birds and Reptiles. The coti/loid notch may be thus considered as the commencement of the obturator separation, and the formation of two obturator open- ings, as in the Ostrich, may be readily ex- plained. The obturator membrane may also be thus related to tlie anterior intercostal aponeuroses, and the membranous expatision of the upper border of the great sciatic ligamejits (before mentioned as connected with the fasciae cover- ing the internal obturator and pyriformes mus- cles), to the posterior intercostal ligaments. The homologiies of the ligaments of the sncro-iliac articulations are readily found in those connecting the head, neck, and tubercles of the thoracic ribs to the vertebra;. The anterior and superior sacro-iliac ligaments are evidently repetitions of the anterior or stel- late eosto-vertebral; the superficial fibres of tiie posterior sacro-iliac, repetitions of the posterior costo-transverse; the deep fibres, or inter- osseous sacro-iliac, of the middle or interosseous costo-transverse ; and the ilio-lumbar and lumbo- sacral ligaiTients, of the oblique or an'erior costo- transverse ligaments of the ribs. The connec- tion of the last-named ligament with the trans- verse process of the vertebra above, and with the iliac crest below, is very similar to the oblique direction and attachments of the homologous costo-transverse. The ossifica- tion of these ligaments in Sloths, Bats, and especiilly in Birds, gives additional support to their otherwise feel)ly connected pelves. The ligamrnfs of the jyubic si/nqdii/sis find Siipp. easily their homologues in the chondro-steniaf ligaments. Tiie anterior and posterior peripheral inter-pubic ligaments are repetitions of the similarly placed and constituted chondro- sternal, which, like them, connect the ha;ma- pophyses together across the interposed elements, as well as directly to the endo- sternal bones and inter-pubic fibro-cartilage. The supe)-ior jmbic ligament finds its homo- logue in the inter-clavicular, and the sub-pubic, in the ckondro-xiphoid and inlei-chondral hbres. It would be easy also to i)oint out the mus- cular homologues of the two regions; but space will not permit more than to mention the evident ones of the external and internal oblique muscles with the similarly placed and directed intercostals; of the levator ani with the diaphragm ; and of the pi/riformes with the 2JS0(£ muscles. The internal obturator muscles would repiesent the triangularis sterni and transversalis abdominis; and the external, the lesser jxetoral and external oblique muscles. The homologues of the pelvic bones with those of the shoulder are best seen in the Rep- tiles. According to Duges, the pelvis of the Salamander has a close resemblance to the shoidder of the Cameleon. The ilium is generally considered to be the homologue of the scapula; the pubis, o{ the clavicle ; and the ischium, of the coracoid bone. Meckel considers the body of the ischium to represent the spine of the scapula; while, in the opinion of Oken, the pubis re[)resents the acromion process, and the marsupial bones the clavicles. In tlie shoulder of the Cameleon, the sca- pula is longer even than the ilium, ami the fiircular clavicles and coracoids are ank\losed together like the ischium and pubis. And, in the i^elvis of the Crocodile, we have seen that the ischium excludes the pubis from the formation of the acetabulum by an apophysis which overhangs that cavity, somewhat as the hnman coracoid process intervenes between the glenoid cavity and the clavicle. The ascending branch of the ischium may, further, be taken to represent the epieoraeoid bones of the Monotremes, Lizards, Batrachians, and some Fishes, as the Cod, Carp, and Perch, In the Cock-fish, Snipe-fish, and Lancet-fisli, these bones are joined in a kind of svm[)hysis, foi Mning an independent arch behind the sca- pular arch. And those bones of the scapular arch oi the Fish, which are consitlered by Owen to lie the coracoids, (but by Meckel, Agassiz, Gcof- froy, and Spix to be clavicles,') unite also in a median symphysis, presenting an homologous affinity to the ischial si/mphi/sis seen in the Reptiles,—the whole of these symphysial ele- ments being represented, combined, by the elongated ischio-pubic si/mphj/sis in many Mammalians, but especially in that of the MaroUjiials and Monotremes. (John IVood.) BlBHOGRAFllY. — Descriptive Anafnmij, by Qiiain, Cruvellner, and Mectiel. Ward, on the IJones. FJlis's Demonstrations. Jotin James Watis, Ana- tuniiru-Cliirurgical View of the Male and Female Pelvis. Encyclopedic Anatumique — .Tourdaifs