309 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. with tlie more fixed duoclenuni and oeso- phagus. The former tube is connec ted with the posterior wall of the belly, the latter perforates the crura of the diaphragm a little to the left of the median line, so as to enter the abdomen about one inch in front of the left border of the aorta, by an aperture which is everywhere muscular *, although close to the posterior border of the tendon. The fixation of the stomach is also aided by certain processes of peritoneum. To the left of the oesophagus, the short phreno- gastric omentum passes from the diaphragm to the cardiac pouch, which it reaches some- what posteriorly. Still lower down, the stomach is united to the spleen by the gastro- splenic omentum. The lower border of the organ gives off the great omentum ; this de- scends for some distance towards the bottom of the belly, and is then reflected upwards to the anterior border of the transverse colon, which it splits to enclose. The upper border of the stomach is attached by means of the gastro-hcpatic or small omentum, which de- scends from the transverse fissure of the liver. All of these folds are double; though the four layers of the reflected omentum majus are often inseparably united to each other. They are more particularly described in the article Peritoneum. Situation. — The stomach is placed almost transversely in the upper part of the abdo- minal cavity, in which it passes from the left to the right side, as well as downwards, and slightly forwards. This direction results from its situation relatively to the oesophagus and duodenum : since it is joined by the former at its highest part, and near its left extremity ; while the latter is immediately prolonged from its right or pyloric end. In this course from left to right, the stomach successively oc- cupies the left hypochondriac and the epi- gastric regions; and, just at its termination, it reaches the right hypochondrium. Its an- terior surface is therefore in contact with the diaphragm, where this muscle lines the car- tilages of the left false ribs ; and with the ante- rior wall of the abdomen. Its posterior surface lies upon the pancreas, the aorta, and the crura of the diaphragm, where these parts cover the spine. Its left extremity is in contact, above, with the diaphragm, below, with the spleen ; and, posteriorly, it touches the left supra- renal capsule and kidney. Its upper border is in apposition to the liver: — viz. to its left lobe, to the lohulus Spigelii, and to part of the lohulus quadrcitus. Its lower border is parallel, and close to, the transverse colon. * The muscularity of this aperture led Haller and some other anatomists to regard it as a kind of sphincter to the cardiac orifice of the stomach. But we may point out that, tliough tlie contraction of its tibres reduces the elliptical opening to a circular one, yet as this apparent constriction coin- cides with the descent of the diaphragm, the obHque plane of this muscle is at the same instant becoming transverse. Hence this ellipse and circle merely represent an oblique and a transverse section of tlie same cylinder. The diameter of the oesophagus may therefore remain unchanged. Unusual size or distention chiefly affects the situation of the organ by causing it to ex- tend downwards; so as to overlap or cover the transverse colon, and thus reach the umbilical, the left lumbar, or even the iliac region. Under similar circumstances, its left extremity also passes deeply into the corre- sponding hypochondrium ; so as to be co- vered, not only by the cartilages of the ribs, but by these bones themselves. Its extension upwards diminishes the size of the thorax, but is rarely sufficient to be felt as a serious hindrance to the descent of the dia[)hragm in the ordinary tranquil inspiration of health. Its right extremity may reach the gall-bladder. It may be useful to trace the effect of its usual progressive distention upon the form, site, and fixation of the stomach. When void of food, and not distended (as it often is) by gases, the flattened stomach hangs almost vertically in the epigastrium. In this state of the organ, the pulpy food that enters it from the oesophagus drops at once into the cardiac pouch, which forms its most depend- ing part. The reception of further quantities effaces its upper and lower borders, and gra- dually changes them,from almost straight lines, into the curves above mentioned ; at the same time that it separates the previously apposed surfaces, and converts the whole organ into a bent cone, which is convex below and in front. The latter of these two flexures chiefly occupies thep3loric extremity, and is often very sudden. Both result from the increased length of the organ, and the proximity of its comparatively fixed orifices. But both are greatly assisted by the nmscular coat: since the distention of the separated stomach tolerably imitates, though it scarcely equals, the curves taken by the organ when moderately expanded in situ. The delicate and yielding omenta above men- tioned allow the stomach to expand be- tween their elastic and extensible laminae, without undergoing any disturbance of its ner- vous and vascular connections, or any loss of its serous covering. Finally, although the stomach itself enlarges pretty equally in all di- rections, still, after filling the hypochondrium, the mobility of its bent middle directs it towards that part of the enclosing cavity where it meets with the least resistance :—namely, towards the yielding anterior wall of the belly. Hence, should the distended intestines not allow it any great descent downwards, it comes forwards; so that what was its vertical anterior siu'face now looks oblicjuely upwaids ; while its inferior border touches the lower part of the wall of the epigastrium, where its artery has even been felt pidsating in very thin sub- jects. The serous coat of the stomach is conti- nuous with the double laminaj of peritoneum above mentioned, which split to enclose it where they reach its various borders. Here they are very loosely connected to each other, and to the subjacent coat, by an abundance of highly elastic areolar tissue. But towards the middle of the gastric surfaces, the peritoneum, though still elastic, is closely united to the