PANCREAS. 103 Very lately this subject has been taken up by several able physiologists, and Bernard*, Frerichs f, and Bidder and Schmidt J, have given to the world the results of careful and elaborate researches both into the physical and chemical characters of the fluid and its physiological action. I shall describe first the observations of these inquirers on the qualities of the secretion, ani_l, ai'tcrwards arid sepa- rately, their views of its physiological office. It is very remarkable, that the difl'erences in the accounts given by these recent investi- gators are very closely analogous to those ex- * isting between the results of the researches above described. Tliey all agree, however, as to the invariable alkalinity of the secretion, the absence of sn!()ho-cyanides, the existence of a specific nitrogenous principle, and, in general, to its possession of strong differen- tial characters when compared with saliva. According to Bernard, the pancreatic secre- tion obtained artificially during the life of the animal is of two very distinct kinds, which he ,:haracterizes as Ho;-;»«/and viorhid; the for- mer obtained when the experiment is made andcr favour.ible circumstances, before inHam- ination has attacked the pancreas, or which is collected from a dog possessing a permanent pancreatic fistula; the latter always secreted in gre;it abiunlance when the symptoms of in- flanjmatory reaction appear in the pancreas and in the wound in tiie abdou)en. The normal secretion, which, adopting Ber- nard's view, is of course the secretion, he de- .scribes as a colourless, limpid, viscid, ropy fluid, without any characteristic odour, and having a saline taste very like that of the serum of the blood. It is constantly alkaline. . Exposed to heat, it is converted into a solid \ white mass ; the coagulation is as entire and \ coni|)lete as that of white of egg, the whole becomes solid, not a drop of free liquid re- maining. The other reagents of albumen equally precipitate it. The alkalies produce no precipitate, and redissolve the organic matter when it has been |)reviously coagulated by heat, alcohol, or the mineral acids. But, ahhough exhibiting the same reactions, Ber- nard believes that this nitrogenous |)rinciple is essentially distinct from all)umen, not only in a physiological [loint of view, but in its in- herent nature; and, as a proof of this, he cites the fact, that when it has been coagulated by alcohol and dried, it is easily and entirely redissolved in water, whilst albumen, similarly treated, is not dissolved to any appreciable extent. () These characteristics of the fluid, which are given fi om the dog, Bernard says obtain equally in rabbits, horses, and birds. The norbid pancreatic fluid, which is alone thrown out when the experiment is tardily or * Arch. G<?n. de lUd., 4tli Ser. torn. 19. p. 68—86. t Wagner's Ilanclwiirtorbueh der Physiol. X Die Verdauunggeschiift und der Stolfweclisel, Leipsig, 1852. § Uernard believes this to be the active matter of the secretion, as it imparts to tlie water the pe- culiar viscosity and physiological properties of the pancreatic fluid. roughly performed, and which always succeeds to t!ic other when the experiment is ha|)py, is watery, without any viscosity, has a saline and nauseous taste, is of very low specific gravity, and gives hardly any precipitate on the appli- cation of heat, nitric acid, &c. It is |)oured out very abundantly : Bernard collected from a dog more than half an ounce in an hour, whereas of the normal he found 31 grains a maximum. The normal is not transformed into the morbid secretion suddenly, but gra- dually, losing, as it becomes more and more watery, its physiological properties, of which at last it is quite destitute. This observation of Bernard's is very important, as showing the facility and extent to which the fluid may be changed, and doubtless it goes some way to explain the discrepancies of the ac- counts which different observers have ren- dered, but it is not entirely sufficient for this, as, in some hands, a watery fluid with but little albuminous matter and of very low specific gravity seems to have been obtained at once, even under circumstances the most favour- able. Frerichs, who has made a most complete analysis of this fluid*, and with whose ac- count Lehmann-j- agrees, describes it as co- lourless, clear, very slightly tenacious, without taste or smell, of alkaline reaction and a spe- cific gravity as luw as 1-008 to I'009 ; heat, alcohol, and acid, produce but a slight turbi- dity; of solid constituents he foimd it contain but I'SG per cent, in the ass, and l'C2 in the dog. Schmidt's account is something interme- diate between the other two ; he describes the fluid as ropy and viscid, and as being coagu- lated by heat into a milky mass, fi'om which white floccidi subside, leaving above a clear, strongly alkaline fluid. He agrees with Bernard in the solubility by water of the precipitated and dried albuminous matter ; he states the specific gravity of the fluid at TOSl, and the quantity of solid constituents at 9-024 per cent.; in one case the amount of solids reached 1 l-oO per cent. The following are the quantitative analyses of Frerichs and Schmidt : — Pancreatic juice of ass (Frerichs). Water - 986-40 Solid residue 13-60 Fat 0 26 Alcohol extract 0-1.5 Water extract 3-09 Soluble salts 8-90 Insoluble salts 1-20 Pancreatic juice of dog (Schmidt). Water - - - - 900-76 Solid residue - - 99-24< Oi'ganic n)atter - - 90' '8 Inorganic - 8-86 * Op. eit. p. 842—849. t I'hysiol. Ohcin. (translated by Day), p. 112. et seq. II 4