UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 660 the circumference of a dollar. Finally, how- ever, these coagula are removed, and, together with the veins, disappear, while the place sinks to the level of the surroumling parts ; and, after becoming smooth and receiving an in- vestment of mucous membrane, is generally no longer discernible. The restoration of the placental space to its former condition does not, however, always proceed normally. Sometimes, in consequence of excessive acti- vity in the process of reconstruction, hyper- trophic growths of the new material take place; so that, sevei'al months after labour, a tumour of more or less considerable size, formed at the expense of the uterine tissues, is found to occupy the original seat of the placenta. I have satisfied myself by several microscopic examinations of the correctness of Heschl's opinion, that in this way are formed some of those anomalous-looking fleshy substances which are occasionally dis- charged from the uterus, and are regarded as moles. The histological changes, which take place after labour in the tissues lying internally to the muscular coat, up to the complete resto- ration of the mucous membrane, have been examined by many observers, not always, however, with corresponding results. It ap- pears certain that a portion at least of that layer of decidua which is still left attached to the uterine walls, is removed by fatty trans- formation, and that many of the products are discharged by the lochia. Schrceder van der Kolk has traced this process as it occurs in the nuclear cells and fibres, which form so large a portion of the decidua. Those very broad fibre cells, which are visible in it up to the ninth month of pregnancy, are no longer to be found four or five days after labour, when they appear to be transformed into long cells, through an abundant fatty transforma- tion which progressively continues, until, by the increasing development of the oil granules and the corresponding diminution of the cells and fibres, the situation of the latter can ulti- mately only be discovered by the still existing longitudinal direction of the fat nuclei, while all traces of a cell wall have entirely disap- peared. Without the aid of the microscope, how- ever, it may be seen that, a few days after labour, the entire inner surface of the uterus is covered by a more or less red soft pulpy substance, which has the same anatomical composition as the decidua. This, which is considered by some physiologists as identical with the layer of decidua already described, as formed, according to Kilian, Robin, and others, as early as the fourth or fifth month of gestation, is not discharged after labour, but becomes the seat of that reparatory pro- cess, by which the restoration of the mucous membrane upon the uterine body is effected. Between the twentieth and thirtieth day, this layer begins to resume the character of a mu- cous membrane. It is at first more pulpy, and softer, and thicker than mucous membrane in a normal state. The vessels become distinct in it about the third week, and sometimes still later. Previous to this, the blood appears to be contained in simple channels between the elongating cells. The epithelium is as yet hardly formed. By scraping the inner surface of the uterus twentj' days after labour, Schroeder found still only the remains of half decomposed cells. But no new cells with cilia could be yet with certainty discovered. The utricular glands make their appearance last of all. In several cases, HeschI found them completely formed at the end of the second month; but previous to this, their de- velopment could not be traced.* Finally, it may be said that the restoration of the mucous membrane, with all its peculiar structures, is completed about the sixtieth or seventieth day after delivery, i. e. by the time that the uterus is reduced to its normal bulk. Thus it appears, that the act of involution consists in two processes, which are concur- rently performed, yet with opposite purposes. For the act of reconstruction being coin- menced long before the retrograde metamor- phosis is complete, the result of both is, that a restitution or reconstruction of certain tis- sues of the uterus, more or less complete, takes place. With regard to the muscular coat, it is perhaps not any overstatement of the fact to say that each ovum is provided with its own series of fibres for the purpose of effecting its expulsion, and that these, after parturition, entirely disappear, or at least can no longer be recognised, while a new series of embryo- nic or undeveloped forms appears in their place. The same may also be said of the decidua, though with certain differences as to the time and mode of its destruction and re- novation. Regarding the fibrous tissue of the uterus, little has been determined with accu- racy ; but enough has been observed to ren- der it probable that this also, to a certain extent, becomes subject to fatty transforma- tion. The blood-vessels appear to be likewise partly involved in a similar process, although their principal trunks probably suffer but little change beyond a material diminution of size. The peritoneum is that tissue which undergoes the least apparent alteration. It preserves, however, a thickness proportionate to the reduced bulk of the organ, and consequently it must suffer a corresponding involution. Regarding the puerperal alterations in the nervous system of the human uterus, but little is known. Kilian f, after examining a spe- cimen at eight, and another at twelve days after labour, as well as the uterus of many animals at different periods, arrived at no de- finite conclusions. He thinks it in the highest degree doubtful, that, in the puerperal state, the nerve fibres undergo the same involution process as the other tissues; viz. that the old fibres are entirely destroyed, and become replaced by a new, younger, or embryonal * By Kilian they are said to be formed during pregnancy, t Loc. cit.