487 TEGUMENTATIY ORGANS. 1 I 4 a minute polygonal areolation is observable at times upon the most superficial " epidermic " layer. I do not know from what cause this Fig: 312. c J F A to E, from tlie crab; F, G, from the slirimp. proceeds, but the areolae are certainly not ceils. Such is the structure of the soft inter- articular integument, in which I could find no calcareous matter. If it be traced into the hard calcified shell, the only alteration observable is, that a dark calcareous deposit tdkes place, the earthy matter being infil- trated, as it were, through the laaiinBe. The deposit affects, however, only the middle layers, the extreme outermost being left as the "horny cpiderm;" while a variable number of the inner laminae remain as a more or less thick, soft coating upon the inner surface. These soft layers may be stripped off as a parchment-like membrane, with the muscles, and their relations to the enderon are then readily examined. They are here as struc- tureless as where they constitute the deep layer of the inter-articular membranes. The structure of the calcified layer has been carefully described by Dr. Carpenter, who showed, that in the crab and lobster they are traversed by tubules identical with those of dentine, and pointed out the error of Lavalle in regarding these as fibres. There can, I think, be no doubt, that in the crab and lobster, Dr. Carpenter's doctrine is correct; but I am equally of opinion, that for other Crustacea, such as the shrimp, M. Lavalle is right. I believe, in fact, that the tubular structure is produced by the horizontal lami- nation giving way, as the calcareous matter is deposited, to perpendicular fibrillation of the chitinous matrix, and that, eventually, the uncalcified fibrils disappear, and leave tubules in their place. That at least appears to be a natural conclusion from the fact, that the perpendicular fibrillation of the soft tissue becomes more and more marked externally; and thus, by decalcifying the calcified shell, we obtain horizontal separable laminae com- posed of short perpendicular fibres. The colouring matter has always appeared to me to be generally diffused through the upper layer, and not to be confined to what Dr. Carpenter describes as the " cellular layer." The latter is a very thin stratum, made up of only a few of the superficial lamina?, which I have found to be most readily observable by detaching with a sharp knife a very thin scale from the upper surface of the crab shell. It is composed, exactly as Dr. Carpenter has figured it, of regularly polygonal, often six- sided areae, frequently presenting a darker radiating patch in the centre, and, at first sight, irresistibly suggesting a true cellular structure. I believe, however, that it is in reality nothing of the kind, but that, like similar appearances in the molluscau- shell, this is simply the result of the concretionary man- ner in which the calcareous matter is de- posited. We have seen, in fact, that there are no such appearances in the deep uncal- cified layers, nor in the thin layers which invest the minute transparent appendages—■ considerations which appear to me to be in themselves decisive against the cellular nature of these bodies. In addition, decalcification brings to light no endoplasts in the " cells," but in their place we observe clear polygonal spaces in the membrane 312. d) which present the same dots (section of tubules) as those which exist in the simply laminated por- tion of the integument (Jig. 312. e). Finally, if the decalcified scale include a sufficient num- ber of layers, it is easy, hy altering the focus of the microscope, to trace the areolation in- wards, until it becomes gradually fainter, and disappears, passing into the ordinary dotted laminae. I believe, then, that the "cellular" layer, results from a peculiar additional deposit of calcareous matter in the uppermost layers of the shell; and this view is strikingly confirmed by what may be observed in the shrimp. The integument in this crustacean (c. g. the cara- pace) has exactly the same general structure as that of the crab, consisting of hard upper and soft deep layers, which are dotted and striated, and not tubular. The former owe