192 PELVIS. even before incinei'ation, left, after exposure to ;v reil heat for some time, a very porous and light inorganic structure. The following results were obtainetl by thus burning off the organic components—100 grains of bone,— grs. From the body of an upper lumbar verte- bra left—of carthi/matter - - 31 „ the last lumbar vertebra - - 27 „ lower end of the sacrum - - 24> „ ilium (eotylo-sacral rib) - - 40 „ ischium (near tuberosity) - - 36 „ pubes (near acetabukunj - - 33 „ head of the femur - - - 22 „ neck of the fenuir - - - 25 „ shaft of the Femur (below trochant) 58 When we compare the foregoing propor- tions of the two constituents of bone with those given by Schreger, as the normal pro- portions of adult bone — viz., 20"18 animal, and 74"84 earthy matter—the diminution of the inorganic constituents appears very striking, and still greater when compared with those of aged bone ; although less so than in the re- sults of the analysis of Dr. Leeson, in the extreme case recorded by Mr. Solly before given. The femurs were perfectly normal in shajie, as also were the bones of the lower leg, but the pelvis was a rostrated one, the superior pubic rami being bent in the middle nearly at right angles, and much deformed and con- tracted in all its diameters. It was remark- able, that, at the bend of the superior pubic rami, and at the suture of the ischio-pubic rami, there was a complete deficiency of osseous matter, so that after maceration, the pubes separated at tht'se points ; showing that the connection and continuation of the bone in these places was purely ligamentous, or I)y organic matter, as if resulting from an un- united fi'acture. The sudden diminution of the hard con- stituents in the head and neck of the femur, as compared with its shaft, is worthy of ob- servation in reference to the bending and fracture of the femoral neck in okl people. The smaller proportion of earthy matter in the pubes, as compared with the ilium, and in the sacrum antl luiuhar vertehrfE, as com- pared with the femoral shaft and (iclvis, will account for the greater yielding and deformity which are observed in these parts in the angular pelvic distortion, especially in the rostrated variety, and will be referred to pre- sently in the consideration of the mechanism of pelvic deformities. In the analysis made by Dr. Bostock of the dorsal vertebra of a woman affected by mollities, he found, that the proportion of the earthy constituents amounted to only one-fifth of the whole weight in one part of the bone, and to one-eighth only in another ; while in a healthy bone fi'om the same part, they amounted to more than one half the whole weight.* In the analysis given, in Rokitansky's * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. work before cited, of a portion of hone af- fected with this disease we find—in 100 parts; Phosphate of lime and magnesia - 17"48 Carbonate of lime and soluble salts C"32 Total of inorganic matter 23*80 Cartilage vessels and fat - 7G"20 Specific gravity of the bone 0'721. Among the reasons adduced in favom- of the supposition that this disease is sometimes a malignant one, besides the general and violent pains that usually precede the deformity, its incurability and unchecked course towards a fatal termination, have been given. That this result is not invariably the case, the fol- lowing case quoted from Naegele will show, in the fact that the pelvic bones had i-egnined their normal hardness. In the pelvis whence the foregoing analysis was taken, the bones had, most probably, at some former period been much softer than they were at the time of death. Such cases also show, that though very frequently, the pelvic bones distorted by mollities are so soft and pliable as to yield, sometimes considerably, to the fcEtal head ; yet that this is by no means always the case, nor should it be taken, as it is by some ob- stetricians, as a characteristic mark of this disease affecting the pelvis. A very minutely detailed case of pelvic dis- tortion, resulting clearly from one or other kind o'l mollities ossium, is given by Naegele.* 'J'he subject of the case, after having borne six children (five healthy, full sized, and living, and the sixth still born), became affected with this disease, which brought about such exten- sive pelvic distortion and contraction, that, at the seventh labour, the Ceesarian operation was rendered necessary, from the conse- (]uences of which the patient died after the fourth day. The shortness of the time in which the pelvis became so much distorted, together with the extent of the deformity, and the fact that, at the time of the patient's decease, it had regained its normal hardness, render the case a very remarkaltle one. Naegele considered it as the most contracted pelvis that had ever come under his observa- tion. The anterior wall was pushed upwards and the "posterior downwards, the superior plane being bent at the acetabula, so that the upper border of the pubic .symphysis was level with the upper siu'face of the 4th lumbar vertebra ; and a line drawn from one anterior superior iliac spine to the other, cut the upper surface of the 3rd lumbar vertebra at its posterior half. The iimoniinate bones were pushed together, and presented the acute fur- row, like cracked pasteboard, on their inner surfaces. The sacrum was bent almost double. The measurements are given by the author, as follow f: — * Erfiihrungen und Abhandlungen; and Appen- dix to Das Schriig Verengte Becken. f The measurements used by Naegele, (Rhineland or Prussian,) are very slightly larger than the corresponding English ones.