545 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. sent. In the typical species, numerous trans- verse and prominent rugaa are developed internally at the lower part of the uterine cavity ; they are ^somev^hat irregularly dis- posed in parallel rows, and are more crowded together towards the os tinea;, where they are split up, as it were, into fine longitudinal lamellae, imparting to the os, when viewed from below, a peculiar radiated aspect. This latter feature is very striking in the Camels and in the Giraffe. The vaginal mucous membrane (n) is smooth throughout, and contracted interiorly at the external orifice. In horned Ruroinantia the c/itoris is placed just within the vii/vr, but external to the vaginal outlet in the Camelidas (Owen). Preputial follicles also occur in the female ruminant as well as Cowperian glands, which are situated near the root of the clitoris. In the gravid uterus of the typical species, the foetal membranes — consisting of the chorion (1, Jig. 367.), nninion, and allantois — Fig. 3C7. Portion of the chorion of a Cow, showing the cotijhdons. (From Gurlt.) are connected to the walls of the cavity hy numerous small placentulce or cotyledons (2, Jig. 367.), which embrace and dove-tail with a corresponding series of processes developed from the uterus. The cotyledons are pro- ductions of the chorion, and have an oval or rounded shape, more or less compressed, the exposed surface being usually cup-shaped ; after the expulsion of the foetus these bodies come away with the membranes, and the uterine protuberances diminish considerably in size. In the Sheep and Cow the number of the placentulae varies from about seventy to a hundred. Like the chorion, the nmniun is highly vascular. The allantois exists in the form of a closed sac, and only partially covers the amnion. In the Camcline ru- minants the ovum is retained in situ by a universally adherent villous chorion, such as is found in Solipeda and Pachydcrraata. The mammari/ glands are situated in the inguinal region between the thighs ; the teals are four in number, except in CEgosceridae, where there are only two. Rudimentary Supp. nipples are occasionally found in the male on either side of the scrotum ; in the Horse they exist on the sheath of the penis. BiBLiOGKAPHY. — Bay, J., Syriop. Metlioil. Ani- mal. Quadruped., &c., 8vo., 1G83. Zmjia-i/s, Systema Natura?, 1735 —1738. Pennant, Hist, of Quadru- peds, 1771. Pallas, Spicilegia Zoologica, 17(j7 — 1780. Baubenton et Buffon, Nat. Ilist. 1748. Ilti- ger, Prodroinus Syst. Mamma]., &c., 1811. Azara, Don. F., (Quadruped, de Paraguay, 8vo.,, 1801. Lichtenstcin, H., Magazin der Gesellschaft Naturf. Freuiide zer Berlin, 1812. Dcsmarest, Mammologie, 1822. Baffles, Sir T. F. (quoted in). Linn. Trans., vol. xiii. 1822. Meclcel, J. F., Syst. der Vergleich. Anat. 1821, Fr. edit, par Reistcr et Sanson, 1829. Pander und D'Alton, l)ie Skelete der Wiedei-kailer, 1823. Rlippell, E., Keise in Niirdlichen Afrika, 1828. Gurit, E. F, Anat. Abbild. der Haus-Sauge- Thiere, 1824—1833. Cnvler, F., Hist. Nat. des Mammif.; Cuvier, G., Lemons d'Anat. Conip., 2'*'^ edit., par M. Dumeril, 1835 ; Ossemens Fossiles, torn, ii., 1821 — 1824. Wagner, P., Lehrbucli der Vergleich. Anat. 1835. OgiUiy, On the Hollow- liorned linminants, Zool. Trans., vol. ii., 1830 ; also, various art. in Penny Cjclopajd. Smith, Col. H., in Griffith's edit, of Cuvier's Animal Kingdom, vol. v., 1827—1835. Blainville, Osteographia, 1841 — 1855. .- Owen, Anat. of the Giraffe, Zool. Trans., vol. ii., 1838, and vol. iii., 183!); also, numerous contrib. in tlie Physiological Scries of Hunterian Catalogue, and in his Odontography, &c. Zaglas, J., On the Muscular Structure of the Tongue (in which he refers more particularly to the anatomy of this organ in Ruminantia), Goodsir's Annals of Anat. and Physiol. 1850—1852. Franz Miiller und C. Wedl, Beiilrage zur Anat. des Zweibuckeligen Kanielees, Denkschrift. der Kaiserlich. Acad, der Wissenscliaft. 1852. Bendz, H. C. B., Icon. anat. mammal, domestic, fasic. osteog., 1850. T. Spencer CobboU. UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. —The reproductive organs in woman consist of the Ovaries, Fallopian Tubes or Oviducts, Uterus, Vagina, and Vulva. These are com- moidy subdivided into the formative and copu- lative organs. To the fiist division belong the ovaries. Fallopian tubes, and uterus ; to the second the vulva; while the vagina, on ac- count of its offices in copulation and in labour, may be regarded as common to both. This division nearly corresponds with an- other and njore artificial arrangement, by which these parts are subdiviiled into the internal and external generative organs ; those being regarded as internal which are protected within the body and concealed from view, while those which can be easily seen are termed external: the line of demarcation being here at the entrance to the vagina. of the several organs just enumerated, the uterus has doubtless, on many accounts, piior claim to attention. It is the largest of these parts. It is that which contributes the greatest amount of material to the new organism which it contains and protects. It is that part in which alone a direct connection of attachment subsists between the fruit and the parent. Its functions, so far as they con- tribute to each individual act of reproduction, are exercised for much longer periods of time than those of any other portion of the gene- rative apparatus. It exerts a powerful refles