STOMACH AND INTESTINE. 420 the canal. The follicle itself is thus either evacaated or destroyed: and its situation is then occupied by a small excavated ulcer, va- rying in size from a millet-seed to a pea. This primary ulcer now becomes the seat of a process of secondary ulceration, which extends its size in the two directions of width and depth. Its superficial extension causes several of the small primary ulcers to become fused into one ; and sometimes widens the resulting secondary ulcer, so as to form a patch of ulceration that more or less encircles the bowel. Its vertical progress successively engages the submucous and muscular coats, and thus finally reaches the peritoneum. The latter membrane, if not strengthened by the lymph of adhesive inflammation, now sloughs or ruptures; with the result of a fatal perfo- ration. This extension of the ulcerative process, and the means by which it is effected, together constitute the chief characteristics of tuber- cular disease in the intestinal canal: and render the loss of substance it brings about in the wails of this tube, strictly analogous to that by which it excavates the tissues of the lung. The base and margins of the tubercu- lous ulcer have a ragged swollen appearance; are surrounded by a gelatinous infiltration ; and are themselves the seat of an interstitial deposit of cheesy tubercle. The softening of this deposit, and the suppuration of the ori- ginal tissues in which it is entangled, continu- ally increase the size of the ulcer ; and the inflammation thus produced tends as continu- ally to increase the deposit of new tubercle. Hence the tuberculous ulcer assimilates, so to speak, the adjacent tissues to itself: and is never bounded by healthy or heterogeneous tissues; like those which adjoin the gastric ulcer, or the s|)ecific follicular ulcer of the typhoid process. As the tubercular ulceration extends, the intervening submucous tissue, even where hi- therto healthy, generally becomes the seat of a similar deposit and destruction. Hence, in well marked instances of acute intestinal tuberculosis, these ulcerations occupy a large proportion of the affected surface of bowel ; leaving only small insulated patches, or fungous projections, of the original nmcous membrane. And in extreme cases, they may even remove this tunic from a large con- tinuous segment of the bowel. The cicatrization of such ulcers is rarely seen, except in cases where the process has ceased in one part, while it has still been going on in another. In such instances, the removal of the softened mass already present ceases to be followed by any further interstitial deposit of fresh tubercle in the margin of the ulcer ; and a plasma, which exsudes on the bare and ulcerated surface, is ultimately developed into a cicatrix of the ordinary structure and appearance. The subsequent contraction of this cicatrix is of course proportional to the loss of substance which it has had to replace. The zonular direction of the previous ulcer often gives it a form more or less approaching that of a cord or imperfect septum ; which lies transversely to the axis of the tube, and materially narrows its calibre. In rare instances, the cicatrix contains fragments of the cretaceous or other varieties of obsolete tubercle. Cancer. — Cancer affects the intestinal canal under all three of its chief forms ; namely, scirrhous, medullary, and colloid or areolar cancer. And even its villous and epithehal varieties are occasionally present. The latter is, however, very rarely met with. In most instances the cancerous growth is at first seated chiefly in the submucous are- olar tissue; from which it gradually advances towards the inner and outer surface of the canal, so as ultimately to involve the whole of its coats. But the three forms of cancer fall with various degrees of intensity on different parts of this areolar layer. The scirrhous vari- ety begins in its deepest stratum ; and in those fibrous septa of the subjacent muscular bun- dles which are connected with it. The areolar or colloid variety chiefly aflfects the middle and looser laminae. While the medullary and the villous variety generally occupy the immediate neighbourhood of the basement membrane of the mucous tunic. Finally, in the epithelial variety, there seems to be a definite metamorphosis of all the histolo- gical elements of the mucous membrane itself. Those rare instances in which the cancer seems to begin in the subserous areolar tissue are in reality cases of cancer of the perito- neum ; which membrane they almost always involve in its visceral reflexions (omentum and mesentery), as well as in some parts of its parietal laminae.* The cancerous growth is generally primary; but is sometimes secondary to a deposit in some neighbouring organ. In the latter case, the intestinal canal may either be involved by a mere extension of the disease from abso- lute contact; or it may be affected through the intervention of the lymphatic glands and ves- sels. The first of these contingencies may be illustrated by the way in which the stomach is sometimes involved in a cancerous tumour of the liver : the second, by the far more nu- merous instances, in which the large intestine becomes cancerous, as the result of similar disease occupying the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The above varieties of the cancerous growth occur with very unequal frequency. The scirrhous is by far the most common, the medullary less frequent, and the colloid or areolar rarest of all. And while the former is usually primary, the two latter are more fre- quently secondary; or are often admixed, in varying proportions, with what was originally a scirrhous growth. In the latter instances, the scirrhus is sometimes said to have under- gone a transformation into medullary cancer. * Compare Art. Peritoneum.