RESPIRATION, ORGANS OF. 272 then be accepted as a fixed conclusion in the histology of the lungs that the air-cells are lined internall}' by a single layer of hyaline epithelium." This conclusion is corroborated by the minute structure of the respiratory organs in all animals. In none are the vessels absolutely naked. Elastic Tissue of the Air-Cclls. — The exist- ence of this tissue is admitted by every ana- tomist who has studied the subject. Its dis- position amid the air-cells is less known. It fulfils a part, though mechanical, of the high- est consequence to the movement of the lungs hi respiration. The fibres of this tissue belong to the yellow variety. They resist both the action of acetic acid and liquor potassee. They are most visible in the lungs of the ce- Fig. 221. iAfter S. Van der Kolk.) a, b, elastic tissue (witli thiclc yellow fibres) boundinp; an air-cell in the lung of the whale; c, a small portion of the wall of the same, showing the capillary web injected. tacei. They are readily detected in those of all mammals. They are limited chiefly, in distribution, to the edges and margins of cells. They encircle foramina, and maintain them by their elasticity, in a patulous state. They not unfrequently arch over the roof of the air-cells, constituting to the latter true trahccula;. They pass from cell to cell, and form an important connecting tissue. They are everywhere arranged in bands or fascicles, or in a large meshed net- work of single fiibres, as shown in the adjoined figure. When they are distributed over the flat surface of an air-cell, they are situated im- mediately under the epithelium. As there are two eijithelial surfaces to each cell-wall, the intermediate vascular plexus being single, it follows that the elastic fibres must run over and between this plexus on both of its sur- faces. A real framework is thus constructed which is well adapted to support the capil- lary layer ; and this is an important function, which devolves on the elastic tissue. The framework formed by this tissue over the walls of the air-cells is so large-meshed that it does not obstruct the contact between the air and the blood. These two elements are separated only by a slender hyaline lamina Fig. 222. View of a thin section of the lung of a Cat, v;hich had been injected l)y the puhnxmary artery with gelatine, so as to fill blood-vessels and air-cells, and had been sliced when cold. {After Todd and Bowman.) a, a, a, air-cells and lobular passage in section; b, b, their fibrous wall in section; c, their wall in face; d, extremely faint nucleus in the same; e, e, capillaries; h, nucleus in wall of capillary; n, small pulmonary artery, or vein with simple wall. (Mag- nified 250 diameters.) of epithelium and the coats of the blood- vessels. At the edges, angles, margins of cells and the foramina between the latter, the fibres of this tissue are gathered into dense and strong bands having an arched and cir- cular disposition. It is suspected by Kolliker that there may be muscular fibre-cells among this tissue in the air-cells, like those already described in the walls of the bronchial tubes. But the long nuclei which occur in the walls of the air-cells, seen also by Mr. Ilainey and frequently by the author, are situated in the substance of the tunics of capillary blood- vessels. They are neither so large nor so long as the unstriped muscle nucleus. In the walls of the bronchi the elastic fibres were described as denser and stronger than those of the walls of the air-cells, and as observing almost exclusively a longitudinal arrangement, the muscular fibres being dis- posed circularly. Among the air-cells they exhibit that order and plan which fit them best to subserve the mechanical exigencies of the part. Harting, S. Van der Kolk, and Promotor have detected these fibres in the sputum of phthisis, which they regard as cha- racteristic of the existence of a vomica. A failure in the mechanical jjroperty (elasticity) of this tissue amid the air-cells is probably one of the conditions of emphysema. Vascular System of the Lungs.—The blood- system of the lungs constitutes a separate