SYMPATHETIC NERVE 442 fibres on the one side than they received on the opposite side. So also in the septum between the auricles of the frog's heart Bidder has seen small ganglia, which gave off on the one side eight nerve-fibres more than I hey received on the other side. The obser- vations of Bidder and Volkmann have been confirmed also by KoUiker. Engel*, moreover, describes a peripheral ganglion, to which no nerve-fibres passed, while a number of fibres left it; an observation which, if correct, places beyond a doubt the question as to the origin of nerve-fibres in the ganglia. The ganglion in question he describes as being pear-shaped, and about 0'096 of a line in diameter; it oc- curred in the perichondrium of the tracheal cartilage, and consisted of fourteen ganglionic corpuscles, with seven efferent nerve-fibres, each measuring about 0'0012 of a line in diameter. Even in regard to the bipolar gan- glionic corpuscles, it does not appear to be at all certain that they are all merely organs deve- loped on the course of a nerve-fibre arising in the brain and spinal cord. On the contrary, it would appear that several of the cells be- longing to this variety must also be regarded as giving origin to nerve-fibres in the same manner as the unipolar cell. Thus Bidder has seen bipolar cells, the nerve-tubes con- nected with which did not run in opposite directions, one towards the brain and spinal cortl, tlie other towards the periphery, but both ran in the latter direction { fig. 291.): so also Stannius, as mentioned by KciUiker, has Fig. 291. Bipolar gangliunic corpuscle, both nerve-Jihrcs con- nected ivith ivhicli run peripliericaUtj. From the spinal ganglion of a Fish. {After Bidder.) seen in the ciliary ganglion of Trigla, a bi- polar cell, both nerve-fibres of which were directed peripherically. The same observer has also seen ganglionic corpuscles in the fish which gave origin to or had three nerve-tubes connected with them. That most of the bipolar cells are, how- ever, as Robin maintains, organs developed on nerve-fibres of cerebro-spinal origin, in their course towards the periphery, there is no * Engel in Zeitschrift derWien. Aerzte,iv. p. 307., as quoted in KoUiker's Blikroskopische Anatomie, p. 532. reason to doubt; and moreover that several of these may occur in the course of a single fibre between its central and peripherical ter- mination is also shown by the observations of Stannius on [the fish, and by Valentin on the frog. Wagner has also observed two ganglion-corpuscles occurring in the course of a single nerve-fibre, at short distances from one another. Robin* divides the ganglionic cor])uscles into two distinct classes, a larger and a smaller: thelarger he finds always occur on broad nerve- fibres, or fibres of animal life, while the smaller are always connected with nerve-fibres be- longing to the finer variety, or fibres of or- ganic life; and in this way, according to him, we have a good mark by which to distinguish the animal from the organic nerve-fibres. In the ray, according to Robin, the larger variety of corpuscles measure 0 095 to 0'150 mm. in diameter, are spherical, and often flat at both poles; the smaller measures O'OSO to 0-113 mm. in length, and O'OoO to 0-070 mm. in breadth, and are commonly oval. In the larger cells tiiere is a layer of clear round bodies, without nuclei; in the smaller gangli- onic corpuscles the outer membrane is finer, and each of the cells, on their inner sur- face, is provided with a central dark nu- cleus. Bidder f also agrees with Robin in separating the ganglionic corpuscles into two groups. In the pike the one set measure 0'042"', while the other set do not measure more than O'OIS'": the former chiefly occur in the ganglia of the cerebro-spinal nerves, the latter in the ganglia of the sympathetic ; the former are always connected with broad fibres, the latter with fibres belonging to the fine variety. The views of Robin and Bidder are opposed by Kolliker, Valentin, and ap- parently also by Wagner. The latter admits that in general the ganglionic corpuscles are smaller than those occurring in the spinal gangha, and that the smaller corpuscles have, as Robin observes, an oval shape, while the larger are more or less spherical: there are, however, according to him, cases where broad nerve-fibres are seen passing off" IVom small cells, and where the large cells are connected with small or narrow fibres. Sometimes, in- deed, the ganglionic corpuscle has a narrow tube on one side, and a broad one on the op- posite side (see Jig. 290.); and sometimes the broad, sometimes the narrow, runs peripheri- cally. Stannius has, as mentioned by Kolliker, observed in Pctromi/zon cells present, of the fibres connected with which the one was six times broader than the other. Although, how- ever, there does not appear to be a distinct de- marcation between the ganglionic corpuscles belonging to the two sizes, there can be little doubt that the cells occurring in the sympa- thetic ganglia are generally smaller than those occurring on the cerebro-spinal nerves, both in the fish and also in the higher animals. The larger cells in the spinal ganglia of the * Annales des Sciences Nafurelles, torn, septifeme, 1847, p. 282.; also Canslatt's Jaliresbericht, 1847. t See Canslatt's Jahresbericht, 1847.