[96] OVUM. stance contains at first only fine granules ; but in the second season of development there are found mixed with these, especially towards the surface, corpuscles of a somewhat larger size, and these are gradually converted into the quadrilateral tabular particles. The distinc- tion of colour between the surface and the deeper parts, and between the upper and lower portions of the yolk, also now appears; but it is not till the third season of tievelopment that, along with a proportional enlargeuieiit of the yolk, the darkest kind of pigment is deposited among the corpuscles on the upper surface. The gradual extension of this coloured layer overagreaterportion of the surface of the yolk from the upper towards the lower part has already been stated. The extent of the coloured portion marks in fact, in a great measure, tlie proportion which the immedi- ately germinal part of the yolk bears to that not concerned in the first process of em- bryonic development; or it indicates at least the extent of the yolk which is immediately involved in the process of segmentation. The vitelline membrane, I have already said, is absent during the early stages of develop- ment of the ovum ; it appears to be present in the third season, but 1 have not been able to determine precisely its mode of origin. Farther observations are still necessary to ascertain whether, as in Mammalia and some other animals, a zona is formed by the con- densation of the outer part of the primitive yolk-substance, or whether this membrane proceeds from another source. From the gradual flattening and disappearance of the inner cells of the ovarian follicle, and the close adhesion of their remains to the vitelline membrane in the later stages, I am led to be- lieve, that the covering with which the yolk leaves the ovary may owe its origin to the amalgamation of one or more layers of fused or united cells of the tunica granulosa, or to the union of these with the zona or primi- tive vitelline membrane, should such exist. There is no true cellular yolk, but the granular yolk is of proportionally laige size ; and if we are dis|)()sed to regard the yolk as containing both a formative antl nutritive part, these are united or combined in a more close manner than in the larger ova of ovipara. The ova of Batrachia ditler, on the other hand, greatly from those of Mammalia in their re- lation to the Graafian follicle ; more especially in the fact of the ovum completely filling the follicle, and the entire absence, excepting in the epithelial lining, of fluid or other deposit between that layer and the surface of the ovum. The history of development shows that the peculiar structure of the ovum of Batrachia, as well as that of osseous fishes, has some connection with the large proportion of the yolk which becomes immediately germinal, and with the comparatively early period of advancement at which the young leave the egg and assume an independent mode of life. Before concluding this account of the ovum of the Amphibia, it will be jjroper to notice the changes that have been observed in the germinal vesicle near the time of the discharge of the ova, and in its descent through the tubes till its exclusion. All observers are agreed that the germinal vesicle is no longer visible in the excluded ovum, whether fecun- dation shall have occurred or not; and the solution or disappearance of this vesicle is now looked upon, in these as well as in other animals, as a natural concomitant of the maturation of the ovum independently of fecundation. The recent and very precise observations of Newport* have shown, that in a considerable number of the ova about to leave the ovary but still situated within that or^an, the germinal vesicle has disappeared, and that it is invariably gone in all those which have passed into the abdominal cavity. Very shortly before disappearing, and when the ovum is approaching maturity, a remark- able change has been observed in the contents of the germinal vesicle ; which is of great interest, in consequence of its probable intimate rela- tion to the process of segmentation and cell- formation, which follow fecundation and are the precursors of true embryonic develop- ment. These changes have been described first by Cramer, and afterwards b}' Newport; the latter author, apparently, not having been aware of the observations of the former. In early spring (February) Cramerf found the fine granules into which the maculae of the germinal vesicle had previously been re- solved by multiplication, beginning to unite together into heaps or small masses; and somewhat later he found these masses to become surrounded by a fine membrane or envelope, giving them all the appearance of small cells with a granular nucleus. There are often several hundred such cells at this period in the germinal vesicle of the brown frog, varying slightly in size and shape. At a still later period the greater part of the granular nuclei or contents of these cells become dis- solved, leaving only a few remaining in each ; and finally these also disappear, so as to ren- der the cells entirely clear. Now, all observers are agreed, that in the yolk-substance of the ovarian ovum, previous to the rupture of the germinal vesicle, there are not to be perceived any other solid par- ticles excepting those already mentioned, viz., granules or heaps of granules, and the peculiar quadrangular tables ; but many observers have perceived that immediately after the disap- pearance of the germinal vesicle, and during the whole time previous to fecundation, as well as after that change, the yolk-substance con- tains, mixed with the darker corpuscles, other clearer and spherical vesicular globules, some- what larger than the tabular corpuscles. Vogt described them as scattered through the whole of the superficial yolk-substance in the Alytes obstetricans, and Cramer pointed out that these vesicular corpuscles are identical with the cells which he had observed to be formed in the germinal vesicle immediately before its * Researches, &c., 1st Series, p. 177. t Mailer's Archiv. 1848, p. Td.