PANCREAS. 96 white opacity, — their fuhiess, that is, of a densely opaque granular material—prevents their being seen to advantage as transparent objects, or with a high power ; they are so opaque that nothing of their structure can be tlistinguished. When ruptured by pressure, their contents escape, and are seen to consist of two very distinct materials ; one, the afore- said fine granular matter ; the other of clear, spherical, Uninuclear cells of about y^Vo of an inch diameter. One would imagine ante- cedently that these would hold the relation to each other of secreting epithelium and elaborated secretion; but the cells are so clear, so free from granular contents, and there is such a complete absence of any intermediate appearance, that I am at a loss in what way to interpret them.* The duct opens by a single orifice, and in a way admirably adapted for preventing the regress of the secretion, or the entry of the contents of the alimentary canal into it. If the aperture in the centre of the papilla by which the bile duct terminates is opened up, it is found to lead into a lacuna, or cu/-de-sac, of about half an inch in length, embedded obliquelj' in the walls of the in- testine. At the bottom of this lacuna is a second papilla, the real termination of the pancreatic duct. Now, if the movableness of the external papilla and the smallness of its aperture were not sufficient to prevent the ingress of the contents of the alimentarj'canal, yet the very force that might drive in some of these contents through the outer papilla, would press the walls of the lacuna firmly against the orifice of the internal one, and so effectually close it ; nothing could be more efficient than this form of double orifice. The duct in all reptilia always enters the duodenum, generally separate, sometimes in conjunction with the choledoch, and is almost always simple. Avcs. The pancreas of birds is propor- tionally larger than in any other animals; and when we remember their deficiency in salivary apparatus, its great development would at once suggest a function, in some degree, at least, supplementar}' to those organs. An- other circumstance peculiar to birds and in- dicative of the importance of the part that the gland plays, is that the ducts are generally many, two and three, and that they open bj- separate orifices, and often at a considerable distance from one another ; so that the secre- tion may be poured forth on different and widely separate portions of the alimentary con- tents at one and the same time, a circum- stance that must greatly increase and expedite its action. Birds, we know, seize and swallow their food generally without any mastication, and therefore it is not until it gets to the gizzard * The follicles appear to contain only the granular material, and in a minute duct I saw a number of the nucleated cells. It is possible that they may be a form of epithelium restricted to the terminal ducts, by whose rupture and compression they escaped, as the granular matter did from the fol- licles. that it is subjected to any mechanical force capable of breaking it up. This, therefore, takes place immediately before entering the duodenum, and this throws the function of mastication close down to the pancreas, so that from its situation, as well as in other respects,it should have an insahvating function. It is always enclosed between the two arms of the duodenal flexure (^g. 73.); the duo- Fig. 73. Pancreas of the cotiimon Goose (^Arias anser), show- ing its relation to the duodenum, its duplex form, and its ducts. (^Natural size.) denal portion of the gland being, so to speak' alone developed. It is retained in this posi- tion by the gastro-hepatic and gastro-colic omenta, which sometimes simply attach it to the border of the intestine, and sometimes allow it to be free and floating. There is considerable variety in its shape, but it is always more or less elongated and slender: sometimes it is undivided and single, in some species deeply cleft, in others consisting of two portions, or a double pancreas, quite dis- tinct, each having its own duct; sometimes it is divided into three as in the pigeon. But