77 OVUM. in the mafflinlferous ovum. Now, according to H. Meckel there is, liot from the very first, but in the earlier stages of formation of the yolk of the fowl and of other birds, a homo- geneous vesicular membrane enclosing the primitive or granular yolk, or what he terms the true egg substance. As the cellular yolk is formed, this membrane, to which he thinks himself warranted in giving the name of zona pellucida, disappears, and already in ova above of an inch there is no trace of it left. The observations of H. Meckel on this sub- ject appear to be both novel and important ; but he has not been equally successful in the theoretical deductions made from them. In the commencement of the paper before referred to, he thus announces his view of the morphology of the bird's egg: " For a right and consistent nomenclature and defi- nition, we must designate the corresponding parts according to their analogy with those of the human body. I believe, therefore, that that alone ought to be regarded as the true egg which exists in Man, Mammalia, Naked Amphibia, and Osseous Fishes; and that in the remaining Vertebrata the ovum consists only of the so-called vesicle of Purkinje, and that all the other parts are accessory, super- imposed, and unessential. In particular, that the yellow yolk of the bird and scaly reptile is analogous to the corpus luteum of the human ovary, the albumen ovi to the uterine secretion, and the calcareous shell to the de- cidual mucous membrane of the uterus." Von Baer, at p. 32. of his Epistola, uses the fol- lowing words, which have been nmch contro- verted by some of those coming after him, but which show that he was aware of the difference in the relation of parts in the birds and mammiferous ovum: " Vesicula ergo Graafiana cum ad ovarium generatimque ad corpus maternum rcspiciamus, ovum sane est Manmialium, sed evoliitionem quod attinet, vehementer discrepat a reliquorum ovo ani- malium," &c. And again, " In mainmalibus vesicula innata vitellum inagis excultum con- tinet, et ratione ad fetum geniturum habita verum sese probat ovum. Ovum fetale dici potest in ovo materno. Mammalia ergo ha- bent ovum in ovo; aut, si hac diccndi formula uti licet, ovum in secunda potentia." Both in the Epistola, and the Commentary upon it, Von Baer insists strongly on the analogy be- tween the cellular substance of the Graafian follicle and the yellow yolk ; and he seems to have erred chiefly in limiting his com|)arison of the mammiferous ovum (within the zona) to the vesicle of Purkinje of the bird's egg. If, therefore, we modify Von Bacr's view so much as to regard the vesicle of Purkinje along with the granular cicatricula of the bird's egg, as corresponding to the whole of the mammiferous ovum, and the granular cells (tunica granulosa, &c.) of the Graafian vesicle as corresponding to the yellow yolk (the zona pellucida having disappeared in the bird's egg), we shall establish a more correct relation of the parts than that suggested by H. Meckel. I am not aware of any animal in which the germinal vesicle alone, without some yolk substance and an external inclosing membrane (zona, or vitelline membrane) forms the entire ovum. I will now state the result of my own ob- servations on this subject, by which 1 con- ceive is proved the correctness of H. Meckel's view, that in birds there is a primitive ovum, enclosed within a zona, distinct from the large mass of cellular yolk, which is formed at a later |)eriod. As soon as the membranous wall of the ovisac or ovarian follicle has become distinct in the ovary of the fowl, we can perceive at the same time a layer of larger cells lining it which form a clearer ring round the opaque ovule. The ovule itself consists then merely of the germinal vesicle and a small quantitv of the primitive yolk substance. The latter becomes opaque at so early a period that it in general hides completely the germinal ve- sicle. It seems to arise by the deposit of very fine granules, probably of an oily nature, in a dense albuminous fluid or blastema which col- lects round the germinal vesicle very soon after the latter is invested by the ovarian fol- licle. In follicles of j^-^ of an inch in dia- meter the primitive ovide, the membrane of the enclosing follicle, and between them the layer of larger clearer cells, arc all perceived with facility. There is not yet, however, any investment of the ovule com[)arable either to a zona pellucida or vitelline membrane. In ovarian follicles of or of an inch in diameter, a farther progress is to be per- ceived. On bursting any such follicle with fine needle points, the ovum is ruptuix'il, and the gernjinal vesicle usually first esca|)es along with the more fluid internal part of the yolk, in which it is freely sus()ended. This vesicle is about of an inch in diameter, presenting externally a smooth, thin and de- licate vesicular membrane of a spherical form, of which the double outline is just discernible with a magnifying power of 300 diameters. The vesicle is partly filled with fluid and partly with a finely granular spherical mass of no great opacity, which corresponds to the macula germinativa. In most instances this mass occupies about two thirds of the diameter of the vesicle. The yolk substance, which has scarcely altered from its primitive o|)aquc finely granular contlition, now con- sists of a more fiuid internal [lart containing fewer granules, and in which the germinal vesicle floats, and of a more consistent ex- ternal part. In the latter a manifest change has occurred in this respect, that towards the outer surface there is separated a much clearer ring of substance contrasting strongly with the more opaque part. This may with correctness, it is true, be described as a mem- brane, as II. Meckel has done in comparing it with and giving it the designation of the zona pellucida. But the very remarkable structure, which the author now mentioned has had the merit of first pointing out, is one deserving of the greatest attention. It has appeared to me to be gradually formed in ovula of