16 OVUM. own researches and the comparison of some others, to bring the whole of tlie Echino- dermata under a general view, the result of which is the determination of the three fol- Fig. 9. Aurkularia, or larva of Echinodcrm (^from Miilkr'). A, young larva of Auricularia. b, alimentary canal; a, Ecliinoderm beginning to be formed. B, larger larva of the same kind, a Echinoderm farther advanced. lowing varieties of metamorphoses and pro- duction among them. In all of them the embryo, immediately developed from the ovum, has a bilateral symmetrical form, and passes by the subsequent metamorphosis into the radiated type. This change is, however, more or less direct, or by intermediate forms. 1. In the first variety the change of the bilateral larva, or embryo, into an Echino- derm takes place at its earliest period, when the embrj'o has a general covering of cilia, but not the special ciliated borders or limbs of the Pkiteus. A part of the body of the embryo takes the form of the Echinoderm ; the rest of it is absorbed into the body of the new animal. This occurs in a part of the Asteriadae, as in Echinaster, Asteracan- thion, and others, described by Sars, Agassiz, Desor, and Miiller. 2. In the second variety the change occurs when the larva is fully organised, that is, when it possesses digestive organs and a spe- cial motor apparatus of ciliated borders or limbs. The Echinoderm is placed upon the Pluteus somewhat in the manner of a picture on an easel, or a piece of embroidery in its frame and stand, and incorporates a part of the digestive cavity with itself. The remains of the larva gradually disappear, as in Ophiura and Echinus; or are broken otF and die, as in Bipinnaria. 3. In the third variety the change of the larva takes place twice. First, it passes from the bilateral type with ciliated borders into the radiate type, and having taken some- thing of the shape of a barrel, it acquires a larval locomotive apparatus consisting of ci- liated hoops; and then from this state the Echinoderm is developed without any part of the larva being separated. Either the Echinoderm is formed of a part of the Vermi- form larva, and the rest of the larva is ab- sorbetl into the Echinoderm, as in Tornaria; or the whole larva is simultaneously trans- formed into the Echinoderm, as in Holothuria. From Busch's observations it appears that the Comatula jiasses very rapidly through the stage of the bilateral form into that which Miiller has called pupa with ciliated crowns. It is also an interesting fact in connection with the history of animal metamorphoses, that the early condition of the Comatula is that of a pedunculated Crinoid. Miiller has remarked that these pheno- mena partake in part of the nature of meta- morphosis, and in part of that of the non-sexual gennnation of the alternate generations. As the Echinoderm arises like a bud in the larva, there is alternate generation ; but as the es- sential internal organs (that is, the alimentary canal from the stomach to the anus, but not the mouth and gidlet) are taken into the new animal, there is also true metamorphosis. " 1 understand," says he, " by alternate ge- nerations nothing more than the succession of two forms of organism, of which the one arises in or upon the other as a minimum, or as a bud ; the second, that is, the deve- loped bud, is destined for sexual generation, producing from its ova the non-sexual larva, which again is destined for gemmation."* Adopting the view that the Echinodermata present an exam|)le of alternate generation, it is to be observed that the product is single in all the instances known : but in all the other forms of intermediate or alternate generation hereafter to be noticed, the product of non- sexual gemmation is multiple. Poli/pina. — The animals usually compre- hended in the general denomination of Polypes or Polypina present very various kinds of structure and degrees of complication in their organisation ; and recent researches, as to their mode of development, which point out that some of them are subject to a process of alternate or dissimilar generation, would ap- pear to indicate a very different distribution * Loe. cit. p. 106. The researclies of J. Miiller on this subject have been published iu a separate form, as well as in the Mem. of the Berlin Acad. These Memoirs, and others on the same subject, will be found also in JMiiller's Archiv. 1846, p. 108; 1847, p.)CO; 1848, p. 113; 1849, pp. 79. 84. 304. 4U0; and 1850, p 462.