345 STOMACH AND INTESTINE. tion of the unstriped muscular coat of its in- testine:— a contraction which was apparently excited by the air, but was certainly indepen- dent of the nervous centres. This remained for a time, and then disajjpeared, never to return. Hence it seemed, in short, " a kind of precipitate 7igor mortis, hastened by expo- sure to the air."* The truth of this analogy between the un- striped and the striped muscle is confirmed by observations made on corpses in which all ex- posure of the intestine has been avoitled until an hour or two after death. A comparison of such examinations would show that the death of the intestine, like that of the ar- teries, is accompanied by the access of a definite rigor mortis, which is closely analogous to the stiffening seen in the voluntary muscles. Both the access and disappearance of this contraction are, however, more rapid than in the striped fibres oF the proper organs of locomotion. And its appearances are much less distinct. In the intestinal canal, it is chiefly recognized as a narrowing of the tube; which is attended by an increased thickness of its walls. But it is sometimes better evi- denced by intus-susception of the canal; or by irregular contractions of its calibre. But whatever the exact relation which the various contractions producible in the intes- tine bear to the specific structure that forms its muscular wall, it seems certain that the true propulsive peristalsis of the healthy living ani- mal isfl^complex and co-ordinate act, which is at least indirectly dependent upon the cerebro- spinal centre. And Weber's experiments on the highly excitable intestine of the Tench point definitely to the medulla oblongata, as that segment of the nervous centre by which this connection is chiefly brought about. While, as might have been expected, numerous observations concur to represent the pneumo- gastric and splanchnic nerves as the channels by which this central organ influences the alimentary canal. But the exact degree in which the various vertebral and prever- tebral centres of the sympathetic can trans- mit, modify, or originate the nervous changes which pass to and from the bowel, is at present utterly unknown. There are how- ever various reasons for suspecting, that neither of the two main ganglia which inter- vene between any part of the intestinal sur- face and the cercl)ro-spinal centre, really limit the transmission of an afftsrent, or give origin to an efferent, change. Anti-pcrixtalsis.—The ordinary theory of intestinal anti-peristalsis may be thus stated. At a certain stage of an intestinal obstruc- tion, the immoderate irritation which it implies reverses the natural peristalsis of the bowel ; so that, instead of proceeding towards the anus, it passes in the contrary direction. In this way it impels the contents of the tube towards the stomach; whence they are vo- mited by the aid of an extension or reproduc- tion of the same action. About eight years ago, the authorf was led * Author, op. cit. f Op. cit. to investigate this doctrine, until then uni- versally accepted. He was thus led to the conviction, that it ought to be uncondition- ally rejected ; that it was probably false ; and certainly had never been proved to be true. The following were his chief reasons for coming to such a conclusion :— 1. It is difficult even to conjecture any- thing in the degree or kind of irritation pre- sent in intestinal obstruction, which should limit the occurrence of anti-peristalsis to this state. 2. Since the physical slate of occlu- sion is the necessary condition of fijecal vomiting, it is probable that the causa- tive process by which this occurrence is brought about must be physical also. 3. No anti-peristalsis has ever been observed; — the movements which occur in the obstructed bowel after death being similar in their nature to those witnessed in the healthy intestine uniler similar circumstances. 4. The whole of the appearances seen after death in the obstructed bowel, show that its contents have been pro- pelled forwards towards the occlusion, and not backwards from it. 5. Distention of almost all the interval between the pylorus and the occluded part appears to be a condition of faecal vomiting ;—so much so, that the date of access of this symptom roughly indicates the locality of the obstruction. Hence, instead of an imaginary anti-peri- stalsis, the author ventured to propose a theory which seemed to deduce the process of faecal vomiting from the ascertained conditions of its occurrence. The complete obstruction of the intestinal tuhe at any point, gives rise to an accumu- lation of its contents above the seat of the structure. This gradual distention of the bowel is accom|)anied by an active propulsion, which may often be seen and felt through the wall of the belly, as a violent writhing peristalsis. After a variable period, vomiting either occurs for the first time, or if already present from other causes, it becomes faecal. But peristalsis in an obstructed tuhe dis- tended with flui(.l, not only implies a forward movement in the particles that occupy its peri- phery, but also necessitates more or less of a backward current in those which are situated in the axis or centre of the canal. And the uniform consistence of the distending fluid, or the return of solid faeces, through many feet of tortuous bowel,into the upper |)art of thecanal, constitute frequent phenomena, which are best explained by the mixture and circulation that these two currents must tend to establish. On the faecal fluid reaching the stomach, vo- miting is excited. And it is scarcely neces- sary to add, that this latter process, as usual, involves the more or less complete evacuation not only of the stomach, but also of the up[)er part of the distended small intestine. Mucous membrane.— Having thus briefly described the peritoneal and muscular coats of the small intestine, we may next proceed to consider its mucous membrane:—the struc- ture on which its various functions essentially depend.