505 TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. appears to me to be clear; for the knob which projects into the cavity of the mucous canal is homologous with the central " nucleus " of the Savian body, and this with the solid axis of the Pacinian body,and with the corpusculum tactils, so that the " tactile " sac of the Chi- rasera, e. g., may be said to be a tactile cor- puscle which is connected with the surface of the integument. No organ at all resembling these has cer- tainly been met with, above the class of Fishes, in either Reptilia or Birds, but in Mamma- lia there are structures which must, I think, be placed in the same category. About the lips and nose of almost all mammals in fact, there are certain long, strong hairs, the vi- brissa; or " whiskers" (/g. 321.). These in their general structure resemble ordinary hairs, but the sac of each, instead of lying free in the enderon, is enclosed in a second thick sac, composed of firm, dense, connective tissue, which attains at times an almost cartilaginous hardness. A looser areolated tissue connects this with the outer surface of the proper hair sac, and supports an abundant .vascular net- work proceeding from vessels which enter at the deep end of the sac. Furthermore, a very considerable nerve pierces one side of the " sclerotic " coat near this end, and passes to the surface of the proper hair sac, upon which it spreads out and forms a nervous expansion, its fibrils dividing and subdividing, and so terminating. Fig. 321. Vibrissa frnm the snout of the Mouse, a, " sclerotic " sac; b, hair-sac ; c, nerve-trunk ; d, muscular fibres. Considering the dilibrent habits oflife of the mammal and the fish, I think one cannot but be struck with the similarity of plan between their vibrissse and the " tactile " canals. The sensory impression is conveyed to the gelati- nous contents of the canals in the fish by the vibration of the dense medium in which it lives; while in the mammal the impulse is communicated by the contact of some external object with a long elastic hair lever; but the final arrangement for the receipt and appre- ciation of the impressions is essentially the same in each case, nor indeed does it ditter from that which is met with in the highest organs of sense. Muscles of the enderon.—In the Invertebrata the great majority of the muscles are, as is well known, inserted into the integument, but those which are attached to the chromato- phora of mollusks and to the spines of an- nelids and other worms, might be regarded as belonging more especially to the integu- mentary system. In Fishes and Reptiles the superficial layer of striped muscles of the body is always more or less connected with the integument; but hitherto no unstriped fibres appear to have been detected in it. In Birds, however, the unstriped muscles attain a very great develop- ment, forming a thick layer whose bundles (c) run between and are attached to the sacs of the feathers {Jig. 322.). Fig. 322. Pacinian body (6) and feather-sac (a) from the base of the mandible of a pigeon, c, muscles of the feather sacs. In the majority of Mammals there is a special tegumentary striped muscle, which attains an enormous development in the hedgehog, while a mere rudiment of it remains in man, as the platysma myoides. Here, however, the striped "jieaucicr" muscle is replaced by the unstriped bundles which, as Kollikerhas shown, run from the upper layer of the enderon to the bases of the hair sacs, and effect the various movements of which the hairs are capable.