TEGUMENTARY ORGANS. 482 in this way, however, the ultimate effect will be that, although growing in reality by its deep surface as before, the " Lepidine" layer of the scale will appear to grow by its superficial surface, and that addition of layers to the upper surface of the scale observed by Pro- fessor Williamson, will take place. If the ex- planation here proposed, however, be correct, this will form no objection to, but a confirmation of, Agassiz' views. It will be well, however, with this clue to turn from the tiieory to the facts of scale de- velopment. All that I have observed leads me to con- firm Professor Williamson's conclusion, that there is no real line of demarcation to be drawn between placoid, ganoid, ctenoid, and cycloid scales ; all these forms passing into one another. Indeed, I conceive that the only method thoroughly to comprehend the cycloid and ctenoid scales is to examine, in the first place, the so-called placoid and ganoid forms. Hermann Mayer and Leydig have shown (and the fact is readily verifiable) that the scales and spines of the Plagiostome fishes are formed by the gradual deposit of calcareous matter in processes of the integument, which are at first coated by the ordinary cellular ecderon. These diverticula, in fact, originally resemble other papillae of the skin, and like them, are bounded by a structureless proto- morphic layer, marking the boundary between the cellular ecdei'on and the enderon. When the formation of the placoid scale commences, however, instead of the successive division and multiplication of the endoplasts and the cellulation of the periplast of the ec- deron, which before went on, a deposit of cal- careous matter takes place at the boundary- line, and the structureless band remains as structureless or "basement" membrane, in- vesting the future spine. The deposit in- creases until the enderonic pulp occupies but a very small space, or even completely disap- pears, and the spine projects as a cylindrical or conical tubercle. When it has attained its full length, the deposit does not cease; new calcareous matter is continually added to its inner extremity, but rather in the direction of breadth than of length, so that, eventually, an irregular broad plate is formed with the spine projecting from its outer surface {fg. 308.). Fig. 308. It is particularly to be remarked, however, that the projecting body of the spine being once formed, the calcareous additions which give origin to its base (c) gradually cease to be in exact apposition with the original protomorphic zone; and in proportion as the base of the spine extends, have we a wider and wider interval, occupied by the tissue of the enderon, between its upper surface and the under surface of the ecderon (J). Examin- ing it in the perfect state, then, it would appear that the spine is included in a sac of the en- deron ; and this appearance is very much strengthened if dilute hydrochloric acid be added, by which the enamel layer (a) is dis- solved out, and the structureless membrane enclosing the spine rendered distinct; while its continuity with that structureless layer which bounds the enderon is at once obvious. From its development, however, it is clear that this is a simple appearance, and that the apparent sac results from the projection in- wards of the extremity of this truly ecderonic structure. In fact, inasmuch as the base of the spine grows like its shaft by continual ad- dition to its inner surface, while its apex is unquestionably an ecderonic structure, this base might be considered to be enveloped in an involution of the protomorphic plane of the ecderon {fg. 307. c). Now suppose such plates as these to have acquired their maximum in width and mini- mum in height; furthermore, imagine them to be so closely set in the skin that the posterior edge of one over-rides the anterior edge of the one next behind it, and we have the exact ar- rangement of the scales in the cycloid and ctenoid fish (fg. 309.).* Fig. 309. Scale of the Roach (^LeuciscusJ) A, section ; B, surface. * The flexible cycloid scale of the eel presents an exact parallel to the tooth-like placoid scale of the skate, except that it is flat instead of conical, and that, in the adult state, the scale appears to be com- pletely included in the enderon, and is ivholly covered by the cellular ecderon. I believe this appearance of inclusion in a complete sac to pro- ceed simply from the smallness of the original point of contact of tlie scale with the cellular ecderon, and the rudimentary state in which the whole organ remains.