REPRODUCTION, VEGETABLE (Vegetable Ovum). 217 theridia 8.), vve described the general form of the conceptacles. In the monoecious and dicEcioiis Fuci, the female conceptacles are distinguished from the male by their olive colour. The spores are developed each in the interior of a perispore, which is borne on a pedicle emanating from the inner wall of the conceptacle. They make their escape by the rupture of the perispore at its apex. At the moment at which this takes place, the spore is perfectly simple, except that in one or two species the surface is covered with cilia, which seem to resemble those of Vaucheria. Soon afterwards, a remarkable series of changes occurs, consistinn; in the splitting of the en- dochrome into a number of masses — usually eight—each of which becomes isolated, and finally assumes the form of a smooth and spheroidal sporule, provided with an investing membrane. About twenty-four hours after the completion of this process, germination com- mences. It consists in the budding out of the membrane of each sporule, at some point of its surface, into a nipple-shaped projection, which in the following forty-eight hours, elon- gates into a cylindrical tube; shortly afterwards the whole body of the sporule is converted by repeated division into a mass of cells, in which condition it has been by many writers mis- taken for the original spore, and described as such. The Vaucheriae present the peculiarity of a double mode of reproduction. In the earlier periods of the growth of the plant, there occurs the successive formation of aggre- gate zoospores of large size at the termination of the branches, as above described. In the older fronds these are no longer observed, their place being taken by organs producing germs which are capable of retaining for a long period their power of development. 11. In that most remarkable plant the Sa- prolegnia ferox, which is structurally so closely related to Vaucheria, though separated from it by the absence of green colouring matter, we find a corresponding analogy in the history of the development. Its vegetative life is, in fact, divisible into two well-marked periods, each characterised by a special mode of germ- formation. During the first, the only one with which we have at present to do, swarms of zoospores which rapidly succeed each other, are formed at the closed terminations of the cylindrical filaments. The mode of their origin, agrees with that of the aggregate zoo- spore of Vaucheria. The protoplasma accumu- lates in the swollen extremity of the filament, and a septum is formed in exactly the same manner as in that plant; while the mass of protoplasma is now observed to be limited by a distinct surface. At this point the resem- blance ceases; the protoplasmic membrane divides, just as in the spore-cases of the zo- osporous Algae, into particles, which, as the period of maturity is approached, become more and more easily distinguishable from each other. These particles are the future zo- ospores. Soon they detach themselves from their connection with the membrane which encloses them, and with each other, and pre- sent the globular or ovoidal form characteristic of their perfect condition. In the meantime the external tube membrane buds out at its apex, so as to form a conical projection; as the zoospores become ripe, a gentle oscillatory motion is seen in the upper part of the spore- case. This is accompanied with a compres- sion of its contents, in consequence of which its membrane gives way at its weakest point,— viz. the apex of the terminal conical projec- Fig. 135. Sporangium of Saprolegnia ferox; during the expul- sion of the zoospores, 200 diam. (All the figures, from 129 to 135 inclusive, are from Thuret.) tion. In its most perfect condition, the zo- ospore of Saprolegnia consists of a pyriform, protoplasmic, membraneless corpuscle, which is furnished with a pair of cilia, emanating from its apex. It is remarkable for the short dura- tion of its motion, the cessation of which is immediately followed by germination.* * For the history of the second period of the vegetative life of Saprolegnia, see below, § 19. It is only under the most favourable conditions that the zoospores of Saprolegnia assume the form described in the text. Very frequently at the period of their escape, they are spheroidal corpuscles unen- dowed with the power of motion, if not incapable of germination. In this case, according to Anton de Bary, the completion of their development takes place outside of the spore-case. He describes the accumulation of the escaped, but imperfectly formed, zoospores in rounded heaps (KHpfchen), which re- main for several hours In contact with thetermina- tions of the tubes from which they have escaped, and finally become invested with a cellulose-mem- brane. Within this membrane their development is completed; and when they at last escape, they