OVUM. [85] view which he had previously taken, that the zona becomes the chorion, or at least that a new deposit is not in all Mammalia necessary for the formation of that membrane. Fig. 37*. Ova of the Rahhit from the Fallopian tube three days after impregnation. A, shows on a dark ground one of these ova, of ■which li is an exphinatorj' outline, y, s, are the yolk segments of which there were eight; z, the zona; a, the thick layer of albumen which in this animal is always deposited on the exterior of the zona after the granular cells have been removed from it. c and D. Otlier ova from the same animal; in d, are shown three projections of the albuminous covering»which have been taken for villi of the chorion ; but which according to Biscboff are not so. This ovum was farthest down in the Fallopian tube. In a series of observations made by myself on the ovum of the dog and rabbit during their descent from the ovary to the uterus, in the summer of 1840, I was induced to adopt the ojiinion that a new deposit does really occur on the surface of the ovum in both of these animals. I repeatedly o!)- served the large gelatinous or firm thick albuminous covering' on the rabbit's ovum when it had just entered the cavity of the uterus; and in several instances 1 tTiought I could perceive the first formation of the villi of the chorion by sprouting or budding from the surface of the newly deposited sub- stance, which, as in Wliarton Jones' and Barry's observations, it was cjiu'te easy to dis- tinguish from the membrane of the zona. In the ovum of the dog I admit, with Bischoff, the a[)pearance is very different ; but yet my observations appeared to me to demonstrate that in that animal also a substance is super- added to the surface of the zona, for that mem- brane, which presents at an earlier period a Fig. 58*. Ovum of the Dog from the Fallopian title ten days after impregnation. A. The yolk has undergone division into eight segments, and there is a thin irregular deposit of albumen on the outer surface of the zona. (This is represent! d too light in the ligure.) B. Explanatory outline of the same; y,s, yolk segments; r, zona pellucida; a, layer of albumen, from which in connection with the zona the chorion takes its origin. perfectly distinct and smooth outline on its ex- ternal surface, becomes in the course of the descent through the Fallopian tubes and by the time of its first arrival in the uterus, not only irregularly floccnient on its surface, hut also thickened ; in fact, presents all the a|)pearance of a granulo-mucous substance having been deposited upon it. It may be proper to explain here, that it has now been fully shown by BischofF's excellent observations, that in both the aninials men- tioned, and also in the guinea-pig, the cells of the timiea granulosa, which adhere to the surlace of the zona when it leaves the Graafian lbllicle,are completely scparateil from it within tiie first two or three days of the residence of the oviun within the tube, so as to leave the external surface of the zona perfectly smooth. Bischoff has shown, indeed, as 1 have also repeatedly observed, that a change has oc- curred in the cells of the proligerous disc, adherent to the ovum while it is still within the ovary, which intlicates its approaching maturity. This change consists, as already stated, in these cells becoming somewhat spindle-shaped or pyriform, their narrow or pointed ends being attached to and radiating from the surface of the zona. (See as before fg. 55. D.) It is quite easy, therefore, after this separation takes place, to distinguish any change by addition of new matter or otherwise which the surface of the zona may undergo. No one can fail to perceive the