OVUM. 78 about -j^o or of an inch in diameter, by the clearing and partial consolidation of the outermost part of the albuminous basis or blastema in which the granules of the pri- mitive yolk substance are deposited. It is at first comparatively thin: it is most ap- parent by its greater clearness and consistence in ovules of or of an inch in diameter, in none of which have I ever failed to observe it. In those of it becomes broader, but less clear and somewhat softer in its consistence, and is uneven and as if softening away or breaking up on the external edge ; and in ovules of T^jj of an inch it has in general dis- appeared. At no period have I observed it to assume the glassy transparency, nor has it the distinct outline and membranous appear- ance represented by H. Meckel; but it seemed rather like a portion of the albuminous basis of the yolk substance, nearly but not quite deprived of the granules, which are thickly deposited in the rest. While these differences are stated, how- ever, it appears to me warrantable to coincide in so far with the view of H. Meckel as to regard this structure as a temporary repre- sentation in the fowl's egg of the zona pel- lucida, which in the mammiferous ovum assumes greater consistence, passes into the membranous form, and constitutes the only ovarium covering of the ovule. In ovules of to Jy of an inch in dia- meter, the layer of nucleated cells placed be- tween the primitive ovule and the membrane of the follicle, and which may be looked upon either as a cellular lining of the follicle or a peculiar investment of the ovule, has be- come more distinct and consistent, and the cells of the outermost layer have assumed the form of short compressed prisms. They have finely granular contents and clear nuclei, with one or sometimes two nucleoli, like the cells of the tunica granulosa of the mammalian follicle. It appears that these cells come afterwards to form the external part of the yolk of the bird's ovum, the cel- lular part of the yolk being formed within them, and the vitelline membrane being pro- duced on their outer surface. The bird's ovule, it is well known, usually fills completely the ovarian follicle ; but in several instances I have observed, from im- bibition of water or some other cause, the ovule to occupy not more than half the dia- meter of the follicle, the remainder being filled with a clear fluid ; and in these in- stances the prismatic layer of cells adhered closely to the surface of the zona and |)rinii- tive granular yolk. In ovules of from Jjy to of ^n i"ch the formation of the vitelline membrane appears to commence. The external nucleated cell covering has increased in quantity, and ad- heres more closely to the granular yolk, with which it generally comes away when the follicle is opened. The external edge of the layer of prismatic cells, the length of which is considerably increased, is now surrounded by a narrow pellucid space enclosed by a double line, presenting the appearance as if a small part of the bases of these cells had been fused together in a homogenous film. This is the commencement of the formation of the true vitelline membrane, which in the latest period of ovarian growth of the ovum becomes nearly quite structureless, but which throughout the greater part of the process retains somewhat of the hexagonal marking from the close adhesion of the cells by the amalgamation of a part of which the mem- brane has been produced. In follicles of about jJq of ^" or larger the true cellular elements of the yolk have begun to be formed. The manner in which these originate I have not as yet had the means of determining with precision. They appear, as H. Meckel has suggested, to be produced as a secretion from the interior of the ovarian follicle ; but they are more im- mediately formed within the layer of pris- matic cells which envelope the whole ovule. Nor have I been able to determine their precise relation to the zona and primitive fine granular yolk. When the zona has dis- appeared, as is usually the case in ovules of of an inch, the cellular elements of the yolk seem to begin to mingle with the finely granular substance. At first, cells and larger oil globules, similar to those of the yolk cavity, are produced. So long as these alone exist, the yolks have a dull milky-white as- pect. Later, or in those of 1 of an inch, or even somewhat smaller, the yellow tinge appears, and this very soon becomes more decided, at the same time that the peculiar large granular corpuscles or cells are formed in which the vitelline colouring matter prin- cipally resides. These corpuscles are pro- duced in successive layers within the layer of prismatic cells of the external tunic ; and it is probable that there is some periodical variation in the rapidity of their formation from the alternation of concentric layers of deep yellow corpuscles with those of a lighter colour which may be observed in the section of a boiled yolk. The corpuscles of the yellow yolk are not, however, formed in equal quantity in every part: indeed they are quite deficient at that side on which the remains of the primitive granular yolk with the im- bedded germinal vesicle are situated. With regard to the germinal vesicle, it is to be observed that it is at first quite free in the more fluid internal part of the primitive yolk ; in the next stage, before the formation of the cellular yolk, the germinal vesicle comes to be imbedded in the more consistent external part of the primitive granular yolk ; and it is, no doubt, chiefly the remains of this which form the germinal or vitelline disc : but further observations are still required to de- termine the precise manner in which this ar- rangement of the primitive yolk in the discoid shape takes place. It appears, further, that in the formation of the elements of the more advanced yolk, the earliest produced, or innermost, remain the softest; the latest formed, or outermost, acquire the greatest consistence. The ex- ternal layer of prismatic cells next the vitel-