SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 458 to Volkmann, by the different characters ex- hibited by the two. When stimulus acts im- mediately on motor nerve fibres, contraction ensues only in that muscle or ])art of the muscle to which these are distributed ; when it affects the whole trunk of such a nerve, many muscles are excited to contraction; the contraction so produced, however, is a mere quivering, quite different from the combined and plan-like movements of the muscles of respiration, &c., or those reflex movements which are produced artificially. In these, there is a certain unity and plan, in the others not ; the difference depending on the circum- stance that in the one a regulating principle associates the muscular movements for the attainment of an organic object or purpose ; in the others this does not take place. When the regular and plan-like manner in which the pulsations of a heart removed from the body take place, is compared with the tu- multuous and purposeless quiverings of a diaphragm similarly circumstanced, it is hardly possible to sujjpose that the two kinds of movement proceed from the same principle. Irritability acted on by the stimulus of the blood, or air, might explain the mere con- traction of the heart; the regular order, how- ever, in which this takes place, implies the existence of a regulating principle ; and a re- gulating principle implies the existence of a regulating apparatus. While the regular movements of the voluntary muscles suddenly cease when the brain and spinal cord are de- stroyed, those of the organic muscles con- tinue;; and hence their regulating apparatus cannot lie in the brain and spinal cord, and can only, therefore, be situated in the ganglia of the sympathetic. The heart, according to Volkmann, is more flabby after death than it is during life: the intestines, in like manner, are collapsed in the dead body, and appear like so many flat- tened bands ; while in the living body, at least in small animals, they present more the aspect of tubes; the looseness of the skin and of the scrotum in tiie dead body is also remarkable, compared with the appearance they present in the living. These differences depend upon a loss of tone. The tone of the involuntary or organic contractile structures does not, however, depend on the brain or spinal cord, inasmuch as it does not cease after these parts have been destroyed, but may continue in the amphibia at least for months thereafter. It depends, according to Volkmann, upon the sympathetic ; and from this he derives another argument in favour of the view that the ac- tivity of the sympathetic or ganglionic nerve- fibres does not depend upon the brain or spinal cord. After tlivision of a motor nerve, the muscles immediately became relaxed, which shows, according to him, 1st, that the tone depends on an active contraction of the muscle ; 2nd, that the mere irritability of the muscle is not alone sufficient for the restoration of this contraction, but also requires an ex- citing cause or motor impulse ; 3rd, that the nerve conveys this motor impulse to the muscle; 4th, that the place where this motor impulse arises or originates is not the nerve itself, but is a central organ. If now, after destruction of the brain and spinal cord, the tone hi the organic muscles and many other contractile tissues continues, it follows from tills that, besides the brain and spinal cord there must still be another centre from which motor impulses proceed, and this can only be the ganglia of the sympathetic. In regard to this question, so far as our knowledge of the anatomical constitution of the sympathetic extends, the most probable view would seem to be that it is partly inde- pendent, in its action, of the brain and spinal cord, partly dependent. The circumstance that there are present in its branches nume- rous nerve fibres which are derived from the brain and spinal cord, would appear to indicate that the organs to which such fibres proceed must be to a certain extent influenced by the central masses of the nervous system. From the circumstance, however, that it probably contains other nerve-fibres which do not arise in the brain and spinal cord, and more particu- larly from the circumstance of gray nervous matter being present in different parts of its extent, it seems not mireasonable to suppose that the influence which it exercises over the parts to which it is distributed originates, partly at least, not in the brain or spinal cord, but in the gray or ganglionic matter mentioned. If we attribute to the gray matter of the brain or spinal cord a certain propeity of originating nervous force, it seems unreasonable to deny similar properties to the gray matter occurring in other parts of the nervous system. What- ever properties are possessed by the one, analogous properties are, it is to be expected, possessed by the other. Besides, no other hypothesis which has been proposed to ac- count for the function of the ganglia appears to harmonise so closely with known facts as that which regards them as so many distinct peripherical nervous masses endowed with properties similar to those which are com- monly attributed to a nervous centre. Properties of fibres of sympaihel'ic. Sensory j}roperlies. — In regard to the sensory pro- perties of the sympathetic, different statements are made by authors. Bichat, Magendie, Dupuy,*= and others, observed that section of the branches of the sympathetic was attended with few or no signs of pain. Dupuy states that he has removed the superior cervical from the horse without the operation appear- ing to call forth any marked expression of pain. Section of the sympathetic cord in the neck may often be performed in the rabbit without any indication of sensibility being given. Haller found, on the other hand, that irritation of the hepatic plexus in the dog gave rise to distinct signs of pain : the same residts were also obtained by Meyer from irritation of the solar plexus. When he made incisions into the superior cervical ganglion, he found, contrary to what had been observed by Dupuy, * See Longet. op. cit. torn. ii.