120 PELVIS. The Coccvx (ftg, c), the hucklc, or ivlmtle bone (named from its s»|)pGsed resemblance to a cuckoo's bill, Irom Komzvi,, Gr.; Os cocci/gis, Lat. ; /'Os cocci/x, Fr. ; das Steisshehi, or SrhwrinzhcUi, Genn.), is an appendage to the apex of the sacrum, and terminates the spinal column inferiorly. It forms tlie posterior boundary of the lower 'C: part of the cavity, and inferior outlet of the . pelvis, assisting to complete its walls, to sustain its contents, and to attach some muscles of the leg and [jcrineum. Its position is oblique from bcliind, forwards and downwards, but being normally movable on the sacrum, it yields to pressure in both ways. It is usually composed of four, rarely five pieces or tu- bercles, which are generally, but not always, soldered to each other, antl diminished in size and completeness downwards. When in one piece, it presents a tapering, elongated, knob- beil appearance with an anterior and posttrivr surface, two lateral borders, and a base and a-pex. The base presents a plane, oval, arti- cular surface («), corresponding to the apex of the sacrum, with which it is articulated, and sometimes ankyiosed. Behind this, on each side, i)rojccts upwarils antl backwards a cornuated process (6), tipped with an ellip- tical articular facet, directed upwards and forwards, to articulate with the inferior sacral horns. Below these, the borders commence, jjresenting three alternate notches (c), and tubercular projections (c), of v/hicli the first are much the largest, and complete the sacro- coccygeal foramina. The borders are ter- minated by a knobbed, sometimes bifurcated utjex, and give attachment to the sciatic liga- ments, and some muscles (</). The first two of these notches are converted into holes by ligaments, for the passage of the posterior branches of the fifth antl sixth sacral nerves. The anterior surface is slightly concave longi- tudinally, and smooth, to support the rectum. It has transverse markings, similar to the sacrum, 'ihe posterior surj'ace is correspond- ingly converse anil rough, to attach ligaments and muscles. The internal structure of this bone closely resembles that of the sacrum. Developement.— The innominate bone is developed by three primitive and Jive com- plementary points of ossification. The three ^j?v'H;iY/ye points commence in the three component parts of the bone, the ilium, ischium, and pubis respectively, from a single piece of cartilage of the general form of the bone. That of the ilium is |)laced in the thick, arched rib above the cotyloid cavity, (/i'g. 79. A, a), being apparent, according to Ciuveilhier, the first in order, about the fiftieth day of foetal life. BischafF, however, sajs that the time of its appearance varies from the second to the foiu'th month, in tlif- ferent individuals. About the fifth month, it acquires somewhat of the form of the com- plete bone. That of the iscl/ium is placed in tiie upper part ol' the descending rannis (b), and a|)pears second in order of time, always later than the ilium, about the end of the third munih, or, according to BischotF, the .fifth month. That of the pubis appears in the su])erior branch, near the ilio-pectineal eminence (c), at the end of the fifth month. Bischoff fixes it later than .Cruveilhier, at the sixth or seventh month. At the period of birth, the cotyloid cavity is still principally cartilaginous (e), the ascending branch of the ischiiun, the descending of the pubis, and nearly the whole circumference of the ilium, still remaining in the same condition ((/). At the age of si.x or seven years, the branches of the ischium and pubis are united by bone. About the time of puberty, as first [)ointed out by M. 8erres, a distinct complcmentart/ point of ossification appears in the cartilage dividing the bones in the cotyloid cavity, which soon including the whole of the Y- shaped cartilage at this part, and assuming its shape and serrated margins, finally unites them in the raised line before described. According to Meckel, the pubis and ischium join first with each other, and the ilium becomes united to them afterwards. At the same time appear the four remaining com- plementary points as epij)hyses, in the fol- lowing order : namely, 1. On the whole length oi' the iliac crest; 2. At the anterior inferior S|)ine, not constant, and said to be more fre- quent in the male than the female ; 3. Along the whole extent of the tuberosity of the ischium ; On the symphysial surface of the pubis, said by BeclartI to be more often found in the female. All these are soldered to the bone, about the twenty-lourth or twenty-fifth year, the epiphysis of the iliac crest being the last to join. Development of tlie Ijones of the human pelris. (^Afler Quaiii and SharpeyJ) A. Innominate bone of a full-grown foetus; a, pi imary ossific point of ilium; b, do. of ischium; c, do. of pubis; d, d, cartilage; e, Y-shaped cen- tral cartilage. B, sacrum and coccj'x at birth; a, central ossific points; i, characteristic sacral do.; c, coccyx still cartilaginous. The sacrum is produced by the soldering together of five vertebrae. Hence they have been called the false or sacral i^crtebm. Oc- casionally six pieces have been found, and, more rarely, according to Scenmierring, four pieces only are present. Each of tiiese five pieces, as in the other vertebra?, results from three primary points of ossification, viz., one for each body or central portion, and two for the posterior lateral surfices and laminae of each vertebra. These aj)pear later