76 OVUM. focus at the margin. e. The ovisac and ovum more advanced; o, v, ovisac, with epithelial lining; V, minutely granular yolk; g, germinal vesicle. F. Part of an ovule of of an inch in diameter highly magnified: v, minutely granular or primi- tive yolk substance; g, germinal vesicle; z, thick consolidated membranous layer which formed a ve- sicular covering for the primitive ovule, and which con-esponds to the zona pellucida of the mammi- ferous ovule. I and K are intended to illustrate, diagrammati- cally, the view, that after the disappearance of the zona, and the formation of larger granular yolk cells, the outer layer of the cells of this substance forms the permanent vitelline membrane of the bird's egg; V, d, remains of minutely granular yolk, form- ing the vitelline disc round the germinal vesicle; s, g, large corpuscles of the yolk; v, m, outer layer of the cells of the same, on which the vitelline mem- brane is afterwards formed. been looked upon as the primitive or first- formed structures connected with the origin of tlic ova, the germinal vesicles subsequently making their appearance within them. We shall return to this point hereafter in con- nection with the history of the mammiferous ovum. My own observations agree with those of Barry, as I have sometimes observed very small germ-vesicles or cells in the ova- rian stroma without any follicular covering. But it must be admitted, at the same time, that in birds the ovisac or ovarian vesicle is formed so early that it is observed almost always coexisting with the germinal vesicle or rudiments of the ovule ; so that, if the latter takes the precedence of the ovisac, it must be by a very short period. According to Barry, there is seen almost from the first, in the clear germinal vesicle, a minute distinct granule or round spot, which constitutes the first state of the macula germi- nativa. Very soon the vesicle is surrounded by a small quantity of a clear fluid in which are rapidly deposited globules or granules constituting the first rudiments of yolk substance. There is no vitelline membrane, however, in birds, at the first; nor are the larger cells which at a later period inter- vene between the ovisac and the primitive yolk, formed in the earliest stage. The smallest ovisacs which Barry observed, and which con- sisted of perfectly simple vesicular linings of the cavities containing the rudimentary ova, in the pigeon and common fowl, were from to of an inch in diameter.* At a somewhat later period, the number of maculae (nuclei) in the vesicle, and of the yolk granules externally, had increased, and a delicate membrane, which he describes as vitelline membrane, and believed apparently to be the same which afterwards surrounds- the large yolk in the fully-developed ovum, has made its appearance. At this period also * Vide loc. cit. Plate v., figs. 18, 19, and 22 of pigeon; figs. 23 and 24 of common fowl. The mem- brane which Barry described as vitelline in the earliest stages of growth of the bird's egg was pro- bably not so, but the outline merely of the albumi- nous substance in which the primitive yolk granules are deposited. This will be made more apparent in our description of the formation of the ova of Batrachia. there begin to be formed within the ovisac a set^ of larger nucleated corpuscles or cells, which are external to the true ovum, and which may be considered as corresponding with the so-called granular contents (sub- stantia and tunica granulosa) of the Graafian follicle in mammalia. The early structure and development of the ovum of birds have more recently been described, with considerable detail, from ob- servations on the chaffinch and common fowl by Dr. H. Meckel*,; and as the observations of this author have led him to take a somewhat different view of the relations of some of the parts of the ova of birds and other animals from that which has hitherto been generally adopted, it will be proper to give a particukr account of them in this place. Many phy- siologists have felt the incongruity of the comparison generally made between the mi- nute and simple ovum of the mammifer, and the large and more complex yolk of the bird, and most are disposed to acknowledge the necessity of making some more marked distinction between the granular and the cellular yolk substance in the two great groups to which these ova respectively be- long. It has before been stated, that Von Baer on his discovery of the mammiferous ovum, regarded it as corresponding, not to the whole ovum of birds, but to the vesicle of Pur- kinje. The discovery, in 1834, of the germinal vesicle in the mammiferous ovum, of the ex- istence of which Von Baer had no distinct knowledge, induced Valentin and others to maintain that the essential parts of the ovum are the same in the bird and the mammifer. But it may be doubted whether physiologists may not have proceeded further than they were warranted by observation in regardingthe vitelline membrane and large corpuscles of the yellow yolk of birds as essentially corre- sponding parts with the zona pellucida and the smaller granular yolk of the mammifer. For the membrana vitelli of the bird's egg may, perhaps, be more analogous to the outer- most layer of the membrana granulosa of the Graafian foUicle, and the large cellular yolk to a part of the same substance or the fluid of the Graafian follicle; while the minutely gra- nular yolk in which the cicatricula originates and the germinal vesicle together are the true representatives of the small ovum of the mam- mifer. It seems undoubted, that what we term the yolk membrane in the fowl's egg does not exist in the early stages, and is formed indeed only as the ovarian egg approaches maturity, and it is admitted that no large cells similar to those of the bird's yolk exist within the cavity of the zona pellucida of the mammi- ferous ovum. If this view is correct, we may expect to find a representative in the egg of the bird and of other animals having similaf ova, of the very marked enclosing vesicle, which has received the name of zona pellucida * See his paper. Die Bildung der fur partielle FUrchung bestimmten Eier der Vcigol, &c., in Sie- bold and Kijlliker's Zeitsch. fiir VVissenschaft. Zool. vol. iii. p. 420, 18&2.