3 ■ " 3bhn , . .V4> >.■»-*> ' ,I *1;. U ■■'. * . ...t' **>• /Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21304439_0001V ' % ■ ■♦w' »►; r •■ * '. 7 > <. v^ J' -'W - ■*4 , ■•I 3#* ^ f ,.H .0. T, >. i^''’i‘ h> -i5 i.‘. at.' ar“ itw» r irA" ■\1 ' ‘'' ' ”1 '■ t« >,^. f- • )» V , »■ j;S'^n _ %'% V * — V *• “« * • t A . oft A I • I r‘rr^ ri '..^1^^' -'V ‘. _ .,' ' . t;-"'’ .-r f " , *, - A 1* • V : .. '-H4-fV -f * • ■ * x;---'-' ',S w-< ^ ; *i'i .V ■ V.\Lo.^A(o. A COMPENDIUM or The ANATOMY or THE HUMAN BODY. / INTENDED PRINCIPALLY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS. 'in three volumes, with plates. FIFTH EDITION, ENLARGED AND IMPROVED. TO WHICH IS NOW ADDED, A FOURTH VOLUME, CONTAINING OUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY By ANDREW FYFE. VOL. I. EDINBURGH: Printe/t by J. Pillans Sons, i FOR ADAM BLACK, SOUTH BRIDGE STREET, EDINBURGH; AND THOMAS UNDERWOOD, 32. FLEET STREET, AND 40. WEST SMITHFIELD, LONDON. 1812,^ I %wt ^ /.J R J I / J T H O T A /[ i A xilll l*3^ciTr* im ^^v3ayl"r^- 1 i:>3'J^n 1 ^ •3'*V 11 ri'•■ i ri J ’* ,. .YQ08 . :m? 1« • «ttX 10 aa j 1 ?;W3aUlB ^:treiKr f* b^utt TT/^nin^.i IX/ ' J5..1I& s«-. ^iR-r^-Tia tiaiW '.•ITCit ***<»« ttaiiTB'W'O^' • ‘i ,ti.;oT>vi£/"a.vj^S/ nrp'" _.u z3-fii < 'lo ] -X-,- ^V="- *• ,>mu •4 ^ * ‘-1 n'’ M rma TaSJrt^ n:T>af3n ‘it a- » '• '^A «4» U .-.r*:*^-.!-.. ■- ttr ^ ^ ..^ ^'OavoJ ,aw>'’''Tina t*>*f ^ ‘TO THE GENTLEMEN \ ATTENDING THE MEDICAL CLASSES IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH, THE FOLLOWING VOLUMES, MEANT TO FACILITATE THEIR PROGRESS IN THE STUDY OF ANATOMY, ARE DEDICATED, With much respect, By their most obedient / And very humble Servant, ANDREW FYFE, College, Nov. 4. 3812. j Vv t i4 \r ^ . - V k . • ^ ’ n ' . I' V: ' . ■, • -Ai>'- >' t ..'I r hCONTENTS y OF THE FIRST VOLUME. PART I. OF THE BONES. Pag. Of the Bones in General, - . s Of the Skeleton, - - 19 Of the Head or Skull in General, - 21 Of the Separate Bones of the Head, - 27 Of the Bones of the Face, - - S2 Teeth, - - - 68 Os Hyoides, - . - - - 70 Bones of the Trunk, - - 71 The True Vertebrje, - - 72 The False Vertebrae, - - 79 Bones of the Pelvis, - . SS Thorax, - - 90 Bones of the Superior Extremity, - 98 Inferior Extremity, - 122 Ossa Sesamoidea, - - « 140 Pnncipal Differences between the Male and Female Skeleton, - - > 14j[ . PARTviii CONTENTS. PART IL OF THE MUSCLES. Pag, Of the Muscles in General, - - 147 Muscles of the Integuments of the Cranium, and Eye-Lids, - - 149 ^ common to the Head and External Ear, lf>2 of the Nose and Mouth, - 153 of the Lower Jaw, - - 158 on tht Fore and Lateral Part of the Neck, - - - 161 situated het'ween the Os Hyoides and Trunk, - - - J62 situated between the Lower Jaw and Os Hyoides, - » - 164 situated upon the Back Part of the Pha- . RYNX, - - - 1TI — of the Glottis, - - 179 situated on the Anterior and Lateral Parts of the Abdomen, , - 175 of the Male Parts o/”Generation and of the Anus, - - 18C of the Female Parts of Generation andoftheAvivSy - - ‘ 190 — Os CoccYGis, - - 192 situated within the Cavity of the Abdo-' MEN, - - - ’ 193 situated upon the Anterior Part of the Thorax, - - - 197 situated between the Ribs, and within the Thorax, - - * •• li>9 MusclesIX CONTENTS. Pag. Muscles situated on the Anterior Part of the ■ Vertebra Neck, - 201 situated on the Posterior Part of the Trunk, - 203 Superior Extremity, - 217 -Muscles arising from the Scapula, ib. chief y situated on the Arm, serv- ing for the Motion of the Fore Arm, - 221 . on the Fore Arm and Hand, serving for the Motion of the Hand and Fingers, - 224« Inferior Extremities, - 241 Muscles 07ithe Pelvis and Thigh, serv- ing for the Motion of the Thigh and Leg, - ib. -....p,— situated on the Leg and Foot, I seiDingfor the Motion of the Foot and Toes, - 254 PART TIT. OF THE BURS^ MUCOS.E.~OF THE LI- GAMENTS AND OTHER PARTS OF THE JOINTS. ' t * - Of THE Burs^ Mucosffi, - - 271 of the SupEuioji, Ex- tremity, - 273 Of I,C O N T E N T S. Pag, Of the Bursae Mucosje of the Inferior Extre- mity, - - _ - 276 Of the Ligaments, &c. of the Joints, - 280 Synovial Organs, commonli) called Glands of the Joints, - - 282 LiGAMENTS'^//ie Head Gwc? Trunk, - 284? Ligaments of the Lower Jaw, - ib. — — .. -—:— connecting the Head the First and Second r Vertebr.e of the Neck, arul these trco Vertebras y.'ith each other^ - 286 of the other VERTEBicEj 286 of the Ribs, - 288 of the Bones of the Pelvis, 291 of the Superior Extremity, - 29.5 Ligaments of the Clavicle, - ib. proper to the Scapula, 296 (f the Joint of the Shoul- der, - - 297 of Joint of the Elbow, 298 hetioeen the Bodies, aiid hci-iscen the Under Ends of the Radius and Ulna, 299 het’voeen the Fore Arm and Wrist, - 300 Carpus, - 301 bct'vijeen the Carpus and Metacarpus, - 302 between the Extremities of the Metacarpal Bones, ib. Liga-xi CONTENTS. Pag. Ligaments at the Base of the Meta- carpal Bone of the Thumb,and at M^First Joints of the Fingers, 303 of the First and Second Joints rf the Thumb, and Second and Third Joints of the Fingers, ib, retaining the Tendons of ZZteMuscLEs of the Hand and Fingers in situ, ib. Lif’-AMENTs of the Inferior Extremity, - 306 Ligaments connecting the Os Femoris " the Os Innomina- TUM, - - ib. f tile Joint of the Knee, 308 ■ connecting the Fibula to i'/zc Tibia, . 312 — connecting the Bones of the Tarsus naith those of the Leg, - _ 323 tfthe Tarsus, - 314. ■ hetis^ecn the Tarsus and Metatarsus, - 315 fr connecting the Metatar- sal Bones to each other, ib. of the Phalanges of the Toes, - _ jb. —— and Sheaths retaining the TENDONS^#/i(?MuSCLES of the Foot and Toes fn situ, “ - ibt)PART I. OP THE BONES.OF THE BONES IN GENERAL. T he Bones are the most hard, compact, and inflexible parts of the Body. They are more or less of a "ijohite or red colour, ac- cording to the proportions of Earth or Blood entering their composition ; and are therefore whitest in the Adult, and reddest in the Child, more Earth being found in the former, and more Blood in the latter. In living Animals they are of a bluish colour, in con- sequence of the Blood contained in their small Vessels appearing through their surface. Bones are composed of Lamdlce^ or PlaieSy which are formed of Fibres running longitudinally, or in a radiat- ed manner, according to the natural figure of the Bone. The lamellated structure may be seen, by exposing them to the heat of a strong fire; or to the weather; or by boiling them under an increased pressure ; or by observing their exfoliations when in the diseased state. A late Author, Scarpa, denies the lamellated struc- ture of the Bones, and endeavours to prove, that they liave every where a cellular texture. A2 They4. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paht I. The Plates of Bones are originally formed by the Vessels of the Periosteum Externum and Membrana Mcdullaris, and not, as has been supposed by some Authors, from Layers detached from the external Pe- riosteum. The Plates are connected by Fibres^ which some have considered as Clavicidi or Nails, and called Perpendicu- lar, Oblique, &c. according to their different directions. The outei' Plates of Bones are firmly compacted, so as to appear like one solid substance. The inner Parts of Bones in general, wliether long, round, or flat, have their Plates and Threads running in various directions, intersecting each other, and forming the Cancclli, or Spongy Substance of the Bones; the Cancelli every where communicating with each other. The Cancelli, in the middle of long Bones, are Fi- brous, and form the Reticular Substance which divides the Bone into large Cells. Towards the extremities of long Bones, the Cancelli are lamellated, and much more numerous than in their middle. Cancelli, of a similar nature to those of the long Bones, are also placed between the Tables of flat, and inner parts of round Bones. In some of the broad Bones, however, as the Scapula, the solid parts are so much compressed as to leave little or no room for Cancelli. On the contrary, in the middle of the long Bones, as the Os Plumeri, the Cavities are so large as to give to the Bone the appearance of a hollovo Cylinder. In- some of the largest of the long Bones, as the Os Femoris,. OF THE BONES. Part I.] Femoris, their solid sides, near their middle, are re- markably thick, and there the Cancelli are scarcely per- ceptible; while at their extremities, their sides are scarcely thicker than writing-paper, and their Cancelli are so numerous as to occupy the whole space between their sides. The Cancelli of Bones are formed by the internal Plates passing inwards, and decussating each other j and in the long Bones, the sides of the Bone, in con- sequence of sending off the Cancelli, become gradually thinner towards its extremities, while the Cancelli in proportion become more numerous. The Cancelli, though extremely minute, exist even in the most solid parts of Bones, as can be seen by ex- posure to heat, or in Bones enlarged by disease. In either of these cases, small Cells may be observed, and aro distinguishable from the Canals for containing the Vessels, the former being irregular, and the lattet cy- lindrical. » The Cancelli support the Membranes containing the Marrow’, as the Cellular Substance does the Fat, and prevent one part of the Column of Marrow from gra- vitating upon another in the various positions of the Body. They also furnish a wider surface for the dis- persion of the Arteries which secrete the Marrow. Upon the surface of Bones there are numerous Fis~ suresy for the more intimate connection of the Perios- teum with the Bone, and for lodgement to Blood-vessels, which pass into its Substance. • Many minute Orifices are observed upon the surface, A 3 and It> COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. and particularly in the Furrows of Bones, for the trans- mission of Blood-vessels into their substance. Near the middle of most of the Bones, especially the long ones, there is a slanting Canal for the passage of the principal Medullary Vessels. Numerous Orifices, some of them very considerable in size, are observed at the extremities of long Bones. Some serve for the transmission of Blood-vessels, and others for giving attachment to the Fibres of the Liga- ments of the Joints. The principal Vessels pass into the Cancelli, internal Membranes, and Marrow, and return to the solid Sub- stance of the Bone, where they meet those sent inwards from the Periosteum. In some Jlat Bones^ as those of the Cranium^ the Bones are entirely supplied from the Vessels of the surrounding Membranes, and the Vascularity there is uniform. In the Subject, the Blood-vessels of the Bones can be shewn by a successful injection thrown into them j and in living Animals, when the Bones are cut across, their Vascularity appears by the Blood which oozes from their divided extremities. The Vascularity of Bone is also shewn, by feeding an Animal, for some time, on the Rubia Tinctorum, or Madder-root, after which the Bones are found to be completely tinged with the colouring matter of the Madder. As a person advances in life, the Blood-vessels of the Bones contract in their Diameters, as appears from the Bones of old people having less Blood in them than tho?ePart L] 7 OF THE BONES. those of a person at an early period of life j from Injec- tions being thrown into tlie Vessels of the Bones of old persons with more difficulty than in youth ; from less ot the injected matter being received in the former j and Irom the Bones of old Animals receiving less of the i tinging matter of Madder than those of young ones. From comjparing the Bones of peojdc of different ages, it is found, that there is a constant waste and renewal of their Substance; that the Bones increase in weight as a person advances to maturity; that they continue nearly of the same w’eight till old age begins, and then become lighter; that the specific gravity of their solid sides, on the contrarj', increases by age j for then they become harder and more compact, but thinner, and have larger cavities than the Bones of young persons. Bones, like other parts, have their Lymphaticsy as ap- pears by the absorption of Madder found deposited in the Substance of the Bones of Animals receiving it with their food ; by the absorption qf part of the Bone itself, when in the diseased state; by the absorption of Bone as a person advances in life; and eveu by In- jection. The Naves of the Bones are small, but may be ob- served in certain parts of the Bones, and, it is presnm- cd, they exist in all. From the minuteness of the Nerves, and rigidity of the parts on which they are dispersed. Bones are not sensible in the sound state j and even in the diseased, the pain felt may be ow ing to the Membranes within them. Tnie component parts of Bones are, an Eartliy Matter, Cartilage, Gelatin, and Marrow, and these varying in A i proportion» COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. CPart I. The proportion in different persons, in different Bones of the same person, and in the same Bone at different ages* The Earthy Matter, however, bears the largest propor- tion ; but this is less in Children than in persons of more advanced life. The Earthy Matter is obtained by Calcination, or by Maceration in a diluted acid, and afterwards precipitat- ing it, when it is found to consist chiefly of Phosphate of Lime. In either of these Processes, the Bone retains its shape; but in the former it is brittle, and of a pure white colour, while in the latter it is flexible, consisting principally of Cartilaginous Matter. By boiling in water for a sufficient length of time, and especially if under an increased pressure, as in Pa- pin’s Digester, the Fat and Gelatin of Bones are dissolv- ed and separated, and the Bone retaining its Earthy Matter preserves also its white colour. The general Use of Bones is,—to give firmness and shape to the Body, to furnish attachment to the Muscles, and serve as Levers for these to act on, and to lodge, protect, and support the Bowels. Periosteum. The Periosteum derives its name from its furnishing a general Covering to the Bones. In certain parts, however, it is perforated by Muscles, Ligaments, or Cartilages, which arc fixed immediately to the surface of the Bones; and at the Joints it sepa- rates from the Bones, to give a Covering to the Capsu- lar Ligaments. It is formed of many Fibres, which, in certain parts, can be divided into Layers,9 Part I.] OF THE BONES. The outer Surface of this Membrane is connected to the surrounding parts by Cellular Substance. The inner Surface is more uniform than the outer, and its Fibres run, most frequently, in the same direction with those of the subjacent Bone. The inner ^art of the Periosteum is intimately con- nected to the surface of the Bones by short Fibres; and this connection is much stronger in the Child than in the Adult. Some of these Fibres may be considered as Ligamentous, but most of them are found by Injection to consist of Blood-vessels. The Periosteum, as well as other Membranes, must be supplied with Nerves; but these are too minute to be readily traced. The Sensibility of the Periosteum, like that of other Membranes, is by no means acute. In the inflamed state, its sensibility is vei'y considerable. The principal Uses of this Membrane are,—to trans- mit the Vessels which are spread out upon its surface into the Substance of the Bones;—to give attachment to Muscles ;—to prevent the effects of Friction between them and the Bones j—to assist in binding the latter to- gether ;—to assist in setting limits to the increase, and to check the overgrowth of Bones ;—and, in young per- sons, to strengthen the junction of the Bones with their Epiphyses, Cartilages, and Ligaments. 4 Membrana Meduixarir. This, improperly called Periosteum Internum, is an extremely fine Membrane, whicli lines the inside of tlie . Bones10 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Bones in general, and is divided into numberless small })arts, which also line the dillerent Cancelli. It forms so many irregular Bags, communicating with each otlter, and adbrding a large surface for the dispersion of the secretory Vessels of the Marrow. Marrow. The Marro'io may be considered as an Appendage to die general Corpus Adiposum. It is deposited by the Arteries in the Cavities of the Bones, at the same time that the rest of the Body is supplied with Fat. The Blood-vessels of the Marrow', surrounded by the Periosteum, enter the Bones by oblique Canals, which have already been taken notice of in the description of the Bones in general. Mdien the Arteries have entered the Cavities of the Bones, they divide into Branches, which arc spread out upon the Cancelli, Membrana Mcdullaris, and Marrow; from these many minute Branches are reflected out- wards to the Tables of the Bones, which communicate with those sent from the inner surface of the Perios- teum. The Veins which return the Blood from the MaiTow and Substance of the Bones, are collected into small Trunks, which pass out where the Arteries penetrated the Bones, and discharge their contents into the neigh- bouring Veins. The greater degree of Vascularity of the Solids in Children than in Adults, is no where more conspicuous than here; for Injections which pass readily in these VesselsPart I.] . OF THE BONES. li Vessels in Children, cannot be made to penetrate so far in those of persons more advanced in life. In consequence of which the Marrow is found to be thin and bloody in Children, oily and thick in Adults, and watery in old people. The Marrow, lilce the Fat, when viewed through a Microscope, resembles a cluster of pearls;—'Or it is con- tained in spherical Sacs, upon which Vessels are mi- nutely dispersed,*but from which no Excretory Ducts have been discovered to pass out. It possesses little Sensibility in the sound state; and what it does possess is considered by the latest Authors as belonging rather to its Membranes than to the Mar- row itself. But that this part of the Body is not without Nerves, seems to be proved by the experiments made on the Marrow when the Bones of living Animals are cut, and by the pain a person frequently suffers from Diseases within the Bones. Cartilages. Cartilages are of a ^johite Colour^ of an elastic Substancey and much softer than Bones, in consequence of tlie smaller quantity of Earth entering their composition. The Structure is not so evidently Fibrous as that of Bones, yet, by long Maceration, or by tearing them asunder, a Fibrous disposition is perceptible. Their Vessels are extremely small, though they can be readily injected in Cai’tilages where Bone is beginning to form. The Vessels of the Cartilages of the Joints CD seem]2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. seem entirely to exclude the red Blood. No Anatomist has been able to inject them, and Madder, mixed with the food of Animals, does nof change their colour as it does that of Bones. No Nerves can be traced to them; nor do they possess any sensibility in the sound state. Y^et the Granulations which rise on the surface of Carti- lages after Amputation at the Joints arc very sensible. Upon their surface there is a thin Membrane, termed Perichondrium., which, in Cartilages supplying the place of Bone, as in those of the Ribs, or at the ends of the long Bones in Children, is a continuation of the Perios- tetwiy and serves the same general purposes to Cartilage as the Periosteum does to Bone. The Perichondrium of Cartilages which supply the place of Bone, or by their flexibility possess a degree of motion, has Blood-vessels, which, like those of the Pe- riosteum, can be injected. But the Vessels of this Membrane belonging to other Cartilages, particularly those covering the Articular Cartilages, cannot be in- jected. Upon the surface of Aj-ticular Cartilages, the Peri- chondrium is a Pejlcction of the inner surface of the Capsular Ligament, and is so very thin, and adheres so closely, as to appear like part of the Cartilage itseE They have no internal Cavity, nor Cancelli, nor in- ternal Membrane, for lodging Marrow ; their weight is nearly a third less than that of Bone. Their texture is less changed by acids; but a much greater proportion of them than of Bones is destroyed by the action of a strong fire. They are softened by maceration in Water; andThe Part L] OF THE BONES. IS f and the Articular Cartilages, by long boiling, are found to be in a great measure dissolved. One set of Cartilages supply the place of Bone;—or, by their flexibility, admit of a certain degree of motion, while their elasticity recovers their natural position ;— as in the N^ose, Larynx^ Cartilages the Itibs^ Carti- lages supplying Briihs to Cavities^ &c. Another set, in Children, supply the place of Bone, until Bone is formed, and afford a Nidus for the Os- seous Fibres to shoot in ;—as in the long Bones of Chil- dren. A third set, the most extensive, by the smoothness and slipperiness of their surface, allow the Bones to move readily, without any abrasion ;—as in the Cartilages of the Joints. By their elastic nature, they render the motions easier, and lessen the concussion in the more violent motions of the Body, as running, jumping, &ct They also prevent the inordinate growth of Bones at - their articulating surfaces, and the coalescence of the Fibres of the adjoining Bones. A fourth set supply the office both of Cartilages and Ligament, giving the elasticity of the former, and flexi- bility of the latter ; uniting some immoveably together, and allowing to others a small degree of motion ;—as in the Cartilages of the Bones of the Pelvis and Spine. Of the Formation of Bone. The generality of Bones are originally formed, either between Membranes, or in the Substance of Cartilages; the Teeth are formed in distinct Bags.U COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part!. The Ossification of broad Bones begins, in some, as in those of the Cranium, between Membranes only, and in others, as in the Ossa Ilia, in Cartilage, and it ap- pears in each Bone in one or more places; There the Osseous Particles are so joined together, as to have a Fibrous appearance. The Fibrous Structure is most distinctly seen in the Cranium of a Foetus about three months after Concep- tion, where the beginning of the Ossification is like a fine irregular net-work, in the middle of which the Fibres are more closely connected than in the circum- ference. In viewing the flat Bones of a Foetus a little more ad- vanced, the bony particles are observed to be so dis- posed, as to have a distinct radiated appearance. The vacancies between the Fibres, which occasion the radiated appearance, are found by Injection to be chief- ly passages for Blood-vessels. As the Foetus increases in size, the Osseous Fibres increase in number, till a Lamina is produced ; and as the Bone continues to grow, more Laminae are added, till the more solid part of a Bone is formed. . The Inner Layers of the Bones are observed to be more porous than the Outer, and none of them are found to have the solidity they acquire in the Adult state, till they have arrived at their full growth. The Ossification of long Bones begins between the Periosteum and Mernbrana Medullaris, by a central Bing, from which the Fibres extend towards the ends of the Bones. Tlie Interior Lamellte, forming the solid sides of the longOF THE BONES. Part L] 15 long Bones, are considerably shorter than the Exterior, because they pass gradually inwards to form the Can- celii, while the exterior parts are continued to the ex- tremities of the Bones. The Ossification of spherical-shaped Bones, as in the ^Vrist, begins by one Nucleus, and that of irregular- formed Bones, as in the Vertebra?, by different Nuclei; and both of these sets of Bones have their origin in Cartilage. All the Epiphyses, likewise, have their original for- mation in Cartilage. The Ossification which begins in Cartilage is consi- derably later than that which has its origin between Membranes, and this is at very different times in diffe- rent parts of the Body. When Ossification is about to begin in a particular Cartilage, and which is most frequently in the centre, the Arteries, which were formerly transparent, become dilated, and receive the red Blood from which the Os- seous Matter is secreted. This Matter retains, for some time, the form of the Vessels which give it origin, till, more Arteries being by degrees dilated, and more Os- seous Matter deposited, the Bone at length attains its complete form. ^ Some Bones are completely formed at the time of Birth, as the small Bones of the Ear. The generality of Bones are incomplete until the age of puberty, or between the fifteenth and twentieth year, and in some few instances not until a later period. In Children, the greater number of parts in Bones are Epiphyses or Appendices^ which, in Adults, become Apophyses or Processes. < Tlie16 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Epiphyses begin to appear after the Body of the Bone is ossified, and are themselves ossified at seven or eight years of age, though their external surface is still somewhat Cartilaginous. In the early part of life, the Body and Ends of long Bones make three distinct partSy which can readily be separated by boiling, or by maceration in water. The Epiphyses are joined to the Body of the Bone by Cartilages, which are thick in Children, but gradual- ly become thinner as Ossification advances, till at last, r in the Adult, the external marks of division are not to bo seen; though frequently some mark of distinction may be observed in the Cancelli... <a • M o o 2 ^ i>M * * C/? O O CONNECTION OF BONES. in O Cm O rt c3 G1 <y M 'I'S C3 oj •2-s S ^ U 5 <u •w O Cm 0>4 O Cm cf) ^ O ^ C O o ^ m Si's H .c *- H 0 01 > CJ 0 (U H 01 x: H o Xi 'S rt s ;3 C3 ;2i s 3 Ch u i/3 o .3 !/3 a C o « ns rt o P c ca OI 03 Ip CO S 2 c: §>« oj u xt ;:3 C3 -«—< 2 I s 0 2 ^ M rP >—H u p c3 ,• " S ^ OO-S ^ r, O XJ rt <u 1 s o g rP Si (U o 4M ;h •5 -S 5 S ^ i: S r»* ^O t4-i 02 3 ° 3 b ^ O <o o O :2 <u 2P^-5 H u fco ca 3 •> '? ■i^Q <<i 3 >» ■S; -p o o *M G =g>i' o U >H o <U ^ -* i-c 8J 3 ^ _a ^ .. Si o ^ ^ r* ^ « 0 P> « W P o dj 'CS <2 ^ Sf? •so" ^ t/> '*** 2 S‘s c/) S JiS ^ o X 2 .fi -P w Ph t*-c O^ o 1 S a A O 2 *1 rS 2 o ^ 2 -S£ o » P M -D'^ sS « P O s c3 _to vT i_3 •t** * * § ^ 5-“ 5 S ,2 t?>g P o O 3 O o c •> J3 5 .-e i2 ■N «o <o S' ft; « VoL. I. > tfi ^ P5 - 3 go2 i3 3 g .3 C ^ 3 V 3 s 0> C-S B <u . ■p o .5 P oT ^ C *0 PS JD S }.. p .p te.2 P S’ ■« CO fti o ^ O) o> P -P p.a *o Q ns O E cCfq*^ W » 3 P o o o O 2 S ^ o irections. J Navicularcj and at the root of the first Pnalanx o ■ 9 -PM c-S p p , ecy: S’ ^ o ,5 2. Co CT5 ^ Co 3 O L* » r 3 P =3 ►3 <t) ^ 3 hTP- Si’ P p a* o n re P r*- < « 3‘ re 5-* re re 3 • p. cfl w) re c/> re 3 3’re 3 rP'Cf5 re a re o r-N. j-S e 3 C5 3i 2 2- re n» ^ 3 p 2- ?i ^ o Oj a- 3 I:;- o'g ^ g ^ ^ w«># w o 'I S Co -Tj 3: N-. — 3 re >!> 2 S m 2. P re P P> >-» <-► ^ 3- — w 3" O re 3 p re ^ o o 3:< S' ^ hi S' ^ o - 3. c ^ O w 3 1:5 3"^ — O r» t cr < sr o"* m re § 3 S.O S' M ►I re i-M •-1 re 3’ r» 2 3- ^ 3“ O o ^reChSr:- O . — re 35 o *- C/} P 3- L> <-♦ og p s^r ^ Si-pT-^ P 3 CTm " X ^ c p 1=1 3 C o 3 5!, C^o 3 Vj O h*) t~> re re K p § P- re ^ p I- ^ M» P’ re re tx* ^ O re Pt'd p' ® re t« w re 3 C- o 3 S' re 33 p r t»3 !i; o s b CL, K, 2 ^ o W S' 3 re o >-S U1 /^- ,. ■ . w . 3 -1 2 re cr^ >1-* re. ►1 — re £ P j_, S' ^ re o 3 ih I ►'^P-§ C/I <-t^ C/3 , W''* HS^o » ,re <|?re g 3 ^ ^ Z ' O f-^ »—• rr^ , ft) O ^ 3 C-H ►-M S'© eg o, re Cl P tP re 3 ^ re p 2 ' < H ^ 2. 3- s" .s^^?2 S ^ o o p re 2. o — a* s ^ ::^s‘s 2 CL, c p- re- 3 P 3 S r f-f C/J O • »-H 3 W o re s' O 3 re P- js S re cr re o 3 ^ O cr re 5 re — S O ” g -r>OS rrf s §3 2 “ Q 3 3’3 ± re 0^ O re p nJre ^ St pj 5“ re re 2 C/> P s ^ e/» c/:^ ri P 3 c/2 d • s' P uJ ^ *-5 M 05 c cr o S’ 3 ^ fD c/> P rr P >-^ • «=-g,s re hr) S' re ^5 re ^ o' c/> re 3 re P rr" re re P O 2 ■ S C re. rn ►— S3 re ^ OQ 2, f2 ri- ?i re 2 o « f=* 3 re 3 ‘S 3 3 I • DIFFERENT KINDS OF MOTION.OF THE BONES. Part I.] OF THE SKELETON. Though the term Skeleton be applied to a variety of Substances, yet, in Anatomy, it is always understood to signify the Bones of Animals, connected together in their natural situation, after the soft parts of the Body in general are removed. It is termed a Natural Skeleton, when the Bones are joined by their own Ligaments ; And an Artificial Skeleton, when joined by Wire, &c. Small Subjects, and the Bones of those which aro not fully ossified, are most conveniently prepared the first way; while the Bones of large Adult Animals arc more readily cleaned when single, and are easily restored to their natural situation. In viewing the Bones in their natural situation in the Skeleton, scarcely any of them are obsei’vod to be placed in a perpendicular direction to another •, yet in an erect posture, a perpendicular line from their common centre of gravity falls in the middle of their common base. On this account, the Body is found to be as firmly sup- ported, as if the axis of all the Bones had been a straight line perpendicular to the horizon, and much greater quickness, ease, and strength, is given to the Body, in several of its most necessary motions. The Fluman Skeleton is generally divided into FleaJ, Trunk, Superior and Inferior Extremities.X \ MKH 4jV*-^V^' <Vi^:;\V />!>$: .rt*. ue^ li.Alii WlVvrrW H ./Wtj#**\*. ••-*»V-;»(«|gS .{“M.I!.' ."♦ ,'.!* ,l'.n;,r'-.iit ,? : .-MitolEeS » - ^ ■ • *r" * ^ ^ * • ■ • • ' k I , tm**^\, ’.I ovUtJ jiW * ' »>it< jHpp^4’>• --^.i4 ■'^if-TS. iif »i>.^ji. . :i jfcirtv --_!** »i*|l X^;ip|l *jt^ <itSr#i»iiii*#ui j'u, ^Mn«tit>4iriei^ il^ . >' io »‘^ <i .'TA.Jiy /^*‘"., »• 1'^ '■' P"' '^■. 4 Y«^ |^^'X>l i^ilr^ !»iu^ i ■> ?*T^' .a^h w) ^ii; v^, 7.' *'* ?%4^ v« " • • *41 ii3"r-T •’.'**• ' A W..-A.-. I* __'I. ' .. ’m$/- BttW »i •>iU. 1*;'^^ « <-j ,^« >U. Viil <*li^ S K4.M*»,l; .%. ^ J- '^_ . iit Aivui, •; ti ' ^ uli liUi ^ rii».>y ' • •.. . *■• ... IV '• k; '"'*5OF THE BONES. 21 Part I.] 1 OF THE HEAD OR SKULL IN GENERAL. By the Head is meant all that part of the Skeleton which is placed above the first Bone of the Neck. It therefore comprehends the Cranium and Bones of the Face. The Cranium varies in shape in different Persons, ac- cording to the original form of the Brain upon which it is moulded; but the variety of shape has been supposed by some Authors to be increased by the different manage- ment of the Heads of Children at an early period of life. From this the different shapes of the Skulls of people of different nations have been accounted for. The form, however, does not appear to be much affected by the management of the Head at an early period of infancy, since its characteristic marks are found to remain nearly the same, however much the customs in dress and ge- neral management may vary. The Cranium forms a vaulted Cavity for lodging and defending the Brain, with its Membranes, Vessels, and Nerves. The General Figure of the upper part of the Cranium i^ compared to that of an Egg. The length to the breadth is nearly as six to five. The Cranium is of a flat form at its sides j partly by the action of the Temporal Muscles. The flatness of this part of the ITead is found to in- crease the sphere of vision, and to give a more advan- tageous situation for the Ears, that they may receive a B greater22 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part f. greater quantity of sound, while they are less exposed to danger. The Surface of the upper and outer part of the Cra- nium is smooth, where it is little affected by Muscles, and is covered with the Periosteum common to all the Bones, but in the Skull termed Pericranium. The under and outer Surfaee of the Cranium is irre- gular where it gives attachment to Muscles, &c. and passage to Vessels and Nerves. The anta'ior and7^??r/c?' part of the Cranium \%fiollo'Wy to make part of the Orbits. The posterior Surface of the Cranium is marked by the insertion of Muscles arising from the back part of the Trunk. The uppa' and inner Surface of the Cranium is liol- lo'ii'y for lodging the Brain. The wider and inner Surface of the Cranium has many unequal CavitieSy for lodging the Lobes and Ap- pendages of the Brain and Cerebellum, and for allowing passage to the Vessels and Nerves of the Encephalon in general. Along the inner side of the Cranium are many Fur- rows, for the reception of the Blood-vessels of the Dura Mater. Upon the inner Surface of certain Crania, Sinuosities are observed, for lodging luxuriances of the Brain ; and here the Cranium is sometimes so thin, as to be render- ed trans])arent; the two Tables being then closely com- pacted without any Cancelli. In some Crania, Pits arc seen of different figures and sizes, for lodging Granidous Bodies on the Dura Mater, termedOF THE BONES. 23 Part L] B i The termed of-Pacchioni ; or sometimes they are occupied by the meeting of large Veins of the Dura Mater. Here also there is often a want of Cancelli. I'he Bones of the Cranium are composed of two Tables, which at the upper part are nearly parallel to each other. The two Tables have intermediate Cancelli, termed here Diploe, though nearly of the same nature with the Cancelli in other flat Bones. Tlie External Table of the Cranium is somewhat thicker than the Internal^ which, from its thinness and consequent brittleness, is called Vitrea. The Diploe, or Cancelliy between the Tables, are more regular between the Bones of the upper than of the under part of the Cranium, where, in several of the hard Bones, they are not observable. In the Skulls of old Subjects, the Diploe are often so obliterated, that scarcely any vestige of them can be t seen. In certain diseased Bones, the Diploe are of great thickness, while the Tables of the Skull are thin like paper. . The Cranium is genei-aL’y composed of eight Bones; six of which are said to be proper to the Cranium, and two common to it and the Face. The six proper to the Cranium are, The Os Frontisy placed in the fore part of the Cra- nium. The /uo Ossa Parietaliay placed in the upper and la- teral parts of the Cranium.L'i< COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. the The iwo Ossa Tcmpora^ placed in the,under and la- teral parts. The Os Occipttisy which forms the back, and some of t he lower part of the Cranium. The two Bones common to the Cranium and Face are. The Os EtkmoideSy placed in the fore part of the Base of the Cranium. The Os Sphenoidesy situated in the middle of the Base. Sutures. The Bones of the Cranium have Seams or Sutures be- tween them, which are five in number. Of these three are termed TniCy from having serrated appearances; and two are called False or Squamous Sutures, from the Bones which form them overlapping each other, as the Scales of Fishes do. The three True Sutures are, 'i’he Coronal Suturcj placed between the Frontal and Parietal Bones, and getting its name from this being the part where the Ancients wore their Coronce or Gar- lands. It loses its serrated appearance near its termi- nations. The Lamhdoid Stiiurcy situated where the Occipital joins the Parietal and Temporal Bones. It begins some way below the Vertex, or Crown of the Head, from which its two legs extend obliquely downwards and to each side, in form of the Greek A. The parts of the Lambdoid Suture, placed betweenOF THE BONES. Part I.] the Occipital and Temporal Bones, have little of the serrated appearance, and are called Additamenia Sutwa: Lambdoidalis. The Sagittal SuticrCy situated between the Parietal Bones, and named from being extended between the middle of the Coronal and Lambdoid Sutures, as an Arrow is between the String and Bow. The Sagittal Suture is sometimes continued through the middle of the Frontal Bone to the Nose. This is said, by some Authors, to be more frequent in the Fe- male than in the Male. The sarated appearance of the True Sutures is seen distinctly on the outside of the Cranium only j on the inside, the Bones appear almost to be joined as straight lines. In some Skulls, the internal Surface is found entire, while the Sutures ar e manifest without; the inner Plates 3neetinof and coalescingr sooner than the external. As a person advances in life, the True Sutures begin to be obliterated, first on the inner, then on the outer side, till in very old age not a vestige of one of them is to be seen. The Visio Falscy called also Temporal Sutures, placed between the upper edge of the Temporal, and under edge of the Pai’ietal Bones. Each of the Portions of the False Sutures, situated between the under and back part of the Parietal, and the upper and back part of the Temporal Bones, called by some Additamentum Sutvree Sguamosce, and having in that part the true serrated appearance. Besides the Squamous Sutures here taken notice of, it2^ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. it is to be obsei'ved, that the term Squamous is also ap- plied to all the Sutures on which the Temporal Muscle is placed ; it therefore includes part of the Coronal and Sphenoid Sutures. ) In the Sutures of the Cranium there are often Addi- tional Bones, called Ossa Triquetra, from their being of a triangular form, and Ossa Wormianaj from Wormius, who, though not the discoverer, gave a description of them. The Ossa Wormiana vary much in figure, size, and number, and arc occasionally found in the different Su- tures, though most frequently in the middle of tlie Ivambdoid. Wherever they occur, the Sutures surrounding them arc observed to be similar to the neighbouring Sutures; of course they are equally with them distinguished from Fractures of the Skull. Between the Bones of the Cranium and those of the Face, fix'e Sutures are also found, and they are said to be common to these two sets of Bones. Parts, however, of these Sutures, are only between the Bones of the Cranium. The Sutures here are. The Ethmoid Suture^ which surrounds the Ethmoid Bone. The S'phenoid Suturey which surrounds the Sphenoid Bone. The Ethmoid and Sphenoid Sutures in some parts .assist in forming other Sutures, especially the Squamous and Transverse ; and in other parts there is but one Suture common to these two Bones. The Transverse SKiwe, which runs across the Or- bitsPart I.J OF THE BONES. 27 The bits and Root of the Nose, between the Frontal, Ma- lar, Sphenoid, Ethmoid, Superior Maxillary, and Na- sal Bones. The Zygomatic Sutures, placed between the Temporal and Cheek Bones, and slanting obliquely downward^ and backwards. 'Ihe advantages derived from the Cranium being form- ed of different Bones and Sutures are, that the Spheroi- dal figure is sooner completed ;—that the Bones, which are at some distance from each other at birth, yield, and conduce to an easier Delivery;—that the Dura Mater, by the Sutures, has a firmer adhesion;—and that Frac- tures are frequently prevented from extending so far as they would do in one continued bony substance. OF THE SEPARATE BONES OF THE HEAD. Os Frontis. The principal things to be attended to in this Bone are. The Situation of the Os Frontis in the fore part of the Cranium. Its Shape, which has been compared to that of a Clam-shell. Its External Surface smooth, and above convex. The external and internal Angular, or Orhitar Pro^ cesses, forming part of the Orbits.28 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Superciliary Ridgesy on which the Eye-Brows ara placed, extending between the external and internal Angular Processes on each side. Projections, generally seen above the inner ends of the Superciliary Ridges, indicating the situation of the Cavities called Frontal Simeses. The Nasal Process, placed between the internal An- gular Processes, and forming part of the Nose. Part of the Temporal Process, or Ridge, on each side, behind the external Angular Process, which forms the boundary between the 'I'emporal and Frontal Muscles. The Orbitar Processes, or Plates, which, contraa*y to (he rest of tlie Bone, are hollow below, and extend a considerable way back, to form the upper parts of the Orbits for lodging the Eyes and their Appendages. The Orbitar Plates, contrary to the other parts of the Bone, are rendered so thin by the pressure of the Brain and Eye on the opposite sides, that they becopie transparent, and the Cancelli, especially in old people, are obliterated. The Sinuosity at the upper part of the Orbit, behind the outer end of the Superciliary Ridge, on each side, for lodging the Lacrymal Qland. Behind each internal Angular Process, a small Pit, to which the Cartilaginous Pulley of the Superior Ob- lique Muscle is fixed. The Temporal Fossa, behind the Temporal Process, for lodging part of the Muscle of that name. The Opening .between the Orbitar Processes, for re- ceiving the Cribriform Plate of the Etlimoid Bone. I'he Foramen Supra-orbitarium, a little to the inner- side2y OF THE BONES. Part I.] The side of the middle of each Superciliary Ridge, through which a branch of the Ocular Artery, and part of .the Ophthalmic Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, pass to the soft parts of the Forehead. In some Skulls, the Vessels and Nerves are lodged in Furrows on the Surface of the Bone. Frequently, instead of a Hole, a Notch only is seen, the Vessels and Nerves then passing over the Superci- liary Ridge •, or two Holes in one side, and one in the other, &c. The Foramina Orbitaria Interna^ Anteriiis et Poslc~ riusy between the Orbitar Plates of the Frontal and Eth- moid Bones, and about three-fourths of an inch distant from each other, through which small Twigs of Nerves from the first part of the Fifth Pair, and of Arteries from the Ocular Artery, pass into the Nose. • Small Perforations are found upon the under and fore part of the Frontal Bone, for the transmission of very minute Arteries or Nerves into the Sinuses, or to the Substance of the Bone. The concave inner and lore part of the Os Frontis, for lodging the Anterior Lobes of the Brain. The convex under parts, for supporting these Lobe?, and covering the Eyes. ' The Ridges and Depressions of the Orbitar Processes, marked by the convolutions of the Brain. Small Fuiro'ws on the inside of the Bone, for lodging the Blood-vessels of the Dura Mater. ' ' Slight Sinuosities, more evident on the under than on the upper part of the Bone, occasioned by the convolu- tions of the anterior part of the Brain.^0 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part h The Frontal Spine, in the middle of the under part of the Bone, formed by tlie coalescence of the inner tables, for the attachment of the Falx of the Dura Mater. In such Skulls as have the Sagittal Suture continued to the Nose, the Frontal Spine docs not appear; the inner Plates, in such cases, not having grown together to form it. The Frontal Furro-jo, extending upwards from the Spine, for lodging the upper part of the superior Lon- gitudinal Sinus of the Dura Mater, and for the attach- ment of the Falx. The Foramen Ccccum at the under part of the Spine, for the reception of a process of the Falx, and of small Blood-vessels which penetrate into the Nose, or to the substance of the Bone. Here also the superior Longi- tudinal Sinus takes its origin. This hole is frequently common to the Frontal and Ethmoid Bones. Tlie Frontal Sinuses, placed behind the inner ends of the Superciliary Ridges, about an inch in height, and somewhat more than that in breadth, and’, in some Skulls, forming Prominences near the root of the Nose. Tlie Walls of the Sinuses, formed by a separation of the Tables of the Bone; there being no Diploe here. The Partition between them placed perpendicularly, and preventing them from having any communication with each other. Their capacities vary much in dilTcrent Subjects, and' they are frequently unequal in size in the same Body. In some they are wanting, which is oftener found to happen in persons having aflat Forehead, and where the Sasittal Suture i? continued to the Nose. In others, they are31 Part I.] OF THE BONES. The are so large as to extend from one side of tlie Frontal Bone to the other. In some Skulls, each of these Si- nuses has partial partitions, and, in others, one Sinus occupies the place of two. A Communication which they sometimes have with each other. At the inner and under part of the internal angular Process, a small round Passage from each, leading into the cavity of the anterior Ethmoid Cells, and from thence to the Nose. • y The Frontal Sinuses add to the strength and melody of the Voice, by serving as a vault to resound the notes. Hence, in a stoppage of the Nose, by disease or other- wise, tlie voice is rendered harsh and disagreeable. The Frontal Bone serves to defend and support the Anterior Lobes of the Brain. It forms a considerable part of the Orbits of the Eyes, assists in forming the Septum Naiium, Organ of Smelling, See. ^ In a Foetus of nine months, the Os Frontis is divid- ed through its middle into two Pieces, which are in- complete at their upper and back part, where they as- sist in tlie formation of the Bregma or opening of the Head.—The Superciliary Holes and Frontal Sinuses are not yet formed. Ossa Parietalia. The parts here to be attended to are. The situation of the Ossa Parietalia, in the upper and lateral parts of the Cranium. The^gure of each Parietal Bone a Trapezium, or approaching that of a Square.32 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The upper Edge, longest- 'J'he anterior Edge, next in length. The posterior Edge, shorter. The inferior^ shortest, and in form of a ragged arcli, to be connected to the upper rounded edge of the Squa- mous part of the Temporal Bone. The three Jirst Edges of the Bone raggedy where they assist in forming the true Sutures. The corners of the Bone obtuse, excepting the under anterior, which forms a kind of process. The external surface of the Bone, smooth and convex. The Transverse arched Ridge, or Lme, frequently of a whiter colour than the rest of the Bone, placed ex- ternally a little below its middle height, for the origin of the Temporal Muscle. The radiated Furrows at the under part of the Bone, formed by the Fibres of the Temporal Muscle. Near the semicircular edge, many inequalities, which join similar inequalities on the inside of the Temporal Bone, to form the Squamous Suture. 'I'he Foramen Parietale, near the upper and back jiart of the Bone, for the transmission of a Vein from the Integuments of the Head to the superior longitu- dinal Sinus *, and sometimes of a small Brand yfrom the Temporal or the Occipital Artery, to the Falx of the Dura Mater. In several Skulls, one of the Parietal Holes is want- ing •, in some, two are found in one side; in others, none in eitlier. 'Fhe internal concave Surface of the Bone. The Fnrrovcs made by the Blood-Vessels of the Dura Mater;OF THE BONES. 33 Part I.] VoL. I. C The Mater ; tlie principal of which begin by a Trunk at the under and fore part of the Bone, where frequently a full Canal is formed. • ' In their progress upwards, the Furrows divide'into many branches, and frequently small passages are seen running from these into the Oiploe. The dcpressimi at the upper Edge of the Bone, for the attachment of the upper part of the Falx, and lodge- ment of the superior longitudinal Sinus. This is most distinctly seen when the Bones are conjoined. The depression for the longitudinal Sinus, like the Sinus itself, becomes large in its coiu’se backwards j and frequently it is larger in one Bone than the other. The Fossa at the under and back part of the Bbhe, for lodging a small part of the lateral Sinus. Numerous dejn essions found on the inside of the Bone, occasioned by the prominences of the Brain. The connection of the Parietal Bones to the Os Fronds by the Coronal, and to each other by the Sa- gittal Suture. The Parietal Bones have the two Tables and Diploe the completest, and are the most equal and smooth of any of the Cranium. In the Foetus, the sides of the Parietal Bones are in- complete, and there is no Parietal Hole. Between the Parietal Bones and the middle of the divided Os Fron- tis, there is a large interstice, termed, in common lan- guage, o'peningqf the Head, and by Anatomists, Bregma, Foils, or Fontanella, from its having been supposed by the Ancients, that through it the superfluous Humours of the Brain are evacuated.SI COMrENDlUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. 'Phc Bregma is occupied by a strong ligamentous Membrane, which adheres firmly to the ragged Edges of the Bones, and is lined within by the Dura Mater, and covered externally by the Pericranium. The whole of the Bregma is generally ossified by two, though sometimes not till near seven years of age *, and it has sometimes, though very rarely, been found open in the Adult. Os OcciriTTs. Here attend to, The situation of the Occipital Bone in the back and under part of the Cranium. Its rhomboid figure, with the angle above, generally a little rounded. I'lie two lateral Angles obtuse. I'he external Surface convex^ and smooth at the upper part. The large Arched Ridge, running across the Bone, near the middle of the convex Surface, to the centre of which the Trapezii Muscles are fixed, the outer parts giving origin to the Occipito-frontalis. The smaller Arch, half-way between the former and the passage termed Foramen Magnum, The deptessions between the middle of the large and small Arches, for the connection of the Complexi Muscles. The impressiotis between the Arches and the Tempo- ral Bones, for the attachment of the Splenii. CavitiesPart I.] OF THE BONES. 35 Cavities between the smaller Arch and the Foramen Magnum, for the reception of the Recti Minoi*es. The perpendicular Spine, running through the middle of the two Arches, and separating the Muscles of the opposite sides. The unequal Edges of the Foramen Magnum, for the insertion of Ligaments, by which the Head is fixed to the Vertebrae of the Neck. The infer ior Angle, contrary to the rest of the Bone, flattened and stretched forwards in form of a wedge; hence called Cuneiform, or, from its situation. Basilar Process. The unequal Surface of the Cuneiform Process, for the attachment of the Recti Anteriores Muscles. The Condyles placed at the Base of the Cuneiform Process, and at the fore and lateral parts of the Fora- men Magnum, for the Articulation with the Atlas, or first Vertebra of the Neck. ^ The oval form and smooth Cartilaginous Surface of the Condyles, corresponding with the superior articu- lating Processes of the Atlas. The Condyles run obliquely forwards and inwards, and are deepest at their inner parts ; in consequence of which they are prevented from sliding to either side out of the Cavities of the Atlas. In some Subjects, each of the Condyles is more or less divided, giving the appearance of two Prominences. Round their Roots, the surface is unequal, for the attachment of the Capsular Ligaments. The rough Prominences between the Condyles and Mastoid Processes of the Temporal Bones, for the in- C 2 sertion 136 COMrENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The scrtion of the Recti Capitis Lateralcs Muscles; and, anterior to these, the semilunar Notches which form part of the Holes common to the Temjjoral and Occi- pital Bones. The Flexion and Extension of the Head arc perform- ed at the Condyles, but they are found to be placed be- hind its centre of gravity, which affords space for the Mouth, Throat, &c.; and the Head is prevented from falling forwards by the constant action of the strong Ex- tensor Muscles, placed on the back part of the Neck. The intei'Tial Surface of the Bone hoilo’ut.if for contain- ing the back part of the Brain. The Cruciform Spine of the inner side, formed by two Ridges, the one placed perpendicularly in the middle of the Bone, the other crossing the first in an horizontal direction. The upper Limb of the perpendicular Spine hollow in the middle, or frequently at one side, for the reception of the superior longitudinal Sinus, and the attachment of the Falx. The lateral Limbs, placed opposite to the great exter- nal arched Spine, and hollow in the middle, for contain- ing the lateral Sinuses, and giving attachment to the Tentorium Durae Matris. The hollow in one of the lateral Limbs is frequently the continuation of that made in the perpendicular Spine by the longitudinal Sinus, and therefore is often larger than the other. The lower Limb, short, for the attachment of the Falx Minor, and sometimes hollow, for the reception of an Occipital Sinus.OF THE BONES. 37 Part LJ The C 3 I The jFosste at the sides of the upper Limb, for con- taining the posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum. The Fossce at the sides of the lower Limb, i’or con- taining the Cerebellum. Anterior to the Fossae for lodging the Cerebellum, /•wo Cavities for receiving the lateral Sinuses, previous to their leaving the Cavity of the Cranium. The concave Surface of the Cuneiform Process, for receiving the Medulla Oblongata and Basilar Artery. The depressions at each side of the Cuneiform Pro- cess, wliere the inferior Petrosal Sinuses are placed. The Foramen Magnum^ behind the Basilar Process, and between the Condyles, for the passage of the Mc- dnlla Oblongata, Vertebral Blood-Vessels, and Acces- sory Nerves. The superior or antei ior Condyloid Foramina^ at the sides of the Foramen Magnum, and immediately over the Condyles, for the passage of the Ninth Pair of Nerves. 'The postei'ior Condyloid Foraminay at the back part of the root of the Condyles, for the passage of Veins from the Occiput, or from the Vertebral Veins, into the lateral Sinuses, near their terminations. Frequently one of the posterior Condyloid Foramina is wanting; sometimes both, when the Veins pass through the Foramen Magnum. Besides the Holes above taken notice of, others are olten found, near the edges of the Bone, for the trans- mission of Veins, the number and size of which are uncertain.ys COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paht I. The connection oi tlicBone to the Ossa Parietalia, by the Lambcloid Suture. This Bone is among the thickest of the Cranium, though very unequal *, being thick and strong above, where it is little alicctcd by Muscles, and so thin below, where it is pressed by the weight of the Cerebellum in- ternally, and by the action of the Muscles externally, as to be in many Skulls rendered transparent. But the tliick Muscles and strong Spine of the Bone assist great- ly in proventing'iujuries from happening here. In the Foetus, the Occipital Bone is divided into four .pieces; the first, which is larger than the other three, forms all the part of the Bone above the Foramen Mag- num ; the second and third are placed at the sides of that Foramen, and constitute almost the whole of the Condvles ; and the fourth forms the Cuneiform Process. Ossa Temporum. In these we observe. The situation of each Temporal Bone in the under and lateral part of the Cranium. Tlie Squanums Plate^ which forms a part of the Temple, and gives origin to a portion of the Temporal Muscle. The Squamous Plate appearing equal and smooth externally, with a ihin semicircular edge above, which, by overlapping the under edge of the Parietal Bone, irives name to this Process. The Mastoid or Mammillary Process, giving insertion to strong Muscles, particularly the Sterno-mastoid; and containing39 OF THE BONES. Fart L] confining Cells which communicate with each other, aiyl with the Cavity of the Ear, called Tympanum. The Petrous Process, remarkably hard, very unequal, and of an oblong form, but becoming smaller in its pro- gress j placed at the base of the Bone, from which it runs obliquely forwards and inwards, and contains the inter- nal Organ of Hearing, to be afterwards described. The Zygomatic Process, running from the under and fore part of the Squamous Plate, to join the Os Malm; forming an Arch, on the inner side of which the Tem- poral Muscle passes to the Lower Jaw. A Tubercle of an oblong form at the root of this Pro- cess, covered with a smooth Cartilage, making part of the Articulation of the Lower Jaw. . The Styloid Process, placed at the root of the Pars Petrosa, and going obliquely downwards and forwards, to give origin to Muscles which borrow' part of their name from it, and belontj to the Tongue and Throat. It is generally about an inch in length, though some- times a great deal more, and is remarkably slender. It is frequently, even in Adults, not entirely ossified, and is therefore apt to drop off in macerating the Bones. I he V^inal Process, of an inconsiderable size, siur- rounding the root of the Styloid Process, and deepest at its fore part. The Rough Semicircular Ridge, at the under part of the extei’nal Meatus ; sometimes also considered as a Process, and called Auditory, tor the connection of the Cartilage of the Ear. A Groove at the inner part of the root of the Mastoid Process, giving origin to the Digastric Muscle 5 and a C 4 little40 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paut I, little anterior to iliis another Groove, in which the Oc- cipital Artery runs. nic Glenoid or Artindar Cavity^ behind the root of the Zygoma, of an oblong or somewhat oval form, of great size, and lined w’ith Cartilage, for tlie Articula- tion of the Lower Jaw'. The Glenoid Fissure^ at the back part of this Cavity, and between it and the Pax's Petrosa, and also between the Pars Petrosa and Sphenoid Bone, for the attach- ment of part of the Capsular Ligament of the Articu- lation of the Lower Jaw. A Depression between the Glenoid Fissure and Styloid Process, for lodging a portion of the Parotid Gland. The Thimhle-like Cavity^ ortho JugularFossa^ at the inner side of the root of the Styloid Process, for lodging the lop of the internal Jugular Vein. 'Y\ic Meatus yluditorius ExternuSi—a large Canal, be- tween the Mastoid and Zygomatic Processes, leading inwards and forwards to the Organ of Hearing. Around the external Meatus, a rough Surface, for the connection of the Cartilages and Ligaments of the Ear. The Foyamen Stylo-mastoideumy or Aqueduct of Fallo- pius^ between the Styloid and Mastoid Processes, for the transmission of the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair of Nerves. The Foramen Caroticim^ or Canalis CaroticuSt at the inner and fore part of the Jugular P ossa, and also be- fore and at the inside of the Styloid Pi’ocess, leading upwards, then forwards, through the point of the Pars Petrosa, for the transmission of the internal Carotid ArteryPart L] 41 OF THE BONES. Artery to, and of the Great Sympathetic Nerve from, the Brain. In the upper and back part of the Canal, one, some- times two, minute Holes are observed, through which the internal Carotid Arteiy sends one or two Twigs to the Tympanum. The Iter a Palate ad Aurenit or Emtacliian' Tube, between the Fissure for the Capsular Ligament of the Lower Jaw, and the passage of the internal Carotid Artery, extending outwards and backwards in an hori- zontal direction, till it terminates in the Tympanum. In the Subject, it is formed, by the addition of Car- tilage and Ligament, into a trrmipet-like Tube, which is continued forwards and inwards to the back part of the Nostril, and conveys air from the Nose to the Tym- panum of the Ear. The Foramen Mastoideimij occasionally found at the back part of the Mastoid Process, or in the Lambdoid Suture. When present, it sometimes transmits an Ar- tery to the Dura Mater, but more commonly a Vein from the Integuments of the Head to the Lateral Sinus. Sometimes two or three Foramina Mastoidea are ob-’ serv^, serving the same purpose with that already no- ticed ; but these, like all the other passages for Veins leading into the Sinuses, are very uncertain. The tipper and inner Edge of the Squamous Plate formed into Ridges and Fwtro’ii's, where it is connected with the Parietal Bone. The inner Surface of the Squamous Plate, tineqiial M’here it is marked by the Convolutions of the middle part45 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. CPart I. the part of the Biain, and by the Arteries of the Dura Mater. The Pars Petrosa, of great size, running forwards and inwards, with a sharp angle above, and two flat sides •, one facing obliquely forwards and outwards, and the other as much backwards and inwards. llie anterior and outer Surface of the Pars Petrosa opposed to the lateral Lobes of the Brain. I'he posterior and inner Surface of the Pars Petrosa opposed to the Cerebellum. The Ridge between the tw'o Surfaces of the Pars Pe- trosa, for the attachment of the Tentorium Durse Ma- tris. A Groove frequently found upon the Ridge of the Pars Petrosa, for lodging the superior Petrosal Sinus. A Fossa, at the root of the posterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, and opposite to the Mastoid Process, for lodging the Lateral Sinus, where it turns downwards to go out of the Cranium. In this Fossa the Passage is ob- served which corresponds with the Foramen Mastoidcum. . The Lateral Sinuses are frequently of unequal size ; of course this Cavity is then larger in one Temporal Bone than in the other. I'lie Meatus Auditorius Internus, or Foramen Auditi- vum, passing outwards and backwards, in the posterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, for the passage of the Se- venth Pair of Nerves, and the principal Artery belong- ing to the inner ear. In the bottom of this passage, there are many Fora- mina ; one above, more conspicuous than the rest, is the beginning of the passage for the Portio- Dura ofPart I.] ' 43 OF THE BONES; the Seventh Pair of Nerves. The others are the Pas-' sages of the Branches of the Portio Mollis of that Nerve. Someway below the Meatus Internus, is the opening of the passage termed, by Cotunnius, Aquaductus Cocli- lece; and near the same distance behind the Meatus,. and on the same side of the Bone, is the mouth of the Aquaeductus Vestibuli. The Foramen Innominatum^ near the middle of the Anterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, and leading back- wards for the passage of the Vidian Nerve, which is re- flected from the Second Branch of the Fifth, to the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Orifice of the Canalis Caroticus appearing at the under part of the point of the Pars Petrosa. The Foramen Lacerum Posterkes, or Hole common to the Pars Petrosa and Cuneiform Process of the Occipi- tal Bone, for the passage of the Lateral Sinus, the Eighth Pair, and Accessory Nerves. The Nerves pass through the fore part of the Hole, and are separated from the Sinus by a Process of the Dura Mater, stretched be- tween two small Processes of these Bones. In some Skulls, an Osseous Partition separates the Nerves from the Sinus. The Connection of the Bone, at its upper curved Edge, to the Parietal Bone by the Squamous Suture. To the under and back part of the Parietal Bone, by the Additamentum Suturae Squamosa?. To the Occipital Bone, by the Additamentum Suturae Lambdoidalis. The Squamous part of the Temporal Bone is thin, .but equal,1-4- COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. cqiml, while the Pars Petrosa is thick and strong, but irregular, having within it several Cavities, Processes, and Bones, which belong to the Organ of Hearing. In a Foetus, the Squamous is separated from the Pe- trous part by a Fissure; there is no appearance of Mas- toid or Styloid Process, and instead of an Osseous Mea- tus Externus, there is only a Ring of Bone, in which the Mcmbraiia Tympani is fixed. I Os Etiimoides. Observe here, The Sifuaiiori of the Ethmoid, or Cribriform Bone, in the fore part of the Base of the Cranium. Its Cuboid Figure. The Cribriform Platen from which the Bone has its name, placed horizontally, and perforated, excepting at its back part, with many Holes, placed irregulaa-ly and of different sizes, for the transmission of the Branches of the First or Olfactory Pair of Nerves. In the recent Subject, these Holes are so much filled up by the Processes of the Dura Mater which inclose the Nerves, that they are much less evident than in Bones where the Membranes have been removed. The Crista Gallic arising perpendicularly from the middle of the Cribriform Plate, and highest at the upper and fore part. To the Edge of this Process, and to the unimperfo- rated part of the Cribriform Plate, the Falx of the Dura Mater is fixed. A Notch at the fore part of the Root of the Crista Gain,45 Part I.] OF THE BONES. Galli, contributing, in a small degree, to the formation of the Foramen Ceecum of the Frontal Bone. The Nasal Platey extending downwiirds and forwards from the Base of the Crista Galli, to form the upper and back part of the Septum Narium, or Partition of the Nostrils. The greater part of this Process is very thin, but to- wards its anterior and imder edge it becomes thinker, for its firmer junction with the Bones and middle Carti- lage of the Nose. It is frequently bent a little to one side; in such cases, the two Nostrils become unequal in size. The Ethmoid Cellsy of an indeterminate number and form, placed under the Cribriform Plate, a little to the outside of the Nasal Lamella, separated from each other by thin Partitions, and serving the same puiposes as the Frontal Sinuses. Tlieir Communications'ffiih each other, with the Froiir tal Sinuses, and also with the Cavity of tlie Nose. The Os Spongiosum Super ins, on each side, piojecting inwards and dowmwards from the Ethmoid Cells at the side of the Nasal Lamella, for enlarging the Organ of Smell. -Tlie Tria?jgular Form, and Spojigy Texture of each. In the Quadruped, this Bone is convoluted like a Turban, hence, in the human species, it is frequently called Turbinatum. Its Convexity towards the Septum, and Concavity outwards. The Ossa Plana, or Orbitar Plates, for coveruig a largeVi COMPENDIUM OP ANATOMY. [PAnTl. large share of the Ethmoid Cells, and forming the greater part of the inner sides of the Orbits. On the upper Edge of each Os Planum, two small Notches appear, which, with similar Notches in the Frontal Bone, form the internal Orbitar Holes. The Connection of the Cribriform Plate to the Orbi- tar Plates of the Frontal Bone by the Ethmoid Suture; and to the Sphenoid Bone by a Suture common to the two Bones, but generally considered as belonging to the latter, 7'he Connection of the Ossa Plana to the Orbitar Plates of the Frontal Bone, by part of the Transverse Suture. 'J"he posterior Edge of the Nasal Plate, joined to the Processus Azygos of the Sphenoid Bone. Its upper Edgc^ joined to the Nasal Processes of the Fi ontal and Nasal Bones. anterim- Edge, joined to the middle Cartilage of tlie Nose. In the Foetus, the Ethmoid Bone is divided into two by a Cartilaginous Partition, which afterwards forms the Nasal Plate and Crista Galli. The other parts of the Bone are completely ossified. Os Sphenoides. I lore attend to, I’he Situation of the Sphenoid or Cuneiform Bone^ in the middle of the Cranium. Its Inegular Figure, compared to that of a Bat with extended wings. . The Temporal Plates, or JVings, placed at the sides ofPart I.] 47 OF TFIE BONES. qF the Bone, and each hollow at the upper and outer part, for lodging a share of the Temporal Muscles. The Orbitar Platesy at the fore part of the Temporal Wings, forming a portion of the outside of the Orbits. The Spinous Process^ at the under and back part of each Temporal Plate. A Styloid Process^ frequently observed at the point of the Spinous, from botli of which the Circumflexus Pa- lati arises. Between the Temporal and Spinous Processes, an Arch for receiving the fore part of the Temporal Bone. The two Pterygoidy or Aliform Processes, placed al- most perpendicularly to the Base of the Cranium. The Pterygoid Processes are compared to the wings, though more properly resembling the feet, of a Bat. Each is composed of two Plates. The Extmial Plate, broad and hollotv without, where Uie External Pterygoid Muscle has its origin. Between the root of this Plate and that of the Temporal one, a large’Depression, where the principal part of the exter- nal Pterygoid Muscle has its origin. At the fore j)art of this is another Depression, forming part of the open- ing common to the Sphenoid, and to the Malar and superior Maxillary Bones. ' The internal Plate, natrovoer and longer than the ex- ternal, and, with its fellow on the opposite side, form- ing the back part of the Nose. A Hook-like Process upon the internal Plate, over which the Circumflexus Palati moves. The Fossa Pterygoidea, facing backwards between the Pterygoid4S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. I’terygoid Plates, giving rise to the internal Pterygoid jMuscIo. A small Depressio7i at the back part of the root of the internal Pterygoid Plate, which gives origin to part of the Circumflex Muscle of the Palate. A Groove on each side, which extends at the inner jtart of the Bone, between the root of the Styloid Pro- cess and tliat of the internal Pterygoid Plate, assisting in the formation of the Eustachian Tube. The two Triangtdar Processes., which adhere to the under part of the Sphenoid, and to the Ethmoid Bone, and which are considered as two of the Bones of the Face. The Processus Azygos, standing single, and forming a sharp ridge which projects from under the middle and fore part of the Bone. 'I’he Clinoid Pt'oeesses, seen on the inside of the Bone, compared to the supporters of a Bed, of which them arc, Ttco Anterior, projecting from the fore part of tlie Body of the Bone, and extending horizontally outwards j each terminating in a point which obtains the name of Transverse Spinous Process ; and. One Posterior, situated transversely, some way behind file anterior Processes, and frequently ending in two Knobs, which incline obliquely forwards. Sometimes one or both of the anterior Clinoid Pro- cesses are united with the posterior, forming an Arch over the internal Carotid Artery. The Processus Olivan's, considered by some as a fourth ClinoidPart I.J COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. 49 Clinoid Process, lying between, and a little behind, the roots of the anterior Clinoid Processes. Between the anterior Clinoid Processes, a small-point- ed Process frequently juts forwards, to join the Cribri- Ibrm Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, from which it is sometimes called Ethmoid Process. The Temporal Fossee of this Bone, which lodge a share of the Lateral Lobes of the Brain. A Fossa between the anterior Clinoid Processes, where part of the anterior Lobes of the Brain rests. A Depression before the Processus Olivaris, where the conjoined Optic Nerves lie ; and a Fossa on each side of it, %vhere these Nerves are situated, previous to their entering the Orbits. The Fossa Pituitaria, Sella Turccia., Ephippium^ or Turkish Saddle, between the Processus Olivaris, and pos- terior Clinoid Process, for lodging the Glandula Pitui- taria. A Depression, running first upwards, then forwards, upon each side of the posterior Clinoid Process and Sella Turcica, and terminating in a Pit at the root of the anterior Clinoid Process. These Depressions point out the course of the internal Carotid Arteries, when they have entered the Cranium, and previous to their perforating the Dura Matter, to be dispersed upon the Brain. Besides these Impressions, several others may be ob- served, made by Nerves and Vessels leading to or from their respective Holes in the Base of the Cranium. The Foramina Optica at the roots of the anterior Yoi.. I. D CHnoid50 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The CHnoid Processes, for the transmission of the Optic Nerves and Ocular Arteries. The Foramina Lacera Supcriora, or Superior Orbitar Fissures, under the anterior Clinoid Processes and their transverse Spinous Parts, for the passage of the Third, Fourih, first part of the Fifth, and the Sixth Pair of Nerves, with the Ocular Veins. The Foramina Lacera arc largest at their inner ends. At their outer extremities they are considerably smaller, and are formed there by the Os Frontis ; hence they may be ranked among the common Holes of the Cra- nium. 'I'he Foramina Rotunda, a little behind the Foramina J.accra, for the passage of the second part of the fifth Pair of Nerves, which are termed also Superior Maxil- lary. The Foramina Ovalia, considerably larger than the Foramina Rotunda, and placed farther back, and more externally, foi^the passage of the third part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, and, commonly, for the passage of the Veins which accompany the principal Arteries of the Dura Mater. The Foramina Spinalia, a little to the outer and back part of the Foramina Ovalia, and in the points of the Spinous Processes, for the transmission of the principal Arteries of the Dura Mater. The Foi'amina Plerygoidea, termed also, after the dis- coverer, Foramina Vidiana, at the roots of the inner Plates of the Pterygoid Processes, for the passage of two reflected Branches of the second part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 51 The 1) 2 The Foramina Pterygoidea are the smallest of the Sphenoid Holes, and cannot be distinctly seen in tlie entire Skull. Sometimes one or more small passages are observed in or near the Sella Turcica, for the transmission of Blood-vessels into the Sphenoid Sinuses, or to the sub- stance of the Bone. Tlie Foramina Lacera Anterioray common to tlie points of the Partes Petrosae and the Sphenoid Bone. In a recent Skull, each of these Floles is filled behind with a thin Plate of Bone, which covert the internal Carotid Arter}^, and farther forwards, with a Cartilagi- nous Ligament, which lies over the Eustachian Tube, both of which drop out by maceration. The Sphenoid SinuseSy occupying the whole of the Body of the Bone, at the under and fore part of the « Sella Turcica, answering the same purposes with the Ethmoid and Frontal Cells. A complete Partition between the right and left Sphe- noid Sinuses. A Passage from the upper and fore part of each of the Sphenoid Sinuses, descending, in a slanting direc- tion, into the superior-posterior parts of the Nose. The two Sinuses are frequently of unequal size, and sometimes there is but one lai'ge Cavity, widi an open- ing into one of the Nostrils. In some Subjects, instead of Sinuses, the Body of the Bone is composed of large Cells. The Substance of this Bone is the most unequal of any in the Body, some parts being extremely thin, while others are thicker than'most parts of the Cranium.^2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. I'lic Connection of the Bones to a.11 the other Bones of the Cranium, by the Sphenoid Suture, though otliers, as the Transverse and Etlimoid Sutures, are confounded with it. Jn the Foetus, the Temporal Wings are separated from the Body of the Bone by Maceration, and there are no Sphenoid Sinuses. OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. The Bones of tlic Face, and the relative proportions between the Face and Cranium, vary considerably a- mong people of different nations, but they likewise vary among the individuals of the same country. It is diffi- cult, therefore, to ascertain the proportions with accu- racy. An Angle termed Facial, however, is considered by some late Authors as being the simplest method of determining this circumstance. The Facial Angle is formed by drawing a line through the external Auditory Passage and bottohi of the Nos- tril, and another, termed Facial, from the convexity of the Forehead to the under and fore part of the Upper Jaw, so os to intersect the former. In the Grecian, the Facial Angle is found to bo be- tween 90° and 100° ; in the European, between 80° and 90° j and in the African, on account of the greater pro- minence of the Jaws, about 70°. By a vertical longitudinal section of the Head, the area5^ OF THE BONE«. Part L] The D 3 area of the Face in the European is observed to be only half of that of the Cranium, but is somewhat more in the Negro; or, the Face is larger in the one, while the Cranium is bigger in the other. In the Bones of the Face we observe, Their Division into Upper and Under Javcs. The Upper Jaw, or Maxilla Superior, besides the Teeth, composed of seven Pair of Bones, and one Kaith- out a felUm, viz. Two Ossa Nasi; Two Ossa Unguis; Two Ossa Ma~ lanm ; Two Ossa Maxillaria Superiora ; Ttvo Ossa Pa- lati; Two Ossa Spongiosa Inferiora ; Two Ossa Trian- gidaria ; and the Vomer. The Lower Jaw, or Maxilla Inferior, consists of a single Bone, with the Teeth. The Bones of the Upper Jaw are joined together by Sutures which have no distinct Indentations, like those of the Cranium; but, like them, they are frequently found obliterated in the Skulls of old people. The Bones here, in consequence of the nature of the Su- tures, have no motion but what they possess in common with the Cranium. The Sutures shall be taken notice of in the description of the Bones between which the;/ are placed. Ossa Nasi. Their Situation in the upper and fore part of the Nose. The oblong Fonn of each, though irregularly so.5+ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The 'The thick, ragged, upper end, where it forms a strong connection with the Frontal Bone. Each narrowest a little below the upper end, and bent backwards. The inferior Extremity, thinner and broader than the rest of the Bone, and unequal where it gives attach- ment to'the Cartilaginous part of the Nose. The under half convex externally, by which, when the Bone is joined to its fellow, a strong Arch is form- ed, that is fitted for resisting injury. Its internal Concavity, where it forms part of the Ca- vity of the Nose. '^Fhe Syinmis Process, which joins the Nasal Lamella of the Ethmoid Bone, and thereby forms part of the partition of the Nose. One or more Holes externally, for transmitting Ves- sels into the Substance of the Bone, or to the Mem- brane of the Nose. Its Connection to the Frontal Bone by the Transverse Suture} and To its fellow by the anterior Nasal Suture. In the Foetus, the Ossa Nasi are proportionally short, but are otherwise complete. Ossa Unguis, or Lagrymalia. Their Situation at the inner and fore part of the Orbit. The Division of each externally, into tveo depressed Surfaces, and a middle Ridge.Part L] OF THE BONES. ,’jij The posterior Depression, the larger of the two, form- ing part of the Orbit. The anterior Depression, lodging part of the Lacry- mal Sac and Duct, and perforated by small Holes, through whicli Fibres pass, to make a firm connection between the Bone and its investing Membrane. The inner Surface, composed of a Fw'row and in:o hregular convex Surfaces, corresponding with the ante- rior Ethmoid Cells. The Substance of the Bone is the thinnest and most brittle of any in the Body. Its Connection to the Frontal Bone, by the Trans- verse Suture, and to the Os Planum by the Ethmoid Suture. Internally, it is connected with the Etlimoid Cells. In the Foetus, it is fully formed. Ossa Malaruw. \ The Situation of each in the outer pai-t of the Cheek. The external convex, smooth Surface. The posterior hollow Surf ace, for lodging part of die Temporal Muscle. The superior Orbitar Process, forming part of the outside of the Orbit. The inferior' Orbitar Process, forming part of the lower Edge of the Orbit. . 1 he Maxillary Process, forming the under part of the Prominence of the Cheek. 1 he Arch between the Orbitar Processes, which forms D d< near5f> COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. near a third part of the anterior Circumference of the Orbit. The Zygomatic Process, the most conspicuous, with that of the Temporal Bone forming an Arch over tlie Temporal Muscle. The Bilemal Orhitar Plate, forming the outer and fore part of the Orbit. A Passage through the Bone, for the transmission of small Vessels or Nerves from the Orbit to the Face. The Connection of the superior Orbitar Process and internal Orbitar Plate to the Frontal and Sphenoid Bones, by the Transverse Suture. The Connection of the Zygomatic Process to the Tem- poral Bone, by the Zygomatic Suture. The Substance of the Bone is thick and hard, with some Cancelli. In the Foetus, the Bone is fully ossified. Ossa Maxillaria Superiora. • Their Situation in the fore part of the Upper Jaw and sides of the Nose. Their (SVze, the largest of the Bones of the Upper Jaw, on which account the Bones have got their name. The Nasal, or Angular Process of each, forming part of the side of the Nose, and of the inner part of the Orbit, and overlapping the outer Edge of the Os Nasi above, while that Bone covers the Edge of the Nasal Process below. A Bif/tre at the under and inner side of the Nasal O Process,57 OF THE BONES. Paiit I.] Process, for supporting part of the Os Spongiosum In- ferius. The Orbitar Platen forming a large share of the un- der side of the Orbit. The Malai\ Processy unequal and raggedy where it contributes, with the Os Malae, to form the Prominence of the Cheek. The Tuberosityy or Bulge at the back part of the Bone, which forms the posterior Boundary of the Cavity called Antitim MaxiUarey and gives origin to a portion of the External Pterygoid Muscle. Tlie Alveolar Archy of a Spongy nature, where tlie Alveoli or Sockets of the Teeth are placed. /■ The Palate Platey or Processy placed horizontally, forming part of the Hoof of the. Mouth, and of tlie Bottom of the Nose. ‘ The Palate PlatCy thin in its middle, and thick at its edges ; smooth towai’ds the Nose, but rough and unequal below, for the firm connection of the Membrane of the Palate. The Nasal Spincy conti’ibuting, in a small degree, to the formation of the Septum of the Nose. A Depression beliind the Malar Process, where llic under end of the Temporal Muscle plays. A Depression at the under and fore part of the Malar Process, where the Muscles which raise the Upper Lip and corner of the Mouth originate, and where a Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves is lodged, and commonly a large Portion of Fat. An Arch formed by the Palate Plate, both above and below, for enlarging the Cavities of the Nose and Mouth.5S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L The A Notch forming the under and fore part of the Nos- tril, to the edge of which, and to the corresponding one of the Nasal Process, the Cartilages of the side of the Nose are connected. The Alveoli^ or Sockets for the Teetli, porom for the firmer adhesion of the reflected Membrane of the Gums, and for the transmission of Blood-vessels into the Sub- stance of the Bones; the number of Sockets corre- sponding to the Fangs of the Teeth. The Lacrymal Fossuy which, with that of the Os Un- guis, forms a passage for the Lacrymal Duct into the Nose. A Canal in the Orbitar Plate, teiTninated anteriorly by the Foramen iTifra-Orbitarium, through which the infra-Orbitar Branch of the second part of the Fifth I’air of Nerves, with a Branch of the internal Maxillary Artery, pass to the Face. The Foramen Incisivimj vel Palatinum AnterniSy be- hind the Fore-Teeth, common to both Bones below, but proper to each above, and filled witli a Process of the Soft Palate, and with small Vessels and Nerves^ w'hich run between the Membranes of the Mouth and Nose. In some Subjects, there is a distinct Ductns Incisimis, leading from one, or from each Nostril into the Cavity, of the Mouth, similar to that which is always found in the large Quadrupeds. A small Hole commonly found in the Nasal Process, and some minute Passages at the back part of the Tube- rosity, for the transmission of Blood-^'^essels and Nerves into the Substance of the Bone and Teeth, and into the Antrum Maxillare.The / Part L] OF THE BONES. 59 The Sinm Maxillaris, Antncm MaxillarCi or, from its describe!’, called Highmoriaminii of great size, occupy- ing the whole inner part of the Body of the Bone, si- tuated under the Orbitar Plate, and above the large Dentes Molares, destined for the same purposes as the other Sinuses of the Bones of the Plead. The Partition between the Sinus and Sockets of tlie Teeth is commonly of considerable thickness ; but not unfrequently there is only a thin Plate interposed, and small Prominences, containing the points of the roots of the Teeth, may often be observed in the middle of this Cavity. The Opening of the Sinus, large in the separated Maxillary Bone, but, in the connected state, so covered by the inferior Spongy Bone, and by the Palate-Bone and Membranes, as [to leave only one, or sometimes two Apertures, little larger than to admit the point of a Surgeon’s Probe. The Aperture is situated at the upper part of the Sinus, and descends obliquely back- wards to terminate between the Ossa Spongiosa supe- rius et inferius, in the Cavity of the Nose. The Connection of the Os Maxillare Superius to the Frontal Bone, by the Transverse Suture;—to the Os Unguis, by the Lacrymal Suture;—to the Os Nasi, by the Lateral Nasal Suture j—to the Cheek-Bone, by the internal and external Orbitar Sutures ;—to the Os Pla- num, by the Ethmoid Suture;—to its fellow, by the Longitudinal Palate Suture;—to its fellow also, between the fore part of the Nose and Mouth, by the Mysta- chial Suture.60 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PautI. The Suhstatice of this Bone is hard and dense, except at the Alveoli, which is remarkably spongy. The Ossa Maxillaria form the greater part of the Nose and Roof of the Mouth, a considerable part of the Orbits, and contain all the Teeth which belong to the Upper Jaw. In the Foetus, there are Six Sockets for the Teeth,— no Tuberosity, and the Maxillary Sinus is only begin- ning to form. ' Ossa Palati. Their Situation in tlie back part of the Palate. The Oblong Form of the Palate-Plate of each, which forms the back part of the Osseous Palate. Its posterior curved EdgCj where it is connected with the Velum Palati; also the point at the inner extremity of the Curve, for the origin of the Muscle of the Uvula. Its thick, strong Substance, where it joins its fellow. Its Spinous Process at the inner edge of the Palate- Plate, joining the imder edge of the Vomer, and coii- ti ibuting to the formation of the Septum Narium. The Pterygoid Process, of a Triangular form, with Fossce corresponding to the Pterygoid Plates of the Sphenoid Bone. The Nasal Plate, forming a portion of the side of the Nose, and Antrum Maxillare. A Ridge on the inside of this Plate, upon which the back part of the inferior Spongy Bone rests. The Tii'o Orhitar Processes, at the upper and back nart of the Nasal Plate, contributing a iittje in the for- mationPart I-] 61 OF THE BONES. mation of the Orbit, and of the Ethmoid and Sphenoid Sinuses, being hollow within. The Anterior Orbitar Process, the larger of the two, with its upper Surface appearing in the bottom of the Orbit, behind the back part of the Os Planum and Os Maxillare. ' v A No/c/i between the Orbitar Pi'ocesses, forming part of the Foramen Spheno-Palatimmy for the passage of the lateral Nasal Vessels-and Nerves. ■ The Forramen Palatinum Posterius, vel Palato^Maxil- larey at the outer end of tlie Palate-Plate of this Bone, but common to it and the Maxillary Bone, for the transmission of the Palatine Vessels and Nerve. A small Hole frequently observed behind the former, and communicating with it, for the passage of a Branch of the Palatine Nerve. The Foramen Spheno-Maxillare, Lacerim Inferius, or Inferior Orbiiar Fissure, at the under and outer part of the Orbit, and common to the Cuneiform, Maxillary, Malar, and Palate Bones, for lodging Fat belonging to the Eye, and transmitting small Twigs of Vessels and Nerves into the Orbit. The Palate-Plate of this Bone and its Pterygoid Pro- cess are firm and strong; but the Nasal Plate and Or- bitar Process are thin and brittle. The Connection of the Os Palati to the Palate-Plate of the Maxillary Bone, by the Ti*ansvei*se Palate Su- ture,—to the Maxillary Bone, at the side of the Nose artd bottom of the Orbit, by the Palato-Maxillary Su- ture ;—to the Pterygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone, by the Sphenoid Suture ;—to the Os Planum and Eth- moid62 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. mold Cells, by the Ethmoid Suture ;—and to its fellow, by the longitudinal Palate Suture. In the Fcptus, the Palate-Bone is complete, but there are no Cells in the Orbitar Processes. Ossa Spongiosa, vel Turbinata Inferiora. The situation of each in the under part of the side of the Nose. Its Triangular form and spongy appearance, resem- bling the Os Spongiosum Superius. Its Convexity towards the Septum Nasi, and Concavity outwards. The under edge placed horizontally near the under part of the Nose, and ending in a sharp point behind. The /ifo Processes at the upper part of the Bone, the anterior ascending and forming part of the Lacrymal Groove, and the posterior descending in form of a Hook, to make part of tlie Side of the Maxillary Sinus. I'he Connection of this Bone to the Os Maxillare, Os Palati, and Os Unguis, by a distinct Suture in the young Subject; but in the Adult, by a concretion of substance. The Ossa Spongiosa afford a large surface for extend- ing the Organ of Smell, by allowing the Membrane of the Nose to be expanded, upon which the Olfactory Nerves are dispersed. In the Foetus, the'se Bones are almost complete.OF THE BONES. Part L] The Ossa Triangulauia, vel Cornua Sphenoidalia. m The Situation of each Triangular Bone between the body of the Sphenoid Bone and root of its internal Pte- rygoid Process, covering the under part of the Sphenoid Sinus. Its Connection to the back part of the Ethmoid Bone. In an old person, it grows so firmly to the Sphenoid Bone, as to be considered bv some Authors as one ol its Processes. Vomer. its Situation in the under part of the Septum Nasi, where it separates the Nostrils from each other. It is frequently bent to one side, in which case the one Nostril is rendered larger than the other. Its Fov7n compared to that of the Plough-shai’e, from which it has its name. The Supcrioi' and Posteiior part, thick and strongy with a Furrcrw above to receive the Processus Azygos of the Sphenoid Bone. The Superior Part, with a Groove to receive the Na- sal Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, and Cartilage of the Nose. The Lifa-ior Edge Connected with the Spinous Pro- cesses of the Palate and Maxillary Bones, by a small Ridge corresponding with a Groove of these Bones. The Posterior Edge^ unconnected with any other Bone, and turned to the Cavity of the Fauces.r>i COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Vomer has a smooth Surface, and a dense Sub- stance, and consists of two Plates in a young person, but in an old Subject the Plates are compressed together so as to render the Bone ti’ansparent. Maxilla Inferior. The Tigurc of the Maxilla Inferior, or Lower Jaw, compared to that of the letter U, or it forms half of a long oval, with the convex middle part forwards. The Division^ into Chilly Sides, and Pj-ocesses. The Chin, extending between the holes termed Men- ial Foramina at the fore part of the Jaw. The under part of the Chin more prominent than the Alveolar Process, with a triangular eminence in the middle of its outer Surface, which, wjth the projecting under edge, renders this part peculiar to Man. • This projection of the Chin is less apparent in the Negro, where the Alveolar Border is so expanded as to increase the prominence of the Mouth. The Sides, reaching from the Mental Foramina to the back part of the Bone. A Transverse Ridge on the fore part of the Chin, with depressions on each side, for the Origin of Muscles of the Under Lip. Small Prominences and Depression^ on the under and back part of the Chin, for the attachment of the Frac- num Linguae, and of several Muscles which belong to the Throat. The Base, or loxccst part, forming the under boun- dary of the Face. The 9OF THE BONES. Part I.] 65 The Angle of the Jaw at the back part of the Base. Impressions made by the Masseter Muscle, upon the outside of the Angle, and also on the Plate which arises from the back part of the Bone. The PlatCy which rises from the Angle of the Jaw, on each side, running upwards and a little backwards, and terminating in two Processes, termed Condyloid and Cotronoid. The Condyloid or Articidar Process, with an oblong rounded head, covered with Cartilage, and placed al- most transversely upon a Cervix at the upper and back part of the Bone; though, with respect to each other, the Condyles are somewhat oblique, the external extre- mity being directed a little forward. At the under and foi’e part of the Condyle, a Cavity for the insertion of the Pterygoideus Externus. The Coronoid Process, into which the Temporal Muscle is inserted,^a little before the Condyloid Process, and in the natural situation of the Jaw, placed on the inner side of the Zygoma. The Anterior Edge of this Process, forming a Ridge which goes downwards and forwards, terminating at the outside of the Posterior Alveoli. From the inner side of the Coronoid Process, another Ridge seen terminating nearly opposite to the former. To these Ridges, the Membranes of the Gums and Muscles belonging to the Mouth are fixed. The Alveolar Process, and Alveoli, nearly similar to those of the Upper Jaw. Tlie Alveolar Process, extending along the Upper Edge of the Bone, from the Coronoid Process of one VoL, I. ' E sideOfi COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. side to that of the other j and thickest behind, corre- sponding there with the increased^ thickness of the Teeth. The Alveolar Process, composed of two Plates, and divided by cross Partitions, which, as in the Upper Jaw,, mark the different Alveoli for the Fangs of the Teeth. The Posterior Part of the Internal Plate, slanting in- wards, and thinner than the External, giving the Jaw a twisted appearance. Opposite the Alveoli, the External Plate swelling, and giving a fluted form, \vhich is observed in the whole extent of the Alveolar Process of the U]>per Jaw, and in the fore part of the Lower Jaw. At the fore part of the Jaw, the Alveoli are perpen- dicular, but turn inwards behind, where they are placed nearer the inner than the outer part of the Jaw. The Sockets worn down by old age, in consequence of which the Teeth drop out, the Jaw becomes narrower, and, when the Mouth is shut, appears more prominent. The posterior Maxillai'y Foramen at the roots of the Condyloid and Covonoid Processes, upon the inner side of the Jaw, for the j^assage of the Third, or inferior Maxillary Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, with the corresponding Blood-Vessels. A small-pointed Process at the inner edge of this Hole, where a Ligament goes off’ to be fixed to the Temporal Bone. Above the Hole, the Bone marked by the passage of the Nerve and Vessels ; and belpw it, commonly a small Furrffw, pointing out the course of a Nerve which goes to a Muscle and Gland under the Tongue. BetweenPart I.] OF THE BONES. 67 Between the Posterior Maxillary Foramen and the angle, the Bone marked by the insertion of the Internal Pterygoid Muscle. The Anterior Maxillary Foramen^ or Mental Holey at the side of the Chin, where the remains of the Inferior Maxillary Nerve and Vessels come outi The Inferior Maxillaiy Canal, running in the sub- stance of the Bone, between the Posterior and Anterior Foramina, a little below the roots of the Teeth, and having many perforations, for the passage of small branches of Vessels and Nerves which supply the Jaw and Teeth. The Tables of the Jaw, remarkably thick, compact, and hard, and within, furnished with numerous Cells, which surround the Maxillary Canals. The Artiadation of the Jaw by its Condyloid Pro- cess with the Glenoid Cavity of the Temporal Bone, and also with the Tubercle at the root of its Zygomatic Process. An Intermediate moveable Cartilage, placed in the Ar- ticulation of the Lower Jaw, in its gentler motion al- lowing the Condyle to remain in the Glenoid Cavity, but admitting it to advance upon the Tubercle or root of the Zygoma, when the Mouth is widely opened. In the Foetus, the Lower Jaw is somewhat of a semi- circular figure, and is composed of two Pieces, joined together in the middle of the Chin by the intervention, of a Cartilage. This Union, termed Symphysis, gra- dually ossifies, and leaves no mark of any former di- vision. TEETH. E268 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. TEE TIL The Situation oi the Teeth in the Alveoli of the Jaws. Their Numbery Sixteen in each Jaw. The Basey or Body of each Tooth, appearing witli- out the Sockets. The B,ootSy or FangSy placed in the Sockets, and of a Conical form. The Cervixy or CollaVy between the Base and Roots of the Teeth. The Roots of the Teeth covered by a Vascular Mem- braney reflected from the Gums, and seiwing as a Pe- riosteum to the Teeth, and a lining to the Alveoli. The Cortexy or Enamely covering the Base of each Tooth, and becoming gradually thinner towards the Cervix. The Fibres of the Osseous Part of the Teeth form- ing Lamellae, which run according to the length of the Teeth. A Foramen at the point of the root of each Tooth, and a Passage leading from it into a common Cavity in the Base of the Tooth, for lodging the Vascular and Nervous Substance called Pul'p of the Teeth. Division of the Teeth inio four Classesy viz. —On each side of each Jaw,— Two Inciso7 es:—One Cuspidaiusy or Caninus:—Two Bicuspidatiy or Small Molares;—and 2'hree Large Mo- lares.OF THE BONES. Part I.J 69 The Incisores, having their Bases formed into Wedges sloped out behind. The Cuspidatus, having its Base in form of a Wedge, like the Incisores, but pointed in the middle. The Bicuspidati, each with double points, one exter- nal, 'the other internal, which, in the Upper Jaw, are nearly upon a level, but, in the Under Jaw, highest on the outside of the Teeth. The Incisores, Cuspidus, and small Molares, with single Roots, excepting the small Molares of the Upper Jaiv, which have frequently two Roots. The first of the three posterior, or large Molares of the Undei- Jaw, with Jive, and each of the other two with four points. Each of these three Teeth having two, three, or some- times four roots. In the Upper Jaw, the first lai’ge Molaris having_/bwr, and each of the other two only three points. In each of these three Teeth, generally one root more in those of the Upper, than in the corresponding Teeth of the Under Jaw. The last, or backmost Molaris, called Sapiens, smaller, and having generally ferwer roots. The Teeth connected to the Sockets by Gomphosis, and by a firm adhesion to the Gums. At Birth, the outer Shell only of the five temporary Teeth, and of the anterior permanent Molaris, in each side of each Jaw, is found. These Teeth are situated in Capsules, within the Jaw, and under its surface. At this period there ax*e no roots formed. For afidler description of the Teeth, see VoL, II. E 3 ' Os70 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Os FIyoides. I'hc circumstances to be attended to here arc, The Situation of that Bone, at the root of the 'I’ongue and top of the Larynx. The Shape, compared to that of the Greek letter v. The Boclp of the Bone, the middle broad part, co?i- x'ex before, and concave, behind. The concavity behind, oblique, to receive the Thy- roid Cartilage, when the Os Hyoides and Larynx are pulled towards each other. Several Impressions seen on its Body, occasioned by tlie numerous Muscles fixed to it. The Cornua, extending backwards and upwards from each side of the Body, with their two plain Surfaces slanting from above downwards and outwards, and giv- ing attachment to Muscles and Ligaments of the Tongue and Larynx. Each of the Cornua becoming gradually smaller in its course backw'ards, and endijig in a round Tubercle, which is connected to the upper Cornu of the Thyroid Cartilage. Between the Body and Cornua frequently a Furrow, pointing out the former separation in young subjects. The Appendices, having the size and form of a grain of decorticated Barley, placed at the upper part of the Articulation between the Body and Cornua, for the at- tachment of Muscles. From each Appendix, a Ligament is sent up to the Styloid Process of the Temporal Bone, to assist in con- pecting the Os Hyoides to the Cranium.Part I.J OF THE BONES. 71 The Tlie Os Hyoides is not immediately connected to any other Bone, but is kept in its place by numerous Muscles and Ligaments, to be afterwards mentioned. The Substance of this Bone is cellular, but covered with a firm external Plate, which adds considerably to its strength. At birth, the greater part of the Bone is in a Cartila- ginous state, and the Appendices continue so for many years after the other parts ait completely ossified. The Os Hyoides serves as a Lever for numerous Muscles acting upon the Tongue, Larynx, and Fauces. T R U N K. We observe here, The Trunk, coviposed of the Spine, Pelvis, and Tho^ rax. The Spine, reaching from the Condyles of the Occi- pital Bone, to the lower end of the Os Coccygis. Ihe Spine appearing straight, when viewed anterior- ly or posteriorly. The several Curvattires of the Spine, when viewed in a lateral direction j the Curvatures accommodating themselves to the soft parts of *the Neck, Thorax, Ab- domen, and Pelvis. The Spine, composed of a long upper, and a short under Pyramid, joined together by their Bases.72 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The The Upper Pyramid, composed of true Vertehrce^ or Bones, which turn upon each oilier. The Under Pyramid, formed of false Vertebra!^ or Bones, which, at an early period of life, resemble the true Vertebrae, but which afterwards grow together, so as not to contribute to the motions of the Trunk of tlie Body. TRUE VERTEBRJE, Twenty-four in Number. Each of the true Vertebrae composed of a Body and Pi'ocesscs. The Body of a spongy nature, with upper and wider Surfaces placed horizontally. The anterior convexity of the Body, and posterior concavity. Numerous small Holes on the anterior and lateral parts of the Body, for the passage of Blood-vessels into the Substance of the Bone, or for the attachment of Liga- mentous Fibres. A Ring of Bone, at the upper and under edges of the Body, of a firmer texture than the rest of its sub- stance, and thereby adding to the general strength of the Bone. The Ring of Bone forming a superficial Cavity, which receives the Intervertebral Substance. The Bodies of the Vertebrae in general smaller and more solid above j as they descend, they become larger and more spongy,OF THE BONES. 73 I Part L] I The Intervertebral Substances^ of a Carlilago-I.iga~ meiitaus nature^ placed between the Bodies of tlie Ver- tebi'je, for fixing them together, and allowing the Spine to be moved in all directions. 'I'he Intervertebral Substances, composed of Co7icen^ trie Lamellccy with their edges firmly fixed to the Bodies of the Vertebrae. The Lamellae of these Substances, formed of Oblique Fibres^ which decussate each other, and are very com- pressible. The Centre oi these Substances changes from Lamellccy and puts on the appearance of a Mucus or Ptdp^ which has little compressibility, and serves as a pivot upon which the other parts of the Ligament can move with such gradual yielding as to lessen shocks in the Spine in violent motions of the Body. The Inieivei'tcbral Substances^ like the Vertebrae them- selves, larger and thicker as they descend, to give more security to the parts they support. An Arch sent out from the back part of the Body of each Vertebra, which, together with the Body, forms a large Hole^ which is part of the Canal, for the passage of the Spinal Marrow. A Notch at the'upper and under edges of each side of the Arch, forming, in the contiguous Vertebra?, the passage of the Spinal Nerves. The Processes of each Vertebra, seven in number, viz. two Superior Oblique, two Inferior Oblique, two Transverse, and one Spinous. The tino Superi&r Oblique^ or Articulating Processes^ covered with Cartilage, placed upon the upper part of the sides of the Arch. , The i '71. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L the TJio tiao Inferior Oblique^ or Articulating Processes, also covered with Cartilage, and placed upon the under 2>art of the sides of the Arch. Tlie two Superior Oblique Processes of one Vertebra, articulated with the two Inferior Oblique of the Vertebra immediately above it. Round the edges of the Oblique Processes, rough Lines for the attachment of their articulating Liga- ments. The two Transverse Processes projecting from the sides of the Arch, and between the Oblique Processes. The Sphious Process, sent out from the back part of the Arch, which, being sharp and pointed, gives name to the whole chain of Bones. The Edges of this Process, as well as of the Arch, rough, where Ligaments come off which fix the corre- sponding parts of the contiguous Vertebi'ae together. The Substance of the Processes stronger, with a thicker external Plate than the Bodies of the Vertebrae. 'I'hc Vertebrae are joined to each other by a double Articulation ; their Bodies being connected by the In- tervertebral Substances already described; and their Oblique Processes are so connected by their Ligaments as to allow a small degree of motion to all sides. The uses of the true Vertebrae are, to give an erect posture to the Trunk of the Body; to allow a sufficient and secure motion to the Head, Neck, and Trunk; and to support and jn'otect the Bowels and other soft parts. In the Foetus, each Vertebra consists of three pieces connected by Cartilages, viz. the Body not fully ossified ; a curved Bone on each side, forming a small share ofI M |j Part I.] OF THE BONES. 75 the Bony Arch, the Oblique Processes complete, the bccfiniiing Transverse Processes, but no Spinal Process. The Vertebrae divided into seven Cervical, tvcelve Dor- sal, and Jive Lumbar. The Cervical Vertebrcc, or Vertebra: of the Neck, hav- ing their Bodies smaller, more fattened before and be- hind, and mo^'e hollowed above and below, than those of the other Vertebrae. The Aiiicidating Processes, more obliqtie than the rest. The Transverse Processes, perforated for the passage of the Vertebral Blood-vessels, and hollowed above for the transmission of the Spinal Nerves. The Spinal Processes, placed horizontally, than the rest, and forked for the attachment of Muscles. Tlie Cervical Vertebrae admit of free motion, in con- sequence of the thickness of their Cartilages, and the nature of their Processes, but give less protection behind to the Spinal Marrow than is given in other parts of the Spine. The first Vertebra, called Atlas, from its supporting tlie Globe of the Head, having only a small Arch in- stead of a Body. The upper and under Surfaces of the Arch, marked by the Ligaments which fix it to the Head and second Vertebra. The back part of the Arch, hollffw, and covered bp a smooth Cartilage, where it turns upon the Processus •Dentatus of the second Vertebra. 1 he inner parts of the sides of the Vertebra, between the superior and inferior Oblique Processes, marked by the Lateral Ligaments which go to the Processus Den- tatus, I76 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The tatus, and by the Transverse Ligament which passes behind that Process. An Arch upon the back part of the Atlas, instead of a Spinous Process, marked by Muscles and Ligaments. 'I’he Superior Oblupie Processes^ oval, danting, and holloTiV, for receiving the Condyles of the Occipital Bone. A curved Fossa under the outer and back part of each Oblique Process, for the passage of the Vertebral Ar- teries into the Plead, and Tenth Pair of Nerves out of it. The Transverse Processes, longer than in any other Cervical Vertebra, for the origin of several Muscles. The Connection of the Atlas to the Occipital Bone, where the Plead has its Jlexion and extension, but little other motion. The second Vertebra, called Dentata, from the Tooth- like Process on the upper part of its Body. The Body of this Vertebra larger than the rest, and of a Conical figure. The fore part of the Processus Dentatus, convex and covered vcith Cartilage where it tunis upon the Atlas. It has the same appearance behind, where it moves upon the Transverse Ligament. The Sides of this Process, marked by the insertion of the lateral Ligaments, and its point by the insertion of the perpendicular Ligament which is fixed to the edge of the Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone. The Sitperior Oblique Processes placed horizontally, and a little elevated in the middle, to be received into the hollow Inferior Oblique Processes of the Atlas, where the Head has'its principal rotatory motion.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 77 The SpiJKnis Process, thick and strong, to give ori- gin to the Muscles which assist in the extension and ro- O tation of the Head, and tui-ned down to allow these motions to be readily performed. In the Foetus, the Vertebra Dentata consists of four pieces, three of which are common to all the Vertebrae, the fourth is the Processus Dentatus, which is joined by Cartilage to the Body of the Bone. The sevetith Cervical Vertebra, approaching to the form of the Dorsal Vertebrae.—The Spinal and Trans- verse Pi’ocesses have no Bifurcation. The Dorsal Vertebra, or Vertebra of the Back, hoi’i- zontal above and below, having their Bodies larger, sharper before, flatter at the sides, and more hollow be- hind, than those of the Cervical Vertebrae. A Pit, lined with Cartilage at each side of their up- per and under Edges, near the Transverse Processes, for the articulation of the Heads of the Ribs. The hftervcrtebral Substances, thin, to admit only of little motion; and thinnest anteriorly, to enlarge the Curvature of the Spine, and increase the Cavity of the Thorax. The Spinal Canal is here more circular, but corre- sponding with the size of the Spinal Marrow,—is smaller than in any of the other Vertebra?. The Oblique Processes, having nearly a perpendicular direction, the upper ones slanting forwards, and the under ones backwards. The Transverse Processes, long, turned obliquely backwards, and enlarged at their outer extremity, where the} V'78 COMPENDIUxM OF ANATOMY. [PaktI. The t hey are faced with Cartilage, to be articulated with the 'J^iibercles of the Ribs. Tlie Spinous Processes, long, thick at the roots, but slender near the extremities, and pointing obliquely downwards over each other, by which the Spinal Mar- row in this part is well protected. Tlie upper Edge of the Spinous Pi'ocesses of these Vertebra?, formed into a Ridge, which, in certain motions of the Spine, is received by a Groove in the under part of the Spinous Process of the Vertebra im- mediately above it. The last peculiarity of Structure, with the others al- ready mentioned, prevent the Dorsal Vertebrae from liaving much motion. The Jirst Dorsal Vei'tehra, having the whole of the Ih't for the Head of the First Rib formed in it. The twelfth Dorsal Vertebra receiving the whole Head of the last Rib, and having no Cartilaginous Surface on its Transverse Process. The Limbar Vertebra:, or those of the Loins, having their bodies larger and broader than those of the other two classes. The Intervertebral Substances, the thickest of any, and most so at their fore part, by which the Spine is rendered convex there, for the support of the Abdo- minal Bowels. The Oblique Processes, remarkably deep, and placed upright, the Superior Oblique Processes of one Verte- bra facing inwards, and receiving the Inferior Oblique Processes of the Vertebra above it, which are turned in the opposite direction.I The I ' Part L] OF THE BONES. 79 ’ The Transverse Processes, long, slender, and spread ^ I out from the Bone, to give origin to large Muscles, and i: to admit of free motion. Tlie Sjnnous Processes, short, large, and strong, and I placed horizontally, with narrow edges above and be- low, and broad flat sides, giving origin to Muscles of !, great strength. ' The Spinal Canal, larger than in the back, for the ] passage of the^Cords of the Spinal Marrow, which form I the Cauda Equina. In consequence of the thickness of the Intervertebral I Substances, and the situation of the Processes of the Lumbai’ Vertebrae, the motion of this part of the Spine is extensive, though not so much so as in the Neck. FALSE VERTEBRAS. The False Vertebra, composed of the Os Sacrum and Os Coccygis. Os Sacrum. The triangular Form of the Bone, with its pointed under extremity. Thejlat concave anterior Surface, for enlarging the Cavity of the Pelvis. The under and fore part forming a turn, called, by some, the Lesser Angle of this Bone.80 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartI. The The convex irregular Surface behind, where strong Muscles arise, which assist in extending the Spine and Thigh. Four transverse prominent Lines seen anteriorly, indi- cating the situation of the Cartilages which originally divided the Bone into five pieces. The Spinal Canal, of a triargular form, of great size above, but becoming gradually smaller in its de- scent ; corresponding to the size of the under end of the Spinal Marrow, termed Cauda Equina, which goes through it. The tmder part of the Spinal passage, commonly open behind *, the Canal being completed, in the Sub- ject, by the addition of a strong Ligamentous Mem- brane. 'I'he Arch at the sides and back part of the Spinal Canal, much thicker and stronger than in the true Ver- Tel)ric. 'I'he ivio Oblique Processes belonging to this Bone, lacing backwards, to correspond with the two inferior Processes of the last Lumbar Vertebra. A large Obloiig Process on each side of the Bone, formed by the concretion of all the original Transverse Processes. 'I'he upper lateral parts of the Bone, which corre- spond with the three superior Transverse Processes, divided into treo irregular Cavities on each side, by a perpendicular Ridge. The anterior of the two Cavities lined wdth Cartilage, which glues this Bone to the Os Ilium, and in such a manner as not to allow any motion.Part 1.] OF THE BONES. 8i T^heposterior Cavity, rough and irregular; and in I the recent Subject, full of Ligamentous Fibres and Cel- i Ildar Substanccy which are included in the general Cap- ! sular Ligament, and which also assist in fixing the two Bones to each other. The Spinous Processes: The three uppermost com- j monly distincty but remarkably short: There is a great 1 variety, however, in the number and appearance of I the Spinous Processes in different Bones, and conse- ( quently of the length of the complete part of the Spi- 1 nous Canal. Four Pair of large Holes on the anterior Surface of I the Bone, at the end of the Lines already described, j and Grooves running out from the Holes, for the pas- s saffe of the Sacral Nerves. O Four Pair of Holes on the posterior Surfacsy not much 5 smaller than those seen anteriorly; but so filled with < Cellular Substance, and. covered with Membranes in the 1 recent Body, as only to admit small Nerves to pass out t to the Muscles on the back part of the Pelvis, and mi- I nute Arteries to enter to the Cauda Equina. A Notch at the under end of each side of the Bone, »or a Hole common to it and the Os Coccygis, for the j passage of the last Spinal Nerve. The Substance of the Os Sacrum, like that of the (other Vertebrae, is very spongyy and covered only by a t thin external Plate j this, however, is rendered consi- c derably stronger • by a Ligamentous Membrane which a adheres to it. The Connection of this Bone above to the last Lum- Ibar Vertebra, in the same manner as the other Verte- V OL. I. , F bras82 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The brae are connectetl to each other, and the same motions allowed as to these Vertebrae.—The projection formed between these two Bones anteriorly, obtains the name of Promontory or Greater Angle of the Os yacrum. The Os Sacrum serves as the common Base and sup- port of the Trunk of the Body, guards the Nerves issu- ing from the under end of the Spinal Marrow, defends the back part of the Pelvis, and gives origin to Muscles moving the Trunk and Thigh. In the Foetus, the Os Sacrum is composed of five distinct Vertebrae, which have Intervertebral Substances similar to those of the True Vertebrae. At tills time, each of the Vertebrae of the Os Sa- crum, as well as of the True Vertebrae, consists of a Body and two lateral parts, which are joined together by Cartilages. Os CocevGis. The Os Coccygis, or Pumy-bone^ forming an Ap- pendage to the under end of the Os Sacrum. The Situation of this Bone at the under end of the Os Sacrum. Its Figure, broad and Jlat above, and tapering belcAv, convex behind, and forming a Curve forvoards, to defend it from injury when a person is in a sitting posture. The four pieces of which it is composed in young Subjects. The Bone is considered by some Authors as being formed of three pieces y and then the Os Sacrum is said to have six pieces.Part I.] OF THE BONES. '8» F 2 derive Thejirst or uppermost'piece the largest, with Shoulders reaching farther than the end of the Os Sacrum. This is regarded by some as a proper distinction between the Os Coccygis and Os Sacrum. From the back part of the Shoulders, two Cornua frequently ascend to join the forked* Spinous Processes at the end of the Os Sacrum, and form a passage for the transmission of the last Pair of Spinal Nerves. The three lower Bones of the Os Coccygis becoming gradually smaller, the fourth terminating in a rough point. Cartilage is interposed between the different pieces of this Bone in young Subjects, joining them together, after tlie manner of the Vertebr®; allowing motion upon each other forwards and backwards, but chiefly between the first and second pieces; and a-greater de- gree of motion there in the Female than in the Male. In advanced life, but earlier in Men than in Women, the pieces grow together so as to admit of no motion ; but this takes place much later between the first and se- cond, than between the other pieces. The Substance, like that of the Os Sacrum, is spongy, but this Bone differs from the Sacrum in having no pas- sage for the Spinal Marrow, nor Holes for Spinal Nerves. The Connection of this Bone, in young Subjects, to the Os Sacrum, by Cartilage,—in old People, by an union of Substance. The Surface of the Bone is covered by a strong Li- gament, which adds to its strength; and its sides give rise to numerous Muscular Fibres, which, while theySI COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. derive their origin from it, serve at the same time to protect it. The Os Coccygis sustains the Intestinum Rectum, contracts the Inferior Opening of the Pelvis, and assists in supporting the Rectum, Bladder, and Uterus. In the Foetus, the Os Coccygis is almost entirely composed of Cartilage. PELVIS. Here observe. The Pelvis, situated at the lower part of the Trunk, and formed by the Os Sacrum, Os Coccygis, and two Ossa Innominata. OS INNOMINATUM. The Situation of the Os Innominatum, in the fore part and side of the Pelvis, and in the under and late- ral part of the Abdomen, The Division of the Bone, in Children, into Osllhimy Os Ischium^ and Os Pubis. In the Adult, the three Bones arc ossified together, but retain their original names. Os: Part L] S5 OF THE BONES. -4 > Os Ilium. I The Os Ilhm, forming the upper part of the Os In- nominatum, and spreading out, to assist in supporting the contents of the Abdomen. The Ijarsuniy or outer convex Surface of the Bone, raised in some parts, and depressed in others, where the Glutei Muscles, or Extensors of the Thigh, have their origin. The Spine, or upper semicircular edge of the Bone, for the attachment of the Oblique and Transverse Ab- dominal Muscles. The anterior-superior Spinous Process, or anterior ex- tremity of the Spine, for the attachment of the Sarto- rius and of Poupart’s Ligament. The anterior-inferior Spinous Process, a little below the former, for the attachment of the Rectus Femoris. The tico posterior Spinous Processes, at the back part of the Spine, less considerable than the two anterior ; partly for the origin of Muscles, but chiefly for the at- tachment of Ligaments which belong to the Joint be- tween this Bone and the Os Sacrum. • 'Hie Notch of the Os Ilium under the posterior-infe- rior Spinous Process, for the passage of the Pyriform Muscle, the Sciatic Nerve, and Blood-vessels. 'fhe Venter, or inner concave Surface of the Bone, for the attachment of one of the Flexors of the Thigh, termed Iliacus Internm, and ,the support of a portion of the Intestinum Ilium and Colon. F 3 t. A88 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. A Passage in the Venter for the principal Medullary Vessels of the Bone. A Depression at the inside of the anterior-inferior Spinous Process, where the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh and the anterior Crural Vessels and Nerves pass. The Linea Innominata at the under part of the Ven- ter of the Bone, forming the lateral portion of the Brim of the Pelvis, and the line of division between the Pel- vis and Abdomen. The inner and back part of the Bone, very irregular^ for the origin of some of the large Muscles of the Back, for the attachment of Ligaments which go to the Os Sacrum, and for the firm connection which subsists be- tween this Bone and the Os Sacrum. The underf forCi and outer part of the Bone, form- ing the upper and back part of the Acetabulum, or Cavity for the articulation of the Thigh-Bone, , Os Ischium. The Situation of the Os Ischium in the lowest part of the Pelvis. Its Figure irregular; its Size next to that of the Os Ilium. The upper thick'part of the Bone, forming the under part of the Acetabulum. The Spinous Process sent back from the upper part of the Bone, for the attachment of Muscles,—and of the Superior Sacro-sciatic Ligament, which completes the Notch of the Os Ilium into an Iliac Foramen. The Cervix placed under the Spinous Process, and coveretlOF THE BONES. Part L] 87 \ covered with Cartilage where the tendon of the Obtu- rator Internus plays. The Tubnvsity, or Tubei' Ischiiy which is covered with Cartilage that is separated by macerating the Bone. The upper part of the Tuber placed obliquely, and giving attachment to the Geminus Inferior, to the under Sacro-sciatic Ligament, and to the great Flexor Muscles of the Thigh. The thinner and more scabrous part of the Tuber, -which has a curved direction, gives attach- ment to the Crus Penis in the Male, to the Crus Clito- ridis in the Female, and to part of the Adductor Muscles of the Thigh. Os Pubis. The Situation of tliis Bone at the upper and fore part of the Pelvis. Its Size, the least of the three portions of the Os In- nominatum. The thickest and sti'ongest part of the Bone, forming the upper and fore side of the Acetabulum. The upper part of the Bone becoming smaller where it is flattened above, and rendered smooth by the passage of the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh, and of the anterior Crural Vessels and Nerves. The upper and inner part of the Bone increasing in ^ size, and forming the rough Crest or Angle, where the Hectus and Pyramidalis, and the inner end of Ppu- part’s Ligament, are attached. A Ridge, or Spine, extended from the outer and fore ’ part of the Crest, along the upper and inner edge of F i tlie i88 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartI. the Bone, to form, with a similar Ridge of the Os Ilium, the Linca Ilio-jpectincay Briniy or upper opening of the Pelvis. That part of the Brim of the Pelvis which is formed by this Bone, is described by some Authors as being sometimes so shai’p, as to injure the parts which lie im- mediately contiguous to it. Another Ridge^ from the former, extending down- wards and backwards towards the breach in the fore part of the Acetabulum. A Cavity below these Ridges, for the origin of the Pcctineus. At the upper and outer part of the Foramen Thy- roideum, the Bone having a tvoisted appeara7ice, and a Notch which is formed into a Hole in the Subject, by the addition of the Obturator Ligament, for the pas- sage of the Obturator Vessels and Nerves. The inner end of the Bone, rough and unequal^ but covered with a Ligamentous Cartilage, which, in fresh Bones, joins the two Ossa Pubis so firmly together, as to prevent them from moving upon each other. The inner part of the Bone is broad, and depressed, before, where it gives origin to part of the Adductor Muscles of the Thigh. The inner part of the Bone becoming narrower, and ending in the Crus^ which goes downwards to join the Crus of the Os Ischium, and form, along with that Crus, one side of the Arch of tlie Pubis. The Foramen Thyroidcum, formed by the Os Pubis and Os Ischium, and in the Subject, filled by a Mem- branous Ligament, excepting at the Notch above men- tioned,89 ’Part I.] OF THE BONES. iiioned, which gives rise to a large share of the Obtura- tor Muscles. The Acetabulum^ or Cavity, (compared to a Vinegar measure used by the Ancients), placed farther out than hhe Foramen Thyroideum, and formed by the three ibieces which compose the Os Innominatum, in such a manner, that the Os Ilium constitutes near tw'o-fifths, hhe Os Ischium more than two-fifths, and the Os Pubis ane-fifth of that Cavity. The Cavity of the Acetabulum very deep, especially ochind, and made still deeper in the Subject, by its Brim being tipped with a Cartilaginous Ligament. Round the outer Edge of the Brim, the Bone rough, rvhere the Capsular Ligament of the Joint is fixed. A Breach in the inner and fore part of the Acetabu- uum, which, in the subject, has a strong Ligament Ltretched from one end of that Notch to the other, but eeaving a Hole behind for containing part of the Sub- stance called Gland of the Joint. The Cavity of the Acetabulum lined with Cartilage, excepting at its under, inner, and fore part, where Ihere is a rough depression for containing the greater loart of the substance mentioned above. The Brim, or upper opening of the Pelvis, approach- ing in the Male to a circular, and in the Female to an ^oval form. The Inferior Opening is large in the Skeleton, but in i!.he Subject in a great measure is filled up by Ligaments mnd Muscles, which support and protect the contained p.iRrts, and leave only the passages from the Bladder of Urine90 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L Urine and Rectum in the Male, and, together with ‘ these, the passage from the Uterus in the Female. The Ossa Innominata,7’owed behind to the Os Sacrum by a thin Cartilage and by strong Ligaments^ so as to I liave no motion ; the Joint obtaining the name of Pos- terior or Sacro-iliac Symphysis. The Connection of these Bones to each other anterior- ly, by a Ligamentous Cartilage and Ligaments, which also prevent motion here. J'his connection is termed Symjdiysis, or Anterior Symphysis Pufns. The Substance of the Iliac part of the Os Innomina- tum is cellular, with a thin external Table, which, in some old people, is so much affected by Muscular action about its middle, as to become transparent. The other two Portions of the Os Innominatum are cellular, as in other flat Bones, but some parts of the external Table are of considerable thickness. Use of the Pelvis.—It constitutes the Basis of the Trunk, and forms Sockets for the Thigh-Bones to move in. It contains the Bladder of Urine and the Rectum in the Male, and, together with these, the Uterus in the Female. It gives origin to the Muscles which ex- tend the Trunk, and insertion to those which bend the Body. It sends oft’ the principal part of the Muscles which move the Thigh, and gives passage and protec- tion to Blood-vessels, and to some of the largest Nerves of the Body. In the Feetus, the Spine of the Os Ilium, and that part of the Bone which belongs to the Acetabulum, are Cartilaginous. The Spinous Process, the Tuberosity, and;'?ART I.] 91 OF THE BONES. ind Crus of the Os Ischium, the Crus of the Os Pubis, [ud that portion of it which forms the Acetabulum, are ilso, at this period, in a Cartilaginous state. : , THORAX, The circumstances to be attended to in this part of [khe Skeleton are, . « The ThoraXf formed of the Sternum before, of the IRibs on each side, and of the Dorsal Vertebrae behind. The general Figure of the Thorax approaching that oof a ConCf but left open above for the passages to the ILungs and Stomach, and for the great Blood-vessels. The Lower Part of the Thorax slanting; the fore vpart being considerably shorter than it’is behind. The Under Margin on each side, forming a curved ILine, the convex side of which is turned, downwards. The under end of the Thorax, occupied, in the Sub- j'ject, by the Diaphragm^ which forms a partition be- ttween it and the Abdomen. t f T COST^. The of the Costae, or Ribs, slanting down- wards with respect to the Spine. '1 heir Number^ commonly twelve on each side, though ! sometimes thirteen, and at other times only eleven j the numberi 02 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. number of the Dorsal Vertebrce always corresponding with that of the Ribs. I’lieir Figurcy convex externally, by which their strength is increased; and concave and smooth internally, with their flat sides turned towards the Lungs, which they protect. The Head of each Rib formed into a Ridge and too hollovD Surfaces covered with Cartilage, to be articulated with the bodies of two Vertebras and their intermediate II Cartilage. Round the Head, the Bone spongy^ for the attach- ment of the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. The Tubercle of the Rib, at a little distance from its Head, with a flat Cartilaginous Surface and irregular Edge, to be articulated to the Transverse Process of the undermost of the two Vertebrae, to which the head of the Rib is joined. The Cervix of the Rib, between its Head and Tu- bercle, of a roundish form. Another small Tubercle in most of the Ribs, at the outer side of the former, for the attachment of Liga- ments which fix the Ribs to each other, and to the Transverse Processes ; and also for the insertion of the outer Slips of the Longissimps Dorsi. Beyond the Tubercle, the Rib rendered Jlat by the Sa cro- Lumbal is. The Angle of the Ribs to which the Sacro-Lumbalis is fixed, where the Bones are about to bend, to form the lateral part of the Thorax. The Rib becoming broader and flatter at the lateral part /OF THE BONES. ’Part L] 93 a v)art of the Thorax, and the flat Surface opposed to the Xiungs. The upper Edge of the Rib, rotmd where the Inter- :costales are fixed. The tender Edge^ shatp where the Intercostalis Exter- nus is fixed. A Fossa at the inside of the under Edge, for lodging hhe Intercostal Vessels and Nerves. The upper edge of tkhe Fossa gives origin to the Intercostalis Internus. The Fossa wanting towards the extremities of the PRibs; the Vessels not being in contact with them be- :iaind, and too small to impress them anteriorly. An Oval Pit in the anterior extremity of each Rib, for receiving the Cartilage which runs from it to tlie >Sternum. The Cartilages of the Ribs, placed between them and khe Sternum. The Cartilages, like the 'R\hs,Jlat on their outer and linncr Surfaces, and smooth where they are opposed to ithe Lungs. The Cartilage of each Rib, forming, with the Rib titself, a Curve, the concave part upwards. And with the Sternum, an obtuse Angle above, and lan acute one below. The Cartilages yield to the motions of the Ribs, and ‘enable them to return to their former position, when khe Muscles cease to act. The Cartilages of tlie Ribs, rin old people, are frequently ossified. The Ribs ai’e connected behind to the Vertebrae by a double articulation, and before to the Sternum by the Cartilages, or by the Cartilages to each other, in such94. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. XPaiit I. A a manner as to allow motion upwards and downwards, though only a small degree in any single Rib, and that towards its middle; but no motion in any other direc- tion. TheJir&t Rib the most crooked; from this downwards the Ribs becoming gradually straighter.' The uppermost Ribs approaching nearer to the hori- zontal situation; their obliquity, with respect to the Spine, increasing as they descend, and their anterior extremities becoming more distant from each other. The Cartilages oi the Ribs,- like the Ribs themselves, becoming gradually longer from the first to the seventh, but, contrary to what happens in the Ribs, approach- ing nearer to each other in their descent. The length of the Ribs, increasing from the first to tlie seventh, and then decreasing to the twelfth. The distance between the heads of the Ribs and their Angles, increasing to the ninth Rib, corresponding with the breadth of the Sacro-Lumbalis which covers them. The Ribs divided into True and False. The True Ribs^—the seven uppermost having their Cartilages joined to the Sternum, and opposed to the Heart.and Lungs, from which they are termed the T?uc CustodcSj or Guards of Life. The False Ribsy—the five inferior, not reaching the Sternum. The Cartilages of the False Ribs, shorter as they de- scend, and more flexible than those of the True Ribs. The posterior Extremity of the first Rib, artiadated only with the first Vertebra of the Back.9.5 PPart I.] OF THE BONES. Ajlat Surface upon the upper part of the first Rib, nwhere the Subclavian Vessels pass over it to the Arm. The Fossa for the Intercostal Vessels and Nerves wanting at the edge of this Rib. The Cartilages of the two under True Ribs, and three iiapper False Ribs, joined to each other by an union of SSubstance. The Head of the eleventh Rib, having no Tubercle for ’articulation, being only loosely joined to the Transverse [Process. Tlie twelfth Rib much shorter than the rest. Its Head is only joined to the twelfth Vertebra of the Back. It lihas no Tubercle, nor articulation with the Transverse IProcess ; neither has it any Fossa at its under edge, the Wessels and Nerves running some way below it. The Anterior Extremities of the eleventh and twelfth IRibs, not joined to each other, nor to any other Rib, tbut lying loose among the Muscles;—hence these Ribs ‘sometimes named Floating Ribs. The Substance of the Ribs, like that of the Vertebra?, iiis cellular, and only covered with a thin external Plate, iwhich becomes somewhat thicker towards the Verte- Ibrm. In the Foetus, the Heads and Tubercles of the Ribs lhave Cartilages, part of which become thin Epiphysjss. .After Birth, the Bodies of the Ribs encroach.gradually (on the Cartilages; hence the Cartilages of the Ribs are {proportionally shorter in Adults than in Children., The Ribs give form to the Thorax, coyer and defend 1 the Pleart and I.ungs, and assist the latter in perform- i ing respiration. Sterkum.F 96 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paht I. h Sternum. The Situation of the Internum in the fore part of the Thorax. Three Pieces composing the Sternum, in a person of middle age, and these joined together by Cartilage. The different Pieces of this Bone are frequently found. ossified together in old people. The Sternum, thick and hroad above, and thin and narro'm belcm\ The outer Surfacefat. The inner Surface slightly hollffived, to enlarge the Ca- vity of th'e Thorax. Pits upon each edge of the Sternum, to receive the Cartilaginous ends of the seven True Ribs. The Pits at a considerable distance from each other above, but becoming gradually nearer as they descend. The Cancelli of the Sternum, covered only by a thin external plate, but this rendered stronger by a Tendi- nous Membrane investing it in the recent state. The upper piece oi the Sternum, of a somewhat gular figure, compared to that of a heart as painted on playing-cards, but cut across below. The upper and hack part hollowed, to make way for the Trachea. 7’he upper Corners, thicker and stronger than the rest of the Bone, with a Cavity in each, lined with Carti- lage, for receiving the ends of the Collar Bones. Under these Cavities, the Bone becoming and having h lo I i c le n CC it ».gPart I.] OF THE BONES. 97 The VoL. I. G I having a Pit upon each side, for receiving the Cartilage I of the first Rib. Part of the Pit 'm each of the under Corners of the first . Piece, for the Cartilage of the second Rib. The second piece of the Sternum, of an oblong form, Ibut a little broader below than above, and considerablj llonger than the former. Complete Pits upon the edges of this piece, for the Car- ttilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth pair of Ribs, jand part of the Pits for those of the second and seventh. Lines extending across the Bone, between the Pits, edenoting the original marks of division of this piece. i The Connection of the second piece of the Sternum tto the first by Cartilage, which, in the earlier period of Uife, allows some yielding, but this becoming gradually Hess as the person advances in life. The third piece of the Sternum, cartilaginous in a \young Subject, and pointed like a bi'oad-sword, hence itermed Cartilago Ensiformis. The Adult has this piece commonly ossified in the middle, and cartilaginous at the edges. The Size of this piece muck legs than that of the other ttwo. t Only owe half of the Pit, for the Cartilage of the se- iventh Rib, formed in each side of this piece. The Variations of the Cartilago Ensiformis are con- Fsiderable in different Subjects;—for, instead of the xommon form, it is sometimes narrow like the point of u small sword, or turned obliquely to one side, or for- wards, or backwards, "or forked at the point, or perfo- :rated in the middle.98 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paiii I. The Sternum h joined by Cartilage to the seven upper or True Ribs, on each side, and by an inter-articular Cartilage to the anterior ends of the Clavicles. In the Foetus, this Bone is composed of seven or eight pieces, but the number of these varies in different Sub- jects. By degrees the pieces unite, till at length they form the three Bones already described. The Sternum gives origin to several Muscles, defends the Heart and Lungs, assists in the formation of the Tliorax, sustains the Mediastinum, is a medium of at- tachment to the Ribs, and serves as a Fulcrum or point on which the Clavicles roll. SUPERIORPart I.] 99 OF THE BONES. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES, t We find here, Each Superior Extremity, composed of the Bones of the Shoulder, Arm, and Hand. The Shoulder, consisting of the Clavicle and Scapula. Clavicle. The Situation of the Clavicle, between the upper part of the Sternum and top of the Scapula. The Sternal, or internal Extremity, triangular, and larga- than the Body, with one of the angles elongated backwards, where it gives origin to a Ligament extend- ed between the two Clavicles. The Surface next the Sternum, covered with Carti- lage, and irregularly hollcmed, to correspond with the inter-articular Cartilage, wliich, with the Capsular Li- gament of this Joint, allows a small degree of motion in all directions. The Body of the Bone next the Sternum bent for- xcards, and that next the Shoulder turned back, the whole resembling an Italic f, or a key used by the An- cients ; from which, or from the support it gives the Shoulder, its name is derived. The upper part of the Clavicle next the Sternum, rounded, and that next the Scapula, Jlat where it lie.s over the Joint of the Humerus. Over the Bone in general rough marks are observed, for the attachment of Muscles and Ligaments. O 2 I'holoo COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. The rJie under Surface hollow^ for Iwlging a portion of the Subclavius. In the under Surface, one or more small Canals, leading obliquely outwards, for the passage of the Me- dullary Vessels. The External, or Scapulary Extremity, tipped with Cartilage, to be articulated with the Acromion of the Scapula. Near the back part of the Scapulary Extremity, a Tubercle, for the attachment of a strong Ligament, which connects this Bone to the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. The Substance of this Bone is like that of other Ions round Bones, but the external Table is of considerable thickness and strength. The Clavicle supports the Shoulder at a proper dis- tance from the Thorax, and thereby renders the motions of the Arm more extensive. It gives origin to several Muscles, and defence to large Vessels and Nerves. In a Foetus, the Clavicle is completely formed. ScAruLA. The Situation of the Scapula, upon the upper and back part of the Thorax, at some distance from the Ribs, the interval being filled up by a cushion of Flesh. The shape of the Scapula triangtilar, with one of the angles placed downwards. The Venter, or inner Surface, concave, corresponding with the convexity of the Ribs, and marked with Bidges and Depressions by the Subscapularis.0 3 ' by lOi 'Part I.]- ' OF THE BONES. The l)orstm, or outer Surface bf the Scapula, ren- dered convex in some parts, and concave in otliers, by the action of the Muscles which cover it. The body of the Scapula is remarhahly tMuy and, in an old person, transparent. The three Edges of the Bone thick and strongs and termed Costce. The superior or Cervical Costa the shortest of the three, and placed nearly opposite to the second Rib. A Semilunar Notch near the fore part of the superior Costa, for the passage of the superior Scapulary Ves- sels and Nerves. The inferior or anterior Costa, extending obliquely downwards and ..backwards," between the third and eighth Ribs. The posterior Costa, or Base of the Bone, placed ob- liquely with respect to the Spine, the upper end being considerably nearer to it than the under. The upper part of the Base, above the Spine, run- ning obliquely forwards to the upper angle, and giving attachment to the Levator Scapulte. The inferior Angle very acute, and marked by the passage of the Latissimus Dorsi, and the origin of the Teres Major. The superior Angle approaching a right Angle. The anterior Angle, forming the Cei'vix, whicli sup- ports the head of the Bone. The Glenoid Cavity, placed on the fore part of the Head of the Bone, and lined with Cartilage for the ar- ticulation of the Os Humeri. The Cartilage lining this Cavity thickest at the edges,102 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The by which it is rendered deeper, for receiving the Ball of the Os Humeri. Tile shape of that Cavity, resembling an Egg cut longitudinally, with the large end undermost, but so shallow as to receive only a small portion of the Ball of the Os Humeri, the rest of the Ball being contained . in liie Capsular Ligament. 'The SphiCy running across the Bone, dividing it into a small upper, and large under Surface, and giving ori- gin to part of the Spinati. The Spine, small .at its beginning, and becoming higher and broader in its course forwards. A triangular Spacey between the root of the Spine and Base of the Bone, where part of the Trapezius is fixed. Near the Base of the Spine, a passage for the princi- pal Vessels which supply the Substance of the Bone. The Fossa supra-spinatay or space above the Spine, for the origin of the .* upra-spinatus. 'Hie Fossa inj'ra-spinatay I’or the origin of the Infra- spinatus. The Spine becoming broad and flat, and terminating in a point at its anterior extremity, -where it is termed Acromiojiy or lop of the Shoulder. The under Surface of the Acromion, hollow for the passage of the Spinati. The Situation of the Acromion over the upper end of the Humerus, which, together with the Ligaments, con- tributes to the protection of the Joint. The anterior Edge of the Acromion, tipped with Carti- lage for its articulation with the outer end of the Clavicle.I Part!.] . > OF THE BONES. . 103. The Coiacoid Process, arising from' the Neck of the Bone, and making a curvature forwards, so os to leave a hollow at its root for the passage of the Subscajjularis. The Pomt of this Process, giving origin to Muscles, and to a strong Ligament which passes transversely from its side, to be fixed to the Acromion, for the protection of the Joint. The Inferior Costa and Processes are thick and strong, while the Body is so pressed by its own Muscles, especially in old people, as to become in many parts transparent. The Scapula is joined to the Clavicle by Ligaments of such strength, as only to allow a small degree of mo- tion, and that chiefly of a tw'isting nature; but the .Scapula is so connected by Muscles to the Head, Os Hyoides, Trunk, and Arm, as to have motion up- wards, downwards, and to either side* and through the medium of the Clavicle, to be rolled upon the top of the Sternum, In the Foetus, the Base, Acromion, Coracoid Pro- cess, and Head of the Scapula, are Cartilaginous. The three first are afterwards joined as Epiphyses while the Head, with the Glenoid Cavity, is gradually pro- iliiced from the Body of the Bone. Os Humeri, • 1 he Siiuatioji of the Os Humeri at the side of the Thorax, and under the Scapula. The Ball or Head of the Os Humeri, forming a small segment of a large Sjihere, and this covered with Carti- ■1' lag^i104, COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. lage, and placed at the upper, inner, and back part of the Body of the Bono, to correspond with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula. The Cervix or Ncck^ surrounding the edge of the Ball, and forming a superficial Fossa, where the Capsular Li- gament is fixed. Numcrms Holes round the upper end of the Bone, for the insertion of the Fibres of the Capsular Ligament, and for tho passage of Blood-vessels into the Bone. A I'ossa or long Groove^ lined with a Cartilaginous and Tendinous Crust, in the upper and fore part of the Bone, for lodging the Tendon of the long head of the Biceps. The smaller Tubercle, placed at the upper and inner side of the above-mentioned Groove, for the attachment of the Subscnpularis. Ulic larger Tubercle, opposite to tho former, and on the outer side of the Groove, for the attachment of the Muscles which cover the Dorsum of the Scapula. A Ritlge continued down from each Tubercle along the sides of the long Fossa, for the insertion of Muscles coming from the Trunk of the Body, or from the Sca- pula. A Passage slanting downwards in the fore and inner part of the Bone, near its middle, for the Medullary Vessels. The Bone, marked at the under end of the Groove, for lodging the long head of the Biceps, by the attach- ment of the Deltoides and other Muscles. The Body of the Bone, I'onnd near its upper end ; but,105 ] Part L] OF THE BONES. The I but, as it descends, appearing iwistedy \X\enJlat, and in- ( creasing in breadth at the lower extremity. From the Muscular Prints on the fore part of the Body of the Bone, a blunt Ridge continued to the upper ! part of the Trochlea. The under and back part of the Bone, rendered Jlat . and smoothy by the motion of the Triceps Extensor Cu- biti. A Ico-ge Ridge at the under and outer, and a small Ridge at the under and inner edge of the Bone, for the attachment of strong Tendinous Fascias, which give • origin to part of the Muscles of the Fore-arm.„ The Ridges ending below in two Condyles. The external Condylcy placed at the under and outer part of the Bone, for the origin of tlie Extensor Muscles of the Hand and Fingers. ' The internal Condyley at the under and inner part of the Bone, more prominent than the former, for the origin of the strong Flexor Muscles" of the Hand and Fingers. The articulating Surface at the under end of the Bone, between the Condyles, covered with Cartilage for the articulation with the Bones of the Fore-arm. The oblique Situation of the articulating Surface, the -inner end being lower than the outer, by which the Hand turns more readily to the Face, or the upper parts of the Body. The inner Part of the articulating surface, consisting of a large internal, and small external Eminence, with a middle Cavity, or a Trochlea, upon which the Ulna 7novcR.lOS COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartI. The Older PaH of tlie Articular Surface, upon wliich the IJeatl of the Radius plays, of a round form, and considered by some Authors as the smooth part of the outer Condyle. Round the Edge of the Articular Cavity, the Bone marked by the insertion of the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. A small Cavity at the under and fore part of the Bone, above the Trochlea, for receiving the Coronoid Process of the L^lna in the Flexion of the Fore-arm. A large Cavity at the under and back part of the Bone, also above the Trochlea, the under part of it for receiving the Olecranon of the Ulna in the extension of the Fore-arm, and the upper part for containing the Fat of the .Joint. Between these cavities the Bone is pressed so thin as to become transparent, especially in an old person. The Substance and inner Structure of the Os Hu- meri is the same as in other long round Bones. The sides are compact, but the Cancelli are so large in the middle of the Bone, as to give the appearance of a hol- low Cylinder. The Ball of the Os Flumeri is articulated with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, which, from its super- ficial nature, and the long Ligaments inclosing the Joint, .allows the Arm to move in all directions; the Bone even performing a small degree of motion round its own axis. 'JThe extent of motion of the Arm, however, is conside- rably increased by the rolling of the Scapula. In the Foetus, the Extremities of the Bone are Car- tilaginous 5 and the Ball w'ith the Tubercles, and the Trochlea‘/art 1.] lor OF THE BONES. Trochlea with the Condyles, form afterwards Epii>hyses, ir>revious to their union wjth the Body of the Bone. FORE-ARM, Consisting of two Bones, the Ubia^ and Radius, ' Ulna. The Situation of the Ulna at the inner part of the IFoi’e-arm ; the Arm being supposed to hang by the iiside of the Body, with the Palm of the Pland turned fforwards. The Olecranouy Processus Anconeus,, or Top of the iCubit, placed at the upper end of the Bone, and form- iiing the posterior prominent part of the Elbow.' The upper end of this Process, rough, where the Tri- iceps Extensor Cubiti is fixed. The Cor ovoid, or sharp Process, at the upper and fore |iart of the Bone, but considerably lower than the 01c- 'crnnon, for forming a part of tlie Flinge of the Joint of the Elbow. The Great Sigmoid, or Semilunar Cavity, between the (Olecranon and Coronoid Process, lined with Cartilao-e, and divided into two slanting Surfaces by a middle ] Ridge, the Cavity being adapted to the Trochlea of the (Os Humeri. Across the middle of the great Sigmoid Cavity, a little Pit for lodging part of the Fat of the Joint. The Small Sigmoid, or Semilunar Cavity, lined with Cartilage,10ft cx'iMrF.NmrM or n» Hit <««»rr 5Kk <4' <>«v*w4iA ^ >»opp rtK* «v>i>n4 K«»4 of 1^4k'H«ic Tfthnvit' of tho ITom or ftTOAll ro«i^ ?<pot tho root ol' tho Oor»>ooi<^ IVwss, tHo msort^ < tW Hri»c>»taKs lotorm». At thr «)ipcT jitKi outor fwirt of rt*o R^tks « ff Stfrfiws '^'>K'ro tho Anoooom is iot)^^. The /Jfvjfi/ of tW I >««w of « hym^*t$krr^'^vytt^ in^ ^-»h)h«1^ ;;m*l)or iit its <^oscc*«s Tiio shw'pt'si A*igk opjvtsM to t>»o R«<)iws lor ttMAchmeot ol'tho lm<r«Tssoo»is Ivi^fumonK llio shlo« toriom^ rliis oi»^ meH;^ tW ^^«^ack«s ^Hioh orisr ftv^ thofft. A Pasuftfs sWtiii^ nfTwords nKoiit a k hek)« the ofper ond> 1^' the ModitJItvi^ \ ossois. Tho nntka' ond o( tho IVvrws fwiowijf« smaii I’lmAt 'A’hich w covored m-iih CortiV^pr o« t)»At Ki4< ^'hcnc tbo Kotiiiis f«o\vs «tpoo it, nwtl aH«o on its ov»fr tni(js whore it is oppt'isod to a «Kn’cab)e CArtilufre fAmxH betwoon it and the Corpiis. The Atwss, ot the ionor side of the simd rottnd he«d>, from which a strong J .i^motA f«oes off be fixed to the Bones of the AJi’rwt. The Ulna is ArticnlAted <»t its sMjperior extremity’ A-lii the lom’or end oi the Huinei^ the At this j'lATt lormittg A oompiete H«it^ which aUows aa ex»enshA' de^ec of flexion, nnd ns mnch extension As to A|^fA«oMbh A straight litie with the lYP®** ^ ^ rotAtion. Rsnu^s.PPabt I.] OF THE BONES. ; 109 Radius. ; The Situation of the Radius at the outer part of the iFore-arra. The upper end of the Radius^ covered with Cartilage, »and formed into a circular head, which is hollowed jtobove, for receiving the outer part of the Articular Siir- fiace of the Os Humeri. * The inner Side of the Head smooth, and also covered rwith Cartilage, where it plays in the small Semilunar LCavity at the outer side of the Ulna. The Cei-vix of the Radius smaller than the Head ; in ;lthc Subject, surrounded by a circular Ligament, which kkeejis the Bone in its place, and allows it to roll upon lithe Ulna. The lubercle of the Radius, at the under and inner upart of the Cervix, for the insertion of the Biceps Flexor tCubiti. The Bodp of the Bone larger than that of the Ulna, convex on its outer and back part, and rounded by tlie ^Muscles which cover it. The Surfaces next the Ulna fat^ where Muscles of i.the Hand take their origin. The anter ior imd posteriot' Surfaces, terminating next : the Ulna, in a sharp Ridge, to which tlie Interosseous ILigament of the Fore-arm is fixed. A Passage slanting upwards, on the fore j)art of the EBone, and about a hand-breadth below its upper end, for the Medullary Vessels, Ano COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. A rough Surface at the outer and middle part of the Pone, for the insertion of the Pronator Radii Teres. ' The IcTiVer End of the Radiusy becoming gradually ' larger, and flat on its fore part, where it is covered by the Pronator Radii Quadratus. A Ridge upon the under and back part of the Radius, with a Fossa upon each side of it, where the Tendons of the Extensor Muscles of the Fingers pass. 'I’he outer side of this extremity of the Bone, hollorjaed i by the Extensors of the Thumb. A semilunar Cavity at the inner side of the under end of the Radius, lined with Cartilage, for receiving the corresponding extremity of the Ulna. 'i'he Icmer End of the Bone, formed into a Cavity of an oval or naviadar shape, and lined with Cartilage, for receiving the two first Bones of the Carpus. A small Transverse Ridge, frequently found in the middle of this Cavity, w’hich insinuates itself between the two first Bones of the Carpus. The under and outer part of the Radius, forming a Process somewliat similar to the Stvloid Process of the Ulna. From this Process a Ligament is sent to the Wrist. The Plead of the Radius is articulated with the outer j)art of the articular Surface of the Os Plumeri; the Radius is besides joined by a double articulation to the Ulna, for above, the head of the Radius is received into the small Semilunar Cavity of the Ulna, while the under end of the Ulna is received into the small Semiluuarjl Cavity of the Radius j in consequence of which connec-i tiun, the Radius accompanies the Ulna in the flexionji andiAPart L] OF THE BONES. J ill and extension of tlie Fore-arm, while the Radius moves round its own axis above, but at the lower end, it turns upon the head of the Ulna, carrying the Hand with it. The Turning of the Radius with the Hand is termed Supination^ and Pronation; when the Palm is turned upwards, it is in a state of supination, and in pronation when in a contrary direction. The Structure of the Radius and Ulna is the same as that of other long Bones. In the Foetus, the Extremities of the Bones of the Fore-arm are Cartilaginous; they afterwards become Epiphyses, before they are united to the Bodies of the Bones. , HAND, Composed of the Bones of the Co7pus, Metacaipzis^ and Fingers. Tlie po^a io7' Surface of the Hand, C07vvex^ whicli gives it a greater degree of strength. The anterior Surface of the Hand, concave, for grasjv ing and holding Substances. Carpus. The Carpus is composed of eight Bones, disposed in two Rows j and each Bone being broader on its poste- rior than anterior Surface, they form an Arch convex behind, by which it gives security and strength ; and concave before, for containing the Muscles, Vessels, and112 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartI. and Nerves, which run to the Fingers. The ends of tlie Arch on the Palm-side of the Wrist, form project- ing Points, between which the Ligaraentum Carpi An- nulare is stretched, which confines the Muscles in their places. The posterior or convex Surface of the Carpus, mark- ed by the numerous Ligaments attached to it. The anterior or hollow Surface, also marked by Li- gaments. The Bones of tlie Carpus are articulated with each other, or with the neighbouring Bones, and all their ar- ticular Surfaces are covered 'with Cartilage^ to facilitate the motion of the Joints. In the First Row of Carpal Bones are, 'J’he Scaphoides, Lunare^ Cuneijorme., Pisiforme. In the Second Row, The Trapezium^ Trapczoidcs, Magmimy Uncifornie. The Os Scaphoides, placed at the outer and upper part of the Carpus. The upper Surface, coiivcx, and articulated with the Radius. I'he under and outer Swface, also convex, to be arti- culated with the Trapezium and Trapezoides. Between the upper and under Cartilaginous Sur- faces, a rough Fossa for the insertion of the Capsular Ligament. The anterior and inner Surface, having an oval Ca- vxiy.Part 1.] 'If: iia OF THE BONES. vity^ which gives name to the Bone, where it is articu- lated with the Os Magnum. * . 0^1'1'; . A P/ocm upon the outer end of the Bone, for’'die I attachment of part of the anterior Transverse Ligament > of the Wrist. . i h > ' ' j .. ■ ' ■ !' M :r ■■■:'■. ' c i:‘ Tile Os Lunare, situated upon the inner side of the former Bone. - ' ■ ■ ' -.lii - ' ' ' , ru' ■ upper Surface^ convex, for its articuktidn. with I the Radius. ' ';-l Tp • The outer Edge, in form'of a Crescent, from which 1 the Bone is named, articulated ivith the Os Scaphoides. The under Surface, kollovo, for its articulatibii') with I the Os Magnum. . The inner Surface of the Bone, articulated with the • Os Cuneifornle. yr'A The Os CuNEiFORME, situated on the inner side of tthe former Bone. The anterior Edge, thin, in form of a 'wedge. The upper and outer Surface, articulated with the Os 1 Lunare. The upper part forms a slight Convexity, which is 1 included in the Joint of the Wrist. Here the move- a able Cartilage already taken notice of is interposed be- ttw'een this Bone and the Ulna. The under and oritei- Surface, articulated wdth the Os lUnciforme. The anterior and inner Surface, forming a slight co?i- vexily for its articulation with the Os Pisiforme. The three first Bones of the Carpus form an oval ^'OL. I. H convexity.114. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. convexity, by which they are articulated with the lower end of the Bones of the Fore-arm ; the Ossa Scaphoides and Lunare being received in the Socket formed by the Radius, while the Os Cuneiforme is opposed to the Cartilaginous end of the Ulna. By this kind of arti- culation, extensive motion is allowed forwards and back- wards, and to each side ; and by a succession of these motions, the Hand is made to move in a circle, but no motion is performed by the Carpus round its own axis, except what it has along with the Radius in the Supina- tion and Pronation of the Hand. The Os PisiFOiiME, placed upon the anterior and inner Surface of the Os Cuneiforme, forming a Promi- nence which is readily felt in the Wrist, and which gives attachment to strong Tendons and Ligaments, particu- larly to part of the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare. The Os Trapezium, named from the four unequal Edges of its posterior Surface. The Situation of this Bone, at the root of the Meta- carpal Bone of the Thumb. The upper part of the Bone, forming a smooth Pit, to be articulated with the Os Scaphoides. The inner side, hollo'x, and articulated with the Os Trapezoides. The under Surface, forming a Pulley, on which the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb moves. The anterior Surface, sending out a Process, which is prominent in the Palm, and marked by the Trans- verseOF THE BONES. 115 Part I.] H2 The verse Ligament of the Wrist, by the Flexor Carpi Ra- dialis, and Flexors of the Thumb. The Os Trapezoides, so named from . its ,,being somewhat like the former Bone, though considerably smaller. The Situation of the Os Trapezoides, at the inner side of the Os Trapezium. The upper Surface, hollow^ where it joins the Os Scaphoides. The outer Surface, convex^ and articulated with the Trapezium. The inner SurfacCy articulated with the Os Mag- num. The undei' SurfacCy formed into a sort of Pulleyy to be articulated with the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore- finger. ) The Os Magnum, or Capitatum, or largest Bone of the Carpus, placed at the inner side of the tormer Bone, and consisting of four oblong sides, with a round head, and triangular under end. t The head or ball of the Bone,'received into the hol- low Surfaces of the Scaphoides and Lunare, like Ball and Socket. The under part of the outer side, joined to the Os Trapezoides- The inner sidey to the Os Unciforrae. The under endy opposed to the Metacarpal Bone of ' the Middle Finger.116 COMPENDIUM'OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Os Unciforme, placed in the under and inner part of the Wrist. The u])per and innc^' Surfacej articulated with the 0« Cuneiforme. The outet' Surface, articulated with the Os Magnum. The infei'ior Surface, opposed to the Metacarpal Bones of the Ring and Little Fingers. The anterior Surface, sending out the Unciform Pro- cess, which gives name to the Bone. The Unciform Process, curved for the passage of the Flexor Muscles of the Fingers. The Articulation between the first and second Row of Carpal Bones allows motion to each side, but chiefly forwards and backwards; the motion, however, is less extensive than between the Fore-arm and Wrist. Tlie Connection between the different Bones in each Row, is of such a nature as not to admit of any sensible motion. The Substance of the Carpal Bones is spongy, but strong in proportion to their size. The Carpus serves as a Base to the Hand, protects its Tendons, &c. and affords free and extensive motion, i In the Foetus, the Bones of the Carpus are in a Car- tilaginous state. Metacarpus, Consisting of four Bones for supporting the Fingers, and one for the Thumb. t 6 MdacarpalPart I.] 117 . OF THE BONES. Metacarpal Bones of the Fingers. Their bodies long and round, behind, forming part of 1 the -convexity of the Hand j before, giving hollowness t to the Palm. The extremities of these Bones, considerably larger I than their bodies, in consequence of which they leave : spaces for the Interossei. The upper ends or basesy faty where they are articu- 1 lated with the Bones of the Carpus. Round the edges of the Cartilaginous Surfaces, at the i upper ends, the depressio?is whei’e the Capsular Liga- jinents are fixed. The sides of the upper ends faty and drawn close to- {gether, where they are articulated with each other. Their Bodies diverging towards their under extremi- t ties, by which they regulate the motions of the Fingers. A Ridge at the upper and back part of their Bodies, 1 with a depression on each side of it, formed by the In- t terossei. The under and back part of their Bodies, made flat Iby the motion of the Tendons of the Extensors of the 1 Fingers. The anterior Surface of their Bodies concavey and 1 rendered fat at the sidesy by the Interossei Muscles. The lower endsy or headsy formed into Balls, which i are flattened upon their sides by their motions upon teach other. At the fore part of each side of the Heads, a little prominence, for the attachment of the Ligaments which f fix these Bones to each other. H 3 Round 1118 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Round the Heads, a depression, for the insertion of the Capsular Ligaments. The Metacarpal Bones are joined by their Bases to the Carpus, and to each other by nearly plain Surfaces i in const^uence of which, and the strength of their con- necting Ligaments, their motions here are inconsider- able. The Base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore-finger, opposed to, and corresponding with, the Os Trape- zoides, and partly with the Os Trapezium. The inner part of the Base, forming a Ridge, which is articulated with the Os Magnum, and with the next Metacarpal Bone. The connection of the Base is so firm, that it has little or no motion. The Metacarpal Bone of the Mid-fnger, commonly tlie second in length. The Base pf the Bone generally slanting inwards and downwards, opposed to the Os Magnum. The outer and back part of the Base projecting, and forming a sort oi Process, the external Surface of which is connected with the Ridge of the former Bone. I’he motion of this Bone is little more than that of the former one. The Metacarpal Bone of the Ring-finger, shorter than the former Bone. Its Base, semicircular where it is opposed to the Os Uncifonne. The motion is something greater than that of the for- mpr Bone.119 Part I.] OF THE BONES, The Metacarpal Bone of the Little Fingery the smallest of the four. The Base, which slants downwards and outwards, opposed to the under and inner part of the Os Unci- forme. The inner part of the Base having no smooth Sur- face, not being contiguous to any other Bone. From the nature of the Joint, the looseness of the Ligaments, and from the existence of a proper Muscle here, this Bone possesses a larger share of motion than any of the rest. The Metacarpal Bone of the Thumby having the ge- neral resemblance of those of the Fingers, but differing from them in being placed obliquely with respect to the Metacarpal Bones of the Fingers, and in some measure opposing them. This Bone thicker and stronger, but shorter than . those of the Fingers. The Base of this Bone articulated with the Pulley formed by the Trapezium, the Bone appearing to admit of flexion and extension only; but, from the looseness of the Ligaments, enjoying the same kind of motion M'ith Joints formed after the manner of Ball and Socket. The inferior extremity of the Bone, considerably flatter than those of the other Metacarpal Bones. j Fingers. ‘ The composed each of three Bones ; the three Rows of Bones, taken transversely, termed Phalanges. The different Phalanges, tapering a little as they de- H 4' scend.120 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The scend, and their Bases larger than tlieir inferior extre- mities. The posterior Surfaces convex^ and covered chiefly by the Tendinous Expansions of the Extensors of the Fingers. Their anterior Surfaces and in some parts con- cavcy for lodging the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles. Ridges at the sides of their anterior Surfaces, for the attachment of the retaining Ligaments of the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles. The first Phalanx longer than the second, and the second than the third. The Bases of the first Phalanx formed into Sockets^ to receive the Balls of the Metacarpal Bones, and to allow motion to all sides. The lower ends of this Phalanx, consisting of Prominences^ and middle Cavities or Pulleys, the Carti- laginous Surfaces of which reach considerably farther up in the fore than in the back part. The Bases of the second Phalanx, with lateral Cavi- tieSf and middle Ridges, corresponding with the Pulleys of the first Phalanx, and axlmitting of flexion and ex- . tension only. i fi The lo"iVer ends of this Phalanx, similar to those of the first. The Bases of the third Phalanx, like those of the se- cond, and the motions also similar. The under ends of the third Phalanx rough, where the Pulpy, Vascular, and Nervous Substance of the points of the Fingers is situated, r . .121 OF THE BONES. Part I.] The peculiarities of the Bones of the Fingers consist only in their size. The Bones of the Mid-finger the largest and longest. Those of the Ring-finger next in length. , The Bones of the Fore-finger next to those of the Ring-finger in length, and of the Mid-finger in thick- ness. Those of the Fourth Finger the smallest. The Thumb consisting of only two Bones. Thejirst Bone like the Bones of the first Phalanx of the Fingers, but thicker and stronger. The Cavity at the Base of the Bone, longer from one side to the other, and shallower than the Cavities of the corresponding Bones of the Fingers, but, like them, forming a Socket for the Metacarpal Bone. From the flatness of the Joint, however, and strength of the late- ral Ligaments, the motions here are confined to flexion and extension only. Tlie Icnaer end of the first Bone of the Thumb like that of the first of the Fingers. The second Bone of the Thumb like the third of the Fingers, but broader. ,, The Base of tliis Bone, like that of the second and third Bones of tlie Fingers, andjike their Joints also, admitting of flexion and extension only. ' The Substance of the Bones of the Metacarpus, and of those of the Fingers, is the same with that of the Long, Bones. . In the Foetus, both extremities of the Metacarpal Bones of the first and second, and upper ends of the third Phalanx, are in a state of Cartilage. INFE-122 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. Observe here. Each of the Inferior Extremities^ composed of the Thigh, Leg, and Foot. The Thigh consisting of a single Bone, viz. Os Femoris. The Os Femoris, the longest Bone of the Body, and thickest and strongest of the Cylindrical Bones. ‘ The Situation of the Bone, at the under and outer part of the Pelvis. The oblique situation of the body of the Bono; the under end being considerably nearer its fellow on the other side than the upper one is, which is favourable for the passages at the bottom of the Pelvis, for the ori- gin of Muscles, and for walking. , The Ball or Head of the Thigh-bone, smooth, cover- ed with Cartilage, and forming almost tw'o-thirds of a Sphere, which is received into the deep.Socket formed by the Acetabulum of the Os Innominatum. A rough Pit at the inner part of the Ball, for tlie at- tachment of the Ligamentum Rotundum, which is fixed by its other end to the bottom of the Acetabulum. 'The Ca vix or Necfc^ much longer * than that of any other12S Part I.] OF THE BONES. The other Bone, passing obliquely downwards and outwards from the Ball, to allow the free motion of the body of the Bone in different directions. Nimerous Holes in the Cervix, for the insertion of the Fibres of the Ligament reflected from the Capsular one. The Trochanter Majory placed at the outer part of the Neck, and upper end of the body of the Bone, for the insertion of the Extensor, Abductor, and Rotator Muscles of the Thigh. Two rcncgk Surfaces upon the upper and fore part of the large Trochanter, for the insertion of the Glutei, Medius and Minimus. A Cavity^ placed at the inner side of the root of the large Trochanter, for the insertion of the Rotator Muscles of the Thigh. The Trochanter Minorj at the under and inner part of the Cervix, for the insertion of the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh. The Trochanter Minor is small and pointed, and in the Subject is so much covered by Muscles, as to be out of the reach of the Finger. A 1-oiigh Line on the fore part of the Bone, extending obliquely betw'een the two Trochanters, for the insertion of the Capsular Ligament. A rough Line between the Trochanters, on the hack part of the Bone, for the insertion of the Capsular Li- gament, and of the Quadratus Femoris. The Body of the Thigh-bone, bent forwards^ and a little outwards, of a roundish form above, but somewhat triajigular about its middle.124 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The T\\efore part of the Bone, Jlat^ where it is covered by the Crurens. The Sides of the Bone jlattened at its middle and lower part by the two Vasti. The Linea Aspcra^ or Ragged Ridge, on the back part of the Bone, extending from the Trochanters, but chiefly from the large one, to the lower part of the Bone, and giving attachment to numerous Muscles which pass from the Pelvis to the Thigh, or from the Thigh to the Leg. The Linea Aspera is forked at both its extremities; extending above to the Trochanters, while below, the two lines into which it divides terminate in the Condyles. The Canal for the Medullary Vessels, slanting up- wards, a little below the middle height of the posterior part of the Bone. The undei' and hack part of the Bone jiat, where the Pojjliteal Vessels and Nerves are placed. .The longer End of the Bone becoming gradually en- larged, and perforated by many Holes, for the insertion of the Capsular Ligament of the Knee, and for the pas- sage of the Nutritious Vessels of the Bone. The lower End, also marked by the insertion of seve- ral Muscles. The Cartilaginous Trochlea at the under and fore part of the Bone, placed obliquely, with its outer Sur- face larger and higher than its inner one, to be adapted to the Patella, which moves upon it. The external and internal Condyles, continued back from the Trochlea, and also covered with Cartilage, for the motion of the Tibia.OF THE BONES. Paiit I.] The internal Condyle^ larger and deeper than the ex- ternal, to compensate for the obliquity of the Thigh, and to give less obliquity to the Leg. A Notch between the back part of the Condyles, for lodging the Popliteal Vessels and Nerves. A semilunar rough Notch, deeper and lower than the former one, for the attachment of the Crucial or inter- nal Ligaments of the Knee. The Thiffh-bone is articulated above with the Os In- O nominatum, which allows the free motion of the Body of the Bone in all directions. It is restrained, howevor, in its motions outwards by the Ligamentiim Rotundura, and by the high Brim of the Acetabulum. The Head and Neck of the Bone can move round their own axis, though its Body possesses little rotatory motion. In consequence of the oblique situation of the Head and Neck when the Ball rolls, the Body of the Bone is only brought forwards or backwards. In tlie Foetus, the different Processes of the Bone are Cartilaginous, and afterwards form large Epiphyses. The in7ier substance of this Bone, like that of other long Bones, consists of a fibrous reticular substance in the middle, and lamellated Cancelli at the extremities. The body of the Bone has remarkably thick and strong solid sides, but towards the ends these become almost as thin as a piece of paper. LEG,126 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The LEG, Cumposed of two Bones, the Tibia and Fibula,—to which may be added the Patella. Tibia, Situated at the inner part of the Leg. The upper End of the Tibia, forming a large Head, and that divided on its upper Surface into two superjinal Cavities, for receiving the Cartilaginous part of the Condyles of the Thigh-Bone. A rough Protuberance projecting between the articu- lating Cavities, and received in the space between the Condyles. It is pitted on its fore and back parts, for the insertion of the anterior and posterior Crucial Liga- ments. The articulating Surfaces at the upper end of the Ti- bia, are rendered deeper in the Subject by the addition of two semilunar Cartilages placed upon their edges. 'Phe circumference of the Plead of the Bone, rough and porous, for the insertion of the Capsular Ligament. A Tubercle at the upper and fore part of the Bone, for the insertion of the lower Tendon or Ligament of the Patella. A Cartilaginous Swface under the outer Edge of the Head of the Bone, for the articulation with the upper end of the Fibula. The Body of the Bone, of a triangular form, with the sharpest Angle placed anteriorly.127 . OF THE BONES. ; Part L] The antmor Angles called Spine or Shin^ a little waved, and extending from the Tubercle to the inner . Ankle. The anterior and inner Szoface of the Bone, smooth^ 1 being covered with skin only. The anterior and outei' Surface^ hollowed by one of t the Flexor Muscles of the Foot, and by the long Ex- 1 tensors of the Toes. The Angle at the oidcr and hack part of the Bone, j giving attachment to the Interosseous Ligament. The middle of the posterior Surface, also hollowed by ' Muscles which assist in extending the Foot, and in bend- i ing the 1 oes. A Ridge extending obliquely downwards from the 1 upper and outer part of the Bone, posteriorly, to its 1 inner Angle, and giving origin to part of the Muscles which extend the Foot and bend the Toes. A Jlat Surface above the Ridge, indicating the situa- tion of the Popliteus. The Canal for the Medullary Vessels, slanting down- wards at the inner and back part of the Bone, a little above its middle height. The under end of the Tibia, smaller than the upper one, and its inferior Surface hollow, and covered with Cartilage, for the Articulation with the Astragalus. The Malleolus Inter nus, or inner Ankle, produced from the inner and fore part of the under end, and covered also with Cartilage where the Astragalus plays. A Pit in the point of the Malleolus Internus, for the attachment of the internal lateral Ligament, and a Groove behind,J28 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartI. 1 behind, where the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus is placed. Tlie semicircular Cavity^ at the under and outer side of the Tibia, for receiving the under end of the Fibula. Round the edge of the articulating Cavity, the Bone marked by the insertion of the Capsular Ligament. The Tibia has a strong external Table, with a con- i .siderable quantity of spongy substance. j The Articulation of the upper end of the Tibia with j the Os Femoris, is of such a nature as to allow flexion to a gi'eat degree, but the numerous Ligaments fixed here prevent it from being extended beyond a straight line with the Thigh; and then there is no rotation nor lateral motion, though, when the Joint is bent, the Li- gaments are so much relaxed, that the Leg may be made in a small degree to roll, or to turn a little to either side. The Extremities of the Tibia arc Cartilaginous in the Foetus, and become afterwards Epiphyses. Fibula, Placed at the outer side of the Tibia, and by much the smaller of the two Bones, being the most slender Bone, in proportion to its length, of any in the Body. The upper end of the Fibula, formed into a large Heady with a superjicial smooth Cavity towards its inner side, to be articulated with the Tibia, where it is tied by Ligaments of such strength as to allow very little motion. J'he Head of the Fibula, irregular and rough exter- nally,129 Part L] OF THE BONES. nallyj Tor the insertion of the Biceps Flexor Cruris, and of the external lateral Ligament of the Knee. The Body of the Bone bent a little inwards and back- wards, and unequally triangular, with the surfaces be- 1 tween the Angles marked by the Muscles which arise 1 from it, or are placed upon it. A Ridge at the inner side of the Fibula, opposed to ( one at the outer part of the Tibia, for the insertion of 1 the Interosseous Ligament. A Canal on the back part of the Bone, slanting "ob- ' liquely downwards, a little above its middle, for the pas- ssage of the Medullary Vessels. The tmder End of the Fibula, broad and Jlat^ to be i received by the semilunar Cavity of the Tibia. The under end of the Bone forming the Malleolus iEitemus, or outer Ankle, which is lower and farther I back than the inner Ankle, the obliquity of the two iMalleoli in some measure corresponding with the obli- cquity of the Foot. A convex smooth Surface on the inner side of the Mai- ' lleolus Externus, opposed to the outer side of the Astra- jgalus, which moves upon it. ^ The Coronoicl, Process, sent down from the Malleolus lExternus, from which Ligaments go to the Bones at uhe outer side of the Foot. A Furro-ii} upon the back part of the Malleolus Ex- tternus, for lodging the Tendons of the Peronei. The Fibula being articulated with the Tibia at its su- .perior extremity by almost plain surfaces, and tied to it by strong and short Ligaments, only a very little mo- ition is allowed. At the under end it is joined so firmly by strong Li- VoL.I. I gamnets, 'm COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. gaments, that no sensible motion appears in the Sub- joined by an union of Substance. Tlie Fibula affords attachment to Muscles ; assists in securing the Articulation of the Foot; adds to the form •and strength of the Leg •, and, by the head of tlic Bone being fixed to that of the Tibia, it widens the space for the Interosseous Ligament. The subslance of the Tibia and Fibula is like that in other long Bones. * In the Foetus, the extremities of the Fibula are Car- tilaginous, and afterwards become Epiphyses, previous to being united to the Body of the Bone. The Patella, placed at the fore part of the Joint of the Knee, and in some respects bearing the same relation to the Tibia as the Olecranon does to the Ulna. The shape of the Patella, iriangtdar and Jlatf or of the figure of a Heart as painted upon playing-cards. The anterior Surface of the Bone, convex^ and perfo- rated by numerous Holes, for the insertion of Tendons and Ligaments which cover it. The posterior Surface., which corresponds with the Trochlea of the Os Femoris, smooth, covered witli ject j though in this joint, as in several others, where the Bones are firmly fixed by short Ligaments, there may be an elastic yielding in the living Body. In old people, these two Bones arc not unfrequcntly Patella, or Rotula. Cartilage, and divided by a longitudinal prominent Ridge into two unequal Cavities. The circumference of the articular Surface, marked byPart L] OF THE BONES. 151 by a rough Line., into \thich the Capsular Ligament of the Joint is fixed. Tlie Base, or upper part of the Bone, horizontal, and marked by the insertion of the Tendons of the Extensors of the Leg. The back part of the Apex, rough and depressed, for the attachment of the Ligament wliicli passes from the Patella to the Tubercle of the Tibia. , Tlie Ligaments of the Patella allow it to be moved upwards and downwards ; and when the Leg is extend- ed, they admit of its motion to either side, or to be rolled. When the Leg is extended, the Patella is lodged in the Trochlea of the Os Femoris; when the Limb is bent, the Patella is pulled down by the Tibia, and lodged in a hollow at the fore part of the Knee. The Patella has a thin, though firm external Table. Its internal Substance is cellular, but the Cells are small, . and have so much Osseous Matter employed in their I formation, as to give.the Bone a considerable degree of ‘ strength. The structure of this Bone, the toughness of the Li- ! gaments which cover it, and the free motion it is aliow- (ed, are found to enable it better to resist any common 1 force applied to it, than if it had been a process con- ttinned from the Tibia, as the Olecranon is from the I Ulna. The Patella defends the fore part of the Knee, and s serves as a pulley or lever^Ty enabling the Muscles : fixed to it to act with greater advantage in extending t the Leg. 12 It132 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. I It is entirely Cartilaginous at Birth, and is later in ossifying than most of the Epiphyses. FOOT, Composed of TarstiSy Metatarsusf and Tm s. Tarsus. Composed of seven Bones, viz. The AslragaluSy Os Calcis, NavicularCi Cuboides, Cuneifonne Externum, (Jh~ neiforme Medium, and Cuneiforme Internum. The upper part of the Tarsus convex, the under part concave. In the Concavity, numerous Muscles, Vessels, a.id Nerves are lodged, belonging to the Sole. The different Bones of the Tarsus have their rough Surfaces joined together by strong Ligaments, and their parts of articulation covered ii'ith Cartilage, in such a manner as to form part of a strong and elastic Arch, for supporting the weight of the Body, and lessening the shock it would otherwise undergo in the different mo- tions it has to sustain. The Astragalus, placed under the Bones of the 1-eg. The upper part of the Astragalus, formed into a large Head, resembling a Pulley, which is smooth on its upper part and sides, to be articulated with the under end of the Leg-bones. lYiciii133 OF THE BONES. Part I.] The I 3 Each of the Cartilaginous Surfaces of the Head of this Bone depressed in its middle, to correspond with the parts of the Leg-bones with which it is articulated. Round the inferior edge of the articulating Surfaces, a rough Fossa -for the insertion of the Capsular Liga- ment ; and at the sides of this Surface, the Bone mark- ed by the lateral Ligaments. The under part of the Bone, consisting of a deep FossOf or sinuous Cavity, which divides it into an an- terior and posterior articulating Surface. The Fossa in the under Surface, narrower at the inner part of the Bone, and becoming gradually wider as it goes outwards and forwards. ■The posterior artictdating Surface^ large and concave for its articulation with the upper and middle part of the Os Calcis. The anterior artictdating Surface^ irregidar and con- vex^ where it plays upon two smooth Cavities at the inner and fore part of the Os Calcis, and upon a Car- tilaginous Ligament extended between the Os Calcis and Os Naviculare. A large oblong smooth Head, at the fore part of the Bone, for its articulation with the Os Naviculare. The Joint between the Astragalus and Leg-bones forms ^.complete Hinge^ which, together with the above- mentioned Ligaments, allows the Foot to bend and ex- tend upon the Leg, but admits of no lateral nor rotatory motion, except in the extended state, when there is a little of each, In the Foetus, a considerable portion of this Bone is ossified.I3i COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. ’ 'I lie Os Calcis, the largest of the Tarsal Bones, si- tuated under the Astragalus, and in the back part of the Foot. A large rough TuherosUy or Knob, projecting behind, to form the Heel, and to make one end of the Arch of the Foot. A sujperjicial Cavity in the upper and back part of this Knob, for the insertion of the Tendo AchiUis. A smooth Convexity on the upppr part of the Bone, for its articulation with the under and back part of the Astragalus. A Fossa or Sinuous Cavity at the fore part of this ar- ticulating Surface, running forwards and outwards, and giving origin 'to strong Ligaments which are inserted into the corresponding Fossa of the Astragalus. Tivo Framincnccs at the inner and fore part of the Bone, concave, and smooth above, w'ith a Pit between them, for the articulation with the under and fore part of the Astragalus. Frpm the posterior Prominence the Cartilaginous Li- gament arises, which is fixed to the Os Naviculare. A large Cavity or Arch at the inner side of the Bone, between the posterior of the two last-mentioned Pro- cesses and Projection of the Heel, for lodging the Ten- dons of the long Flexprs of the Toes, together with thp Vessels and Nerves of the Sole, A Degression jn the external Surface of the Bone, near its fore part, where the Tendon of the Peroneiis Longus runs in its way to the Sole. The under and back part of the Bone, forming "wo Prominences, where it gives origin to the Aponeuiosis, andOF THE BONES. Part I.] 135 I 4 The and to several Muscles of the Sole ; and before the Pro- minences, the Bone concavey where it lodges part of these Muscles. The anterior Surface concavey and somewhat in form of a pulley placed obliquely, for its articulation with the Os Cuboides. The Os Calcis is articulated with the Astragalus by Ligaments of such strength, that this part of the Foot, upon which the Body rests, is rendered firm and secure, but enjoys very little motion. In the FcEtus, a large proportion of this Bone is os- sified, and the Projection forming the Heel is afterwards an Epiphysis. The Os Naviculare, situated at the fore part of the Astragalus, and inner part of the Foot. Tlie posterior Sxirfaccy forming a Cavity somewhat like that of a Boat, for receiving the Head of the As- tragalus in the manner of Ball and Socket. A Prominence at the inner side of the Bone, for the insertion of Tendons, Muscles, and strong Ligaments, particularly for the Ligament stretched between this Bone and the Os Calcis,- for the support of the Astra- galus. fore part of the Bone conveXy and divided into three articular Suifacesy for the articulation with the Ossa Cuneiformia. Between the Os Naviculare and Astragalus, the Foot has its principal lateral and rotatory motions, though each of the other Joints of the Tarsus contributes a little:J36 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PAni 1. The Os CuBoiDES, placed at the fore and outer part of the Tarsus. Tlie^o5/mor Surface this Bone mootJi^ coiwex nt Its inner^ and concave at its outer part, corresponding Avith the anterior extremity of the Os Calcis. The inner side, articulated with the Os Naviculare and external Os Cuneiforme. Its under Surface irregular where it gives attachment to strong Ligaments, and to the Adduetor Pollicis. A deep Fossa in the outer and under part of the Bone, for lodging the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus, where it crosses the Sole. The anterior Extremity, divided into a small inner, and large outer plain Surface, to be articulated with the fourth and fifth Metatarsal Bones. 'idle Three Ossa Cuneiformia, situated at the fore part of the Tarsus, and inner side of the Os Cuboides, and applied to each other like the stones of an Arch. The upper part of these Bones, flat where they are covered with Ligaments. The tinder part irregular, for the attachment of Muscles and strong Ligaments lying in the Sole. The posterior Surface, fat, and covered with Carti- lage, to be articulated w-ith the Os Naviculare. The anterior Surface, also flat, for the articulation with' the Metatarsal Bones. The Os ('uneijorme Externum, or Medium, as being of a middle size between the next two Bones, opposed to the Metatarsal Bone of the Third Toe.—The outer side of this Bone articulated with the Os Cuboides. Th?137 OF THE BONES. I Paht 1.3 The Os Cuneiforme Medium^ or Minimum, the least (of the three, and articulated at its outside with the ! former Bone, and anteriorly with the second Mctatar- ; sal Bone. The Os Cuneiform Internum, or Maximum, the I largest of the Cuneiform Bones, and placed obliquely, ’ with its anterior Surface opposed to the Mctatai’sal Bone of the Great Toe. The sharp Edge of this Bone turned upwai’ds, w’hile I that of the other two is in the opposite direction. The Os Naviculare, Os Cuhoidcs, and Ossa Cuneifor- mia, are almost Cartilaginous at Birth. Metatarsus, Composed of Jive Bo?ies, which answer to the gene- ral characters given to the Metacarpal Bones. Their bodies long, arched upwards, and tapering to- wards their anterior extremities. The extremities, large in proportion to their Bodies, and the posterior much larger than the anterior. The Bases, Jlat, or a very little hollowed, to be arti- culated with the fore part of the Tarsal Bones. From the flatness of their Bases, and the strength of fhe Ligaments w'hich fix these Bones to those of the Tarsus, very little motion is allowed to this part of the Foot. Round the Bases, rough Surfaces for the attachment of Ligaments. 1 lie Sides nj the Bases Jlat where they are articulated with each other. A13S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The A Hidge above, and a Jlat Surface at each side of their bodies, for tlie origin of the Interossei Muscles. Tliefiat Surfaces turned obliquely outwards, and the obliquity increasing the more externally the Bones are placed. The anterior Extremities ^oxinmg Balls, to be articu- lated with the Toes;—the Balls much longer from above downwards, than IVom one side to the other. Hound the Heads distinct imjiressions, where the Capsular Ligaments are fixed. The Metatarsal Bones of the Great Toe, by much the thickest and strongest, but shortest of the Metatarsus. Tlie articulating Cavity of its Base, deeper than the rest. The anterior Extremity, bearing a greater proportion to the Base than the rest, having a much larger share of the weight of the Body to sustain here, and formed into a middle Prominence, with ivco lateral Depressions, where the Bones termed Ossa Sesamoidea move. The Metatarsal Bone of the Second Toe, the longest of the five. The Metatarsal Bone of the Middle Toe, the second in length, with a Base like that of the fonner Bone, triangular, but a little larger, to be articulated with the Os Cuneiforme Externum. The Metatarsal Bone of the Fourth Toe, nearly of the same length as the former, but distinguished from it by its Base being thicker below, and its Cartilaginous Surface being more of a square form, corresponding with the anterior and inner part of the Os Cuhoides, with which it is articulated.OF THE BONES. 139 Taut L] The Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe, the shortest of those of the Small Toes, with flat Surfaces facing lupwards and downwards. The Base which rests on the Os Cuboides, projecting •outwardly into a large Tuberosity, w’hich gives origin iito Muscles, and forms one of the points on which the IBody rests in standing. The Bones of the Metatarsus, with those of the Tar- jsus, form an irregular Arch for supporting the Body, <one end of the Arch being formed by the projection of lithe Heel, the other by the anterior cxti-emity of the ^Metatarsal Bones. The different pieces composing'tliis -Arch are bound by Ligaments of such strength, as tq ^ive security to the w’hole. Toes, The Bones of the Toes, the same in number with tthose of the Fingers, viz. two to the Great Toe, and ithree to each of the smaller Toes; and the different ! Bones here, as in the Fingers, disposed in Ranks or Phalanges. The two Bones of the Great Toe like those of the ' Thumb, but stronger, and placed in the same row with the Bones of the smaller Toes, for the purpose of walk- ing, and assisting in supportijig the Body. The Buues. of the Smaller Toes, every way less than those of the Fingers. Their wider Sin face depressed, where the Tendons of their Flexor Muscles are lodged. The Bases of the first Phalanx, as in the Fingers, formingHO COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. forming Sockets to receive the Balls or Heads of the Metatarsal Bones. I’he Joints between the first and second Phalanx, and also between the second and third, us in the Fingers, forming Hinges, and the motions similar, but more confined. Of the small Toes, the Jirsl, or tliat next the Great Toe, the largest, the rest becoming smaller, the more externally they are placed. TJk; Bones of the Toes allow a free and easy motion in Children, and a considerable degree of it also in People whose Feet have not been confined in shoes. In others, especially in advanced life, the Toes are fre- quently found squeezed together, and some of the small- est Bones of the Toes, as the two last of the little one, having the pieces w’hich originally composed them joined together by an union of Substance. The structure of the Bones of the Foot is nearly si- milar to that of the Bones of the Hand. In the Foetus, the Bones of the Metatarsus and Toes are in the same condition as those of the Metacarpus and Fingers. Ossa Sesamoidea. Their size, situation, and number, vary in different persons. They arc sometimes found at the roots of the Fingers and Small Toes; at the second Joint of the Thumb, and at that of the Great Toe; between the Condyles of the Os Femoris and Gastrocnemius Muscle; between ' theI i Part!.] OF THE BONES. the Tendons of the Peroneus Longus and Os Cuboides, &c. Those commonly observed are placed in pairs at the roots of the Thumb and Great Toe, between the Ten- dons of their Flexor Muscles and Joints. They ai'e convex on their outer Surface, where they are inclosed by the Tendons and Muscles fixed to them. And concave^ and lined with Cartilage next the Joints, where they play upon the Bones with which they are articulated. They are considered by Anatomists as serving the same general purpose with tl)e Patella. PBIN- IM2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. CFartU The PRINCIPAL DIFFFJIENCES BETWEEN THE MALE AND FEMALE SKELETON. The Female Skeleton is observed, in general, to be smaller and more slender throughout than that of the !Male. The Bone of an Adult Female, of the same size with that of a Male, is usually distinguished by the Ridges, Depressions, rough Surfaces, and other Inequalities, being less conspicuous in the former. The Circumference of the Female Skull is said by Soemmering to be larger. The Os Fronds is found to be more frequently divided by a continuation of the Sagittal Suture. Tlie Frontal Sinuses are observed to be narrower j All the Bones of the Face more delicate; * Tlie Bodies of the Vertebra) longer, and the Vertebral Canal, according to the Author quoted above, larger; The Intervertebral Substances deeper or thicker; The upper part of the Thorax in proportion wider ; The under part narrow'er, or the whole Thorax less conical; The Cartilages of the True Ribs longer in propor- tion to the Osseous part, and broader and flatter to sup- port the Breasts;OF THE BONES. US Part I.] The Sternum more raised, and the whole Thorax more distant from the Pelvis; The length of the Sternum less, and terminating be- low on a line nearly opposite to the Plane of the Fourth Pair of Ribs, but in the Male Skeleton terminating op- posite to that of 'the Fiftli Pair; The Cartilage Ensiformis oftener perforated in the middle, or bifui'cated j The length of the Loins gi-eater ; The Spines and Processes of the Ossa Innominata 1 farther distant from each other j The Os Sacrum broader, and turned nioi'e back- ’ wards, to enlarge the Cavity of the Pelvis. The Os Coccygis, more slender, turned more back- ’ wards, and having a greater degree of motion ; The Ossa Ilia flatter, and more reflectetl outwards, I by which the under part of the Abdomen is rendered I more capacious; The Notches of the Ossa Ilia wider, and the conjoined 1 Surfaces of the Ossa Innominata and Os Sacrum less j The space between the Ossa Pubis larger ; of course tthe Ligamentous Cartilage of the Symphysis broader, t though shorter; Tlie Angle formed by the Crura of the Ossa Pubis xwith the Symphysis Pubis larger; that of the Male be- ling acute, while in the Female the Angle extends to 80 cor 90 degi’ces; The Tuberosities of the Ossa Ischia flatter, and at a egreater distance from each other ; The Brim of the Pelvis wider, and of an oval form, cori’esponding144 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. corresponding with the Head of the Child, and the longest Diameter extending between the Ossa Ilia. In the Male, the Brim of the Pelvis observed to have more of a circular appearance, and to have the greatest extent between the Ossa Pubis and Os Sacrum. The Opening at the under part of the Pelvis, in the Female, much wider, and of an oval form j but the oval the reverse of that at the Brim ; The Foramina Ovalia wider. All the Openings at the under part of the Pelvis, being wider, leave a large passage for the Birth of the Child j 'I'he Acetabula farther distant from each other, in consequence of which. Women who are very broad at this part of the Body waggle when they walk ; The Ossa Femorum more curved: The Neck of the Thigh-bone forming a greater Angle with its Body; 'I'he Body of the Thigh-bone placed more obliquely; , 'i'he internal Condyle larger. 'Pile Feet smaller; The Clavicles less crooked ; The Scapulai smaller *, The Superior Extremities shorter; 'Hie Ossa Carpi narrower j and, 'The Fingers more tapering towards their Extremities. PARTTAn.i. jTABLE I Represents a Front View of the Male Skeleton> witli some of the Cartilages and Ligaments which connect the Bones to each other. FIead, and Neck. A, The frontal bone. B, The parietal bone. C, Temporal process of the sphenoid bone. D, Squamous part of the temporal bone. E, Mastoid process of that bone. F, The malar, or cheek-bone. G, The nasal bone, behind which is tlic nasal process of,' H, The superior maxillary bone. I, The lower jaw. K, The cervical vertebrae, with their intermediate car- tilages and transverse processes. Trunk. A, The sternum. B, The seventh, or last true fib. C, The cartilages of the ribs. D, The twelfth, or last false rib. E, The lumbar vertebrae, with their intervertehral car- tilages and transverse processes. F, The os sacrum. G, The os innominatum, composed of, c, The os ilium, ht The os pubis, c, The os ischium. •i VOL, I. A Upper.TABLE I. CONTINUED. Upper Extremity. A, The clavicle. B, Inner surface of the scapula, a, The acromion of the scapula. bi The coracoid process of that bone. C, The os humeri. c, The head, or ball of the os humeri, articulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. <f, Internal tubercle of the os humeri, and farther out, the groove for lodging the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. Cy The inner, and, fy The outer condyle of the os humeri. Between e and J'y the hollow for lodging the coronoid process of the ulna in the flexion of the fore arm. D, 1 he radius. gy 'I'he head of the radius. E, The ulna. h. The coronoid process of the ulna. E, The bones of the carpus. G, The metacarpal bone of the thumb. H, The metacarpal bones of the fingers. I, The two bones of the thumb. K, The three phalanges of the fingers. \ Under Extremity. A, The os femoris. dy The ball or head of this bone, lodged in the aceta- bulum. ty 'I'hc cervix of the bone. /’, The large trochanter. gy The small trochanter. hy TheTable i . continued, /i!, The inner condyle, z. The outer condyle. B, The patella, placed upon the trochlea of the os fe- moris. C, The tibia. ky The head of the tibia, between which and the con- dyles of the os femoris, the semilunar cartilages ap- pear. /, The tubercle of the tibia. miy The malleolus internus. D, The fibula, the upper end of which is connected with the tibia. The malleolus externus. E, The bones of the tarsus* o, The projection of the os calcis. F, The metatarsal bones. G, The phalanges of the toes.'r- .If/ i *1' ’/I \, •r T A B L E , II. Represents a Back View of the Male Skeleton, with some of the Cartilages and Ligaments which connect the Bones to each other. Head and Trunk. A, The parietal bone. «, The sagittal suture, and parietal holes. B, The occipital bone. h, bf The lambdoid suture. C, The joining of the temporal and parietal bones. D, The cheek-bone. E, F, The inner or back part of the jaws, with the teethe G, The first cervical vertebra. H, The second cervical vertebra. I, The seventh cervical vertebra. c. The spinous processes of the cervical .vertebrae. K, The first dorsal vertebra. L, The twelfth dorsal vertebra. i ■dy The spinous processes of the dorsal vertebra?. e, Their transverse processes. M, Tl»e first lumbar vertebra. m N, The fifth lumbar vertebra. Their spinous, and, . gy Their transverse processes. O, The os sacrum. j 7iy The uppermost spinous process. Farther out are seen the superior oblique processes of this bone, joined to the inferior oblique of the last lumbar vertebra. A 3 '■ • i, TheTABLE II. CONTINUED. E, The r, /, The lateral parts of the os sacrum, joined to the ossa innominata. Between i and O, the posterior foramina of the os sacrum. 1?:, An opening in the under and back part of this bone, covered in the subject by a ligamentous membrane. P, The os coccygis, joined by its shoulders to the os sacrum at the lower part of the opening h. Q, The os ilium. R, The os pubis. S, The os ischium. T, U, The seven true ribs. V, V, The five false ribs. SurERioR Extremity. A, The clavicle. B, I'he dorsum scapulae. flf, The spine of the scapula. iy The acromion of the scapula, c, A fossa for lodging the supra-spinatus muscle. dy An irregular surface, occupied by the infra-spinatus muscle. C, The os humeri. Cy The ball of the os humeri. fy The external tubercle of the bone. gy The external condyle. hy The internal condyle. iy Cavity for lodging the olecranon of the ulna. D, The radius. Icy The head of the radius, articulated with the trochlea of the os humeri. ly The under end of the radius, grooved by the tendons of muscles.TABLE II. CONTINUED. E, The ulna. m, The olecranon of the ulna. «, The under end of the ulna, with its styloid process. F, The bones of the carpus. G, The metacarpal bone of the thumb. H, The metacarpal bones of the fingers. I, The two bones of the thumb. K, The three phalanges of the fingers. Inferior Extremity. A, The os femoris. c. Part of the ball of the os femoris. l>. The cervix of the bone. * c, The trochanter major. d, The trochanter minor. e, The cavity for lodging the popliteal vessels and nerves. _ y, The external condyle. g, The internal condyle. //, The semilunar cartilages. B, The tibia- 2, The head of the tibia. The malleolus internus. C, The fibula. i, The head of the fibula. m. The malleolus externus. D, The bones of the tarsus, w, The astragalus. o, The os calcis. P, The fore part of the tarsus. E, The bones of the metatarsus. F, The phalanges of the toes. A 4 /: ■t vi V •i j .' ^ H a\' T W ■'j/..,«vir ^ ■■ ' :p. ,r . *' '.•Wffj : «»».• >«j k f ^ ‘ yii' ‘ ' » ’ r, * .< #•; ‘ j •' 1 * f f "<^** '’■ * 4'* ^ .v<*-u>- ■ ■*.’ tJB r^Mn?=« "'•)nrr:^;» i»HT .ij .<i«,l.t l *^f" JPr tf'-* .»;;nr>;..- 'ji<JPlkibi>^4> % «'* jiiw-uf ,'J .#h ,, .)vUi lu b»:«4tlt(ri .^■i;::<<.V V . ('' A n.*»<5 r .,o'.-^ - <fj" 1^. 'vr U; •.■.:{ *^.*t V i , -,, 1} ► .. - * ‘* - '■* . , ■ z . >ArcM^a!(/ *Jr/ 1’AliLE m. Views of the diiferent Bones of the Cranium. FIG. 1. The Outer Surface of the Frontal Bone. c, Tlie middle and convex part of the bone. hy Part of the temporal fossa, c, Cy c, c. The angular processes. dy The nasal process. c. Eminences and cavities to which the nasal and maxil- lary bones are fixed. fyfy The superciliary arches. gyg, The superciliary holes. hy hy The orbitar plates. iy iy The lacrymal fossai. ' hy hy The internal orbitar foramina. lyly Inequalitieswhich unite this bonetothe os sphenoidcs, FIG. 1?. The Iiuier Surface of the Frontal Bone. Oy The concave part of the bone. hy Ihc cavity which lodges the anterior lobes of die brain. Cy The frontal spine. dy The furrow where the falx is fixed, and the superior longitudinal sinus is lodged. Cy The ragged edge of the bone, which assists in form- ing the coronal suture. fyfy Other inequalities, which join the frontal to the sphenoid bone. Si S> inner surface of the angular processes. h, Uhe posterior surface of the nasal process. iy iy Other inequalities, near the nasal process, /•, h, The orbitar plates. lyl, Tl;eTABLE III. CON'TINUED. (?, The L /, The lacryinal fosssc. ?w. My Cells which correspond with tliose of the ethmoid bone. 72, Vy The passages from the frontal sinuses. Oy The foramen caecum. jpy The opening which receives tlie cribriform plate of the oethmoid bone. qy qy Furrows which lodge the blood-vessels of the dura mater. FIG. 3. External Surface of the Eight Parietal Bone. Oy The middle convex part of the bone. by by The upper ragged edge of the bone, w'hich, when joined to its fellow, forms the sagittal suture. The anterior edge, which assists in Ibrming the co- ronal suture. dy The posterior edge, which joins the occipital bone, and forms the lambdoid suture. €y The inferior semilunar edge, which joins the squa- mous part of the temporal bone. The parietal hole. An arched ridge, which gives origin to a large share of the temporal muscle. hy hy hy Jiy Thc angles of the bone. FIG. 4-. Internal Surface of the same Parietal Bone. Oy The middle concave part. hy The inner surface of the upper edge of the bone, where the indentations are more apparent than those of the outer side. Cy The parietal hole. dy The anterior serrated edge of the bone.TABLE III. CONTINUED. e, The posterior edge, more indented than the antcrlorone. The superior angles. g, The inferior-anterior angle, where the beginning of the furrow is seen, which lodges the trunk of the principal artery of the dura mater. /;, /i, The ramifications of that furrow'. 7, 7, Small furrows which lodge other arteries of the dura mater. /c, A depression which lodges part of the lateral sinus. The inferior edge of the bone, considerably thinner than the rest. FIG. 5. Fiew oj the External Surface of the Occipital Bone. o, The superior angle of the bone. Z>, h. The ragged edge, which assists in forming the lambdoid suture. c, c. The irregularities at the lateral and inferior parts of the bone, where it is joined to the ossa temporum. rf. The large transverse arched ridge, or spine. e, e. Muscular prints upon the transverse ridge. f I he perpendicular spine. g. The smaller arched ridge, crossing the perpendicular spine. /i, /i, jNIuscular prints above, 7, The foramen magnum. Z-, The occipital condyles. /, I, The posterior condyloid foramina. 7/7, ?/?, The inner side of the left, and outer side of the right anterior condyloid foramen. 77 , 77, Nitches which assist in forming the holes common O to the occipital and temporal bones. 77, I'he cuneiform process, marked by the attachment of muscles. FIG,T ABLE III. CONTINUED. FIG. 6. Internal Surface of the Occipital Bone. <7, The superiox’ .angle of the bone. h, by The inicklle or lateral angles. c, Cy Eminence and c.avities which assist in forming the lambdoid suture. dy dy The superior occipital fossae, which lodge a share of the posterior lobes of the brain. €y Cy The inferior occipital fossae, which contain part of the cerebellum. fy The upper limb of the perpendicular spine, which receives the superior longitudinal sinus, and lias the falx fixed to it. g, The lower limb of that spine, to which tlie falx mi- nor is fixed. hy hy The fossae, which contain the lateral sinuses, and have the tentorium fixed to their edges. i, iy The openings which form part of the foramina lacera, common to this bone and to the os temporis. Jcyky The small processes which assist in forming the for.amina lacera. /, ly The posterior condyloid holes. 772, The anterior condyloid hole of the right side. 77, The concave surface of the cuneiform process. . Oy The inequalities of the cuneiform process, by which ' it is united with the sphenoid bone. 2>y The foramen magnum. FIG. 7. The Outer Surface of the Temporal Bone of the Tight Side. Uy The upper and squamous part of the bone. by The under part, whiclu lodges a portion of the tem- poral muscle. Cy ThatTABLE III. CONTINUED. c, That part of tlie bone wliich assists in forming the additamentum of the squamous suture, rf, The zygomatic process, e, The transverse, or articijlar process. fj The mastoid process. / Small holes, for transmitting vessels to the bone, or to the dura mater. hy The meatus auditorius externus, surrounded by a rough margin. iy The glenoid, or articular cavity. ky The glenoid fissure, for the attachment of part ol the articular ligament. ly The vaginal process. y«, Part of the mastoid groove. K, The styloid process. Oy The foramen mastoideum. jp. The base, or upper part of the mastoid process. qy The inferior and anterior part of the bone, which joins the os sphenoides. r, A small portion of the Eustachian Tube. Sf The ppint of the pars petrosa. FIG. 8. The Inner Surface of the Temporal Bone. fty The upper edge of the squamous process. hy The middle of that process, marked by the convolu- tions of the brain. Cy A part of the bone which joins the os sphenoides. dy A nitch which receives the under and back part of the parietal bone. Cy The upper part of the pars petrosa. fy A groove which lodges the superior petrosal sinus. gy The'TABLE III. CONTINUED. The fossa whicli lodges part of the lateral sinus* //, The meatus auditorius internus. ty The nitoh which assists in forming the foramen lacerum. Ay Part of the fossa which lodges the beginning of the internal jugular vein. , I, The posterior part of the bone which joins the os oc~ cipitis. jn, The foramen mastoideum. 9/y A portion of the mastoid process. Oy The mastoid groove. jf. The styloid process. f/y The inner extremity of the pars petrosa divided into two portions. FIG. 9. The Upper and Inner Surface of the CEthmoid Bone. a, The anterior extremity of the bone, terminating in a small flat process. 7/y Tlie crista Galli. Cy Cy The cribriform plate, for the passage of the olfac- t<ii-y nerves. d, dy The posterior oethmoid cells. Cy The back part of the nasal plate, which forms part of the septum narium. fyfy The posterior margin of the bone. g, Tlie os planum of the left side. //, hy The sphenoid cornua, or triangular bones, which join the body of the sphenoid bone; their fore parts bein" fixed to the oethmoid one. O FIG. 10. The Upper and Outer Surface of the CEthmoiu Bone. Oy The nasal plate, which forms the upper part of the septum narium. Z). h. TheT ABLE III. CONTINUED. bf bf The ossa spongiosa superiora, convex towards the septum of the nose,, and concave outwards. Between the ossa spongiosa and nasal plate deep chinks are seen, which separate these processes from each other. c, c, Inequalities by which this bone is joined to the frontal one. rf, dy The sphenoid cornua. FIG. 11. The Inner and Upj)er Surface of the Sphenoid Bone. a. The fore part of the bone, which joins,the under and back part of the frontal one. hy by The temporal plates or pi'ocesses. Cy Cy The transverse processes. dy A small anterior process, which unites with the oeth- moid bone. Cy The processus olivaris. fyfy The foramina optica. gy gy The anterior clinoid processes. hy hy The posterior clinoid process. ' iy iy Part of the foramina lacera. ky ky Impressions made by the internal carotid arteries. ly The sella Turcica. iHy viy The temporal fossae, which receive the lateral lobes of the brain. n, Hy The foramina rotunda, Oy Oy The foramina ovalia. Py py The foramina spinalia. £> The ragged end of the bone, which assists in form- ing the sphenoid suture. r, The back part of the body of the bone, which joins the cuneiform process of the occipital one. s, Sy PartTABLE III. CONTIKUED. ff, Sf Part of the spinous, and, A, t, Part of the pterygoid process. F I G. 12. 'j/7ie Outer or Under Surface of the Sphenoid Bone. <T, The processus azygos. f)y b. The sphenoid cornua. <, Cy The openings of the splienoid sinuses, d, dy The foramina lacera. e. The fore part of the body of the bone. fyfy The outer surface of the transverse processes. S> The orbital* plates. hy hy 'file temporal processes. 7y iy The asperities by which this bone is joined to the ossa malarum. Z, Icy Gutters, which lodge branches of the fifth pair of nerves. /, ly The foramina rotunda. VIy my The foramina pterygoidea. iiy 7iy Anterior openings, which assist in forming the sphenoid fissures. o, Cy The foramina ovalia. ■fy r>y The spinous processes. tiy (jy The roots of the pterygoid processes. Iy Ty Tile internal plates of the pterygoid processes. £y Sy Hook-like processes at the extremities of the in- ternal plates ty ty 'I'he external plates of the pterygoid processes. tty u, Parts of the bone adapted to the ossa palati. Vy Posterior openings, common to the occipital and temporal bones, over which the internal carotid arte- ries pass.* i'ijj J. Ft if. S. Fitf.^. Fiq.iO. Fitf. / /F,'irrit/ittlii ^c.1 (bA n VOL. I. F IG. > 1 T A B I. E IV. Represents the different Bones of the Face, a Sec- tion of the Nose, and Inner and Under Sides of the Skull, with the Small Bone termed Os Hyoides. FIG. 1. The Outer Surface of the Ossa Nasi. a, a, The upper part, which isjoined to the frontal bone. h, b. The lower ragged end, to which the cartilage of the no.se is fixed. The black points represent holes penetrating the bones. FIG. 2. The Inner Surface of the Ossa Nasi. a, a, The inner edge of each, thick and strong, where it joins its fellow, and sends a spine backwards, to be fixed to the partition of the nose. b, b, The cavity which forms part of the arch of the nose. FIG. 3. The Outer Surface of the Left Os Unguis. a, The lacrymal process, perforated by numerous holes, b, The orbitar process. 1C, The ridge which separates the processes. ' FIG. 4. The Inner Side of the Os Unguis, ’laith Eminences and Cavities ishich belong to the Ethmoid Cells.TABLE IV. CONTINUED, 4* FIG. 5. 2'hc Older Surface of the Right Os Mal.t:. Oy The superior orbitar process. hy The inferior orbitar process, c, The internal orbitar plate. (ly The maxillary process. Cy Tile zygomatic process. fy 'I’he external orbitar hole. gy gy The under and outer edge of the orbit. hy Part of the inner rough surfaceof the maxillary process. iy The zygomatic nitch. FIG. 6. The Inner Surface of the same Os Mal*. Uy by Cy (ly Cy US iU Fig. 5. fy The internal fossa, and situation of the external or- bitar hole. g, gy The rough edge which joins the os maljE to the su- perior maxillary bone at the external orbitar suture. FIG. 7. The Outer Side of the Right Superior Maxillary Bone, •with a small Portion of the Os Palati. Uy The maxillary fossa. by The nasal process of the maxillary bone. Cy Inequalities, by which it is joined to the os frontls. dy The angle which is johied to the under end of the os nasi, and to the cartilage of the nose. Cy The orbitar plate. fy ‘The edge of the orbit.B 2 ly The t table IV. CONTINUEl). g, A groove which belongs to the infra-orbitar canal. //, i, i, The malar process. k, Jcf The alveolar process. If The maxillary tuberosity.' m, A small portion of the os palati. 7?, n. Small holes which penetrate the bone, o, The fore part of the nostril. Py The nasal spine, forming part of the partition of the nose. qy The palate-plate. Vy The foramen infra-orbitarium. Sy Sy The two dentes incisores. ty The dens caninus. Uy iiy The five dentes molares. FIG. 8. The Inner Surface of the Superior Maxillary, and of the Palate Bones. Oy The nasal process, or upper angle. by The middle angle at the base of the nasal process. Cy Inequalities, where the fore part of the os spongio- sum inferius i^ fixed. dy The palate process. €y The alveolar process. fy The irregular surface of the palate process, which joins its fellow of the opposite side. gy The maxillary sinus. hy Small cells in the upper part of the bone. iy The lacrymal fossa- Icy The palate fissure, which assists in forming the fora- men incisivum.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. /, The suture which unites this bone to the os palati. my The part of the bone which forms the largest share of the nasal fossa. iiy The nasal spine. o, A rough surface, where the fore part of the bone joins its fellow. j>y The palate bone. q. The small sinus commonly found in this bone. r. The nasal lamella of the palate bone, forming part of the maxillary sinus, and of the cavity of the nostril. 5, An eminence, where this bone is connected to the in- ferior spongy one. ty The rough surface, where the two palate bones unite. Uy The hole proper to this bone. Vy The foramen gustativum, or palatinum posterius. The pterygoid process. Xy Xy The teeth. FIG. 9. The Posteriory and almost the whole of the Exteriw Sur- face of the Left Os Palati. c. The palate plate. by The pterygoid process. Cy The nasal plate. ^ dy I he orbitar process. Cy A small sinus, corresponding witli those of the eth- moid bone. fy The notch which forms part of the foramen spheno- • palatinun). gy A small hole which penetrates the bone. hy Part.TABLE IV. COKTINUED. FIG. n 3 hy Part of the groove which helps to form the foramen gustativum. FIG. 10. The Anteriory and almost all the External Surface of the same Palate Bone. ay A notch which assists in forming the foramen gusta- tivum. by The orbitar process. Cy The palate plate. dy The nasal plate. Cy The groove which helps to form the foramen gustativum. fy The pterygoid process. FIG. 11. The External Concave Surface of the Os Spongiosum Infeuius of the Left Side. ay The under edge of the bone turning outwards. by The upper edge, sending down a hook-like plate, to cover a portion of the maxillary sinus. Cy The broad anterior extremity, where the connection is chiefly made with the superior maxillary bone. dy The posterior extremity, narrow and irregular in its surface. Cy The external surface, with numerous small holes, which mark its porosity. fy The part which joins the os unguis, to form a share of the lacrymal groove. FIG. 12. The Inner Convex Surface of the same Os Spongiosum Infekius, ichichy like the External Surfacey is also qf a Spongy Texture.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. FIG ^ FIG. IS. The LiCft Side of the Vomer. Cy The hollow surface, which receives the processus azygos of the sphenoid bone. by The anterior and upper edge, which is connected to the nasal plate of the ethmoid bone, and middle carr tilage of the nose. Cy The inferior edge, which is connected to the palate plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones. dy A ridge upon the side of the vomer. FIG. 14. The Lower Jaw, viersedfrom the Right Side. fl. The symphysis of the jaw. by by Muscular prints. Cy Another depression, which marks the middle of the chin. dy The base of the jaw. €y The angle of the right side. fy The inner surface of the angle of the left side. gy The ascending plate, with muscular prints. hy hy The coronoid, and, iy iy The condyloid processes. Jcy ky The cervix on each side. I, ly Semilunar notches between the processes. my The posterior maxillary foramen. Vy The anterior maxillary foramen. Oy The alveoli of the teeth. j)y The two dentes incisores of the right side. qy Tlie dens caninus. y. The five dentes molares.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. /•, The ■B f F I G. 15. The Teeth. 1. The base or body of the tooth, covered with enamel. 2. Tlie root, or fang, destitute of enamel. • 3. The neck, or collai’. <!', Sections of two teeth, to shew the extent of tlie ena- mel, with the direction of its fibres—The fibrous and lamellated structure of the osseous part—The internal cavity for containing the pulp. «, A fore and back view of the incisores of the under jaw. 6, Tlie similar teeth of the upper jaw. c. A fore and back view of the dentes canini. The two small molares. r, The three large molares. FIG. 16. The Left Portion of the Base of the Skull, dividedfrom the Septum Naritm, hy a perpendicular Section, pro- ceeding in a straight line from before hackv:ards. a. Part of the frontal bone. b, The posterior lamina, called vitrea. f. The frontal sinus. d. Part of the transverse suture, dividing the frontal from the superior maxillary bone. e. Part of thefrontal bone, contiguous to the os ethmoides. f. The upper part of the ethmoid bone. g. g. The cells of the ethmoid bone, the anterior which are entire, the rest laid open. //, h, The openings of the ethmoid cells into the nose.- it The uppermost passage of the nostril.TABLE IV. CONTINUED, FIG. Jiy The left anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. ly The posterior clinoid process. viy The sella Turcica. iiy The left sphenoid sinus. Oy The part where the sinus opens into the upper and back part of the nose. Py A section of the body of the sphenoid, and of the cuneiform process of the occipital bone. qy The spinous process of tlie sphenoid bone. Ty The internal pterygoid plate. Sy The fore part of the meatus auditorius. iy The superior condyloid foramen. iiy The mastoid process of the temporal bone. Vy The inner side of the occipital bone. The cut edge of that bone. Xy The under and outer part of that bone. y, The nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Zy The inner side of that bone forming the middle pas- sage of the nostril. 1, Part of the same bone, which forms the beginning of the lower passage of the nostril. 2, A section of the alveolar process. 3, A section of the osseous palate. 4, The os spongiosum superius. by The middle passage of the nostril, 6, The opening of the antrum maxillare. 7, The os spongiosum inlerius. 8, That part of the inferior spongy bone which lies over the opening of the lacrymal duct. 9, The lowest passage of the nostril.TABLE IV. CONTINUE^. FIG. 17. A View of the Inner Surface of the Base of the Cranium. rt, The zygoma. hy The mastoid process of the temporal bone. Cy The external surface of the occipital bone. dy dy The frontal fossae marked by the brain. ^ Cy' Part of the frontal spine. fy The foramen caecum, placed at the bottom of the frontal spine. gy The cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. hy The crista galli of this bone. iy The sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Jcy ky The anterior clinoid processes. ly ITie posterior clinoid process. My A small process of the sphenoid bone, fixed to the ethmoid one. iiy », Part of the sphenoid suture, ^ Oy The processus semi-olivaris. jp, j9. The temporal fossae. qy qy The transverse spinous processes. Ty r, The foramina optica. Sy Sy A small portion of the foramina lacera. ty ty The foramina rotunda. Uy Uy The foramina ovalia. Vy Vy The foramina spinalia. "iVy iv, Impressions made by the internal carotid arteries, ar, Xy Points of the partes petrosas of the temporal bones, and, before these, irregular openings, which in the subject are filled, partly by bone, and partly by a lir gamentous substance. j/, ?/, SutureTABLE IV. CONTINUED. Suture common to the sphenoid and temporal boncsi I, 1, Squamous parts of the temporal bones, which complete, 2,2, The temporal fossae for the lateral lobes of the brain. 3, 3, The ridge of the pars petrosa on each side, to which the tentorium is fixed. if 4, The posterior surface of the jiars petrosa on each side, which is opposed to the cerebellum. 5, The foramen innominatum. 6, The groove which lodges the superior petrosal sinus. 7, 7, The meatus auditorii interni. 8, 8, The foramina lacera common to the temporal and occipital bones. 9, 9, The fossae for lodging the lateral sinuses. 10, The cuneiform process of the occipital bone. II, 11, The anterior condyloid foramina of that bone. 12, The foramen magnum. 13, 13, The inferior occipital fossae, which lodge the corresponding lobes of the cerebellum. 14, The inferior limb of the cruciform spine, to which the falx minor is fixed. 15, Part of the lambdoid suture. 16, 16, The fossae for the inferior petrosal sinuses. 17, 17, The cut edge of the skull. FIG. IS. Jlcpresents the Outer and Under Surface of the Skull, turned a little to.the left side. <7, The parietal bone. by The lambdoid suture. Cf Cf The large transverse arched ridge of the occipital bone. d, df TheThe foramen magnum. o TABLE IV. CONTINUED. 5, The ^ 'c> a 5%- ^ ^ -d, dy The smaller transverse ridge, with muscular prints on each side of it. e, The spinous tuberosity, seen in some skulls only, The perpendicular spine. i The cuneiform process. iy The articular or condyloid processes. ; k. The posterior condyloid foramina. ' ’ . The squamous portion of the temporal bone, ^ , The squamous suture. riy The mastoid processes. , t Oy The mastoid fissures. , ' The foramen mastoideum. • The zygoma and zygomatic suture. ui’ Ty The glenoid cavity at the root of the zygoma, for the articulation of the lower jaw. ‘ ‘ Sy Sy The styloid processes, behind the roots of which the foramina stylo-mastoidea are concealed. •% ty The meatus auditorius externus. • * Uy Uy The foramina carotica. ^ . VyVy The jugular fossae. a>, te, The pterygoid foss», at the sides of which are the pterygoid plates. Xy The temporal process of the sphenoid bone. ^y The spinous process and spinous hole of that bone. Zy Zy The osseous mouths of the Eustachian tubes. 1,1, The foramina ovalia. 2, 2, Passages common to the occipital, temporal, and sphenoid bones. S, 3, The foramina pterygoidea. ■4, The inferior orbitar fissure.1 TABLE IV. CONTINDED. 5, The under part of the tuber or bulge of the superior maxillary bone. 6, 6, The inner sides of the ossa raalarum. 7, 7, The superior and inferior spongy bones, with a view of the back part of the nostrils. 8, The posterior edge of the vomer. 9, 9, The palate-plates of the superior maxillary bones, with the longitudinal palate-suture. 10, 10, The palate plates of the palate bones, with the transverse, and continuation of the longitudinal pa- late sutures. • - i 11,11, The foramina gustativa, or posterior palate holes. 12, The foramen incisivum, or anterior palate hole. 13, 13, The teeth, divided into two incisores, one cani- nus, two small molares, and three large molares on each side. FIG. 19. The Os Hyoides, seen from the Upper and .fire Part, «, The body of the os hyoides. hy by Its cornua. CyCy Its appendices. '■ * t 'r r a _ • • I /h 9 ‘.ci- - ■* , .-• « ; • rr r» f‘ PART II. iV' »a»^ OP THE MUSCLES. Voi. I. KI < . I " . i- 1 A. .1 ■;(>'/ ■ ■ 7 ■■ V ■ ■ I'r-jv, JsK.: '' , Wkf •• ( ■ • JA* ■\ , (/ /I i<HJ:.M!iW: r"' >; Jjl “1 HL'- .A . . - t >; , - »■ I ,'• ”. ' ' '’■' jI<A .ii V'i>vi A»•'- tA.irV f**''*' ,' .-uUi*ii ic. lawou 11S4U *. V r,T . i i \ / . . i' ^ ' jo« yi ., - a: t \ v>U)eA/W »*): -1^*41* jSjAu'aiipii. vil I < iij'd ,i3£!Jo iUi»-3‘Utxiu wJ ^ rr»*M a» ‘;,nfWiu^rdtjfe. ^ I j?3^ ,44V;Vi,w^A.i *.l\ ii. i* . •.,. , *ri t ^ “ ^#* * ' * f 43 •J'sa ’ ■ V •'* — iW'jK. *•. 4 ^ r O': ./';:* r- ^ *ir>rtcv. .»- .•,■ '* ->V*^ . ' ■ tiLi i£j * <v .-iw^ n .,-’>« •»•■<* • a»' - -4*\' ■i V - ' H v;ujj.Vr&i .'• .IjU'.v V • I. # ‘ I * ' V. Vlr: ^ *i; , j •■'' aOF THE K 2 which MUSCLES IN GENERAL. *THE MUSCLES serve for the motion of the diffe- rrent parts of the Body, and derive their general name fFrom their power of contracting. Of Muscles in gen&ral^ the follffiaing things are to he attended to. The Cellular Substance^ which surrounds the Muscles, land allows them to move upon each other, and upon llhe adjacent parts. ^ The Cellular Substance, condensed in certain parts of tine Body, and giving an appearance of Membraney for- maerly called Tunica Propria Musculorum. The Division of a Muscle into The Originy or Head;—or that extremity of the NMuscle which arises from the most fixed part, and to- wards which the contraction is made ; The Bellyy or thickest party which swells when the Muscle is in action ; The Insertion, or Termination, or that extremityU8 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. which is implanted into the part to be moved, and which is commonly smaller than the Origin. The Division of a Muscle into Fleshy mid Tendinous Parts. The Fleshy part distinguished by being soft^ sensible^ generally of a red colour^—from the great quantity of Blood in it,—and possessing contractility. The Fleshy part, composed of a collection of Fibres, intermixed with Blood-vessels, Lymphatics, and Nerves, with some Cellular Substance and Fat. The Muscular Fibres consist chiefly of Fibrin^ with a small quantity of Gelatin, Albumen, and Saline Matter. The Division of Muscles into Rectilineal^ as in the Sartorius;—Simple Penniform^ as in the Peroneiis Lon- gus;—Complete Penyiiform, as in the Rectus Femoris;— Compound Penniform, as in the Fore paH of the Soletis ; —Radiated^ as in the Pectoralis Major;—Holloxa, as in the Hearty Intestines^ Bladder of Uriney Sfc. The partiadar Names of Muscles are taken from their shapey sizey situatioiiy directiony compositiony uscy and attachment. The Tendoiiy like the fleshy part of the Muscle, is of a fibrous nature, but is distinguished from the Flesh, by being generally smallery fiimery stronger —of a vdiite glistening coloury having no contractilityy and little or no sensibility in the sound state. From long boiling, it is observed to afford a large portion of Jelly, or Glue. Tendons have very few Blood-vesselsy and no evident Nerves. Tendons connect Muscles to Bones, and by the small- ness of their siae compared to the Belly of the Muscle, preservefpAH7 no OP THE MaSCEE?^. m ^t»erre ihe elegance atwi gyrnttieiry of tK« paarU <m twhich they are placed. 'fhe AjrpejuiMgn of Moaclc», viz. Aj)f/nrur(jv%y (/r Faucial which are the TcihIww e%- jotnded upon a waJe .Surface, scrvinjf to jpve (a.4ertk«i m MuscDlar Fibre*, to feeep ihetn in their pff/par Mtua.- uioii, and V> brace them in tfieir action. Annular JJgammis^ to keep Tendrm* from Uartirtff, 'rtochka:f or PfdUySt to alter the direction (X T«n- ilcn*. liuruB MucotrEt placed where TerxJon* pisgr c/ver hard iSolmtances, serving \jo contain Sjnovia, and prevent /Abraeion. JMUSCLE8 o» Tilt INTEGUMENTS otiMt CRA- NIUM, Aao or TMt EYE-LIDS. Occimo-FaoaTAiis, Vd Ouijntalis et Fruntali$f vel Fpkraniuf, ^c. Ortatn s He*hy from near the middle <A tlie upper itched Ridge of tl»e Occipital Hone, and 'fendtru/m from the extremity of tliat Ridge, wliere it the 11 emporal Hf>Tte.—It arise* after the name manner on the ^>ther dde. From the FTcsIiy (>rigin*, and also from 'between tl»em, a 'Tendiooua Exparision » extended •along the upper part eA the Cranium, adhering firmly to tlie Skin, ar>d but iooaely to Urn Ferlcraoiarro—At K 2 the150 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. the upper part of the Forehead it becomes Fleshy, and descends with straight Fibres. Insertion : Into the Skin and parts under it belonging to the Eye-brows, and to the Frontal Bone at the inner part of the Orbit. Action: To move all that part of the Skin which covers it, and particularly the Skin of the Brow and Eye-Brows. From the under and middle part of the Muscle, a Sli}), termed by Chaussier Fronto-Nasalis, is conti- nued down upon the Root of the Nose, to be connect- ed with the Compressor Naris, and Levator Labii Su- perioris Alaeque Nasi. Tbis Slip may either assist the Nasal Muscles con- nected with it, or antagonize the Occipito-frontalis. CoRRUGATOR SuPERCILII, By Chaussier, Fronto-Superciliaris. Origin: From the internal Angular Process of the Os Fronds, above the joining of that Bone with the Os Nasi. From thence it runs upwards and outwards, in the direction of the Superciliary Ridge, and behind the inferior part of the Occipito-frontalis. Insertion : Into the inner part of the Occipito-fron- talis and Orbicularis Palpebrarum, where these two Muscles join each other, as far out as the middle of the Superciliary Ridge. Action : To assist its fellow in[drawingthe Eye-brows downwards and inwards, and corrugating or wrinkling the Skin between them into longitudinal folds. Orbicularis. Part 1L] - OF THE MUSCLES- .... - 151 Levator K-t Orbicularis Oculi, vel Orb. Palpebrarum, Vel Naso-Palpebralis. . Origin: From the Orbitar Process of tlie superior Maxillary Bone; from the internal Angular Process of the Frontal Bone j and, by a small round Tendon, from the Nasal Process of the superior Maxillary Bone. From these origins the Muscle passes outwards, under the Skin of the Eye-lids, surrounding the Orbit in a circular manner j extending somewhat beyond it, and covering the upper part of the Cheek, The outer Surface of the Muscle adheres to the Skin of the Eye-lids j its upper and inner Edge is intimately connected with the Frontal and Corrugator Muscles. Action: To close the Eye by bringing the Eye-lids together, to press the Ball of the Eye inwards, and act upon the Lacrymal Organs, so as to assist them in the production and direction of the Tears. That part of the Orbicularis Oculi which covers the Cartilages of the Eye-lids, and which is remarkably thin, is the Miisculus Ciliaris of some Authors. A Fleshy Slip frequently passes down from the under and outer part of tlie Orbicularis, to join the Levator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi. When present, it may draw a little towards each other those parts to whicli it is attached. /t -152 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II, Levator Palpebraj Superioris, Vel OrhUo-Palpehralis. Origin : From the upper margin of the Foramen Op- tieum of the Sphenoid Bone. It runs forwards ^within the Orbit over the Levator Oculi, where it becomes gradually broader, its anterior extremity passing under the Orbicularis Oculi. Insertion; By a broad thin Tendon, into nearly the whole length of the Cartilage of the upper Eye-lid. Action: To open the Eye by raising the upper Eye- lid. MUSCLES COMMON TO THE HEAD and EXTER- NAL EAR. Attollens Aurem, Vel Superior A?iris, vel Temporo-Auricularis. Origin: By a broad Tendinous Expansion, from the Tendon of the Occipito-frontalis. It goes down over the Aponeurosis of the Temporalis. In its passage, it forms a thin Fleshy Slip, which becomes gradually nar- rower. Insei-tion : Into the upper part of the root of the Car- tilage of the Ear. Action:PartIL].. ' of the muscles. 153 Action ? To give tension to the part into which it is inserted, and, in some Persons, to raise tlie Ear. J • ‘ ' *** t. ^ Anterior Auris, vel Zygomata-Axirimlaris. ' .‘1 Thin and Membranous, near the posterior part of the Zygoma j the middle part being mixed with Fleshy Fibres. < " . i. Insertion ;i.'By a narrowTendon into the back'part of the beginning of the Helix. ■ Action: To stretch that part of the Ear to which it infixed. Retrahentes Aurem, Vel Posteriores Anris, vel Mastoido-Auricidaris. t * Origin: By two, and sometimes by three distinct Muscles, from the upper and outer part of the Mastoid Process. ‘ ■' Insertion "By small Tendons into the back part of the Concha. • Action : To stretch the Concha, and, in some Per- sons, to draw back the Ear. • 'r -j ■ ■ .>— ' MUSCLES OF THE NOSE and'MOUTH. Compressor Naris, vel Siiper-Maxillo-Nasalis. Origin: By a narrow beginning from the root of the Ala Nasi, where it is connected with the Levator Labii Superioris154 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Superioris Ala0que Nasi. It spreads into a number of thin scattered Fibres, which cross the Ala Nasi, and run towards the Dorsum Nasi, where it joins its fellow. Insei-tion : Into the anterior extremity of the Nasal Bones, and to the slip which descends from the Frontal Muscle. Action: To press the Ala towards the Septum, as in smelling j or if the Fibres of the Frontal Muscle, which are connected to it, act, they pull the Ala outwards. It also corrugates the Skin of the Nose, and assists in expressing certain Passions. Levator Labii Superioris Al^que Nasi, Vel Super-Maxillo-Labialis Major et Medius. Origin: By two thin Fleshy Slips \ the first from the external part of the Orbitar Process,—the second from the upper part of the Nasal Process of the Superior Maxillary Bone. Insertion of the first part of the Muscle into the Up- per Lip, and of the second into the Upper Lip and outer part of the Wing of the Nose. Action: To raise the Upper Lip in opening the Moutli, and to dilate the Nostril. Depressor Labii Superioris Al^que Nasi. Origin: Thin and Fleshy, from the Alveoli of the Dentes Incisivi and Caninus of the Upper Jaw j run- ning upwards, at the side of the Furrow of the Lip. Insertion:I Part IL] OF THE MUSCLES. 155 Insertion: Into the Upper'Lip, and root of the Ala Nasi. Action: To draw the Upper Lip and Ala Nasi down- wards. Levator Anguli Oris, Vel Levator Lahiorum Communis^ vel Caninus, vel Super- Maxillo-Labialis Minor. Oi •igin: Thin and Fleshy, from the superior Maxil- lary Bone, immediately under the Foramen Infra-orbi- tarium;—running deeper dowm and farther out than the Levator Labii Superioris. Insertio7i: Into the Angle of the Mouth, and to the Cheek, whei’e it joins its Antagonist. Action : To raise the corner of the Mouth ;—as in expressing joy. Depressor Labii Inferioris, Vel Quadratm GencOt vel Mento-Labialis. Ch'igin: Broad and Fleshy, from the under part of the Lower Jaw, at the side of the Chin ;—from thence it runs obliquely upwards and inwards, till it becomes contiguous to its fellow in the middle of the Lip. Lisertion : Into one half of the Edge of the Under Lip. ' ' . . Action : To assist in opening the Mouth, by depress- ing the Under Lip, and pulling it a little outwards. Levator156 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Levator Labii Inferioris, vel Levatoi' Mentt. Origin : From the roots of the Alveoli of the Dentes Incisores and Dens Caninus of the Lower Jaw. Insertion: Into the Under Lip, and Skin of the Chin. Action : To raise the parts into which it is inserted. Depressor Anguli Oris, Vel Triangularisf vcl MaxiUo-Labialis. Origin: Broad and Fleshy, from the under edge oF the l.ower Jaw, at the side of the Chin.—It runs over the Origin of the Depressor Labii Inferioris, becoming gradually narrower. Insertion: Into the Angle of the Mouth, where it in- termixes with the Levator Anguli Oris. Action: To depress the corner of the Mouth j—as in expressing Anger. Zygomaticus Major, vel Zygomaio-Lahialis Major. Origin : Fleshy from the Os Mala?, near the Zygo- matic Suture.—Descending obliquely forwards. Insertion ; Into the Angle of the Mouth j its Fibres intermixing with those of the Depressor Anguli Oris and Orbicularis Oris. Action: To raise the Angle of the Mouth, in the di- rection of its Fibres, and to make the Cheek promi- nent —as in laughing. ZygomaticusI I Part IL] OF THE MUSCLES. 157 Zygomaticus Minor, vel Zygomato-Lahialis Minor, 07 •igin: Higher on the Os Malae than the former Muscle. ' It is situated before it, and takes the same course, but is much more slender. Insei-iion-. Into the Upper Lip, along with the Leva- tor Anguli Oris. Action : To raise the Corner of the Mouth, and draw it obliquely outwards. This Muscle is often wanting. By the frequent action of the Muscles which raise the corners of the Mouth and Upper Lip, that Furrow is formed which extends between the outer corner of the Nose and Mouth, and which is so conspicuous in the Face of a person advanced in life. Buccinator, Vel Itctracto7' Anguli Oi'isy vel Bucco^Lahialis. i Oi-igin: From a Ridge extending between the last Dens Molaris and Coronoid Process of the Lower Jaw' j and from the Upper Jaw, between the last Dens Molaris and Pterygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone ; from the extremity of which it has also part of its origin. Thence going forwards witli straight Fibres, it adheres closely to the Membrane which lines the Mouth. Insertion: Into the corner of the Mouth, along with the Orbicularis Oris. Action : To draw the Angle of the Mouth backwards and158 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. and outwards, and to contract its Cavity by pressing the Cheek inwards, by which the Food is thrust between the Teeth in Manducation.—It is likewise active in blowing Winddnstruments,—as a Trumpet j—hence its name. I Orbiculahis Oris, Vel Sphincter Labiorumy vel Labialis. This is a complete Sphincter surrounding the Mouth, and composing the principal part of the Lips, and is in a great measure formed by the Muscles which terminate in it.—At the corners of the Mouth, the Fibres decus* sate each other, so as to make it resemble two semicir- cular Muscles, from which it has been named by some Authors, Scmi-Orbicularis SuperioVy and Semi-Orhicvla- ris Inferior'. Action: To shut the Mouth, and to counteract the different Muscles inserted into it. Nasalis Labii Superioris of Albinus,—port of the for- mer Muscle, running up to be connected to the Septum Nasi, and serving as a Levator of the Upper Lip, or a Depressor of the under part of the Nose. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW. Aponeurosis Temporalis. This is a strong Tendinous Membrane, proper to be taken notice of before describing the Temporalis. It arisesj Part II.] . OF THE MUSCLES. 159 arises from the Bones which give origin to the upper semicircular part of the Temporal Muscle, and, de- scending over it, is fixed to the Zygoma. Use: To brace the whole, and to give origin to part of the Temporal Muscle. Temporalis, vel Temporo-Maxillaris. Origin: Semicircular and Fleshy, from the lower half of the Parietal Bone, and Temporal Fossa of the Frontal Bone; and from the Squamous part of the Temporal, and Temporal Plate of the Sphenoid Bone. —It arises likewise from the Aponeurosis covering it;— from these origins the Fibres descend like Radii, and the Muscle sends off a strong Tendon, which passes under the Jugum. Insertion: Into the whole of the Coronoid Process of the Lower Jaw, which it incloses as in a Sheath, and is continued to near the last Dens Molaris. Action : To pull the Lower Jaw upwards, and a little backwards against the Upper Jaw. Massetkr, vel Zygomato-Maxillaris. Origin : By strong Tendinous and Fleshy Fibres from the Superior Maxillary Bone, where it joins the Os Malse, and from the whole length of the under and in- ner edge of the Zygoma *,—the outer part of the Muscle slanting backwards, the inner part forwards, and in some measure decussating the other. In its descent, it covers theIfiO COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIt. tljo Coronoid Process, and under end of the Temporal Muscle. Insertion: Into the Angle of the Lower Jaw, and from that upwards to the outside of the Coronoid Pro- cess. Achoii: To raise the Lower Jaw, and to pull it a little forwards or backwards, according to the direction of the Fibres of the Muscle. ' Ptehygoideus Internus, Vel Majory vel Pter^go-Maxillaris Major. Origin: From the Fossa Pterygoidea of the Sphenoid and Palate Bones; passing downwards and outwards. Insertion: Into the inner side of the Angle of the Lower Jaw, and continued as far as the Groove for the inferior Maxillary Nerve. Action : To raise the Jaw, and draw it obliqudy to- wards the opposite side. Pterygoideus Externus, Vel Minory vel Pterygo-Maxillans Minor. Origin: From the outer side of the Pterygoid Process! of the Sphenoid Bone ; from the Tuberosity of the sn-' perior Maxillary Bone ; and from the root of the Tem- poral Process of the Sphenoid Bone. From these ori- gins it passes, almost horizontally outwards, and a little backwards. Insertion : Into the Cervix and Capsular Ligament of the Lower Jaw. Action:Part II.J OF THE MUSCLES. 161 ActionTo pull the Lower Jaw to the opposite side, and, if both Muscles act, to bring it forwards, so as to make the Fore-Teeth project beyond those of the Upper Jaw. The Muscle, in its djfferent motions, acts also upon the Inter-articular Cartilage. MUSCLES ON THE FORE and LATERAL PART OF THE NECK. ^ Platysma Myoides, vel Cutaneus^ vel Thoraco-facialis. Origin: By a number of separate Fleshy Slips, from the Cellular Substance, which covers the upper parts of the Pectoral and Deltoid Muscles.—In their ascent, they unite to form a thin Muscular Expansion, which runs • obliquely upwards along the side of the Neck, adhering to the Skin, and is similar to the Cutaneous Muscle of Quadrupeds. Insertion: Into the side of the Lower Jaw and the De- ] pressor Anguli Oris, and into the skin which covers the I under parts of the Masseter and the Parotid Gland. Action : To assist in depressing the Lower Jaw, the (Corner of the Mouth, and the Skin of the Cheek;— (when the Jaws are shut, to raise all that part of the Skin (connected with it under the Lower Jaw. VoL, 1. L Sterho-fs2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus, vel Stcrno-Masfoideus. Origin: From the top of the Sternum, and the ante- rior end of the Clavicle, by two distinct Heads; the first of which is round, tendinous, and a little fleshy; the other is broad and fleshy. A little above the Clavicle, the two Heads unite to form a strong Muscle, which runs obliquely upwards and outwards ; the greater part of it being covered by the Platysma Myoides. Insertion: By a thick strong Tendon, into the Mas- toid Process, which it surrounds •, and becoming thin- ner, the Insertion extends as far back as the Lambdoid Suture. Action: To turn the Head to one side, and assist in rolling it. When both Muscles act, they bow the Head. MUCLES SITUATED BEnVEEN THE OS ITYOIDES AND TRUNK. Sterno-Hyoideus. Origin; From the edge of the upper Bone of the Sternum internally, and from the adjacent parts of the Clavicle and Cartilage of the first Rib *,—ascending upon the fore part of the Traebea and following Muscle. ' ’ ' ' Insertion:Part II.] • OF THE MUSCLES. 16.1 Insertion •• Into the Base of the Os Hyoides. Action: To depress the Os Hyoides, Sterno-ThYroideus. Origin: From the upper and inner part of the Ster- num, and partly from the Cartilage of the first Rib ; running along the fore part and side of the .Trachea and Thyroid Gland. Insertion : Into the under and lateral part of the Thy- roid Cartilage. Action : To depress the Larynx. Thyro-Hyoideus, vel Hyo-Tkyroideus. f Oi'igin: Where the former Muscle terminates, hav- I ing the appearance of being continued from it. Lisertion : Into part of the Base, and almost all the 1 Cornu of the Os Hyoides. Action: To depress the Os Hyoides, or to raise the ' Thyroid Cartilage. Crico-Thyroideus. 0; •igin: From the side and fore part of the Cricoid (Cartilage; running obliquely upwards. Insertion : By two portions ; the one into the under ppart of the Thyroid Cartilage, the other into its infe- rior Cornu. Actio?i: To depress and pull forwards the Thyroid - L 2 Cartilage,16i COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Cartilage, or to raise and draw backwards the Cricoid Cartilage. Omo-Hyoideus. Origin: From the superior Costa of the Scapula, near the Semilunar Notch. It goes obliquely upwards and forwards, and is of a very slender form. Under the Sterno-Mastoideus, it becomes Tendinous, and again grows Fleshy. Insertion: Into the Base of the Os Flyoidcs, at the side of the Sterno-Hyoideus. Action: To depress the Os Hyoides, and pull it to one side ; or, when both act, to draw it directly down. MUSCLES SITUATED BETWEEN THE LOWER JAW AND OS HYOIDES. Digastricus. t Vel Biventer Maxilla Inferiorisy vel Mastoido-Mentalis. Origin: By a fleshy Belly, from the Groove at the root of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone It f runs downwards and forwards, and forms a strong round Tendon, which passes through the Stylo-Hyoideus j— it is then fixed by a Ligament to the Os Hyoides, and, having received an addition of, Tendinous and Muscular Fibres, IPart IL] OF THE MUSCLES. L 5 ‘ Hyoides, Fibres, it runs obliquely upwards and forwards, forming another Fleshy Belly. Insa'tion: Into a rough Sinuosity at the under part of the Symphysis of the Lower Jaw. Action: To open the Mouth by pulling the Lower Jaw downwards and backwards ; and when the Jaws are shut, to raise the Os Hyoides, and of course the Throat, —as in swallowing. Mylo-Hyoideus, vel Maxillo-Hyoideus. Origin : Fleshy, broad, and thin, from the inside of the Lower Jaw, between the last Dens Molaris and the middle of the Chin, where it joins its fellow j running down behind the Digastricus. Jnseriiofi: Into the lower edge of the Body of the Os Hyoides, and joined to its fellow by the intervention of a white Tendinous Line. Action: To pull the Os Hyoides forwards, upwards, and to a side. Genio-Hyoideus. Origin: From a Tubercle on the under and inner part of the Symphysis of the Lower Jaw, by a slender begin- ning, which descends and gradually becomes broader. Insertion : Into the Body of tlie Os Hyoides, under the former Muscle. Action : To draw the Os Hyoides towards the Chin, when the Jaws are shut; or the Chin towards the Os166 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Hyoides, when the latter is fixed by the Muscles which come from the Sternum. Genio-Hyo-Glossus. Origin: From the same Tubercle with the former Muscle; its Fibres spreading out like a Fan. lnsertio7i: Into the whole length of the Tongue, and into the Base of the Os Hyoides. Action: According to the direction of its Fibres,— to draw the Tongue forwards, or backwards,—to pull it downwards, and render its Dorsum concave,—and to make the Os Flyoides advance towards the Chin. Hyo-Glossus. Origin : From the whole length of one half of the Os Flyoides ; running upwards, and a little outwards. Insertion : Into the side of the Tongue, near the Sty- lo-Glossus. Action: To depress the edge of the 1 onguc, and thereby render its upper Surface convex. ' Linguahs. Origin : From the root of the Tongue, laterallj*. It advances between the Genio-FIyo-Glossus and Hyo- Glossus. Lisertion ; Into the tip of the Tongue. Action: To raise the point of the Tongue j to con- tract its substance, and bring it backwards. Stylo-I 167 Paiit II. j • OF THE MUSCLES. I I T Stylo-Glossus. Oiigin: From the Stj’Ioid Process of the Temporal Bone, and from a Ligament which connects that Pro- (cess to the Angle of the Lower Jaw. It goes dowm- < wards and fonvards, and is of a slender form. Insertion: Into the root of the Tongue, near the' , Hyo-Glossus; and running along its side, is insensibly 1 lost near the Apex. Action c To draw the Tongue backwards, and to one j side. Stylo-Hyoideus- 'i. Origin .- From the under half of the Styloid Process- It goes downwards and forwards, splitting for the pas- sage of the Digastricus. Insertion: Into the Os Hyoides, at tlie junction ol the‘Base and Cornu. . Action : To pull tlie Os Hyoides to one side, and a . little upwards. Stylo-Hyoideus Alter. When present, it is a more slender Muscle than the former, but, like it, has nearly the same Origin, Inser- tion, and Action. Stylo-Pharyngeus, Origin: From the root of the Styloid Process;—it goes downwards and forwards. L 4- Insertion:168 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Imertim : Into the side of the Pharynx, along which it expands.—It is also fixed to the back part of the ITiy- roid Cartilage. Action •• To dilate and raise the Pharynx* and there- by prepare it to receive the Morsel from the Mopth. It at the same time elevates the Thyroid Cartilage. ClRCUMFLEXUS PaLATI, | f I Vel Tensor Palati^ vel Pterygo-Palatinus. j . I Origin : From the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone, from the Osseous and Cartilaginous parts of the Eustachian Tube, and from the root of the internal Pterygoid Process. It runs along the Pterygoideus In- tern us, passes over the Hook of the Internal Plate of the Pterygoid Process ; and playing on it by a round Tendon, as on a Pulley,-it spreads out into a broad Membrane. Insertion : Into the Velum Palati, and semilunar edge of tire Os Palati, extending as far as the Suture which joins the two Bones. Generally some of its posterior Fibres join the Constrictor Pharyngis Superior and Pa- lato-Pharyngeus. Action: To depress and stretch the Velum. Levator Palati, Vel Levator Palati Mollis^ vel Petro-Palatinus. Origin: From the point of the Pars Petrosa of the I Temporal Bone, and also, from the Membranous Por- tion169 IFart ir.] OF THE MUSCLES. ' ition of the Eustachian Tube. From these parts it de- 'Scends. InseHion: By a broad Expansion, into the Velum IPalati, extending as far as the X'oot of the Uvula, and mniting with its fellow. Action : To raise the Velum in the time of Swallow- iing, and prevent the food or drink fi'om passing into tthe Nose, by pressing the Velum against the back pail rof the Nostrils. X • I - • ‘ Constrictor IsTHMi Faucium, Vel Glosso-Palatmus. Origin: From the side of the root of tlie Tongue, lit runs in the doubling of the Skin, which forms the aanterior Arch of the Palate. Insertion: Into the middle of the Velum Palatl, at tithe root of the Uvula, where it is connected with its I'fellow. Action : To draw the Palate and root of the Tongue Howards each other, and thereby to shut the Opening iinto the Fauces. Palato-Pharyngeus, vel Fharyngo-Palatinus. Origin; From the middle of the Velum Palati, at the I rroot of the Uvula ; and from the insertion of the Con- I >Btrictor Isthmi Faucium and Circumflexus Palatu The I IFibres proceed within the posterior Arch of the Palate, ikaitd run to the upper and lateral part of the Pharynx, where170 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [rAin ll- '»7here tl)ey spreocl, and mix with those of the Styio- Pharyngeus. Insertion: Into the edge of the upper and back part of the Thyroid Cartilage j some of its Fibres being lost between the Membrane and inferior Constrictors of the Pliarynx. Action : To draw the Velum and Uvula downwards ; the Larynx and Pharynx being at the same time raised 3 along with the Constrictor Superior and Tongue, to as- sist in shutting the passage into the Nostrils, and, in swallowing, to convey the food from the Fauces into the Pharynx. The Salpingo-Pharyngeus of Albinus is com- ]X)sed of a small portion of the former Muscle, which arises from the Eustachian Tube, and which, when acU ing, may affect it. Azygos Uvulae, vel Palato-Vvutaris. Origin: From the posterior extremity of the longi- tudinal Palate Suture. It nms in the middle of the Ve- lum Palati, and goes through the whole length of the Uvula, adliering in its passage to the Circumflex!. Insertion .*,Into the point of the Uvula. Action : To shorten the Uvula- MUSCLES?ART II.] ’ OF THE MUSCLES. 171 / •- ; MUSCLES SITUATED UPON THE BACK PART or THE PHARYNX. Origin: From tlie sides of the Thyroid and Cricoid [^Uartilages. The superior Fibres, running obliquely ippwards, cover the under part of the follow'ing Muscle, mud terminate in a point; the inferior Fibres run more transversely, and cover the beginning of the CEso- ^ hhagus. Imertion : Into its fellow, by the medium of a longi- ludinal Tendinous line in the middle of the back part bf tlie Pharynx. Action: To compress the lower part of the Pharynx, uid to draw it and the Laiynx a little upwards. Origin: From the Appendix and Cornu of the Os Hyoides, and also from the Ligament which connects bhe Cornu to the Thyroid Cartilage. In its passage, it [Tpreads out, and terminates in a point both above and 'oelow; the upper part covering the following Muscle. liisei'tion : Into the Cuneiform Process of the Occi- !i)ital Bone, before the Foramen Magnum, andtoitsfel- CoNSTKICTOR PhARYNGIS INFERIOR, 'N'^el Laryngo-Pharyngeus. Constrictor Pharyngis Medius Vcl Hyo-Phmyngeus. low172 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIL low on tlie opposite side by a Tendinous Line, in a si- jnilar manner to the former Muscle. Action: To compress the middle and upper part of the Pharynx. Constrictor Pharyngis Superior, Vel Cephalo-Pharyngem. ' Origin: From the Cuneiform Process of the Occipi- i tal Bone, before the Foramen Magnum; from the Pte- ! rygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone, and from both Jaws, near the last Dentes Molares : It is likewise con- nected with the Buccinator, and with the root of the Tongue and Palate. From these origins, it runs al- most horizontally. Insertion: Into its fellow, by the intervention of a Tendinous line, as in the former Muscle. ' Action : To compress the upper part of the Pharynx, - and, with the assistance of the other Constrictors, to i thrust the food down into the Oesophagus. MUSCLES OF THE GLOTTIS. Crico-Arytenoideus Posticus. Origin: Broad and Fleshy, from the back part of > I the Cricoid Cartilage. hnerticm' at^ART II.3 OF THE MUSCLES. 173 Insertion: By a narrow extremity, into the back part jDf the Base of the Arytenoid Cartilage. Action: To pull back the Arytenoid Cartilage, by which the Ligament of the Glottis is made tense, and tlhe Glottis itself longer. f Crico-Arytenoideus Lateralis. Oi'igin: From the side of .the Cricoid Cartilage, Rwhere it is covered by the Thyroid. Insertion: Into the side of the Base of the Arytenoid Cartilage. Action: To open the Glottis, by sepai’ating the Ary- tenoid Cartilages, and, with them, the Ligaments of the Glottis. Thyro-Arytenoideus. Origin : From the underand back part of the middle )dF the Thyroid Cartilage, from which it runs back- wards and a little upwards, in a double order of Fibres, upon the side of the Glottis and Ventricle of the La- rynx. l7isaiion: Into the fore part of the Arytenoid Car- tilage. Action: To pull the Arytenoid Cartilage outwards and fbrft'ards, and thereby to widen the Glottis, and relax I i ts Ligaments. It may also alFcct the Ventricle of the rarynx. A small Slip, termed by Albinus Thyreo-ArytenoU ■ \ieu% Alter Mi?wo-, arises from the upper and back part of174 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIU of the middle of the Thyroid Cartilage, and is inserted into the Arytenoid Cartilage, above the insertion of the Crico-Arytenoidcus Lateralis. Use: To assist the for- mer in shortenini; and rclaxlnji the Liframents of the Glottis. Arytenoideus Obliquus, vcl Minor. Origin : From the root of one of the Arytenoid Car- tilages ; crossing its fellow obliquely. Insertion : Near the point of the other Arytenoid Cartilage. Action : To draw the Arytenoid Cartilages towards each other, and assist in closing the Aperture of the Glottis. Frequently one of the oblique Arytenoid Muscles is wanting. Arytenoideus Transversus, vcl Major. Of •igin : From almost the whole length of the back part of one of the Arytenoid Cartilages, running trans- versely. Insertion: In a similar manner, into the other Aryte^ noid Cai'tilage. Action: To close the Glottis, by drawing together the two Arytenoid Cartilages and the Ligaments of the Glottis. Tijyro173 Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES- Thyro-Epiglottideus. Origin : By a few scattered Fibres from tlie Thyroid Cartilage. . Insertion : Into the side of the Epiglottis. Action : To assist'its fellow, in drawing the Epiglotti® towards tlie Glottis. Aryteno-Epiglottid'eus. Origin: By a number of small Fibres from'the Ary- tenoid Cartilage. It runs along the outer side of the external Opening of the Glottis. lnse)-tion: Into the Epiglottis, along with the former Muscle. . Action : To assist its fellow, in drawing the Epiglottis immediately down upon the Glottis. It is counteracted by the elasticity of the Epiglottis- The two last-mentioned Muscles are obscurely seen, excepting in robust bodies. MUSCLES SITUATED ON THE ANTERIOR akd LATERAL PARTS of the ABDOMEN. Obliquus Descendens Exteunus, Vel Obliquus ILxlerims Abdominis, vel Costo-Abdominalii. Origin : In a serrated manner, from the lower edge of the eight interior Ribs, near their Cartilages. The Serrse176 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Serro3 intermix with the Indentations of the Serratas Major Anticus, and the Muscle is commonly connected with the Pectoralis Major, Intercostales, and Latissi- mus Dorsi; the last of which covers the edge of a por- tion of it, extending from the twelfth Rib to the Spine of the Os Ilium, from the anterior half of which it has also part of its origin.—From these attachments the Fibres of the Muscle run obliquely downwards and for- wards, and terminate (sometimes by distinct Indenta- tions) in a broad Tendon, or Aponeurosis, which, near its margin, is firmly connected with the Tendon of the following Muscle, where it forms a curved line, called Linea Semilunaris. From this the Tendinous Fibree are continued in the same direction with the Fleshy Fibres, to the middle of the Abdomen. Insertion: Into its fellow of the opposite side, by the medium of the Linea Alha^ which extends from the Cartilago Ensiformis to the Pubis. This white line is formed by the meeting of the Tendons of the Oblique and Transverse Muscles of the Abdomen, and is perfo- rated in the middle by the Umbilicus—originally a pas- sage for the Umbilical Cord, and now formed into a Cicatrix. The Tendon of this Muscle is strengthened by other Tendons of a more delicate nature, lying upon its outer Surface, which decussate it, in a curveil direction, up- wards and inwards. The under part of the Tendon, thicker and stronger than the rest of it, extends from the superior-anterior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium, over the Flexor Muscles[Part H.] OF THE MUSCLES. 177 NMusdes and great Vessels and Nerves of the Thigh, to Ihe upper part of the Os Pubis, to which it is fixed. This part of the Tendon, which was formerly known % the name of Poupart’s, or Fallopius’s, or Ingui- nnal Ligament, forms a curve behind, over the Blood- vvesscls, and therefore is now known by the name of iCh'Ural Arch. Somewhat higher, and farther out, than the Symphy- ssis Pubis, or about an inch and a half in a full-sized /Adult, Poupart’s Ligament divides into an upper and lundcr column. The upper column is fixed to the Symphysis Pubis, land to the Os Pubis of the opposite side. The under oone is twisted or doubled in, and inserted into the up- pper part of the Os Pubis, and Pubal portion of the Li- inea Ilio-pectinca, from the Femoral Vessels, as far as ithc Crest or Tuberosity of the Bone, and forms a firm ■sharp line towards the Abdomen, which constitutes the [posterior edge of the Crural Arch, or forms \\\q ChiraV IRing of GimbernaT, of late so frequently mentioned tby Surgeons. The under column is looser, and more slender in the IFemale than in the Male; and the space between the IFemoral Vessels and the insertion of this part of the ILigament is larger; in consequence of which, Pro'tru-^ ssions of the Bowels happen here more frequently in ’’Women. Where the columns separate, a space of an oval form lis left, about an inch in length in the Male, but less in tthe Female, the direction running upwards and out- ^wards, or somewhat in a line between the Pubis and VoL. I. M Spine178 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIL || jl; Spine of the Ilium. This is the Ring of the External | Obliqxie Muscley or Supra-Ruhial Ring, for the transmis- j| sion of the Spermatic Cord in the Male, and the round j Ligament of the Uterus in the Female, and where the Bowels protrude in the Inguinal Plernia. Surrounding the exit of the Cord, or the round Li- gament, from the Ring, there is a quantity of Cellular Substance, and some Tendinttus Fibres, which assist in ; filling that passage, and in preventing any conimunica- i tion between the outer and inner parts.- The place where the columns separate to form the i Ring varies in different Subjects. In some, the separa- i tion is considerably farther out than the part already | described, though more generally the division is at the i| outer end of the Ring. At this end of the Ring, the || Columns are joined by Tendinous Fibres, which arise ii from the Os Ilium, and from Poupart’s Ligament; ;l and are part of the Fibres mentioned above, as decus- [i sating the Tendon of the External Oblique Muscle. i Through the Abdominal Ring, there is no direct ;• opening into the Cavity of the Abdomen ; the passage | being shut by the Obliquus Internus, and Transversalis II Abdominis. , Over the Tendon of the External Oblique Muscle, there is a thin Expansion, or Supetjicial Fascia^ con- |j sisting chiefly of Transverse Fibres. This can also be ^ traced down upon the fore part of the Thigh. It ad- i heres to the whole length of the Crural Arch. Part of ; it passes along the Spermatic Cord as far as the Scro- l turn, the rest of it spreads over the Inguinal Glands, i and vanishes in the Fat of the Thigh.FPAiir li;]’ OF THE MUSCLES;' " m' The whole of this Fascia is frequently so thin, as to. ■lappear. little else than Cellular Substance condensed; Iln the inflamed state, however, it sometimes becomes . rremarkably thick. It forms the Outer, or Superficial IFascia, in Inguinal and Crural Herniae. . Lbider the Superficial Fascia, on the Thigh, there is :ia thick and strong Aponeurosis, which arises from the ffore part of the Spine of the Ilium, from the whole iunder edge of the Crural Arch, and from the upper and ffore part of the Os Pubis. This forms part of the Fas- icia Lata Femoi'iSf (to be afterwards taken .notice of), 1 which incloses the Muscles upon the Thigh. The portion arising from the Ilium and Crural Arch i is termed Ilial, and that from the Pubis, Puhal 'portion (of the Fascia Lata. The Ilial and Pubal portions form I a considerable Angle at the inner side of the Femoral ’.Vessels, and between the Muscles on the fore and those I on the inner side of the Thigh. The upper and inner part of the Ilial Portion, forms a Semilunar Edge^ described by Mr Burns, in.;.the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1806, un- der the name of Falciform Process, which leaves a large opening, where the Vena Saphena Major, ascending upon the Pubal Portion of the Fascia Lata, terminates in the Femoral Vein. At the edge of the Falciform Process, a Gland is commonly placed, and sometimes two, through whicli part of the Superficial Lymphatics of the Thigh pass ’in their course towards the Abdomen. At this part of the Thigh, the portion of the Bowels passing through the Crural Ring, protrudes in Femoral Hernia. M2 Frequently180 COMPENDIUxM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Frequently the Semilunar Edge of the Fascia is in- distinct, the Ilial and Piibal Portions being then con- fusedly united by an intermixture of Tendinous and Cellular Substance. Behind the Great Vessels of the Thigh, part of the Pubal Portion of the Fascia is continued down, to be fixed to the Os Femoris, as far as the place where the Femoral Artery perforates the Triceps Muscle. Obliquus Ascenbens Internus, Vel Obliquus hitemtis Abdominis^ vel Ilio-Abdominalis, Origin : From the back part of the Os Sacrum ;— from the Spinous Processes of the three lowest Lumbar Vertebrae, by a Tendon common to it and the Serratus Posticus Inferior ;—from the whole length of the Spine of the Os Ilium j—and from the inside of Poupaut’s Ligament, at the middle of which it sends off’ the Cre- master. From these Origins the Fibres are disposed in a radiated manner j but the greater part of them run in a slanting direction upwards. At the Linea Semiluna- ris, the Muscle becomes Tendinous, and adheres firm- ly to the Tendon of the Obliquus Externus. Here its Tendon divides into two Layers: the anterior Layer, with the greater part of the inferior portion of the pos- terior Layer, joins the Tendon of the External Oblique, and goes over the Rectus, to be inserted into the whole length of the Linea Alba. The posterior Layer joins the Tendon of the Transversalis, and goes behind the Rectus } and this union is continued down, till it reaches about*I Part II.] ISl OF THE MUSCLES. M 3 From i about half way between the Umbilicus and Os Pubis. Lower than this, only a few scattered Fibres of the pos- I terior Layer are to be found behind the Rectus; the I principal part of it passing before that Muscle, to be in- ! sorted into the Linea Alba. Insertion: Into the Cartilages of all the False Ribs, ! into the Cartilage Ensiformis, and whole length of the Linea Alba. Action: To assist the former Muscle. It bends the Body, however, in the same direction with the Obli- quus Externus of the opposite side. Transversalis, Vel Transversus Abdominis^ vel Ltmbo-Abdominalis. Origin : Fleshy from the inner Surface of the Carti- lages of the six or seven Lower Ribs, where it inter- mixes with the Digitations of the Diaphragm, and with the Intercostal Muscles; from the Transverse Processes of the twelfth Dorsal and four superior Lumbar Verte- bras ; from the whole inner edge of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; and anterior to this, it is connected to the under edge of the Obliquus Externus. At the Linea Semi- lunaris, the Muscle becomes Tendinous, and the Ten- don is continued across, adhering to the Obliquus In- ternus in the manner already mentioned. Insertion : Into the Cartilage Ensiformis and Linea Alba. Action; To support, and immediately to compress, the Abdominal Bowels.182 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PautD. the From the inside of the Crural Arch, and from the Spine of the Ilium, a Tendinous Aponeurosis, termed Iliac Fascia^ is sent off, which is reflected over the Ilia- cus Internus, and Psoas Magnus, which it braces and protects. It descends afterwards between the Psoas and External Iliac Vessels, to give a lining to the Bones, ISIuscles, and Ligaments, at the inner side of the Pelvis. It is firmly attached to the Linea Ilio-Pectinea, and be- hind the Origin of the Crural Vessels, is incorporated with the Pubal part of the Fascia Lata, in such a man- ner, that the one may in a great measure be considered as a continuation of the other. From the Crural Arch, from the Iliac Portion of the [.inca Ilio-Pectinea, and reflected also from the under part of the Expansion covering the Iliacus Internus, another Aponeurotic Expansion, the Fascia Transversa- lis of Mr Coopkr, is sent upwards, which lines the in- side of the Transversalis, lies between it and the Peri- toneum, and becomes gradually thinner in its ascent to- wards the upper part of the Abdomen. The Angle of reflection between these two Expan- sions being formed of strong Tendinous Fibres, the Abdomen at this place is fortified, and the Bowels are prevented from protruding between the Spine of the Ilium and Iliac Blood-Vessels, Besides these Expansions, others are mentioned by late Authors, as being sent down to inclose the Femoral V^essels at the upper part of the Thigh, so as to form what is called tlie Crural Sheath. The beginning of the Crural Sheath, or that part next the Cavity of the Pelvis, is formed anteriorly byPart IL] 18S OF THE MUSCLES. M 1’ The the Fascia Transversalis, Crural Arch, and Cellular Sub- stance blended together, posteriorly by the conjoined Fascia Iliaca, Pubal part of the Fascia Lata, and Cel- lular Substance. The anterior and posterior portions of the Fascia uniting together at the sides of the Blood- vessels, form the lateral parts of the Sheath. Lower than the Crural Arch, and extending as far as the Perforation in the Tendon of the Great Adductor Muscle of the Thigh, the Artery is covered before by the Fascia Lata, behind by the deep part, or Pubal portion of that Fascia, and laterally by the two Fasciae conjoined by Cellular Substance. The Sheath and Vessels it incloses, at the upper part of the Thigh, with the External Iliac Vessels also at the inner part of the Pelvis, are strengthened by some Ten- dinous slips, which run between, and also at the sides of the Vessels •, uniting them together, to the Crural Arch before, and to the Bones behind, over which they pass. Within the Fascim the Vessels are closely connected together, as the Great Vessels in the Neck are, by a Vagina of Cellular Substance condensed, and which may be considered as the propei' S/iealh of the Great Vessels situated in the Thigh. Between the inner part of the External Iliac Vein, and the insertion of the under column of Poupart’s Ligament into the Os Pubis, and having the Os Pubis behind covered by its Ligament, a triangular space is left, at the outer part of which there is a small aperture, which forms the Crural Foramen of Gimbernat. The triangular Cavity and Aperture are more considerable in the Female than in the Male. Through thisvFora- mpn the Bowels protrude in Femoral Hernia.184 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartII, the The Cniral Foramen is at the beginning of the Cru- ral Sheath, and situated within it, and is commonly filled up by Absorbent Glands •, or sometimes by the Trunks of the Absorbents themselves, coming from the Thigh ; or now and then by a cross Stratum of Liga- mentous Matter; in consequence of which, when the parts are prepared, there may be either a Foramen, or a Cribriform appearance, or an Impervious Septum in tlie Crural Ring. In this last case, the Absorbents are found to creep along the Coats of the Blood-vessels, in their course to the Abdomen, Half way between the Spine of the Ilium and Sym- physis Pubis, the Expansion termed Fascia Transver- salis leaves an opening for the pjissage of the Spermatic Cord, or for the round Ligament of the Uterus; the beginning of which passage may be considered as the Internal Ahdominal Ring. The under part of this opening is formed by Pou- 1‘art’s Ligament, the upper by the Transverse and In- ternal Oblique Muscles. From this opening there is no direct passage outwards, the part being shut by the Tendon of the Obliquus Ex- tern us. The inner Ring is of the same form and size with the outer Ring, and is directed in the same manner with it. Between the Internal and External Abdominal Rings, the passage is oblique, like the Rings themselves, and has also a quantity of Cellular Substance, which is considered by some Authors as forming a distinct Ca- nal, under the name of Abdominal. This surroundsOF THE MUSCLES. Part II.] 1S5 the Cord, or the round Ligament, and assists these in completely filling the whole of this passage. Rectus, vel Puhio-Slernalis, vel Stemo-Piibialis. ) 0; ■igin : Tendinous from the fore and upper part of the Symphysis Pubis. It soon becomes Fleshy, and runs upwards in form of a flat Band, the whole length of, and parallel to, the Linea Alba. In its course, it is divided by three transverse Tendinous Intersections, at and above the Umbilicus and there is generally a half intersection below it. These seldom penetrate through the whole thickness of its Substance. They adhere firmly to the anterior part of the Sheath which incloses the Muscle, but slightly to the posteidor Layer. Insertion: Into the Cartilages of the three inferior True Ribs and extremity of the Sternum. It frequept- ly intermixes with the under edge of the Pectoralis Ma- jor. Action: To compress the fore part of the Abdomen j to draw down the Ribs in Expiration ; and to bend the Body forwanls, or to raise the Pelvis. By means of its Sheath and Tendinous Intersections, it is kept in its place, and allowed to act more equally. Ptramidalis, vel Puhio-suh-UmbiUcaiis. Origin: By a broad Base, from the upper part of the Symphysis Pubis. It runs upwards within the same Sheath with the Rectus, tapering to a point in its ascent. Insertion:186^ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion; Near half-way between the Pubis and Um- bilicus, in the Linea Alba and inner edge of the Rec- tus. Action: To assist the under part of the Rectus in drawing down the Ribs, or to compress the under part of the Abdomen. It is frequently wanting in both sides, and then the under end of the Rectus is larger, thus in some mea- sure supplying its place. AIUSCLES or the MALE PARTS of GENERA- TION, AND OF THE ANUS. Cremaster, vel Musculus Testis. Origin : From the under edge of the Obllquus Inter- nus Abdominis. Passing through the Ring of the Ob- liquus Externus, it surrounds the Spermatic Cord as far as the Testicle, where the Fibres separate and expand. Insei-tion : Into the Tunica Vaginalis Testis, and Cel- lular Substance of the Scrotum. Action: To contract the Scrotum, to suspend and elevate, and to compress and evacuate the Testicle. Erector' Peni§, Vel Ischio-CavemosuSf vel Ischio-Sub-penialis. Origin: Tendinous from the inner side of the Td- berosity of the Os Ischium.—It runs upwards, Fleshy, increasingPart IJ.] OF THE MUSCLES.- ' - ’-187 increasing in breadth, and embracing the whole inner part of the Crus Penis. Insertion: By a thin Tendon into the Elastic Mem- brane which covers the Corpora Cavernosa Penis, as far as the union of the Cnira. Action: To compress the Crus Penis, by which means the Blood is pushed from it into the fore part of the ^Corpora Cavernosa, and the Penis thereby more com- pletely distended. Accelerator Urin^e, Vcl EjacuJator Sanhiis, vel Bulbo- Urethralis. Origin; Fleshy from the Sphincter Ani, and Mem- branous part of the Urethra ; and Tendinous from the Crus and beginning of the Corpus Cavcrnosum Penis.— In its course it forms a thin Fleshy Layer, the inferior • Fibres of which run more transversely than the supe- rior, which descend in an oblique direction the Mus- cles on the opposite sides completely inclosing the Bulb of the Urethra. Insertion : Into its fellow by a Tendinous line running longitudinally on the middle of the Bulb. Action: To propel the Urine or Semen forwards, and by compressing the Bulb, to push the Blood into, and thereby.distend the Corpus Cavernosum Urethrw and Gians Penis. Transversus Perinei, Vel Transversalis Urethrce, vel IscJiio-Perinealis. Origin; From the inside of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium,188 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartII. Iscliium, close to tlio Erector Penis; running trans- verseJ}'. Insertion: Into the back part of the Accelerator Uri- nae, and adjoining part of the Sphincter Ani. Action: To dilate the Bulb for the reception of the Semen or Urine ; and to assist the Levator Ani in re- tracting the Anus, after the discharge of the Faeces. There is frequently another Muscle, termed Trans- versalis Perinci Alter, running along with the former, and having nearly the same Origin, Insertion, and Ac- tion, but going more obliquely upwards. Sphincter Ani. Origin : From the extremity of the Os Coccygis, run- nin<j forwards within the Skin and Fat which cover the verge of the Anus, and in its passage forming a broad, flat, oval Muscle, which surrounds the extremity of the Intestinum Rectum. Insei Liun: By a narrow point, into the Acceleratores Urinae and Transversi Perinci. Action: To shut the Anus, and also to pull down the Bulb of the Urethra, by which it assists in ejecting the Urine and Semen. It is assisted by the Sjihincter In- ta-nus of some Authors, which is merely the Circular Muscular Coat of the end of the Rectum. Levator Ani, vel Suh-Puhio-Coccygeus. Origin: By a semicircular edge, from the Os Pubis, within the Pelvis, at the upper edge of the Foramen Thyroideum,189 'PartIL] of the muscles. MUSCLES Thyroideum, the fore part coming off near the under £cnd of the Synchondrosis ; from the Aponeurosis which (covers the Obturator Internus and Coccygeus; and ifrom the Spinous Process of tlie Os Ischium. From tthese origins it is continued down, occupying the under i and inner portion of the Pelvis. Its Fibres descend like 1 radii from a circumference, to meet those of its fellow, land with it to form a kind of inverted Funnel. Insertion : Into the Sphincter Ani, Accelerator Uri- 1 me, and under and fore part of the Os Coccygis.—It I surrounds the extremity of the Rectum, neck of the Bladder, Membranous Portion of the Urethra, Pros. I tate Gland, and part of the Vesiculoe Seminales. Action: To support the contents of the Pelvis; to re- tract the end of the Rectum, after the evacuation of the Fmccs •, and to assist in the evacuation of the RiKitum, Bladder, Vesiculae Seminales, and Prostate Gland.—It is likewise considered by some as a principal agent in the distension of the Penis, by pressing upon its Veins. Part of the Levator Ani, which arises from the Os Pubis, between the lower part of the Symphysis and the upper part of the Foramen Ovale, and assists in in- closing the Prostate Gland, is called by Sokmmeeincj Compressor Prostatae. Between the Membranous part of tlie Urethra, and that portion of the Muscle which arises from the inner side of the Symphysis Pubis, there is a reddish. Cellular, and very Vascular Substance, but apparently without any distinct Muscular Fibres, closely- surrounding this Canal, which has been described by Mr Wilson, in t,hc Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of London foi 1809, as a distinct Compressor Urethrce.J90 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PariTL MUSCLES OF THE FEMALE PARTS of GENE- RATION, AND OF THE ANUS. Erector Clitoridis, vel Jschio-suh-Clitorideus. Origin: As in the Erector Penis in the Male, but tlie Muscle smaller. Insertion; Into the Crus and Body of the Clitoris. Action: To draw the Clitoris downwards and back- wards ; and by pushing the Blood into it Rom its Crus, it may render the Body of the Clitoris more tense. Sphincter VAOiNiE, vel Pcrineo-Clitorideus. Origin: From the Sphincter Ani, and, near the Peri- neum, from the posterior side of the Vagina. It passes along the outer end of the Vagina, covers the Corpus Cavernosum Vagintc ; going behind the Nymphae. Insertion: Into the union of the Crura Clitoridis. • Action : To contract the external Orifice of the Va- gina, by compressing its Corpus Cavernosum, from which it likewise pushes the Blood into the Nymphae and Clitoris. Transversus Perinei. Origin: As in the Male. » Insertion; Into the upper part of the Sphincter Ani, theOF THE MUSCLES. JPart II.] 191 MUSCLES t!the adjacent parts of the Sphincter Vaginae, and into a ttough white Substance in the Perineum. Action; Upon the Perineum and Anus, as in the !MaIe. When a Transversus Perinei Alter is present, it has tthe same relation to the former Muscle as in the Male. Sphincter Ani. Origin and course, as in the Male. Insertion; Into the Sphincter Vaginae, and tough iwhite Substance in the Perineum. Action : To shut the Anus, and, by pulling down the ’Perineum, to assist in contracting the external Orifice (of the Vagina. ’ Levator Ani. Origin: As in the Male. In its descent it embraces the inferior parts of the Vagina, Uretlira, and Rectum- Insertion : Into the Perineum, Sphincter Ani, extre- mity of the Vagina, and Rectum. Action: Upon the Bladder, Urethra, and Rectumj as in the Male.—It also assists in supporting and con- tracting the Vagina, and may, by pressing upon the Veins, contribute to the distension of the Cells of the Clitoris and Corpus Cavemosum Vagiiise.192 COMPENDIUiM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MUSCLES MUSCLES OF THE OS COCCYGIS. CoccYGEUs, vel Iscliio-Coccygeus. Origin: By a narrow point, from the Spinous Pro- cess of tlie Os Ischium.—In its passage, it gradually expands, and covers the inside of the posterior Sacro- Ischiatic l.igament. Insertion : Into the whole length of the side of the Os Coccygis.' Action: To move the Os Coccygis forwards, by which it assists the Levator Ani in supporting or raising the end of the Rectum. CuRVATOR Coccygis, Vel Saa-o-Coccygeus, Origin: From the under and fore part of the Os Sa- crum. Insertion: Into the fore and under part of the Os Coccygis. Action : To assist the Coccygeus in bending the Os Coccygis. The Cun’ator Coccj^gis was formerly considered as part of the Coccygeus.193 Part IL] OF THE MUSCLES. MUSCLES SITUATED WITHIN THE CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. Diaphragma. The Diaphragm forms a Fleshy-ard Tendinous Par- tition, which separates the Cavity of the Abdomen from that of the Thorax, and is perforated by several Holes, ; for the passage of Vessels and Nerves which go into, or I come out from tlie Abdomen. It is concave below, and I convex above; the middle of it reaching as high within I the Thorax as the fourth pair of Ribs. Above, it is • covered by the Pleura, and below, by the Peritoneum j I and is commonly divided into two portions, called Su- iperior and Inferior Muscles of the Diaphragm. Superior, or Greater Muscle of the Diaphragvi, Origin: By Fleshy Indentations, from the Cartilage lEnsiformis, and from the Cai’tilages of the seventh, and cof all the inferior Ribs on both sides. From these dif- fferent Origins, the Fibres run in a radiated manner. Insertion : Into a Cordiform Tendon, placed in the imiddle of the Diaphragm, and in which the Fibres of tthe opposite sides are interlaced.—Towards the right sside, the Tendon is’ perforateil by a triangular Hole for tthe passage of the Vena Cava Inferior; and to the upper (.convex part of it, the Pericardium and Mediastinum ^i»re connected. L N Inferior,194 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartII. Inferior, or Lesser Muscle, or Appendix of the Diaphragm. Origin: By four Pair of Heads, of which one Pair in the middle, commonly called its Long, or Tendinous Cruruy is the longest. The long Crura arise from the fore part of the fourtli Lumbar Vertebra, and adhere to the Bodies of all the Vertebrae of the Loins above nis, by the intervention of the Ligamentum Commune An- terius covering these Bones. In their ascent, they leave an oval opening for the passage of the Aorta and Tho- racic Duct. The other Heads arise from the third, and also from the second Lumbar Vertebra, and are placed farther out. From the different Heads the Muscular Fibres run upwards, and form, in the middle, two fleshy Columns, or Crura, which decussate, and leave an open- ing for the passage of the Oesophagus. Insertion: By strong Fleshy Fibres, into the posterior edge of the Cordiform, or middle Tendon. Action: To enlarge the Cavity of the Thorax in In- spiration, by its Fleshy part contracting, and bringing its two sides down from a convex to a plane Surface ; the Abdominal Muscles at the same time yielding, but the Tendinous'part of the Diaphragm remaining nearly in the same situation. In Expiration, the Diaphragm is replaced, chiefly by the action of the Abdominal Muscles. It is the Antagonist of the Abdominal Mus- cles in Inspiration, but acts in concert with them in De- jection and in Voraiiting. QuadbatusPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES, 19n Quadratus Lumborum, vel lUo-Costalis. Origin: Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the posterior half of the Spine of the Os Ilium, and from a Ligament extended between it and the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of all the Lumbar Vertebras; into the last Rib, near the Spine ; and, by a small Tendon, into the side of the last Dorsal Vertebra. Action: To move the Loins to one side, to pull down the last Rib in laborious Expiration, and, when both act, to bend the Loins forwards. Psoas Parvus, vel Prelumbo-Pubialis. % Origin: Fleshy, from the side of the last Vertebra of the Back, and from that of one or two of the upper Vertebrse of the Loins. It sends off a slender Tendon, which runs down by the inner side of the Psoas Mag- nus, and an Aponeurosis which expands upon the neighbouring Muscles. Insertion; Into the Brim of the Pelvis, at the joining of the Ilium apd Pubis. Action : To assist in bending the Spine upon the Pel- vis, and, in particular positions, in raising the Pelvis. This Muscle is frequently wanting. Psoas Magnus, vel Prelumbo-Trochajitineus. Origin : From the side of the Bodies, and from the N 2 • Transverse196 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MUSCLES Transverse Processes of the last Dorsal, and of all the Lumbar Vertebrae, by an equal number of Fleshy Slips, which uniting, form a thick strong Muscle, which bounds the upper part of the side of the Pelvis; passing down over the Os Pubis, behind Poupart’s Ligament. Insertion : Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Trochan- ter Minor, and part of the Body of the Os P'emoris. ActionTo bend the Thigh, and turn it a little out- wards, or, when the Inferior Extremity is fixed, to assist in bending the Body. Iliacus Internus, vel Ilio~Trochaniinem. Origin: F'lcshy, from the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra ; from all the inner edge of the Spine of the Os Ilium; from the edge of that Bone, be- tween its anterior-superior Spinous Process and the A- cetabulum *, from most of the hollow part of the Os Ilium, and from an Aponeurosis covering it, (the Iliac Fascia), which is sent up from the Spine of the Bone and inner side of Poupart’s Ligament. It joins the Psoas Mag- nus, where it begins to become Tendinous on the Os Pubis. Insertion: Along with the Psoas Magnus. Action: To assist the Psoas in bending the Thigh.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 197 MUSCLES SITUATED UPON THE ANTERIOR PART OF THE THORAX. « Pectoralis Major, vel Pectwalisy vel Sternor Hiimcralis. Origin : From the Sternal half of the Clavicle ; from the fore part of the edge of almost the whole length of the upper and middle Bone of the Sternum, where it is connected with its fellow ; and from the Cartilages of the fifth and sixth Ribs, where it mixes with the Obli- quus Externus. The Fibres fi*om thence converge to- wards the Axilla, where they decussate, and send off a flat twisted Tendon. Insertion: Into the Ridge at the outer edge of the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps. Action ; To draw the Arm towards the Sternum. Between the Portions of the Muscle arisinj; from the Clavicle and Sternum, there is a slight separation, in consequence of which these Portions have been consi- dered by some Authors as two distinct Muscles. Pectoralis Minor, Vel Serratus Minor AnticxiSy vel Costo-Coracoidalis. \ Origifi: Tendinous and Fleshy, in a serrated man- ner, from the third, fourth, and fifth Ribs, near their N S Cartilages.198 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. CartiLiges. Passing obliquely outwards, it becomes gra- dually narrower. Insertion: Tendinous, into the point of the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. Action : To bring the Scapula downwards and for- wards, or, in laborious Respiration, to raise the Ribs. SuncLAVius, vel Costo-Clavicularis. Origin: Tendinous, from the Cartilage of the first Rib. It soon becomes Fleshy, and runs outwards, un- der the Clavicle, increasing in breadth. Insertion: Into the under Surface of the Clavicle, from near its head, as far outwards as the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. Action : To pull the Clavicle, and with it the Scapula, downwards and forwards. Sf.rratus Magnus, Vel Scrralus Major Aniicusy vel Costo-Scapularis. Origin: From the nine superior Ribs, by an equal number of Fleshy Digitations. It runs obliquely up- •wards and backwards upon the side of the Thorax, and between it and the Subscapularis. . Insertion : Fleshy, into the .whole length of the Base of the Scapula, and in a manner folded round it, between the insertion of the Rhomboideus and thb origin of the Subscapularis. Action: To move the Scapula forwards or down- wards.199 Part 1L] OF THE MUSCLES. wards, according to the direction of its different Digi- tations ; and when the Scapula is forcibly raised, as in violent Inspiration, to assist in dilating the Thorax, by elevating the Ribs. ' MUSCLES SITUATED BETWEEN THE RIBS, AND WITHIN THE THORAX. Inter COSTALES Extern i. Origin : From the under edge of each Rib, excepting the twelfth. They run obliquely downwards and for- wards from the Spine to the joining of the Ribs with their Cartilages, from which, to the Sternum, they are discontinued ; that place being occupied by an Aponeu- rosis. Insertion : Into the upper edge of each Rib, imme- diately below that from which they take their respective Origins. Portions of the Intercostales Extern!, which arise fi*om the Transverse Processes of the Vertebrae, and termi- nate in the Ribs immediately below, are termed by Al- BiNUS, Levatores Costarum Brevioi-es.—Other portions, which arise in the same manner, but pass over one Rib, and terminate in the next below it, are named by the same Author, Levatores Costarum Longiores. N4^ Inter-200 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Intercostales Interni. Origin: The same with that of the Externi j but they begin at the Sternum, and run downwards and batic- v/ards, decussating the former Muscles like the strokes of the letter X, and continuing as far as the Angles of the Ribs, from which to the Spine they are wanting. Insci lion In the same manner as the Externi. Portions of the Intercostalcs Interni, near the under part of the Thorax, which pass over one Rib, and ter- minate in the next below it, are called, by Douglas, Costaruni Depressores Proprii. fiction of the In ter costales Interni, as well as of the Externi: To enlarge the Cavity of the Thorax, by ele- vating the Ribs in the time of Inspiration j and the ob- liquity of the one set balancing that of the other, allows them to be raised more immediately upwards. From the obliquity of their Fibres, they are found to possess a greater power in raising the Ribsj than Fibres going in a perpendicular direction. The Intercostales Externi end near the Sternum, and the Interni near the Spine, to admit the ready mo- tion of the Ribs j for, had the former been continued to the Sternum, and the latter to the Spine, the parts of these Muscles supposed to be thus fixed, would of course have become Antagonists to the rest. The Portions called Levatores and Depressores Costa- f-um assist in raising the Ribs, in the same manner as the rest of the Intercostales, Sterno-Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 201 Sterno-Costalis, vel Triangtdaris Stemi. Origm; From the edges of the Cartilago Ensiformis, and lower half of the middle Bone of the Sternum, with- in the Thorax. It runs upwards and outwards, behind the Cartilages of the Ribs. Insertion : Generally by three Angular Terminations into the Cartilages of the third, fourth, and fifth Ribs, and sometimes, also, by a fourth Termination into the corresponding part of the Cartilage of the second or sixth Rib, near the union of the Cartilaginous with the Osseous part of the Ribs. Action: To depress the Ribs into which they are fix- ed, and, of course, to assist in contracting the Cavity of the Thorax during Expiration. MUSCLES SITUATED ON THE ANTERIOR PART OF THE VERTEBRA of the NECK. Longus Colli, vel Predorso-Atloideus.’ Origin ; Tendinous and Fleshy, from the side of the Bodies of the three superior Vertebrae of the Back, and from the Transverse Processes of the four inferior Ver- tebrae of the Neck. Insertion : Into the fore part of the Bodies of all the Vertebrae202 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Vertebras of the Neck, by as many small Tendons, which are covered with Flesh, Action : It bends the Neck forwards and to one side, or, when both Muscles act, they immediately bend the Neck. Rectus Capitis Anterior Major, Vel Rectus Anterior Longus^ vel Trachelo-sub-Occijntalis Major. Origin: From the fore part of the Transverse Pro- cesses of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth Vertebrae of the Neck. It runs upwards, and a little inwards, cover- ing the outer edge of the Longus Colli. Insertion ; Into the Cuneiform Process of the Occi- pital Bone, near its joining with the Os Sphenoides. Action : To bend the Head forwards. Rectus Capitis Anterior Minor, Vel Rectus Anterior Minors vel Trachclo-sub-Occipitaiis Minor. Origin : From the fore part of the Atlas, opposite to its superior Oblique Process. It runs obliquely inwards behind, and a little to the outside of the former Muscle. Insertion : Into the Cuneiform Process of the Occi- pital Bone, immediately before the Condyles. Action: To assist the Rectus Maior. RectusIPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. SOS ] Rectus Capitis Lateralis, yd Atloido-suh-Occipitalis. Origin: From the anterior part of the Transverse ] Process of the Atlas.—It goes obliquely outwards. Insertion : Into the Occipital Bone, directly behind ithe Jugular Fossa. Action : To incline the Head a little to one side. MUSCLES SITUATED UPON THE POSTERIOR PART OF THE TRUNK. 'Trapezius, vel Cnculla7'is, vel Doiso-supei'-Acromialis. Origm : From the middle of the great arched Ridge I of the Occipital Bone ; from its fellow over the Spinous Processes of the Cervical Vertebrm, by the interven- tion of a strong Tendon, called LigamenUm NucheSf • vel Colli; from the Spinous Processes of the two Infe- rior Vertebrie of *he Neck, and from all those of the Back, adhering Tciidinous to its fellow the whole length of its Origin. « Insertion: Fleshy, into the Scapulary half of the Cla- vicle : T-pdinous and Fleshy, into \the Acromion, and into the Spine of the Scapula. . Action: To move the Clavicle and Scapula, accord- ing to the directions of its different Fibres. The supe- rior Fibres, descending, raise the Shoulder j the middle, running204 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PAnxII. running transversely, pull it backwards; and the infe- rior Fibres ascending, depress it. The whole acting together, bring it immediately back.—When the Sca- pula is fixed, the Muscle assists in moving the Head backwards. Latissimus Dorsi, vel Lumbo~Humeralis. Origin: By a broad Tendinous Expansion, from the posterior part of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; from all the Spinous Processes of the Vertebraj extending be- tween the under end of the Os Sacrum and sixth Dorsal Vertebra, and, by three or four Tendinous or Fleshy Slips, from an equal number of inferior Ribs. The Tendon by degrees changes into a Muscle of great breadth, the inferior Fibres of which run upwards and outwards, and the superior transversely over the inferior Angle of the Scapula, receiving a small Slip from it in their way to the Axilla, where the Fibres of the Muscle in general are collected, twisted, and folded, like tliose of the Pectoralis Major. Insertion : By a strong thin Tendon, into the inner edge of the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps. Action: To pull the Arm downwards and backw^ards, and to roll the Os Humeri inwards, by which tire Palm of the Hand is made to face backwards. When the Pectoralis Major acts at the same time with this one, the Arm is brought immediately down towards the Trunk. The Latissimus Dorsi and Pectoralis Major form the ' , Axilla,205 ]Part il] of the muscles. ^Axilla, in which the great Vessels and Nerves, and like- vwise the Glands, lie which belong to the Arm. Seuratus Posticus Inferior, Vel Limbo-Costalis. Origin: By the same common Tendon with the La- ttissimus Dorsi, from the two inferior Dorsal, and from tthe three superior Lumbar Vertebrae. Insertion: By four Fleshy Slips, into the same num^ Iber of inferior Ribs, near their Cartilages. Action: To depress the Ribs into which it is inserted, aand thereby, during Expiration, to assist in contracting tthe Cavity of the Thorax. Rhomboideus, vel Dorso-Scaptdaris. Oi'igin: Tendinous, from the Spinous Processes of tthe four or five Superior Dorsal, and of the three In- fferior Cervical Vertebrae, and from the Ligamentum INuchae; descending obliquely. Insertion: Into the whole length of the Base of the I Scapula. Action : To draw the Scapula upwards and backwards. This Muscle is frequently divided by an indistinct ILine into two unequal Portions : The part arising from tthe Dorsal Vertebrae, and fixed to the Base of theSca- jpula under the Spine, is commonly called Rhomboides iMajofi and the other part of the Muscle BJiomboidet iMinor. Splenius,206 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIL Insertion; Splenius, Vel Ccrvico-Mastoideus et Dorso-Cervicalis. Origin: Tendinous, from the Spinous Processes of the four superior Dorsal; and Tendinous and Fleshy, from those of the five Inferior Cervical Vertebrae. It adheres firmly to the Ligamentum Nuchae, and at the third Cervical Vertebra, it recedes fi'om its fellow, so that part of the Complexus is seen. Insertion ; By as many Tendons into the five Supe- rior Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae, and by a Tendinous and Fleshy Portion, into the posterior part of the Mastoid Process, and into the Os Occipitis, where it joins with that Process. Action: To antagonize the Sterno-mastoideus, by bringing the Head, and upper Cervical Vertebrae, ob- liquely backwards and to one side. When the Splenii act together, they draw the Head directly backwards. This Muscle is divided by Albinus, into Splenius Capitis, or that which arises from the Neck, and goes to the Head; and Splenius Colli, or that which arises from the Back, and is fixed to the Neck. Serratus Posticus Superior, vel Dorso-Costalis. Origin: By a broad thin Tendon, from the Ligamen- tum Nuchae, over the Spinous Processes of the three last Cervical, and two uppermost Dorsal Vertebrae; going obliquely downwvwls.Part 11.] OF THE MUSCLES. 207 Insertion: By four Fleshy Slips into the second, third, fourth, and fifth Ribs, under the upper and back part of the Scapula. Action: To elevate the Ribs, and thus to dilate the Thorax in violent Inspiration. Sacro-Lumbalis, vel Sacro-Costalis. Origin: In common with the Longissimus Dorsi, ‘ Tendinous without, and Fleshy within, from the side, ! and all the Spinous Processes of the Os Sacrum; from 1 the posterior part of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; and ifrom all the Spinous and Transverse Processes of the Lumbar Vertebrae. The common Head fills up the ! space between the Os Ilium and Os Sacrum, and also I the Hollow of the Loins. At the under part of the ' Thorax, the Muscle begins to send off Tendons, which I lie flat upon the Ribs, and become gradually longer the* i nearer they are to the Spine. Insertion: Into the Angles of all the Ribs, by an t equal number x>f Tendons. From six or eight of the lower Ribs arise an equal 1 number of Fleshy portions, which terminate in the in- 1 ner side of this Muscle, and get the name of Miiscuh Accessorii, vel Additamentum ad Sacfo-Lumbalem. Action : To assist in raising and keeping the Trunk I of the Body erect. It also assists the Serratus Inferior, land Quadratus Lumborum, in depressing the Ribs du- iring laborious Expiration. From the upper part of this Muscle, a Fleshy Slip, • called Cerwcalis Descendensj runs up to be fixed to the TransversetJ08 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Transverse Processes of the fourtli, fifth, and sixth Cer- vical Vertebra?, by three distinct Tendons. It turns the Neck obliquely backward and to one side. Lonoissimus Dorsi, vel Sacro-Spinalis. Origin: In common with the Sacro-Lumbalis. It forms a large, thick, and strong Muscle, which fills the Hollow between the Spine and Angles of the Ribs; be- coming gi-adually smaller in its ascent. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of all the Dorsal Vertebra?, chiefly by small double Tendons; and, by a Tendinous and Fleshy Slip, into the lower edge of each of the Ribs, excepting the two Inferior, near their Tubercles. Action: I’o extend the Trunk, and keep it erect; the outer part may assist in depressing the Ribs during laborious Expiration. From the upper part of tliis Muscle, a round Fleshy Slip runs up to join the Cervicalis Descendens. Spinalis Dorsi. Origin: By five Tendinous Slips, from the Spinous Processes of the two upper Lumbar, and the three lower Dorsal Vertebrae. In its ascent, it is incorporated with the Longissimus Dorsi. Insertion: Into the Spinous Processes of the eight or nine uppermost Dorsal Vertebra?, excepting the first, by as many Tendons. Action:209 IPart no OF THE MUSCLES. Insertion: VoL. I. O Action: To fix the Vertebrae, and to assist in extend' iing the Trunk, and keeping it erect. CoMPLEXUS, vel Trachelo-Occipitalis. Origin: By distinct Tendons, from the Transverse iProcesses of jthe seven Superior Dorsal, and fom’ in- ferior Cex'vical Vertebrae, and by a Fleshy Slip, from tthe Spinous Process of the first Dorsal Vertebra. In ‘its passage upwards, it is intermixed with Tendinous aand Fleshy parts. Insertion: Into a Depression, under the large arched IRidge of the Occipital Bone. Action r To draw the Head backw’ards, and to one sside; and when both act, to draw the Head directly Ibackwards. ' The long Portion of this Muscle, which lies next the ‘Spinous Processes, is more loose than the rest, and has ra roundish Tendon in the middle of it, with a Fleshy IBelly at each end, on which account it is called, by Al- iBiNUS, Biventer Cervicis. • Trachelo-Mastoideus, Vel Complexus Minor^ vel Mastoideus Lateralis. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the three i uppermost Dorsal, and five lowest Cervical Vertebrae, ' where it is connected to the Transversalis Cervicis^ by :as many thin Tendons, which unite into a slender Belly, land rmi up under the Splenius.210 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion: Into the posterior Margin of the Mastoid Process, by a thin Tendon. Action: To assist the Complexus j but pulling the Head more laterally. Levator SeAPULA5, Vel Levator Proprius, vel Musculus Patientice^ vel Tra* chelo-Scapiilaris. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the five Superior Cervical Vertebrae, by the same number of distinct Heads, which soon unite to form a flat Muscle, running downwards and outwards. Insertion: Into the Superior Angle of the Scapula. Action: To })ull the Scapula upwards, and a little forwards, as in shrugging the Shoulder; and, when the Scapula is fixed, to pull the Neck a little to one side. Semi-Spinalis Dorsi, Vel Trcmsverso-Spinalis Dorsi. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth Dorsal Vertebrae, by as many distinct 'I'endons, which soon grow Fleshy, and then again become Tendinous. Insertion : Into the Spinous Processes of the six or seven uppermost Dorsal, and two lowest Cervical Ver- tebrae, by as many Tendons. Action: To extend the Spine obliquely backwards. Multifidus2ir Fart II.] OF THE MUSCLES'. • MuLTiriDUS Spin^, I’orraerly described as three distinct Muscles, viz. Tra?is- verso-Spinalis Lumborum, Transverso-Spinalis Dorsi, and Tramverso-Spinalis Colli. 0)-igin: From the side and Spinous Processes of the I Os Sacrum, and from that part of the Os Ilium which j joins with the Sacrum; from all the Oblique and Trans- ’ verse Processes of the Lumbar Vertebrae ; from all the ' Transverse Processes of the Dorsal, and of the four In- Iferior Cervical Vertebrae, by as many distinct Tendons, ’ which soon become Fleshy, and run obliquely upwards I and inwards. Insertion: By distinct Tendons, into all the Spinous . Processes of the Lumbar, Dorsal, and Cervical Verte- ! brae, excepting the Atlas. Action: To extend the Spine obliquely, and pull it to : a side. When both Muscles act, they draw the Spine I directly backwards. Semi-Spinalis Colli, Vel Transverso-Spinalis Colli. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the six 1 uppermost Dorsal Vertebrae, by an equal number of \ distinct Tendons, wliich run obliquely under the Com- I plexus. O 2 Insertion : 4212 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion : Into the Spinous Processes of all the Cer- vical VertebrjE, except the first and last. Action: To extend the Neck obliquely backwards, and to a side. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the five uppermost Dorsal Vertebrae, by the same number of Tendinous and Fleshy Slips. It runs between the Tra- chelo-Mastoidcus, Splenius Colli, and Cervicalis De- scendens. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of all the Cervical Vertebr®, except the first and last. Action: To turn the Neck obliquely backwards, and a little to one side. Rectus Capitis Posticus'Minor, Vel Bectus Minor^ vel Atloido-Occipitalis. Origin : Tendinous, close to its fellow, from a small Protuberance which is instead of the Spinous Process of the first Cervical Vertebra i spreading out in its ascent. Insertion: Fleshy, into a Depression between the smaller Arch and Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Action; To assist the following Muscle in drawing the Head backwards. Transversalis Colli. Bone. Rectus21S OF THE MUSCLES. fPART II.] ‘ O 3 Insertion; Rectus Capitis Posticus Major, Vel Rectvs Majors vel Axoido~Occipitalis^ Origin; Fleshy, from the external part of the Spi- nnous Process of the second Cervical Vertebra. It be- ccomes gradually broader, and goes obliquely upwards nand outwards. Insei'tion; Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Os Oc- ccipitis, at the outside of the insertion of the Rectus Winor, part of which it covers. Action: To pull the Head backwards, and to assist 2a little in its rotation. Obliquus Capitis Inferior, vel Axoido-Atloidetis. Origin: Fleshy, from the Spinous Process of the ssecond Cervical Vertebra, at the outside of the Rectus IMajor. It forms a thick Belly, which runs upwards land outwards. Insertion: Into the Transverse Process of the first • Cervical Vertebra. Action: To roll the Head. Obliquus Capitis Superior, Vel Atloido-sub-Mastoidais. O, 'igin : From the Transverse Process of the first Cer- vical V-ertebra, passing upwards and a little inwards.9 214. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIL Insertion: Into the Occipital Bone, at the outer part of the Insertion of the Rectus Major. Action: To assist in di’awing the Head backwards, and a little to one side. ScALr.Nus Anticus, vel Coslo-Ccrvicalis Anticus. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the upper part of the first Rib, near its Cartilage. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of the fourth, lifth, and sixth Cervical Vertebrae, by as many Tendons. Scalenus Medius, vel Costo-Cervicalis Medius. Origin: From the upper and outer part of the first Rib, from its Root to near its Cartilage. Insertion ; Into the Transverse Processes of all the Cervical Vertebrae, by as many strong Tendons. The Subclavian Artory, and the Nerves which form the Brachial Plexus, pass between this and the former Muscle. Scalenus Posticus, vel Costo-Cervicalis Posticus. Oi •igin: From the upper edge of the second Rib, near the Spine. Insertion : Into the Transverse Processes of the fifth and sixth Cervical Vertebrm. Action of the three Scaleni: To bend the Neck to one side; or, when the Neck is fixed, to raise the Ribs, and dilate the Thorax, as in violent Inspiration. Inter-I Inter- O 4 JPartIL] of the muscles. 215 Interspinales Colli. The spaces between the Spinous Processes of the ‘ Cervical Vertebrae, most of which are forked, are oc- I cupied by double Fleshy Portions. Origin: From the upper part of each Spinous Process. Insertion: Into the under part of each Spinous Pro- I cess, immediately above that from which it takes its I origin. Action; To draw these Processes nearer to each other, and of course the Neck a little backwards. Intertransversales Colli. The spaces between all the Transverse Processes oi the Cervical Vertebrae, which are also forked, are filled up in like manner with double Fleshy Portions. Action: To draw ^hese Processes towards each other, and turn the Neck a little to one side. Interspinales et Intertransversales Dorsi. These are rather small Tendons than Muscles, servinc to connect the Spinous and Transverse Processes. Interspinales Lumborum. They are of the same nature with the Interspinales and Intertransversales Dorsi.1216 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MUSCLES Intertranversales Lumborum. t These are five distinct Muscles, which occupy llie Spaces between the Transverse Processes of the last Dorsal and of all the Lumbar Vertebrae, and serve to draw them a little towards each other.JFart II.] 217 OF THE MUSCLES. MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY, MUSCLES ARISING FROM THE SCAPULA. Supra-Spinatus, Vel Super-Scapulo-TrocJliterevs Parvus. Origin; Fleshy, from the whole Fossa Supra-Spinata, and from the Spine and Superior Costa of the Scapula ; passing under the Acromion, and adhering to the Cap- sular Ligament of the Joint. Insertion : Tendinous, into the large Tubercle on the Head of the Os Humeri. Action: To I’aise the Arm, and at the same time to pull the Capsular Ligament from between the Bones, so as to prevent it from being pinched. Infra-Spinatus, Vel Super-Scapulo-Trochitercus Magnus. Origin: Fleshy, from all that part of the Dorsum Scapulae i?1318 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II, Scapula? which is below its Spine j and from the Spine itself as far as the Cervix Scapulae. The Fibres run obliquely towards a Tendon in the middle of the Muscle, which runs forwards, and adheres to the Capsular Liga- ment. Insertion: By a flat thick Tendon, into the upper and outer part of the large Protuberaiicc on the Head of the Os Humeri. Action: To roll the Os Humeri outwards j to assist in raising, and in supporting it when raised; and to pull the Ligament from between the Bones. These two Muscles are covered by an Aponeurosis, which extends between the Costae and edges of the Spine of the Scapula, and gives rise to many of the Muscular Fibres. Teres Minor, Vel S2iper-Scapulo-Trochitcreus Minimis. Origin: Fleshy, from the inferior Costa of the Sca- pula. It ascends along the under edge of the Infra- Spinatus, and adheres to the Capsular Ligament. Insertion: Tendinous, into the back part of the large Protuberance on the Head of the Os Humeri, a little below the Infra-Spinatus. Action: To roll the Os Humeri outwards, to draw it backwards, and to prevent the Ligament from being pinched between the Bones. Teris210 OF THE MUSCLES. Part IL] Teres Ma.tor, vel Scapulo-Humei-alis. Origin: Fleshy, from the Dorsal side of the inferior Angle of the Scapula, and from a small part of its infe- rior Costa. It is situated at the under part of the Teres Minor, and sends off a broad flat Tendon, which ac- companies that of the Latissimus Dorsi. Insertion: Along with the Latissimus Dorsi, into the Ridge at the inner side of the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the Long Head of the Biceps. Action: To roll the Humerus inwards, and to draw it backwards and downwards. Deltoides, vel Suh-Acromio-Hiimeralis. t Origin: Fleshy, from all the outer part of the Clavicle nnoccupicd by the Pectoralis Major, from whicli it is separated by a small Fissure; Tendinous and Fleshy, from the Acromion, and lower Mai'gin of almost the whole Spine of the Scapula, opposite to the insertion of the Trapezius. From these Origins it runs, under the appearance of three Muscles going in different directions, and sepa- rated from each other by slight Fissures j viz. from the Clavicle outwards, from the Acromion downwards, and from the Spine of the Scapula forwards; and is com- posed of a number of Fasciculi, forming a strong Fleshy Muscle, which covers the joint of the Os Humeri. Insertion; Below that of the Pectoralis Major, by a short and strong Tendon, into a rough Surface, on the outer i-i.220 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PahtII. outer sifle of the Os Humeri, near its middle, where tlie Fibres of this Muscle intermix with part of the Brachialis Externus. Action : To pull the Arm directly outwards and up- wartls, and a little forwards or backwards, according to the diflereiit directions of its Fibres. CoRAco-Brachialis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from tlie fore part of the Coracoid Process of the IScapula, in common with the short Head of the Biceps, to which it adheres through the greater part of its length, Jnsei tion: Tendinous and Fleshy, into the internal part of the Os Humeri, near its middle, where it sends down an Aponeurosis to the internal Condyle of that Bone. Action : To bring the Arm obliquely upwards and forwai ds. SuBSCAPULARis, vel Sub-ScapnIo-Troc/iinais. Origin: Fleshy, from the three Costas and whole in- ner Surface of the Scapula. It is composed of a num- ber of Tendinous and Fleshy portions, which run in a radiated manner, and make prints on the Bone j in its passage outwards, adhering to the Capsular Ligament. Insertion: I'endinous, into the upper part of the in- ternal Protuberance at the Flead of the Os Humeri. Action ; To roll the Arm inwards, to draw it to the «ide of the B >dy, and to prevent the Capsular Liga- ment from being pinched. MUSCLESt ^ Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. MUSCLES CHIEFLY SITUATED ON THE ARM, SEUVIN& FOR THE MOTION OF THE FORE-ARM. Aponeurosis of the Superior Extremity. The greater part of the Superior Extremity is cover- ed by a Tendinous Membrane or Aponeurosis, whicli ari?es from the Bones of, and Muscles on, the Shoulder. On the Humerus, it incloses the Flexor and Extensor Muscles of the Fore-Arm, and is connected to the Ridges and Condyles at the under end of the Os Humeri. At the bending of the Elbow, it receives considerable additions from the Tendons of the Biceps and Triceps of the Fore-Arm, where the Fibres from the opposite sides decussate each other. ' It becomes thicker and stronger on the Fore-Arm, and forms a firm covering to the Muscles there. o In its descent, it gives off among the Muscles, Par- titions which are fixed to the Radius and Ulna. The Membrane is at length lost insensibly upon the Hand. It is thicker and stronger on the outer than upon the inner side of the Extremity, particularly on the Fore- Arm, at the under and back part of which it forms a thick and strong Band, which, running transversely, gets the name of LigamenUm Carpi Annulare Postcrius. The use of this Aponeurosis, like that in other parts of the Body, is to brace the Muscles, by keeping them in their proper place while in action, and to give origin toCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. to many of the Muscular Fibres which lie immediately under it. Biceps Flexor Cubiti, vel Biceps^ vel Scapulo-Radialis. Origin: By two Heads: The outer one, called its Lo7ig Heady begins by a slender Tendon from the upper edge of the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, passes over the Ball of the Os Flumeri within the Joint, and, ini its descent without the Joint, is inclosed in a Groove upon tlie upper and fore part of the Bone, by a Ligament which proceeds from the Capsular Ligament and adja- cent Tendons : The inner one, called its Short Head, arises. Tendinous and Fleshy, from the Coracoid Pro- cess of the Scapula, in common witli the Coraco-Bra- chialis. A little below the middle of the fore part of the Os Humeri, the two Heads unite, and form a thick Fleshy Belly. Insertion: By a strong roundish Tendon, into the Tubercle at the upper and inner part of the Radius, and by a Tendinous Expansion into the Aponeurosis of the Fore-Arm, which it likewise assists in forming. Action : To bend the Fore-Arm, and to assist the Su- pinator Muscles in rolling the Radius outwards, and, of course, to turn the Palm of the Hand upwards^^ Brachialis Internus, vel Humet'o-Cubitalis^ Origin: Fleshy, from the middle of the Os Humeri, at each side of the Deltoides, covering all, and attaclietl to most, of the under and fore part of the Bone. It runs223 JPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. iruns over the Joint, adhering firmly to'the Capsular Li- • ffament. I O Insertion: By a strong short Tendon, into the Coro- ; noid Process of the Ulna. Action: To bend the Fore-Arm, and to prevent the Ligament of the Joint from being pinched. Triceps Extensor Cubiti, Vel Scapulo-Humero-Olecraneus, Orighi: By three Heads : The first, or long Head, broad and Tendinous, from the Inferior Costa of the Scapula, near its Cervix: The second, or short Head, acute, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the outer and back part of the Os Humeri, a little below its upper extre- mity : The third, called Brachialis Extemus., arises, by an acute beginning, from the back part of the Os Hu- meri, near the insertion of the Teres Major. The three Heads unite about the middle of the Humerus, and cover the whole posterior part of that Bone, adhering to it in their descent. Insertion : Into the upper and outer part of the Ole- cranon of the Ulna, and partly into the Condyles of the Os Humeri, adhering closely to the Ligament. Action: To extend the Fore-Arm. Anconeus, vel Epicondilo-Cuhitalis. Origin : Tendinous, from the posterior part of the external Condyle of the Os Humeri. It descends under224. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. a triangular form, soon becomes Fleshy, and part of its Flesh is likewise continued from the third Head of the Triceps. Insertio7i: Fleshy and thin, into a Ridge on the outer and back part of the Ulna, a little below the Olecranon. Action: To assist the Triceps in extending the Fore- Arm. MUSCLES ON THE FORE-ARM and HAND, SERVING FOR THE MOTION OF THE HAND AND FINGERS. To prevent 'confusion in the application of the terms Older and Inner., when the Muscles arc described in ihe prone state of the Hand,—the Arm is here sup- posed to be placed by the side of the Body, with the hand in a state of supination ; so that the Radius and Thumb are upon the outer, and the Ulna and Little Finger upon the inner side. Palmaris Longus, vel Ej^itrochlO’Palmaris. Origin : Tendinous, from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri; soon becoming Fleshy, and scnd'mg off a Ion" slender Tendon. Insertion: Into the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare An- tcrius, and into the Aponeurosis Palmaris. Action: To bend the Hand, and stretch the Apo- neutosis Palmaris. ThisPart IL] OF THE MUSCLES. 225 This Muscle is frequently wanting, but the Aponeu- rosis is always to be found. Aponeurosis P/Jlmaris. This Tendinous Expansion begins at the Ligamen- tiim Carpi Annulare Anterius; and, after spreading out and covering the greater part of the Palm of the Hand, is fixed to the Roots of all the Fingers by an equal number of double Slips. Palmaris Brevis, vel Palmaro-Cutanens. Origin : By small bundles of Fleshy Fibres, from tho I.igamentum Carpi Anfiulare Anterius, and Aponeu- rosis Palmaris. Insertion ; Into the Skin and Fat which cover the Ab- I ductor Minimi Digiti, and into the Os Pisiforme. Action: To assist in contracting the Palm of the Hand. I Flexor Carpi Radialis, Vel Radialis InternuSi vel Epitrochlo-Metacarpeus. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the inner Con- (dyle of the Os Humeri, and from the fore and upper jpart of the Ulna, between the Pronator Radii Teres and IFlexor Sublimis, to which it firmly adheres. It forms a Hong Tendon, whi^h passes down near the Radius, goes VoL. I- P through526 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 11. through a Fossa in the Os Trapezium, and becomes flat at its inferior extremity. Insertion: Into the fore and upper part of the Meta- carpal Bone which sustains the Fore Finger. Action : To bend the Wrist, and to assist in the pro- nation of the Hand. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris/ Vel Ulnaris hUernuSj vel Cubito-Cmyeus. Origin: Tendinous, from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri; and, by a small Fleshy beginning, from the corresponding side of the Olecranon. It passes along the inner side of the Ulna, from which also it derives part of its origin for a considerable way down. A num- ber of its Fleshy Fibres likewise arise from the Aponeu- rosis of the Fore-Arm. Insertion: By a strong Tendon, into the Os Pisi- forme.' Action: To assist the former Muscle in bending the Wrist. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, Vel Radialis Ext emus Lo?igior, vel Humero-super^ Mctacarpetis. Origin: Broad, thin, and Fleshy, directly below the Supinator Longus, from the lower part of the Ridge of • the Os Humeri, above its external Condyle. It sends offrART 11] OF THE MUSCLES. 22 off a long flat Tendon, which passes down, first upon the outer, and then upon the back part of the Radius, descending in a Groove there, and going under the Li- gamentum Carpi Annulare Posterius. Insertion : Into the upper, back, and outer part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger. , Action: To extend the Wrist, and bring the Hand backwai’ds. / Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, Vel Radialis Externus Brevior^ vel Epicondilo^super- Metacaipeiis. Origin: Tendinous, in common with the Extensor Longior, but farther down, from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri, and from the Ligament which con- nects the Radius to it.—Passing down upon the back part of the Radius, its Tendon goes under the Liga- mentum Annulare Posterius, in tl e same channel with the Tendon of the Extensor Longior. Insertion: Into the upper and back part of the Meta- carpal Bone of the Middle Finger. Action: To assist the former Muscle in extending the Wrist j or, with it and the Flexor Carpi Radialis, to draw the Hand to the side next the Thumb. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, \^el Ulnaris Externus^ vel Cnbito-stipa-Metacarpeus. Origin: Tendinous, from the external Condyle of the P2 0>228 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Os Humeri j and, in its progress, Fleshy, from the middle of the Ulna where it passes over that Bone. Its round Tendon is inclosed by a Membranous Sheath, in a Groove at the back part of the extremity of the Ulna. Insertion : Into the posterior and upper part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger. Action: To assist the two former Muscles in extend- ing the Wrist; or, with the assistance of the Flexor Ulnaris, to draw the Hand towards the side next the Little Finger. Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, vel Perforatus, Vel Epitrochlo-Phalangeus Communis. Origin ; Tendinous and Fleshy, from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri; Tendinous, from the root of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna; and Membra- nous and Fleshy, froin the middle of the fore part of the Radius. Its Fleshy Belly sends off four round Tendons before it passes under the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius. In their course, they are connected to those of the following Muscle by fine Membranous Webs, and upon the Fingers are inclosed in strong Tendinous Sheaths. Insertion: Into the anterior and upper part of the second Phalanx of the Fingers, being, near the under part of the first Phalanx, split and twisted to form a Passage, and at the same time a kind of Sheath, for the Tendons of the Flexor Profundus. Action:Part IL] OF THE MUSCLES. 229 Extensor P 3 fV Action: To bend the second, and then the first Pha- lanx of the Fingers. Flexor Digitorum Profundus, vel Perforans, Vel Ciihito-Phalangeus Communis. Origin; Fleshy, from the external side and upper part of the Ulna, for some way down ; and fi’om a large share of the Interosseous Ligament. It descends behind the Flexor Sublimis, and, like it, splits into four Ten- dons, a little before it passes under the Ligamentum An- nulare, and these pass through the Slits in the Tendons of the Flexor Sublimis. Insertion: Into the anterior and upper part of the third Phalanx of the Fingers. Action; To bend the last Joint of the Fingers. Lumbricales, vel Palmo-Phalangeus. Origin: Thin and Fleshy, from the outside of the Tendons of the Flexor Profundus, a little above the lower edge of the Ligamentum Cai’pi Annulare. At the under ends of the Metacarpal Bones, .they send off long slender Tendons. Insertion : Into the outer sides of the broad Tendons of the Interossei Muscles, about the middle of the first Phalanx. Action: To bend the first Phalanx, and increase the Flexion of the Fingers, while the long Flexors are in full action.230 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Extensok Digitorum Communis, Vel Epicondilo-stiper-Phalangcus Communis. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri, wlicre it adheres to tlie Su- pinator Radii Brevis. It passes down upon the back part of the Fore-Arm, and before it goes under the Li- gamentum Carpi Annulare Posterius, it splits into three or four Tendons, some of which may be divided into smaller ones. Upon the back of the Metacarpal Bones, the Tendons become bread and flat, and near the Heads of these Bones send Aponeurotic Expansions to each other. Insertion-: Into the posterior part of all the Bones of the four Fingers, by a Tendinous Expansion. Action : To extend all the Joints of the Fingers. Supinator Radii Longus, vel Humero-siiper-lladialis. Origin : By an acute Fleshy beginning, from the Ridge of the Os Humeri, above the external Condyle, nearly as high as the middle of the Bone. It forms a thick Fleshy Belly, which covers the upper part of the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior; and about the middle of the Fore-Arm, sends a tapering Tendon along the edge of the Radius. Insertion: Into the outer side of the under end of the Radius. Action: To roll the Radius outwards, and, of course,Part IL] OF THE MUSCLES. 231 to turn the Hand into a supine situation, or with the Palm upwards. Supinator Radii Brevis, vel Epicondilo-Radialis. Origin: Tendinous from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri, and Tendinous and Fleshy from the outer and upper part of the Ulna, and from the Interosseous Ligament. It passes over tlie external edge of the Ra- dius. Insertion: Into the upper and fore part of the Ra- dius. Action : To assist the Supinator Longiis. Pronator Radii Teres, vel Epitrochlo-Radialis. Origin : Fleshy from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri, and Ten4jnous from the Coronoid Process of the Ulna. It goes obliquely across the upper end of the Flexor Muscles of the Wrist, and is .of a tapering form. Insertion: Thin, Tendinous, and Fleshy, into the middle of the posterior part of the Radius. Action: To roll the Radius inwards, by which it brings the Palm of the Hajid downwards, or into a state of Pronation. Pronator Radii Quadratus, vel Cuhito-Radialis. 0rigi7i: Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the P 4 under232 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion; under and inner part of the Ulna. The Fibres run ti-ansverscly. Insertion : Into the under and fore part of the Ra- dius. Actio7i: To assist tlie Pronator Teres. Flexor Longus Pollicis Manus, Vel Flexor Tertii Internodii^ vel Radio-Phalangcus Pollicis. Origm: By an acute, Fleshy beginning, from the fore part of the Radius and Interosseous Ligament, the Origin extending from the Tubercle of the Bone, as far as the Pronator Quadratus. It has frequently another Origin, by a distinct Fleshy Slip, from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri. Insertion: Into the last Joint of the Thumb, after its Tendon has passed under the Ligamentum Carpi Annu- lare Antcrius. Action ; To bend the last Joint of the Thumb. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, ^el Flexor Secundi Internodii^ vel Carpo~Phalangeus Pollicis. Origin! From the Ossa Trapezoides, Magnum, et Unciforme. It is divided into two Portions, which form a Groove for the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pol- iicis.IPart 1L] of the muscles. 233 Extensor. Insertion: Into the Ossa Sesamoidea, and Base of I tthe first Bone of the Thumb. Action: To bend the first Joint of the Thumb. Opponens Pollicis, Vel Flexor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis^ vel Flexor Primi Internodiii vel Carpo-Metacarpeus Pollicis. Origin: Fleshy, from the Os Trapezium and Liga- imentum Carpi Annulare Anterius. It lies immediately Hinder the Abductor Pollicis. Insertion : Tendinous and Fleshy, into the under and i fpi'e part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Action : To bring the Thumb inwards, so as to make it oppose the Fingers j from which circumstance it has I derived its name. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, Vel Cubito-super-Meiacarpetes Pollicis. Origin: Fleshy, from the middle of the posterior parts of the Ulna, Radius, and Interosseous Ligament. It runs obliquely over the Radius, sending one, or more frequently two Tendons, through an Annular Sheath. Insertion: Into the Os Trapezium, and upper and back part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Action: To extend the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb, and draw it from the Fingers.234 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, Vel Extensor Minor^ vel Cubito-super-Phalangeics Primus Pollicis, Origin: Flcsliy, from the back part of the Ulna, and from the Interosseous Ligament, near the former Muscle, by the side of which it runs. Insertion : Tendinous, into the posterior part of the first Bone of the Thumb. A portion of it may be traced as fiir as the second Bone. . Action; To extend tlie first Joint of the Thumb. Extensor Secundi Internodii, Vel Extensor Major^ vel Cuhito-super-Phalangeus Se- cundus Pollicis. O; •igin : By an acute. Tendinous, and Fleshy begin- ning, from the middle of the back part of the Lhna, and from the Interosseous Ligament. Its Tendon ru^s through a small Groove at the under, inner, and back part of the Radius. Insertion: Into the last Bone of the Thumb. Action : To extend the last Joint of the Thumbt Abductor Pollicis, Yel Carpo-super-Phalangens Pollicis. Origin: Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the Li- gamentum235 IPaut II.] OF THE MUSCLES. ^wamertum Carpi Annulare, and'from the Os Trape- ;zium. It lies immediately under the Skin, and over the (Opponens Pollicis. Insertion: Tendinous, into the outer side of the root tof the first Bone of the Thumb. Action: To draw the Thumb from the Fingers. A particular portion on the inner side of this Muscle ids called, by Albinus, Abductor Brevis Alter. yADDUCTOR Pollicis, vel Metacarpo^Phalangeus Pollicis, Origin: Fleshy, from almost the whole length of the ’Metacarpal Bone of the Middle Finger; going across tthe IMetacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger, its Fibres (Converge and send off a short Tendon. Insertion : Into the inner part of the root of the first 1 Bone of the Thumb. Action: To pull the Thumb towards the Fingers. i * Indicator, X'^el Extensor Indicis Propt'ins, vel Cuhito-super-Phalan-- gcus Primus Indicis, Origin: By an acute Fleshy beginning, from the middle of the posterior part of the Ulna, at the inner side of the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. Its Tendon passes under the same Ligament with the Ex- tensor Digitorum Communis. Insa’tion: Along with part of the Extensor Digitorum (.'ommunis, into the posterior part of the Fore Finger. Action.236 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIL Insertion : Action: To assist the Extensor Communis in extend- ing all the Joints of this Finger, as in pointing at any thing; hence called hidicator. Abductor Indicis. Origin: From the Os Trapezium, and from the upper part and inner side of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Insertion: By a short Tendon, into the outer and back part of the first Bone of the Fore Finger. Action: To bring the Fore Finger towards the Thumb. Flexor Parvus Minimi Digiti. Origin: From the Uncus of the Os Unciforme, and adjacent part of the Annular Ligament. It pusses ob- liquely over the under end of the following Muscle. Insertion : By a roundish Tendon, into the inner part of the Base of the first Bone of this Finger. Action: To bend the Little Finger, and assist the Adductor. Abductor Minimi Digiti, Vel Ca7'po-Phalangeus Minimi Digiti. Origin: Fleshy, from the Os Pisiforme, and from that part of the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius next it; going nearly straight down at the inner side of the Hand.IPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 237 Insertion : Tendinous, into the inner side of the Base oof the first Bone of the Little Finger. Action: To draw the Little Finger from the rest. Adductor Minimi Digiti, Wei MetacarpeuSf vel Carpo-Metacarpeus Minimi Digiti. Origin: Fleshy, from the edge of the Hook-like Pro- ccess of the Os Unciforrae, and from that part of the ILigamentum Carpi Annulare next it. Insertion : Tendinous into the inner side, and ante- rrior or under extremity of the Metacarpal Bone of the ILittle Finger. Action: To bend the Metacarpal Bone, and bring tthis Finger towards the rest. INTEROSSEI, Vel Metacaipo-Phalangei Later ales. Origin: From the sides of the Metacarpal Bones. TThey fill up the spaces between these, and are some- thing similar to the Lumbricales, but larger. Insertion: By slender Tendons, along with those of ‘the Lumbricales, into the sides of the Tendinous Ex- ppansions of the Extensor Digitorum Communis. Action: To give the Fingers their lateral motions, ,^nd to assist a little, according to their situations, iii Ibending or extending the first Phalanx of the Fingers. Of338 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion: Of tlie Interossei, three, seen in the Palm of the Hand, arise with single Heads, and are called Interni and four on the back of the Hand, with double Heads, termed Externiy or Bicipites. Part of the Extern!, however, are also seen in the Palm of the Pland. INTEROSSEI INTERNI. Prior Indicis. Origin: From the outer or Radial side of the Meta- carpal Bone of the Fore Finger. Insertion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the back of the Fore Finger. Action: To draw that Finger outw'ards, towards the Thumb. Posterior Indicis. Orwin; From the inner or Uhiar side of the Meta- o carpal Bone of the Fore Finger. Insertion ; Into the inside of the Tendon on the back of the Fore Finger. Action: To draw the Fore Finger inv/ards. Prior Annularis. Origin : From the outside of the Metacarpal Bone of the Ring Finger.ipart il] of the muscles, 2S9 • Insertion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the bback of the Ring Finger. Action: To draw the Ring Finger outwards. Interosseus Auricularis. Origin: From the outside of the Metacarpal Bone oof the Little Finger. Insertion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the jback of the Little Finger. Action: To draw the Little Finger outwards. INTEROSSEI EXTERNI. ^ Prior Medii Digiti. Origin : From the corresponding sides of the Meta- :carpal Bones of the Fore and Middle Fingers. hiscrtion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the »ack of the Middle Finger. Action : To draw the Middle Finger outwards. Posterior Medii Digiti. Origin: From the corresponding sides of the Meta- ::arpal Bones of the Middle and Ring Fingers. Insertion: Into the inside of the Tendon on the back »f the Middle Finger. Action : To draw the Middle Finger inwards. Posterior240 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartII. PosTEKioR Annularis. Origin: From the corresponding sides of the Meta- carpal Bones of the Ring and Little Fingers. Insertion : Into the inside of the Tendon on the back of the Ring Finger. * Action: To draw the Ring Finger inwards. MUSCLES2-H OF THE MUSCLES. ^ART II.] MUSCLES : I J i / J OF r ^ I THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. i ..g= 'i MUSCLES ON THE PELVIS AND THIGH, serving TOR THE MOTION OF THE THIGH AND LEG. Aponeurosis of the Inferior Extremity. Previous to the description of the Muscles of the inferior Extremity, it is proper to take notice of the ^rascia Lata, or Tendinous Expansion, which, as in the !iuperior Extremity, forms a general Covering to the Muscles, and sends off Partitions between them, to be connected to the Ridges and Processes of the Bones. It is thick and strong on the outside of the Thigh md Leg, but towards the inner side of both, particu- nrly on the former, it gradually turns thinner, and has aather the appearance of Cellular Membrane. It descends from the Processes and other Projections :n the outside of the Bones of the Pelvis, but more Especially from the Tendons of the external Layers of ne Muscles of the Loins and Abdomen. A little below the Trochanter Major,'it is intimately VoL. I, Q connected242 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. connected to the Linca Aspera. At the Joint of the Knee it receives additions from the Tendons of the Ex- tensors of the Leg, and is there connected with the outer and inner sides of the Head of the Tibia and Fi- bula. In the Leg, it is firmly fixed to the Spine of the Tibia j and at the under end, to the Bones of the Ankle, where part of it, thicker and stronger than the rest, forms the Ligamentum Annulai'e. It is lost at last upon the Foot. It serves the same general purposes with the Aponeu- rosis of the Superior Extremity. Psoas Magnus. Iliacus Internus . 195, 196. Pectinalis, \c\PcctineuSi mc\ Siq)cr-Puhio-Femoralis. Origin : Broad and Fleshy, from the upper and fore part of the Os Pectinis vel Pubis, immediately above the Foramen Thyroideum. It runs downwards and outwards at the inner side of the Psoas Magnus. Insertion : By a flat and short Tendon, into the Linea Aspera of the Os Femoris, a little below the Trochan- ter Minor. Action: To pull the Thigh upwards and inwards, and to give it, and of course the Foot, a degree of ro- i tation outwards. !, Triceps Adductor Femoris. ? * Under this appellation are comprehended three dis-; tinctOF THE MUSCLES. ' ' 24S- :'’art II.j iinct Muscles, viz. Adductor LonguSt Adductor Brevis^. irnd Adductor Magnus. Adductor Longus, vel Pubio~Femoralis. I Origin : By a strong roundish Tendon, from the up- loer and fore part of the Os Pubis, and Ligament of the Synchondrosis, at the inner side of the Pectinalis; tt runs downwards and outwards. Insertion : By a broad flat Tendon, into the middle iff the Linea Aspera. Adductor Brevis, vel Sub-Pubio-Femorulis. Origin: Tendinous, from the Os Pubis, at the side iff its Symphysis, below and behind the former Muscle; tt runs obliquely outwards. Insertion: By a short flat Tendon, into the inner and ippper part of the Linea Aspera, from a little below the Trochanter Minor, to the beginning of the Insertion ot bile Adductor Longus. i; , Adductor Magnus, ye\ Ischio^Femoralis. . Origin: From the side of the Symphysis Pubis, a tftle lower than the former. The Origin is continued Lownwards from the Crus and .Tuberosity of the Os ischium. The Fibres run outwards and downwards, [Dreading out wide, and forming a very large Muscle, Insertion: Into the whole length of the Linea Aspera; ae under part of the Muscle extending along the Ridge Q 2 whichCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartII. which leads to the inner Condyle of the Os Femoris. It is also fixed by a roundish Tendon, into the upper part of that Condyle, a little above which the Femoral Ar- tery, in its course towards the Ham, passes between the Tendon of this Muscle and the Bone. Actioji of the three Additciors : To bring the Thigh inwards and upwards, according to the different direc* tions of their Fibres, and to assist a little in rolling it outwards. Obturator Externus, Vel Stdj-Fiibio-Trochanterius Externum. Origin : By a semicircular Margin, from the parts of the Ossa Pubis and Ischium, which form the anterior half of the Foramen Thyroideum, and from the Mem-, brane which fills up that Foramen. The Fibres are col- lected like rays towards a centre, and pass outwards over the back part of the Cervix of the Os Femoris. Insertion : By a strong round Tendon, into the Cavity at the inner and back part of the root of the Trochan- ter Major, adhering in its course to the Capsular Liga- ment of the Thigh-Bone. Action. To roll the Thigh-bone obliquely outwards, and to prevent the Capsular Ligament from being pinched. Gluteus Maximus, vel Sacro~Femoralis. I Origin; Fleshy, from the back part of the Spine of the /24:3 fPART IL] OF THE MUSCLES. khe Os Ilium; from the under and outer part of the Os Sacrum j from the Os Coccj^gis; and from the posterior Sacro-Sciatic Ligaments, over which part of the inferior ledge hangs in a Flap. The Fibres are collected into icoarse Fasciculi, which run obliquely forwards, and a iittle downwards. The upper part of it covers almost fhe whole of the Trochanter Major, and it is intimately ^‘onnected with the broad Tendon of the Tensor Vaginae Wemoris. This Muscle is the largest of the Body, and :composes the principal part of the Buttock. Insertion: By a strong, thick, and broad Tendon, DDto the upper and outer part of the Linea Aspera, along r/hich it is continued for some way down. Action: To extend the Thigh, and pull it backwards md a little outwards. It extends also the Pelvis on the ?high in standing; and, assisted by the other Glutei, naintains the equilibrium of the Body on the lower Extremity, which rests on the ground, while the other > i carried forwards. Gluteus Medius, vel Ilio-Trochanteriiis Magnus. Origin ; Fleshy, from all that part of the Spine of the ))s Ilium which is unoccupied by the Gluteus Maximus ; com the upper part of the Dorsum of that Bone ; and com an Aponeurosis which covers tlie Muscle, and i»ins the Fascia of the Thigh. It sends off a broad Vendon, which has its Insertion into the outer and back part of the Tro- iianter Major, Q3 Action •246 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PAnrll. Action: To pull the Thigh outwards, and a little backwards. The fore part of the Muscle assists in rolling it inwards. Gluteus Minimus, vel Ilio-Trodianterius Paivus. Origin: Fleshy, from the lower half of the Dorsum of the Os Ilium. Its Origin is continued from the su- perior-anterior Spinous Process, along a rising of the Bone, as far as the great Sciatic Notch ; and the Muscle runs in a radiated manner to a strong flat Tendon. Insei'tion : Into the fore and upper part of the Tro-. chanter Major. Action: To assist the former in pulling the Thigh outwards, and a little backwards; and, along with other Muscles, in rolling it inwards. Pyiufoumis, vel Sacro-Trochanterius. Origin: Within the Pelvis, by three Tendinous and Fleshy Pleads, from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the Os Sacrum ; and, becoming round and tapering, it passes out of the Pelvis, along with the Sciatic Nerve, through the great Notch of the Ilium, from which it re- ceives the addition of a few Fleshy Fibres. Insertion : By a roundish Tendon, into the upper part of the Cavity at the inner side of the root of the Tro- chanter Major. Action: To assist in the Abduction of the Thigh, and in its rotation outwards, pEMINf,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 24-7 ✓ Gemini, vel Gemelliy vel lichio-Trochanterius. Origin: By two distinct Heads; the superior from the Spinous Process, and the inferior from the Tubero- sity of the Os Ischium, and from the Sacro-Sciatic Li- gament. The two Heads are united by a Tendinous and Fleshy Membrane, and form a Sheath for the re- ception of the Tendon of the Obturator Internus. Insertion ; Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Cavity at the inner side of the root of the Trochanter Major, on each side of the Tendon of the Obturator Internus, to which they firmly adhere. Action; To roll the Thigh outwards, and to prevent the Tendon of the Obturator Internus from starting out of its place while the Muscle is in action. Obturator Internus, Vel Marsifpialis, vel Szih-Puhio- Trochanicrius Internus. Origin : Within the Pelvis, by a semicircular Fleshy margin, from the anterior half of the Foramen I'hyroi- deum, and, in part, from the Obturator Ligament. Its Fibres converge, and send off a round Tendon, which passes over the Os Ischium, between the Spine and Tuber of that Bone, as a rope passes over a pulley.— W'here it goes over the Capsular Ligament of the Thigh- bone, it is inclosed in the Sheath of the Gemini. Jnsei tion: By a round Tendon, along with the Gemi- ni, into the large Pit at the root of the Trochanter Major. Action : To roll the Thigh obliquely outwards. Q 4- Quadratusns COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paut 11. Quadratus Femoris, vel Ischio‘Sub-2rocha?iierms. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the outcii- side of the Tuberosity of tlie Os Ischium j running trans- versely outwards. Insertion; Fleshy, into a rough Ridge continued from the root of the great to that of the small Trochanter. Action : To roll the Thigh outwards. The Pyriformis, Gemini, Quadratus, and Obtura- tores, which are the Rotators of the Thigh when it is in a line with the Body, become its Abductors when it is in the bended state. Tensor VaginjE Femoris, Vel Ilio-Aponeuroso-Femoris. Origin: By a narrow. Tendinous, and Fleshy begin- ning, from the external part of the anterior-superior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium. It goes downwards, and' a little backwards, forming a thick Fleshy Belly, whicli IS inclosed in a doubling of the Aponeurosis or Vagina of the Thigh. Insertion: A little below the Trochanter Major, into the inner Surface of the Aponeurosis which covers the outside of the Thigh. Action: To stretch the Aponeurosis, and to assist in the Abduction of the Thigh, and in its rotation in- wards. Sartorius,2‘i9 Paht IL] of the muscles. I Sartorius, vel Ilio-Pretibialis. Origin: Tendinous, from the superiorronterior Spi- nous Process of the Os Ilium. It soon becomes Flesh}', runs obliquely downwards over the Muscles situated upon the fore and inner side of tlie Thigh, and is tlae longest Muscle of the Body. Insei'tion: By a broad and thin Tendon, into the' inner side of the Tibia, near the inferior part of its Tu- bercle. Action; To bend the Knee, and bring one Leg ob- liquely inwards across the other. Gracilis, vel Bectvs Internus^ vel Szib-Puhio-Pretihialis. Origin: By a thin Tendon, from the Os Pubis, near the Symphysis ; soon becoming Fleshy, and descending in a direct course by the inside of tlie Thigh. Insertion: Tendinous, into the Tibia, under the Sar* tori us. Action: To assist the Sartorius in making the full Flexion of the Knee, after it has been bent to a certain degree, by the Flexors on the back part of the Thigh. Rectus, vel Gracilis Anterior^ vel Ilio~Rotideus. Origin : Fleshy, from the inferior-anterior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium; and Tendinous, from the Dor- sum of that Bone, a little above the Acetabulum. It runs down over the anterior part of the Cervix of the Os Fe- moris,250 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. moris, and, in its passage along the fore part of the Thigh, becomes gradually larger iis fur as its middle, after which it decreases towards its lower extremi- ty. In the middle of the fore part ol the Muscle, there is a longitudinal Teiulinous Line, from which the Muscular Fibres run off like the Plumage of a Feather; the Tendon itself being most conspicuous behind. Insertion: Tendinous, into the upper part of the Pa- tella. Action : To extend the Leg. Cruralts, vel Crurais, or Middle of the Tri-Femoro- Eotideus. Origin: Fleshy, from between the two Trochanters of the Os Femoris, but nearer the Minor; and from the fore part of the Thigh-Bone to near its under extre- mity. Its sides are connected to both Vasti Muscles, and, below, it sends off a Tendon which joins that of the former Muscle. Insertion : Into the upper and back part of the Pa- tella, behind the Rectus. Action: To assist in the extension of the Leg. Vastus Externus, Or Outer Part of the Tri-Femoro-^Iiotulcus. Origin : Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy,' from the outer part of the Root of the Trochanter Major. Its Origin is continued from the Trochanter, along the whole*251 Part II.] OF TFIE MUSCLES. whole outer side of the Linea Aspera, to near the exter- nal Condyle of the Os Femoris, by Fleshy Fibx'es, which run obliquely forwards to a middle Tendon, where they terminate. Insertion ; Into the upper and outer part of the Pa^. tella, at the edge of the Tendon of the Rectus, with which it is connected. Part of it ends in an Aponeu- rosis, which is fixed to the Head of the Tibia, and af- terwards is continued to the Leg, Action: To extend the Leg. Vastus Internus, Or hmer Part of the Tri-Femoro-Rotuleus. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from between the fore part of the Os Femoris, and root of the Trochan- ter Minor. The Origin is also continued along the whole inside of the Linea Aspera, by Fibres running obliquely forwards and downwards. Insertion: Tendinous, at the side of the Crureus with which it is connected, into the upper and inner edge of the Patella, continuing Fleshy lower than the Vastus Extern us. Part of it likewise ends in an Aponeurosis, which is fixed to the upper part of the Tibia, and aftcr- vyards is continued to the Leg. Action: To assist the three former Muscles in extend- ing the Leg ; then the Patella, fixed to the Tubercle of the Tibia by a strong Ligament, supplies the office of a Pulley, Semi-‘J52 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PaktII. Semitendinosus, vel Ischio-PreUhialis. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, in common with the long Head of the Biceps, from the posterior part of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. Its Fleshy Belly runs down the back part of the Thigh, and sends off a long roundish I'endon, which passes by the inner side of the Knee, and ends flat. Insertion: Into the inside of the Ridge of the Tibia, a little below the Tubercle, and connected to the under edge of the Gracilis. Action : To bend the Leg, and, when bended, to roll it inwards. Semimembranosus, vel Ischio-Poplito-Tihialis. Origin : By a broad flat Tendon, from the upper and back part of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. The Fibres composing the Fleshy Belly, run in an oblique direction towards a Tendon at the inner and under part of tlic Muscle, which is situated behind the Semitendi- nosus. Insertion : Into the inner and back part of the Head of the Tibia. Action: To bend the Leg, and bring it directly back- wards. BicepsPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 255 i I Biceps Flexor Cruris, Vel Ischio-Femoro-Peronealis. Origiji: By two distinct Heads. The first, or Long Head, r»'ises in common with the SemitCndinosus, from the upper and back part of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. The second, or Shm't Head, arises from the Linea Aspera, a little below the termination of the Gluteus Maximus, by a Fleshy acute beginning, which soon grows broader, as it descends to join the first Flead a little above the external Condyle of the Os Fe- moris. Insei-tion: By a strong Tendon, into the upper parr, of the Head of the Fibula. •* i Actio7i: To bend the Leg. The Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus form the inne}' Ham-strhig, and tlie Biceps the outo' Hamstring ; between the Ham-strings the great Vessels and Nerves are situated, which run to the Leg. PoPLiTEUS, vel Femoj-o-Poplito-Tibialis. Origm: By a small round Tendon, from the outer and under part of the external Condyle of the Os Fe- moris, and from the back part of the Capsular Liga- ment of the Joint. In passing the Joint, it becomes I Fleshy, and spreads out, the Fibres running obliquely inwards and downwards, covered with a Tendinous Membrane. Insertion .*COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIL Insertion : Thin and Fleshy, into a Ridge at the up- per and inner part of the Tibia, a little below its Head. Action: To assist in bending the Leg, and, when bent, to roll it inwards. The Muscle also prevents the Capsular Ligament from being pinched. MUSCLES SITUATED ON THE LEG AND FOOT, SERV- ING FOR THE MOTION or the foot and TOES. Gastrocnemius Externus, vel Gemellus^ vel Bifemoro- Calcancus. Origin: By two distinct Heads *, one from the upper and back part of the internal Condyle of the Os Femo- ris, and from a little above the Condyle, by two sepa- rate beginnings: The other, Tendinous from the upper and back part of the external Condyle. A little below the Joint, their Fleshy Bellies meet in a middle Ten- don, the union giving the appearance of a longitudinal Raphe. Below the middle of the Tibia, the Muscle sends off a broad thin Tendon, which, becoming gra- dually narrower, joins that of the Gastrocnemius Inter- ims, a little above the Ankle. Gastrocnemius Internus, ^’^el SolaiSj vel Tihio-Calcaneus. Orisin: Bv two Heads. The first from the back part255 OF THE MUSCLES. Part II.] part of the Head, and upper and back part of the Body of the Fibula : The other from the back part of the Ti- bia, running inwards along the under edge of the Po- pliteus, towards the inner part of the Bone, from which it receives Fleshy Fibres for some way down. The Flesh of this Muscle, covered by the Tendon of the Gastrocnemius Externus, descends nearly as far as the extremity of the Tibia, a little above which the Tendons of both Gastrocnemii unite, and form a strong round Cord, called Tendo Achillis. Insertion : Into the upper and back part of the Os Calcis, by the projection of which the Tendo Acliillis is at a considerable distance from the Tibia. Action: To extend the Foot, by raising the Heel. Plantaris, vel Femoro-Calcaneus Parvus. Origin : Thin and Fleshy, from the upper and back part of the external Condyle of the Os Femoris, and from the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. A little be- low the Head of the Fibula, it sends off a long slender Tendon, which descends obliquely inwards, between the inner Heads of the Gastrocnemii, and afterw'ards runs along the inner edge of the Tendo Achillis. Insertion: Into the inside of the posterior part of tlie Os Calcis, below the Tendo Achillis. Action: To assist the Gastrocnemii, and to pull the Capsular Ligament of the Knee from between the Bones. This Muscle is sometimes, though very seldom, wanting. TibialisCOMPENDHJM OF ANATOMY. [Part IT- Tibialis Anticus, vcl Tibio-Super-Tarsem. Origm: Tendinous, from the upper part of the Ti-* bia, between its Tubercle and Articulation with the Fi- bula. It then runs down, Fleshy, on the outside of the Tibia, adhering to it and to the upper part of the In- terosseous Ligament. Towards the under part of the Leg, it sends off a strong round Tendon, which passes under the Ligamentum Tarsi Annulare, near the inner Ankle. Insertion; Tendinous, into the middle of the Os Cii- neiforme Internum and Base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe. Action : To bend the Foot. Tibialis Posticus, vel 7'ibio-Suh-Tarseus. Origin ; Fleshy, from the upper and fore part of the Tibia, under the Process which joins it to the Fibula; then, passing through a Fissure in the upper part of the Interosseous Ligament, it continues its Origin from the back part of the Fibula, next the Tibia, and from near one half of the upper part of the last-named Bone, as also from the Interosseous Ligament j the Fibres run- ning towards a middle Tendon, which, in its descent, becomes round, and passes in a Groove behind the Malleolus Internus. Jnscrlion: Tendinous, chiefly into the upper and in- ner part of the Os Naviculare, and partly into the un- der Surface of the Tarsal Bones by separate Slips, the lastPart II.] ^OF THE MUSCLES. 2^ last of which goes to the root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Middle Toe. Action: To e.Ktend tlie Foot, and, with the assistance of the Tibialis Anticus, to turn the Toes inwards, and the outer edge of the Foot downwards. Peuoneus Longus, Vel Primusi vel Peroneo-suh-Tarsetis. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the foi-e part of the Head of the Fibula ; and Fleshy, from the outer part ^ of that Bone, down to within a hand-breadth of the Ankle. The Fibres run in a Penniform manner to- wards a long Tendon, which becomes round, and, in- closed in a Sheath, passes through a Channel behind the Malleolus Externus. It is then reflected to the Si- nuosity of the Os Calcis, runs along a Groove in the Os Cuboides, and goes obliquely across the Bones in the middle of the Sole. * Insertion : Tendinous, into the outside of the root of i the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, and partly into I the -Os Cuneiforme Internum. Action; To extend the Foot a little, to draw it out- wards, and to turn the inner edge of it downwards. I t I Peroneus Brevis, 1 Vel SecundttSi vel Peroneo-Metatarseus Magnus. i Origin: Fleshy, from the outer part of the Fibula, beginning some way above the middle height of the VoL. I. li Bone, II 258 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Bone, and continuing its adhesion as far as the Malleo- lus Externus. The Fibres run, like those of the former Muscle, to an External Tendon, which becomes round, passes behind the outer Ankle, where it is included in the same Sheath with the Tendon of the pi*eceding Muscle, and there crossing behind that Tendon, runs forward in a Sheath proper to itself. Insertion: Tendinous, into the root and external part of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Action; To assist the former Muscle in pulling the Foot outwards, its outer edge upwards, and to extend it in a small degree. Extensor Longus Digitorum, Vel Pcroneo-supei-Phalayigeus Communis, Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the upper and outer part of the Plead of the Tibia, and from the Plead, and almost the whole length of the anterior Spine of the Fibula. It arises, also. Fleshy, from the Aponeurosis which covers the upper and outer part of the Leg, and from the Interosseous Ligament. Lender the Ligamentum Tarsi Annulare, it splits into four round Tendons, which pass along the upper part of the Foot. Insertion: Into the Base of the first Phalanx of the four small Toes, by flat Tendons which are expanded over the upper side of the Toes as far as the root of the last Phalanx. Action: To extend all the Joints of the four small Toes. PeboneusV Part IL] OF THE MUSCLES. 259 Peroneus Tertius of Albinus, Vel Pa oneo-Metatarseus Minor, Is a Portion of the former Muscle. Origin •* From the middle of the Fibula, in common with the Extensor Longus Digitorum. It continues down to near the Malleolus Externus, and sends its Fleshy Fibres forwards to a Tendon which passes under the Ligamentum Annulare. Insertion: Into the root of the Metatai'sal Bone of the Little Toe. Actio7i: To assist in bending the Foot. Extensor Brevis Digitorum, Vel Calco-super-Phalangeus Communisi. Origin: Fleshy and Tendinous, from the outer and fore part of the Os Calcis; soon forming a Fleshy Belly, which is divided into four Portions. These send off an equal number of Tendons, which pass over the upper part of the Foot, crossing under those of the former Muscle. Insertion; By four slender Tendons, into the Tendi-' nous Expansion continued from the Long Extensors of all the Toes, excepting the little one. Action: To assist in the extension of the Toes. R2 Aponeurosisti60 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Aponeurosis PlantaAis. This, like the Aponeurosis Palmaris, is a strong Ten- dinous Expansion, which covers the Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves of the Sole. It arises from the Tuberosity at the under and back part of the Os Calcis, and, is divided into three Por- tions, which run forwards, to be connected to the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones of all the Toes. The middle Portion is subdivided into five Slips, which split at the roots of the Toes, and embrace the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles. Besides serving the general purpose of Aponeuroses, it performs the office of a Ligament, by binding the two ends of the arch of the Foot together. Flexor Brevis Digitorum, Vel Hejcot' Subliviisy vel PerforatxiSy vel Calco-Sub-Pha- langetis Communis. Origin: Narrow and Fleshy, from the inferior-anterior part of the Tuberosity of the Os Calcis, and from the Aponeurosis Plantaris. It forms a thick Fleshy Belly, which sends off lour small Tendons, and these split for the passage of the 7'endons of the Flexor Longus. Insertion: Into the second Phalanx of the four small Toes. Action : To bend the first and second Joints of the Toes, but particularly the second. ThePart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 261 I The Tendon of the Little Toe is frequently want- ing. Flexor Longus Digitorum, Vel Flexor Profundus, vel Perforans, vel Tibio- Phalavgeiis Communis. Origin: By an acute Tendon, which soon becomes Fleshy, from the back part of the Tibia, at the under edge of the Popliteus j and this beginning is continued down the inner edge of the Bone, by short Fleshy Fi- bres ending in its Tendon. It arises also by Tendinous and Fleshy Fibres, from the outer edge of the Tibia ; and between this double order of Fibres the Tibialis Posticus lies inclosed. Having gone under two Annu- lar Ligaments, it passes through a Sinuosity at the in- side of the Os Calcis; and about the middle of the Sole, receives a Tendon from the Flexor Longus Polli- cis. It then divides into four Tendons which run through the Slits of the Perforatus. Insei'tion: Into the Base of the third Phalanx of the four smaller Toes ; the Tendons of this, as well as of the Flexor Brevis, being inclosed upon the Toes by . Annular Ligaments. Action: To bend the different Joints of the Toes, particularly the last one. 1 1 113 Flexor » 1 ! i < « IL>62 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 11, Flexor Digitorum Accessorius, Vel Massa Cornea Jacobi Si/lvii. Origin: By Two Portions; the inner Fleshy, from the Sinuosity of the Os Calcis; the outer Tendinous, but soon becoming Fleshy, from the fore and outer part of that Bone. Insertion: Into the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum, before it divides into smaller Tendops. Action : To assist the Flexor Longus. Lumbricales, vel Planfo-suh-Phalangens. Origin : By four Tendinous and Fleshy beginnings, from the Tendon of the Flexor Profundus, just before its division. They run forwards, under the same gene- ral appearance with those in the Hand, but are some- wliat smaller. Insertion : By four slender Tendons, at the inside of the first Joint of the four small Toes, into the Tendi- nous Expansion sent from the Extensors to cover the upper part of the Toes. Action ; To increase the Flexion of the Toes, an4 to draw them inwards. Extensor Proprius Pgllicis, Vel Extensor Longus, vel Peroneo-supa'-Phalangeus Pollicis. Origin: By an acute. Tendinous, and Fleshy begin- ning,26S Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. R 4. Action i ning, from the fore part of the Fibula, some way below its Head. It continues its Origin from the same Bone to near the outer Ankle, by Fleshy Fibres which de- scend obliquely towards a Tendon. Imertion : Tendinous, into the posterior part of both the Bones of the Great Toe. Action: To extend the Great Toe. Flexor Longus Pollicis, Vel Pei'oneo-sub-Phalangeus Pollicis. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the back part jof the Fibula, some way below its Head \ being con- tinued down the same Bone, almost to its under end, by a double order of oblique Fleshy Fibres. Its Ten- don passes under an Annular Ligament at the inner Ankle. Insertion ; Into the last Joint of the Great 'Foe. Action: To bend the Great Toe, particularly the last Joint. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, Vel Tarso-sub-Phalangeus Pollicis. Ch'igin : Tendinous, from the under and fore part of the Os Calcis, and from the Os Cuneiforme Externum. It is inseparably united with the Abductor and Adduc- tor Pollicis. Insertion: Into the external Os Sesamoideum, and root of the first Bone of the Great Toe.26i COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 11. Action : To bend the first Joint of the Great Toe. Abductor Pollicis, vel Calco-suh-Phalangeus Pollkh. Origin: Fleshy, from the anterior and inner part of the Protuberance of the Os Calcis, and Tendinous from the sarfic Bone, where it joins with the Os Navi- cularc. Insertion: Tendinous, into the internal Os Sesamoi- dcum, and root of the first Bone of the Great Toe. Action: To pull the Great Toe from the rest. Adductor Pollicis, ^’el Metatarso-suh-Pholangeus Pollicis. Origin: By a long thin Tendon, from the under part of the Os Calcis, from the Os Cuboides, from the Os Cuneiforme Externum, and from the root of the Meta- tarsal Bone of the Second Toe. The Muscle is divided into two Fleshy Portions. Inseiiion: Into the external Os Sesamoideum, and root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great 1 oe. Action : To pull the Great Toe towards the rest. Abductor Minimi Digiti, Vel Calco-sub-P/iala7igeus Minimi Digiti. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the edge of a Cavity on the under part of the Protuberance of the Os Calcis,Paiit II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 265 Calcis, and from the root of tlie Metatai sal Bone of the I Little Toe. I Insertion: Into the outer part of the root of the first Bone of the Little Toe. Action: To draw the Little Toe outwards. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, Vel Tarso-suh-Phalangcus Minimi Digiti. Origin: Tendinous, from the Os Cuboides, near the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus; and Fleshy, from the outer and back part of the Meta- tarsal Bone of this Toe. Insertion: Into the anterior extremity of the Meta- tarsal Bone, and root of the first Bone of the Little Toe. Action: To bend this Toe. Transversalis, Vel Metatarso-sub-Pkalangens Transversalis Pollicis. Origm: Tendinous, from the under and fore part of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, and from the internal Os Sesamoideum of the first Joint. It forms a Fleshy Belly, whicli runs transversely between the Me- tatarsal Bones and Flexor Muscles of the Toes. Insertion : Tendinous, into the under and outer part of the anterior extremity of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe, and Ligament of the next Toe. Action:266 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Action { To contract the Foot, by bringing the roots of tlie outer and inner Toes towards each other. INTEROSSEI, Vel Mctatarso-Phalangei Later ales. The Interossei arise Tendinous and Fleshy from, and fill the spaces between, the Metatarsal Bones. Three, called Intern^ arise w ith single Heads, and are placed in the Sole; and four, termed Externi^ or Bicipitesy arise with double Heads, and appear on both sides of the Foot. The Insertion of all the Interossei is by slender Ten- dons, into the Expansion sent oft' from the Tendons ot the Lumbricales and of the Extensor Muscles of the Toes, INTEROSSEI INTERNE Prior, vel Abductor Medii Digiii. Origin; From the inside of the Metatarsal Bone of the Middle Toe. Insertion : Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the Middle Too. Action: To pull the Middle Toe inwards. Prior, vel Abductor Tertii Digiti, Origin: From the inner and under part of the Meta- tarsal Bone of the third of the small Toes. Insertion e26T Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Insertion: Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the third Toe. Action: To pull the third Toe inwards. Prior, vel Adductor Minimi Digiti. Origiti: From the inside of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Insertion; Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the Little Toe. Action: To pull the Little Toe inwards. INTEROSSEI EXTERNI, vel Bicipites, Prior, vel Abductor Indicis. Origin: From the contiguous sides of the Metatarsal Bones of the Great and Fore Toes. Insertion ; Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the Fore Toe. Action : To pull the Fore Toe inwards. Posterior, vel Addtictor Bidicis, Origin: From the contiguous sides of the Fore Toe, and second of the small Toes. Insertion: Into the outside of the root of the first Bone of the Fore Toe. Action: To pull the Fore Toe outwards. Posterior,26S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PAitril. Posterior, vcl Adductor Medii Digiti. Origin: From the contiguous sides of the Metatarsal Bones of the second and third of the small Toes. hiserlion -• Into the outside of the root of the first Bone of the second of the small Toes. Action : To pull this Toe outwards. Posterior, vel Adductor Tertii Digiti. Origin: From the contiguous sides of the Metatarsal Bones of the third and fourth of the small Toes. Insertion: Into the outside of the root of the firs! Bone of the third of the small Toes. Action : To pull this Toe outwards. PARTPART 111. OF THE li U R S M U C O S Al; and op the 1.1 G A M E N T S AND OTHER PARTS OF THE JOINTS.// OF THB BURS.® MUCOS.E. J HE BuRSiE MucosiE belong chiefly to the Extremities, and are found between Tendons and Bones, where these play upon each other, as at the insertion of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti: Or, completely suirounding the Tendons, as around the Tendons of the Flexores Digitorum : Or, where Tendons rub on each other, as between those of the Extensorcs Carpi Radiales and Extensores Pollicis: Or, between Tendons and External Parts, as over the Tendons of the Flexores Digitorum, in the Palm of the Hand: Or, between Tendons and Ligaments of the Joints, as between the Tendons of the Flexores Digitorum and Ligamentum Carpi Capsulare. , They are found in a few places where Processes play upon Ligaments, as between the Acromion and Capsu- lar Ligament of the Humerus; Or, where the Bones play on each other, as between tlic Clavicle and Coracoid Process of the Scapula. Some272 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOxMY. [PartIII. Some of the Bursaj of contiguous Tendons commu- nicate with each other; as between the Extensor Carpi iiadialis and Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. Others communicate, not only in Adults, but often also in Children, with the Cavity of the Joints ; as be- hind the Tendon of the Extensors of the Leg; though this is more frequently the case in advanced age. Their Structure is the same with that of the inner Layer of the Capsular Ligament of the Joints. Like that, they are formed of a thin Pellucid Mem- brane, possessing little Sensibility, and joined to tlie surrounding parts by Cellular Substance, which, in many places, is intermixed with Fat. Like the Capsule of the Joint, they .have commonly a thin Layer of Cartilage, or of tough Membrane, be- tween them and the Bone. Like it, they have reddish-coloured Musses of Fat projecting into their Cavities, from the edges of which Fringes are sent off; as behind the Ligament of the Pa- tella, or at the Insertion of the Tendo Achillis. Like it also, the inside of the Bursm is remarkably smooth, being lubricated with the same kind of Gelati- nous Mucus which is found in the Cavities of the Joints; —the Mucus serving the same general purpose with that of the Joints, viz. to lessen Friction, and prevent the consequences which would otherwise result from it. BURSiEPart III.] OF THE BURS^ MUCOSA. 27^? BURS^ MUCOSAE OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. BuRSiE about the Joint of the Shoulder. A Bursa under the Clavicle, where it plays upon the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. A large Bursa between the Acromion and Ligament, joining it to the Coracoid Process and the Capsular Li- gament of the Humerus. A small Bursa, sometimes absent, between the point of the Coracoid Process and Capsular Ligament of the Humerus. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Subscapularis Muscle and Capsular Ligament of the Joint of the Hu- merus, which frequently communicates with the Cavity of the Joint. A Bursa, not constant, between the Origin of the Cp- raco-Brachialis and short Head of the Biceps Muscle, and Capsular Ligament of the Humerus. A Bursa between the Tendon of the TeiVs Major and VoL. I. S the‘274 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part ill. the Os Humeri, and upper part of the Tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi. A small Bursa between the Tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi and Os Humeri. A Bursa between the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti and Body of the Humerus. Bursaj about the Joint of the Elbow. A Bursa, with a Peloton or Mass of Fat, between the Tendon of the Biceps and Tubercle of the Radius. A small Bursa between the J'endon common to the Extensor Carpi lladialis Brevior, Extensor Digitorum Communis, and round Head of the Radius. A small Bursa between the Tendon of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti and Olecranon. Burs/e upon the U?ider Part-of the Fore Arm and Hanu. A very large Bursa surrounding the Tendon of the Flexor Pollicis Longus. Four long Bursae lining tlie Sheaths which inclose the Tendons of the Flexors upon the Fingers. Four short Bursae on the fore part of the Tendons of the Flexor Digitorum Sublimis in the Palm of the Hand. A large Bursa between the Tendon of the Flexor Pol- licis Longus, the fore part of the Radius, and Capsular Ligament of the Wrist and Os Trapezium. A large Bursa between the Tendons of the Flexor Digitorum Profundus, and the fore part of the end of the Radius and Capsular Ligament of the Wrist. ThesePart III.] OF THE BURS.^ MUCOSA. 275 These two last-mentioned Bursas are sometimes found to communicate with each other. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ra- dialis and Os Tfhpezium. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Os Pisiforme. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and Radius. A large Bursa common to the Extensores Carpi Ra- diales, where they cross behind the Extensor Ossis Me- tacarpi Pollicis. Another Bursa common to the Extensores Carpi Ra- diales, where they cross behind the Extensor Secundi luternodii Pollicis. A third Bursa at the Insertion of the Tendon of the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. A Bursa for the Tendon of the Extensor Secundi In- ternodii Pollicis, which communicates with the second Bursa common to the Extensores Carpi Radialcs. Another Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis and Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. A Bursa between the Tendons of the Extensor of the Fore, Middle, and Ring Fingers, and Ligament of the Wrist. A Bursa for the Tendons of the Extensor of the Little Finger. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Carp Ulnaris and Ligament of the Wrist. S 2 BURS^576 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIII. BURS^ MUCOSiE OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY, Bursa lepon the Pelvis and Upper Part of the Thigh. A VERY large Bursa between the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus, and Capsular Ligament of the Thigh- Bone. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Pectinalis and Thigh-Bone. A small Bursa between the Gluteus Medius and Tro- chanter Major, and before the insertion of the Tendon of the Pyriformis. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Gluteus Mini- mus and Trochanter Major. A Bursa between the Gluteus Maximus and Vastus Externus. A Bursa between the Gluteus Medius and Pyriformis. A Bursa between the Obturator Internus and Os- Ischium. An oblong Bursa continued a considerable way be- tween the Obturator Internus and Gemini, and Capsu- lar Ligament of the Thigh-Bone. APart III.] OF THE BURS.® MUCOS®. . 277 A small Bursa at the Head of the Semimembranosus and Biceps Flexor Cruris. A small Bursa between the Origin of the Semitendi- nosus and that of the two former Muscles. A large Bursa between the Tendon of the Gluteus Maximus and root of the Trochanter Major. I'wo small Bursffi between the Tendon of the Gluteus Maximus and Thigh-Bone. Bursa: abmt the Joint of the Knee. A large Bursa behind the Tendon of the Extensors of the Leg, frequently found to communicate with the Cavity of the Knee-Joint. A Bursa behind the Ligament which joins the Patella to the Tibia, in the upper part of the Cavity of which a Fatty Substance projects. A large Bursa between the Tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, Semitendinosus, and Tibia. A Bursa between the Tendons of the Semimembra-r nosus and Gastrocnemius Extemus, and Ligament of the Knee. This Bursa contains a small one within it, from which there is a passage leading into the Cavity of the Joint of the Knee. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Semimembrano- sus and the internal lateral Ligament of the Knee, from which also there is a passage leading into the Joint. A Bursa under the Popliteus, likewise communicat- ing with the Cavity of the Knee-Joint. S 3 BuRSiG / II 12T8 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Bursas about the Ankle. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Tibialis Anti- cus and under part of the Tibia and Ligament of the Ankle. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Pro- prius Pollicis Pedis and the Tibia and Capsular Liga- ment of the Ankle. A Bursa between the Tendons of the Extensor Digi- torum Longus and Ligament of the Ankle. A large Bursa common to the Tendons of the Pero- nei Muscles. A Bursa proper to the Tendon of the Peroneus Brevis. A Bursa between the Tendo Achillis and Os Calcis, into the Cavity of which a Peloton of Fat projects. A Bursa between the Os Calcis and Flexor Pollicis Longus. A Bursa between the Flexor Digitorum Longus and ' the Tibia and Os Calcis. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus and the Tibia and Astragalus. BuRSiE in the Sole of the Foot. A second Bursa for the Tendon of the Peroneus Lon- gus, with an oblong Peloton of Fat within it. A Bursa common to the Tendon of the Flexor Pol- licis Longus, and that of the Flexor Digitorum Pro- fundus,Fart IIL] OF THE BURSiE MUCOSA. , 279^ fundus, at tlie upper end of which a Fatty Substance projects^ A Bursa for the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus. A Bursa lining the Sheath of each of the Tendons of the Flexors upon the Toes. S4 oj \280 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part Hi, or THE LIGAMENTS AND OTHER PARTS OF THE JOINTS. Ligaments are 'whitcy strongy jiexihle substances, of an intermediate firmness between Cartilage and common Membrane. They are composed of Fibres variously disposed j the greater part of them, however, running in a longitudi- nal direction. The Ligaments of moveable Joints arise, for the most part, at the junction of the Bodies of the Bones with their Epiphyses, from the Cervixy and beyond the edges, of the articulating Cartilage of one Bone, and are fixed, in a similar manner, into the corresponding parts of the Bone adjoining. Tlie Ligaments thus fixed are called Capsulary from their forming a Purse or I^agy which includes the Joint. Where variety of motion is allowed, the Capsular Li- gament is nearly of equal strength round the whole cir- cumference of the Joint j but, where the Joint is of the nature.1 Part III.3 OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 2S1 nature of a Hinge^ the Ligament is strongest at the sides of that Flinge. The mta' part of the Capsular Ligament is formed of a continuation of the Pei-iostetm, which is connected to the surrounding parts by Cellular Substance; while the inner Layer,—remarkably thin and dense,—is reflected over the Bones and Cartilages which the Ligament in- cludes *, one part of it thus forming Peiiosteiim, and the other Perichondrium. In certain parts of the Body, there are, besides the Capsular Ligaments, others for the firmer connection of the Bones, or for confining the motion to one par- ticular side; as the Round Ligament of the Thigh, or Citicialf or Lateral Ligaments of the Knee. Wherever the Ligaments are few, long, and weak, the motions are more extensive; and, on the contrary, where the Ligaments are numerous, short, and strong, the motions are more limited. In some parts of the Body, Ligaments supply the place of Bone, as in the Pelvis: In others, they give origin to Muscles, as between the Radius and Ulna: In some parts, they assist in connecting immoveable Bones, as at the Os Sacrum and Os Innominatum: In ^ others, they form a Socket in which moveable Bones play, as where part of the Astragalus moves on the Li- gament stretched between the Os Calcis and Os Sea-- phoides. Ligaments have numerous Blood-vessels, v/hieh can be readily injected. Upon the inner surface of the Capsular Ligaments, their?S2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part HI. their Aiicries secrete a liquor which assists in the lubri- cation of the Joints. 'I'he Naves •>!’ Ligaments arc very minute, but in K>TUc parts can l>c easily traced upon their Surl’ace. The Sensibility of IJgaineuts, in the sound state, is inconsiderable ; when in a state of Inflammation, how- ever, they are ibund to occasion extreme pain. Use i 'I'he Capsular Ligaments connect Bones toge- ther, assist in the secretion of the Synovia which they contain, and prevent the other parts from being pinch- ed in the Joint. Tlu: other Ligaments join Bones together, and pre- serve them in tlieir j)roper situation. In many parts, they give atUiclimcnt to Teudoas, and in some to the Fleshy pin ts of Muscles.. SvNoviAL Organs, Commmly mUed Gjlanss o/’ the J01NX&.. These are Masses qf Fat found in tlic greater num- ber of the Joints, covcretl with a continuation of the inner Layer of the Capsular Ligament, and projecting in such a manner as to be gently pressed, but not bruis- ed, by the motions of the Joint; and, in proportion as these motions are more ©r less frequent, the liquor whicli they secrete is discharged in a greater or smaller quantity. In some Joints, they have the same appearance with the common Fat of tlic Body ; in others, they arc cf a redderPart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 283 redder colour, from the numerous Blood-vessels dis- perse<l upon them. They have been generally considered as Glands lodg- ed within Masses of Fat; but, upon a minute inspec- tion, no knotty or Glandular bodies are to be found in them ; nor have they the appearance of Glands, farther than in being Secreting Substances ; which circumstance alone assimilates them to the nature of Glands. From the edges of these Fatty bodies, Fimbriee hang loose, and convey a lubricating Liquor, called Synovtat into the Cavity of the Joints. From the extremities of these Fringes^ the Liquor can be readily squeezed out by pressure; but their Cavities and Orifices arc so minute, or are otherwise of such a nature, as to have hitherto eluded discovery. ILc Fimbriae have been generally considered as Ex~ creto}y Ducts of Glands within the Joints. Dr Mon- ro, however, in his Work upon the Bursae Mucosai, supposes tliein to be of the nature of the Follirlrs oj the Urethra^ which prepare a Mucilaginous I.icjuor, witliout the assistance of any knotty or CHandular Or- gan. The Arteries which supply these Bodies with Blood for their Secretion, and the J^eins which return the Blood after the Secretion has been performed, can be readily seen ; but no Nerves can be traced into them; nor does it appear that they possess a higher degree of Sensibility than the other parts of the Joints already described, although, when they inflame and suppurate, they have in some instances been observed to occasion the most excruciating pain. Tlie28i COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIII. The Synovia, which is a thin Mucilaginous Liquor, resembling the glair of an egg, appears to be furnished, not only by the Substances already mentioned, but also by the inner Surface of the Capsular Ligaments in ge- neral, and serves for the lubrication of the Joints. LIGAMENTS op the HEAD and TRUNK. Ligaments of the Lower Jaw. The Capsular Ligament on each side, which arises ii om the whole Margin of the Articular Cavity of the Tem- poral Bone, and is inserted, first into the edge of the Interarticular Cartilage, formerly token notice of, and afterwards round the Cervix of the Lower Jaw. This Ligament, like others which belong to Joints of the Hinge kind, is thickest and strongest at the sides of the Joint, to confine the lateral motion of the Jaw. By it the Jaw is allowed to move upwards, down- wards, or a little forwards or backwards, or to either side, and the motions are rendered easier by the inter- vention of the Interarticular Cartilage, which follows the Condyle in its different motions. The Suspensoiy Ligament of the Stylo-glossus, which is attached by one end to the Styloid Process, and to a Ligament running from that Process to the OsHyoides, and by the other end to the Angle of the Lower Jaw; —serving to support the Stylo-glossus, and to give ori- gin to part of it. The Lateral Ligament, which arises from the Margin #f the Articular Cavity of the Temporal Bone, and is insertedf 2S5 Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. the f i inserted into tlie inner Surface of the Angle of the ! Lower Jaw, near its posterior Foramen ;—assisting to 1 keep the Jaw in situ, and to prevent the inferior Maxil- ! lary Vessels and Nerve from being injured by the action ' of the Pterygoid Muscle. Ligaments connecting the Head ujith the First and Se- cond Vertebra the Neck, and these two Verte- ! BR^ with each other. ! The two Capsidar Ligaments, which arise from the margin of the superior articulating Processes of the Atlas, and are inserted into the Base of the Condyles of the Occipital Bone, where the Head has its flexion and extension without rotation. The Ciradar Ligament, which arises from the edge . of the Spinal Hole of the first Vertebra, is connected > with the Capsular Ligaments of the superior articulating V Processes of the Atlas, and is inserted into the edge oi i the Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone. I The two Capsular Ligaments, which fix the inl’erior I oblique Processes of the Atlas to the superior oblique of the Vertebra Dentata, and admit of the rotation of the Head, with a small degree of flexion to eitlicr side. ' The Perpendicular Ligament, which fixes the Proces- sus Dentatus of the second Vertebra to the edge of the anterior part of the Foramen Magnum, and is twisted in the rotation of the Head. The two Lateral, or Moderator Ligaments, which arise each from the side of the Processus Dentatus, and run outwards and upwards to be fixed to the inner part of286 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIIL the side ol tlie Atlas, and to tlie inner edge of the Fo- ramen Magnum. They are short, but of great strength, and prevent the Head from turning too far round. The Tramverse Ligamenty which arises from the inner side of tlie Atlas, and, going across behind the Proces- sus Dentatus, is fixed to the opposite side of the Atlas. The edges of this Ligament extend upwards and downwards, and form two Processes, called its Appen- dices^ which are fixed to the Foramen Magnum and Processus Dentatus. The middle of the Ligament is ' remarkably firm where that Process plays upon it. It keeps the Processus Dentatus in its place, and prevents it from injuring the Spinal Marrow in the different mo- tions of the Head. Ligaments of the other Vertebrae. 'I'he Anterior Common Ligament of the Vertebra*, which is a strong Tendinous Band, extending along the convex or outer part of the Vertebrae, from the upper to the under region of the Spine. It begins at the second Cervical ^'^ertebra', and descends as far as the Os Sa- crum, where it spreads out, becomes thinner, and va- nishes about the under part of this Bone. It is much thicker upon the fore part than on the sides of the Ver- tebrai, by which the Bones are more firmly united an- teriorly, and is thinnest in the Neck and Loins, where the motions of the Spine arc greatest. Internally, it is blended with the Periosteum, and, through its whole course, it sends off small Processes to be fixed to the Bodies of the Vertebrae, by which their connection is made287 Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. I ' made more secure. While it assists in bindino-the Ver- tebrm together, it prevents the Spine from being stretch- ed too much backwards. The Q'ucial Inierveitebral Ligaments, which are nu- merous and short, but strong, situated behind the Liga- • mentum Commune Anterius; crossing each other ob- liquely, they join the Bodies of the Vertebrae together, upon tlie outer edges of the Intervertebral SubsUmccs, to which also they firmly adhere. I l^he Intei-vertcbral Substances, (already described along . with the Bones), which join the Bodies of the Vertebrm together, and allow an yielding motion in all directions. These substances are so compressible as to yield to the weight of the upper part of the Body j so that, after having been in an erect posture through the course of the day, the height of a person in the prime of life, and of middle stature, is diminished from half an inch to an inch in the evening, but, after a night’s rest in the usual attitude, it is found to be restored. I’lie Ligaments which run from the edge of the Bony !' Arch and Spinous Process of one Vertebra to that of j the next, so as to assist in filling up the Interstices, and i in fixing the Vertebrm tooether. O O ! A Ligamentous Cord which fixes rhe points of the Spinous Processes together. The Cervical Ligament, termed Ligumentmn Xuclue, vel Colli, w'hich arises from the perpendicular Spine of the Occipital Bone, and descends on the back-part of the Neck, adhering to the Spinous Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae, and giving oi’igin to part of the Trapezius. Ligaments between the Transverse Processes of the ^'ertcbrae288 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. The Vertebrae of the Back, fixing these Processes to each otlier. « The Capsular LigamenlSj which join the articulating Processes to eacli other. The Posterior or Internal Common Ligament of the Vertebrae, somewhat similar to the anterior one. It begins at the anterior edge of the Foramen Mag- num, and passes along the inner or concave part of the Bodies of the Vertebrae, becoming broader over each of the Intervertebrjil Substances. It adheres firmly to their upper and under edges, and terminates at the lower part of the Os Sacrum. It prevents the Spine from being too much bent forwards. Ligaments of the Ribs. The Capsular Ligaments of the Head of the Ribs, which arise from these Heads, and are fixed to the Cir- cumference of the Pits in the sides of the Bodies of the Vertebrm and Intervertebral Cartilages. The outer part of each Ligament sends off, or is connected with, radiated Fibres which are spread out upon the^ sides of the Vertebrae. The Capsular Ligaments of the Tubercles of the Ribs, which arise round the Articular Pits on the points of the Transverse Processes of the Vertebrae of the Back, and are fixed round the Tubercles of the Ribs. Internal Ligaments of the back of the Ribs, called Ligamenta T7-ajisversaria Interna, which arise from the inferior Surfiices of the Transverse Processes, and are fixed to the superior Margins of the Necks of the near- est Ribs.289 Faht liL] OF THE LIGAMENTS, See. j The External Ligaments of the Necks of the RibSf j called Ligamenta Transversaria Externa. They arise ! from the points of the Transverse Processes externally, and are fixed to the back part of the Necks of the Ribs. Ligamenta Cervicis Costanm Externa, or External LignmeiUs of the Necks of the Ribs, whidi ai-ise from the external Margins of the inferior oblique Processes, and descend obliquely outwards, to be fixed to the upper and outer part of the Necks of all the Ribs. The Ligaments at this end of the Ribs, together with the situation of the Transverse Processes, admit of their motion upwards and downwards, but prevent them from moving in any other direction. Short Ligamentous Fibres, which run from the Mar- gins of the anterior, extremities of the Ribs to the Mar- gins of their corresponding Cartilages; the Cartilages and Ribs being joined by an union of Substance. Radiated Ligaments, whicli go from the anterior Sur- faces of the Capsular Ligaments over the external Sur- face of the Sternum. Many of the Fibres of these Ligaments intermix with their fellows on the opposite side. The Capsular Ligaments of the Cartilages of the Ribs, which arise from the Margins of the Articular Cavities ' of the Sternum, and are fixed round the extremities of the seven True Ribs. Membrane proper to the Sternum, which is a firm Ex- ] pension, composed of Tendinous Fibres running in dif- ferent directions, but chiefly in a longitudinal one, and ■ covering the anterior and posterior Surfaces of the Bone, VoL. I. T the290 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. the Membrane itself being confounded with the Perios- teum. Ltigaments of the Cartilago Emiformisy which arc part of the proper Membrane of tlic Sternum, divided into strong Bands running obliquely from the under and fore | part of the Second Bone of the Sternum, and from the i Cartilages of the seventh pair of Ribs, to be fixed to j the Cartilago Ensiformis.—The Ligaments covering the • Sternum serve considerably to strengthen it Thin Tendinous Expansions^ which run over the In- tercostales at the fore part of the Thorax, and connect the Cartilages of the Ribs to each other. They are chiefly seated in the spaces unoccupied by tlie Intercos- tales Externi. LIGAMENTSPart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 291 I 1 j « ; LIGAMENTS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. The two Transverse Ligaments of the Pelvis., which arise from the posterior part of the Spine of the Os Ilium, and run transversely. The one is superior, and is fixed to the Transverse Process of the last Vertebra of tlie Loins; the other inferior, and is connected to the first Transverse Process of the Os Sacrum. The Ilio-Sacral Ligaments, which arise from the pos- terior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium, descend oblique- ly, and are fixed to the first, third, and fourth spurious Transverse Processes of the Os Sacrum. ' These, .with the two Transverse Ligaments, assist in j binding the Bones together to which they are connected. The Capsular Ligament of the Symphysis of the Os I Ilium and Saaiim, which surrounds the Joint, and as- j sists in connecting the two Bones to each other. A very thin Cartilage within this Joint, which cements l| the two Bones strongly together, and which constantly •! ailheres to the Os Sacrum, when the Joint is opened. T2 a k592 COMPENDIUM or ANATOMY. [Part111. A Ligainejilous and Cellular Substance^ containing Mucus, which forms the back part of this Joint, also assisting to fix the two Bones to each other, in such a manner .os to allow no motion; the Joint, howevei’, along with its fellow, and that between the Ossa Pubis, being useful in diminishing the cfiects which might re- sult from Concussion. Tlie two Sacro-Ischiatic Ligaments, situated in the un- dfcr and back part of the Pelvis. They arise in common from the Transverse Processes of the Os Sacrum, from the under and lateral part of that Bone, and from the upper part of the Os Coccygis. 'Phe first, called the Large, External, or Posterior Sacro-Ischiatic Ligament, descends obliquely, to be fixed to the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. The other, called the Small, Internal, or Anterior Sacro-Ischiatic Ligament, runs transversely to be fixed to the Spinous Process of the Os Ischium. These tw'o Ligaments assist in binding the Bones of the Pelvis, in supporting its contents, and in giving Origin to part of its Muscles. By the External, the Notch of the Ilium is formed into a Hole for the passage of the Py riform Muscle, the Sciatic Nerve, and the Blood- 1 vessels \vhich belong to the outside of the Pelvis. Be- tween the Sacro-Sciatic Ligaments, an Opening is left for the passage of the Obturator Intcrnus. The two Membranous Productions which are connect- ed with the large Sacro-Ischiatic Ligament, termed by Weitbrecht the Superior and Inferior Appendices ol the large Sacro-Ischiatic Ligament. The Supericn' Appendix, which is Tendinous, arises from the back part of the Spine of the Os Ilium, and is293 t Paht III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. is fixed along the outer edge of the Ligament, which it increases in breadtli. The Inferior or Falciform Appendix is situated within the Cavity of the Pelvis; the back part of it is connect- ed with the middle of the lai-ge External Ligament, and the remainder is extended round the Curvature of the Os Ischium. These two Productions assist the large Sacro-Ischiatic Ligament in furnishing a more commodious situation for, and attachment to, part of the Gluteus Maxinuts and Obturator Internus Muscles. Besides the Ilio-Sacral and Sacro-Ischiatic Ligaments, several other Slips are observed upon the back of the Os Sacrum, which descend in an irregular manner, and strengthen the connection between that Bone and the Ossa Ilia. r The large Holes upon the back part of the Os Sa- crum are also surrounded with various Ligamentous Ex- pansions projecting from one Tubercle to another, and giving Origin to Muscular Fibres, and protection to small Vessels and Nerves which creep under them. A Geno al Covering sent down from the Ligaments of the Os Sacrum, which spreads over and connects the different pieces of the Os Coccygis together, allowing considerable motion, as already’ mentioned in the de- scription of this Bone. Longihidinal Ligaments of the Os Coccygis, which de- scend from those upon the Dorsum of the Os Sacrum, to be fixed to the back part of the Os Coccygis. The Ligaments of this Bone prevent it from being pulled too much forwards by the action of the Cuccygeus, and T 3 they291 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part111. I they restore the Bone to its natural situation, after that Muscle has ceased to act. Inguinal, or Poupart’s, or Fallopius’s Liga- ment, or Crural Arch, which runs transversely from the anterior-superior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium to the Crest or Angle of the Os Pubis. It has been al- ready described as the inferior Margin of the Tendon i of the External Oblique Muscle of the Abdomen. A strong Ligamentous Tendon covering the upper part of the Os Pubis, projecting above the Linea Ilio- Pectinca, and having part of the Ligament of Poupart fixed to it. The Capsular Ligament of the Spmphjsis of the Ossa Puhis, which joins the two Bones to each other exter- nally. The Ligamentous Cartilage, which unites the two Ossa Pubis so firmly togethei' as to admit of no motion, excepting in the state of Pregnane}’, when it is fre- quently found to be so much thickened as to be capable of yielding a little in the time of Delivery. The Obturator Membrane, or Ligament of the Fora- men Thyroideum, which adheres to the Margin of the Foramen Thyroideum, and fills the whole of that Open- ing, excepting the Oblique Notch at its upper part for ) the passage of the Obturator Vessels and Nerve. It * assists in supporting the Contents of the Pelvis, and in giving origin to the Obturatores. By yielding a little in the time of Labour, it contributes in a small degree to an easier Delivery. LIGAMENTS \! Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 295 I 1.1 GAM ENTS o»' VFIE SUPERIOB' EXTREMITY. Ligaments of the Clavicle. The Radiated Ligaments^ which arise from the outer Surface of the inner end of the Clavicle, and are fixed lound the edge of the corresponding Articular Cavity of the Sternum. The Capstdar Ligament^ which lies within the forinci'. The Inter articular Cartilage^ which divides the .Joint into two distinct Cavities, and accommodates the arti- culating Surfaces of the Clavicle and Sternum. The Interclavicular Ligament, joining the Clavicles to- gether behind the top of the Sternum, and partly form- ed by a continuation of the Radiated Ligaments. The Ligamentum Rhomboideum, which arises from the inferior rough Surface at the anterior extremity of the Clavicle, and is fixed to the Cartilage of the first Rib. By the Ligaments of this Joint, with the assistance of T 4 the296 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IIJ. the intervening Cartilage, tlie Shoulder is allowed to move in di/Terent directions, as upon a centre. The Ligaments which join the posterior extremity of the Clavicle to the Acromion, having a Capsular IJga- ment within, and sometimes an Interarticular Cartilage. The Ligamentvm Conoideum^ which arises from the root of the Coracoid Process, and is fixed to the Tu- bercle at the outer end of the Clavicle. The Jjigamenlum Trapezoidmmy which arises from the point of the Coracoid Process, and is fixed to the under edge of the Clavicle. A thin Ligamentous Slip which comes from the Ten- don of the JSubclavius, or from the Clavicle, and joins the Trapezoid Ligament. The Ligaments fixing the Clavicle to the Scapula are of such strength, as to allow only a small degree of mo- tion, and that chidly of a rolling or twisting nature. I>igawi:kts to the Scapula. file Frojicr Anterior Triangidur Ligament of the Sca- pula, which arises broad from the External Surface of the Coracoid Process, and becomes narrower where it is fixed to the posterior Margin of the Acromion. This Ligament forms one continued Surface. It is thickest, however, on each side, and these thicker parts are united by a thin intermediate Ligamentous Mem- brane, which, when removed, gives to the Ligament the appearance of being double.—It confines the Ten- don of the Supra-Spinatus, and assists in protecting tlie upper and iiiiier part of the Joint of the Humerus. The297 Fart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. The Pro'per Posterior Ligament of the Scapula, wliich is sometimes double, and is stretched across the Semi- lunar Notch of the Scapula, forming that Notch into one or two Holes for the passage of the superior-poste- ripr Scapulary Vessels and Nerve. Ligaments, &c. of the Joint of the Shoulder. The Capsular Ligament, which arises from the Cervix of the Scapula, behind the Margin of the Glenoid Ca- vity, and is fixed round the Neck of the Os Humerii loosely inclosing the Ball of that Bone. A ^nall Fmhriated Oigan within the Capsular Liga- ment, for the Secretion of tlie Synovia. A Sheath sent down from the fore part of the Capsu- lar Ligament, between the Tuberosities of the Os Hu- meri, which incloses the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti, and prevents it from starting out of its place. Additional Liganmitous Bands of the Capsular Liga- jnent, which adhere to its anterior Surface.—What gives most strength to this Joint, as well as to several other Joints of the Body, is the covering from the sur- rounding Muscles. From the shallowness of the Glenoid Cavity, from the extent and looseness of the Capsular Ligament, and from the Structure of the other parts of the Joint, more • extensive motion is allowed to the Os Humeri than to any other Bone of the Body ; as it can not only move 1 freely to every side, but also possesses a considerable de- gree of motion upon its own axis. Ligaments,20B COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IIL Ligajients, &c. of ihe Joint of the Elbow. The Capsular Ligament, which arises round the Mar- gin of the Articular Surface, at the Lower End of the (Js Humeri, and is fixed about the edge of the Articu- lar Surface of the Ulna, and also to the Coronary Li- gament of the Radius. The sides of the Elbow-Joint are strengthened hy two Ligamaitous Bands, which adhei'e so firmly to the outer Surface of the Capsular Ligament, that they appear to be part of its Substance, via. The Brachio-Ulnar, or Internal Lateral Ligament, w’hich arises from the fore jxirt of the inner Condyle of the Os Humeri, and spreads out, in a radiated manner, to be fixed to the inside of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna, and I'he Brachio-Radial, or External Lateral Ligament, which is like the former, but larger. It arises from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri, and is expanded upon the Coronary Ligament into which it is inserted. The Coremary, Annular, or Orbicular Ligament of the Radius, which approaches to the firmness of Cartilage. It arises from one side of the small Semilunar Cavity of the Ulna, and, after surrounding the Neck of the Radius, is fixed to the other side of that Cavity. The tipper edge of it is incorporated with, and maybe con- sidered as a part of, the Capsular Ligament, while its under edge is fixed round the Neck of the Radius, al- lowing that Bone to move freely round its own axis, uponI Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS,-&c. 299 upon the Articular Surface of the Os Humeri, and in the small Semilunar Cavity of the Ulna. Besides the Ligaments already described, there are others which run in various directions upon the fore and back parts of the Joint, contributing to its strength, and having tlie names of Anteinor and Posterior Acces- sory Ligaments. There are also two Tendinous Substances, termed Inter-muscular Ligaments of the Os Humeri^ which ex- tend along the under and lateral parts of this Bone, giving origin to part of the Muscles situated at this part of the Arm. The Ligaments and Bones of the Joint of the Elbow form a complete Hinge, which allows the Fore Arm to have free flexion and extension upon the Os Humeri, but no rotation when the Arm is in the extended state, though a small degree of it is perceptible when the Joint is moderately bent, and the Ligaments thereby relaxed. Within th<j Capsular Ligament, and chiefly in the upper part of the Pit of the Os Humeri in wliich the Olecranon plays, the Patty Substance is lodged for the lubrication of the Joint. A similar: Substance^ but much smaller in quantity,, is tlso found in the Depression in which the Coronoid Process of the Ulna moves, i Ligaments between the Bodies^ and between the Under Ends of the Radius and Ulna. The Inter osseous Ligament^ which extends between tlie sharp300 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. sliarp Ridges of the Radius and Ulna, filling up the greater part of the space between tliese two Bones. It is broadest in the middle, in consequence of the Bopes here being largest at their extremities, and is composed of small Lasektdi^ which run obliquely downwards and inwards. Two or three of these Slips, however, go in the opposite direction •, and one of them, termed Oblique higament^ and Choi da Transversalh Cubitii is stretched between the Tubercle of the Ulna and under part of the Tubercle of the Radius. In different parts of the Interosseous Ligament there are Perforations for the passage of Blood-vessels from the fore to the back part of the Fore-Arm, and a large Opening is found at the upper edge of it, which is oc- cupied by Muscles. Th is Ligament assists in binding the Ulna and Ra- dius together, prevents the Radius from rolling too much outwards, and furnishes a commodious attach- ment for Muscles. Tlic Capsular^ or Saccifonn Ugamm:% which arises from the edges of the Semilunar Cavity at the under end of the Radius, and surrounds the Head of the Ulna, allowing the Radius to turn upon Uie Ulna, in perform- ing the different motions of Pronation and Supination of the Hand. Ligaments, &c. bekjoeen the Fore-Arm and Wrist. The Capsular Ligament^ which arises from the Mar- gin of the Glenoid or Navicular Cavity of the Radius, and from tile edge of the moveable Cartilage at the HeadPart HI.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 301 Head of the Ulna, and is fixed to the Cartilaginous edges of the three first Bones of the Carpus. The Inter-Articular Cartilage^ placed between the Head of the Ulna and Os Cunciforme, and which is a continuation of the Cartilage covering the end of the Radius. It is concave above and below, and is connect- ed loosely to the end of the Styloid Process. The T’iSio Lateral Ligaments^ one of which arises from the Styloid Process at the under end of the Radius, and is fixec^o the Os Naviculare ; and the other from the Stvloid Process of the Ulna, and is fixed to the Cunei- foi’m and Pisiform Bones. The Ligaments of this Joint allow extensive motion forwards and backwards j and a considerable degree of it to either side. The Mucous Ligament^ which lies within the Joint, and extends from the Groove between the two first Bones of the Carpus, to the corresponding part of the Radius. It is supposed to regulate the Mucous Organ connected with it. Ligaments of the Carpus. The Anterior, Annular, or Transverse Ligament, which is stretched across from the projecting Points of the Ossa Pisiformc and Unciforme, to the Scaphoides and Trapezium, and forms an Arch which covers and preserves in their places the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles of the Fingers. Tlie Capsular Ligament, wh'ich arises from the Carti- iiiginous edge of the upper Row of the Carpus, and is fixed302 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paht III. fixed iu a similar manner to that of the under Row, chiefly admitting of flexion and extension, and that in a smaller degree than in tlie former Joint. The Short Ligaments of the Bones of the Carpus, wliich are small Ligamentous Slips running in various directions, joining the different Bones of the Carpus, —first of the same Row, then of the two Rows toge- ther. 'riiey are termed Oblique, Trajisversc, Capsular, and Proper Ligaments of the Bones of the Wrist, and admit only of a small degree of yielding between the different Bones in the same Row. Ligaments belxceeyi the Carpal and Metacarpal Bones. The Articular Ligaments, which arise from the Mar- gins of the second Row of the Carpal Bones, and arc fixed to the Margins of the adjoining Bones of the Me- tacarpus. Other Ligaments run in a radiated manner from the Carpal to the Metacarpal Bones •, the whole getting the names of Articular, Lateral, Straight, Pa - pendicular, &c. according to their different directions. From the flatness of the Articular Surfaces, and strength of the Connecting Ligaments, very little mo- tion is allowed between the Carpus and ^Metacarpus. Ligaments betxreeyi the ’Extremities of the Metacarpai. Bones. I The Interosseous Ligaments at the Bases of the Meta- carpal Bones. They are short Slips, which run trans- versely./ Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 305 versely, and join these Bones to each other, obtaining the names of Dorsal^ Lateral^ or Palmar^ according to their different situations. The Interosseous Ligaments at Uie Heads of the Me- tacarpal Bones, which run transversely in the Palm, and connect the Heads of these Bones to each other. Ligaments at the Base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb, and at the First Joint of the Fingers. These consist of the Capsular Ligaments which in- close the Joints, and the Lateral Ligaments which ore situated at the sides of the Joints, adhering to and strengthening them j the whole admitting of flexion, extension, and lateral motion. Ligaments of the First and Second Joints of the Thumb, and Second and Third Joints of the Fingers. The Capsular Ligaments inclosing the Joints. The Lateral Ligaments placed at the sides of the Joints, and adhering to the Capsular Ligaments, con- fining the motion to flexion and extension. Ligaments retaining the Tendons of the Muscles of the Hand and Fingers, in situ. Tile Anterior, Transverse, or Anmdar Ligament of the W rist,—already described. The Vaginal Ligaments of the Flexor Tendons, which are•m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PAra’ ill. are fine Membranous Webs connecting the Tendons of the Sublimis, first to each other, then to those of the Profundus, and forming, at the same time. Bursae Mu- cosae, which surround these Tendons. The Vaginal or Crucial Ligaments of the Phalangesy which arise from the Ridges on the concave side of the ^ Phalanges, and run over the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles of the Fingers. Upon the Body of the Pha- langes, they are thick and strong, to bind down the I’cndons while their Muscles are in action; but over the Joints they are thin, and have, in some parts, a Oucial appearance, to allow the ready motion of the .loints. "I'he Accessory Ligaments of the Flexor Tendons of the FingerSy wliich are small Tendinous FreenOy arising from the first and second Phalanges of the Fingers. They run obliquely forwards within the Vaginal Ligaments, terminate in the Tendons of the Two Flexor Muscles of the Fingers, and assist in keeping them in their places. The Extei'nal Transvetscy or Posterior Annular Li- gament of the Wristy which is part of the Aponeurosis of the Fore-Arm, extending across the back of the Wrist, from the inner side of the extremity of the Ul- fia and Os Pisiforme to the outer side of the extremity of the^ladius. It is connected with the small Annular Ligaments which tie down the Tendons of the Exten- sores Ossis Metacarpi et Primi Internodii Pollicis, and the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. JJie Vaoinal LivamentSy which adhere to the former Ligaments, and serve as Sheaths afnd Bursae Mu- cosaePart IIL] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 305 COS32 to the Extensor Tendons of the Hand and Fin- gers. The Transverse Ligaments of the Extensor Tendons, which are Aponeurotic Slips running between the Ten- dons of the Extensor Digitorum Communis, near the Heads of the Metacarpal Bones, and retaining the Ten- dons in their places. , VOL.1. U LIGA- ! 1) \ : i I 0306 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. LIGAMENTS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Ligaments, connecting the Os Femoris *with the Os Innominatum. The Capsular Ligament^ the largest and strongest of the Articular Ligaments. It arises round the outside of the Brim of the Acetabulum, embraces the Head of the Thigh-bone, and incloses the whole of its Cervix as far as the root or outer extremity, round which it is firmly connected. The outer part of the Capsular Ligament is extended farther down than the inner^ which is reflected back upon the Neck of the Bone, and in certain parts forms Retinacula. It is not every where of the same strength. It is thickest at its anterior and outer part j thinner where it is covered by the Jliacus Internus; and thinnest poste- riorly, where the adjacent Quadratus is opposed to it. It is strengthened on its outer Surface by various Ac~ cessory or Additional Slips, which run down from the FttsciaPart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 50'7 Fascia Lata and surrounding Muscles ; but the strong- est of these Slips arises with diverging Fibres from the inferior-anterior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium. The Capsular Ligament allows the Thigh-bone to be moved to every side; and when its Body is moved for- wards or backwards, a small degree of rotation is per- formed round the Cervix of the Bone. The Internal, co-mmonly called the Round Ligament, •which arises by a broad flat beginning from the under and inner part of the Cavity of the Acetabulum, and is connected with the Substance termed Gland of the Joint. From this it runs backwards and a little upwards, be- coming gradually narrower and rounder, to be fixed to the Pit upon the inner Surface of the Ball of the Os Femoris. The Round Ligament prevents the Bone from being dislocated upwards or inwards, and assists in agitating the Mucous Substance within the Joint. A Cartilaginous Ligameid surrounding the Brim of the Acetabulum, and thereby increasing the depth of that Cavity for the reception of the Head of the Thigh- bone. ’ A Double Cartilaginous Ligament, stretched from one end of the Breach in the under and fore part of the Acetabulum, to the other, but leaving a Hole behind it for containing part of the Substance called Glaiid of the Joint, and for the passage of the Vessels of that Sub- stance. Tiiis Ligament allows the Tliigh-bone to be moved inwards, and the Glandular-looking Substance to be agitated with safety. U2 Tire308 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. The Substance called Gland of the Joints covered with a Vascular Membrane, and lodged in a Depression in the under and inner part of the Acetabulum. At the edges of this Substance F/vV/ges are sent out, which furnish part of the Synovia for the lubrication of the Joint. The edges of this Substance are fixed to those of the Pit in the Acetabulum, by small Ligamentous Bridles, termed Ligamenta Miicosuy vel Ligamcniula Masses Adir ]wso~ G landulosee. Ligaments, &c. of the Joint of the Knee. Tlie Lateral Ligaments which lie at the sides of the Joint, and adhere to the outer Surface of the Capsular Ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament y which is of consider- able breadth, arising lrom the upper part and Tubercle of the internal Condyle of the Os Femoris, and inserted into the upper and inner jiart of the Tibia ; the Fibres passing obliqu^y forwards, till they have reached a iitik below the Plead of the Bone. The Long External Lateral Ligamenty which is nar- rower, but thicker and stronger than the former, aris- ing from the Tubercle above the external Condyle of the Os Femoris, and fixed to the Fibula, a little below its Head. • Behind the long external Lateral Ligament, there is an Expansion attached nearly in the same manner as this Ligament, which has been termed the External Short Lateral Ligament.' These Ligaments prevent the lateral and rotatory mo- tionsPart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c: ^ S09 tions of the Leg in the extended state, but admit of a small degree of botl^ when the Limb is bent. The Posterim' Ligament of Winslow, formed of ir- regular Bands which arise from the upper and back part . of the external Condyle of the Os Femoris, and descend obliquely over the Capsular Ligament, to be fixed to the Tibia under the inner and back part of its Head. It pre- vents the Leg from being pulled farther forwards than to a straight line with the Thiffh, and also furnishes a convenient situation for the be<2[innin£;s of the Gastrocne- raius and Plantaris Muscles. \\lien this Ligament is wanting, which is sometimes ‘ the case, its place is supplied by a Mejnbranoiis ^xpan- ■ sion. The Ligament of the Patella, which arises from a De- pression behind the Apex of that Bone, and is fixed to the Tuberosity of the upper and fore part of the Tibia. By the intervenrion of this Ligament, the Muscles in- serted into the Patella are enabled to extend the Leg. The Capsular Ligament, which aeees from the whole Circumference of the under end of the 'I high-bone, some way above the Margin of the Articulating Carti- lage, and above the posterior part of the great Notch between the Condyles. From this it descends to be fix- ed round the Head of the Tibia, and into the whole Margin of the Arti(^ating .Surface of the Patella, in such a manner that the Patella forms part of the Cap- sule of the Joint. The Capsular Ligament is of itself remarkably thin, but so covered by the Ligaments already mentioned, by the general Aponeurosis of the Limb, and by' the Ten- U 3 dons310 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. dons of Muscles which surround the Joint, as to acquire a considerable degree of strength. The Capsular Ligament, along with the other Liga- ments of this Joint, admits of the flexion and extension of the Leg, but of no lateral nor rotatory motion in the extended state, though of a small degree of each when the Limb is fully bent. The Ligame^tum Alare^ Mojus et Minus, which are Folds of the Capsular Ligament, running like tVings at the sides of the Patella, to which, and to the Fatty Substance of the Joint, they are attached. J'he Ligamentum Mucosum, continued from the join- ing of the Ligamenta Alaria to the Os Femoris, imme- diately above the Anterior Crucial Ligament. It pre- serves the Synovial Substance in its proper place, dur- ing the various motions of the Joint. I'he tiao Crucial, or Internal Ligaments, which arise from the Semilunar Notch between the Condyles of the Os Femoris, and decussate each other within the Cavity of the Joint. > The Anterior Crucial Ligament runs downwards and forwards, to be fixed to a Pit before the rough Protu- berance in the middle of the Articulating Surface of the Head of the Tibia. The Posterior Crucial Ligament descends to be fixed to a Pit behind the above-mentioned rough Protuberance. These Ligaments, in the extended state of the Leg, prevent it from going forwards beyond a straight line with the Thigh. When the Knee is bent, they allow the Fpot to be turned out\yards, but nptiu the contrary direction. ThePartIII.T OF'THEXIGA]VreOTS,'&c. ' 311 I.IGAMEXTS The i-Jco Inter-articular Cartilages, called Semilunar from their shape like a Crescent, placed upon the top- of the Tibia. The outer convex edge of each of these Cartilages is » thick, while the inner concave edge becomes thin and sharp like a knife or sickle,'and being concave above, the iSockets for the Condyles of tlie Os Femoris are ren- dered deeper, and this Bone and the Tibia are more accurately adapted to each other. ^ Each of these Cartilages is broad in the middle, their extremities becoming narrower and thinner as they ap- proach one another. Each covers about two-thirds of the Superficial Cavity of the top of the Tibia, leaving one third bare in the middle. The extremities are termed Cornua, and are fixed by Ligaments to the Protuberance of the Tibia. The anterior Cornua are joined to each other by a Transverse Ligament. The convex edge of these Cartilages is fixed to the Capsular and other Ligaments, in such a manner as to allow them to play a little upon the Cartilaginous Sur- face of the Tibia, by which the motions of that Bone upon the Condyles of the Os Femoris are facilitated. The Mucous or Fatty Substances of this Joint, which are the largest of any in the Body, are situated in the different interstices of the Joint, but chiefly round the edges of the Patella. They are covei'ed by a fine Mem- brane reflected from the inner Surface of the Capsular Ligament. - 1 Fimbria project from the edges of these Fatty Sub- stances, which discharge Synovia for the lubrication of the Joint. . c.;..S12 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Ligament? Ligaments connecting the Fibula to the Tibia. The Capsular Ligament of the superior extremity of the Fibula, which ties it to the outer part of the Head of the Tibia, and which is strengthened by the external Lateral Ligament of the Knee, and by the Tendon of the Biceps which is fixed to the Fibula. The Interosseous Ligament., one edge of which is fixed to the Ridge or Angle at the outer and back part of the Tibia, the other to the corresponding Ridge at the in- ner side of the Fibula. It fills the space between the Tibia and Fibula, like the Interosseous Ligament of the Fore-arm, and is of a similar structure, being formed of oblicjue Fibres, and perforated in various places for the passage of Vessels and Nerves. At its upper part there is a large Opening, where the Muscles of the opposite sides are in contact, and where Blood-vessels pass to the fore part of the Leg. It serves chiefly for the Origin of part of the Muscles ■which belong to the Foot, and thereby supplies the place of Bone. The Ligaments of the inferior extremity of the Fibula, which are called Anterior-supanor, and Posterior-supe^ rior, according to their situations, arising from the edges of the Semilunar Cavity of the Tibia, and fixed to the jMalleolus Externus of the Fibula. The Ligaments between the ends of the Tibia and Fi- . hula join the two Bones so firmly together, as to admit of no sensible motion.Past III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. 313 Ligaments connecting the Bones of the Tarsus •with those of the Leg. The Anterior Ligament of the Fibula^ which arises from the anterior part of the Malleolus Externus, and passes obliquely forwards, to be fixed to the upper and outer part of the Astragalus. The Middle, or Ber-pendicidar Ligament of the Fibula, which arises from the point of tlie Malleolus Externus, and descends almost perpendicularly, to be inserted into the outside of the Os Calcis. The Posterior Ligament of the Filnda, which arises from the under and back part of the Malleolus Externus, and runs backwards, to be joined to the outer and pos- terior part of the Astragalus. The Ligamentum Delloides of the Tibia, which arises from the Malleolus Internus, and descends in a radiated form, to be attached to the Astragalus, Os Cakis, and Os Naviculare. The Capsular Ligament, which lies within the former Ligaments, and is remarkably thin, especially before and behind, for. the readier motion of the Joint. It arises from the Margin of the Articular Cavity of the Tibia and Fibula, and is fixed round the edge of the Articular Surface of the Astragalus. The Ligaments and the other constituent parts of the Ankle-joint form it into a complete Hinge, which allows flexion and extension, but no rotation nor lateral motion, in the bended state of the Foot, though a small degree of each when it is fully extended. i Ligaments3U. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartIII. . Ligaments of the Tarsus. The Capsular Lipamenty which joins the Articular Surface of the Os Calcis to that of the Astragalus. A number of Short Ligaments, lying in the Fossa of tlie AstragtUus and ol the Os Calcis, and forming the Ligamentous Apparatus of the Sinuous Cavity, which assists in fixing the two Bones strongly together. I’lie Capsular, the Broad Superior, and the Internal Lateral Ligaments, connecting the Astragalus, to the Os Navicnlare, and admitting of the lateral and rotatory motions of the Foot. The Superior, the Lateral, and ihe Inferior Ligaments, fixing the Os Calcis to the Os Cuboides, where a small dcgi’ee of motion is allowed to every side, llie inferior Ligaments consist of a Long, an Oblique, and a BJionv- hold Ligament, which are the longest and strongest of the Sole. The Superior Superficial, the Interosseous, and the In- ' ferior Transverse Ligaments, which fix the Os Navicu- Jare and Os Cuboides to each other. The Superior Lateral, and Plantar Ligaments, which fix the Os Naviculare to the Os Cuneiforme. The Supeiior Supeifcial, and the Plantar Ligaments, which connect the Os Cuboides to the Os Cuneiforme Externum. The Dorsal and Plantar Ligaments, which unite the Ossa Cuneiformia to each other. Besides the Capsular Ligaments of the Tarsus already mentioned, each of the other Joints of these Bones is furnished with its proper Capsular Ligament. From315 Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. From the strength of the Ligaments which unite these Bones to each other, and from the plainness of their Ar- ticulating Surfaces, no more motion is allowed than to prevent the effects of concussion in walking, leaping, &c. Ligaments heL'ween the Tarsus and Metatarsus. The Bones of the Metatarsus are fixed to those of the Tarsus by Capstdar, and numerous other Ligaments^ which are called Dorsal, Plantar, Lateral, accortling to their situations;—Straight, Oblique, or Ti ansverse, according to their directions. The nature of this Joint is the same with that between the Carpus and Metacarpus. Ligaments connecting the Metatarsal Bones to each other. The Dorsal, Plantar, and Lateral Ligaments, which connect the Bases of the Metatarsal Bones with each other. The Transverse Ligaments, which join the Heads of these Bones together. Ligaments of the Phalanges of the Toes. The Capsular and Lateral Ligaments i—resembling those of the Fingers. Ligaments ajid Sheaths retaining the Tendons of the Muscles of the Foot and Toes, in sihi. The Annular Ligament of the Tarsus, which is a thickened part of the Aponeurosis of the Leg, splitting into superior and inferior portions, which bind down the?16 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PartHE the Tendons of the Extensors of the Toes, upon the fore part of the Ankle. The Vaginal Ligament of the Tendons of the Peronei^ which, behind the Ankle, is common to both, but at the outer part of the Foot becomes proper to each; pre- serving each its respective Tendon in its proper place, and forming the Bursa of that Tendon. The Laciniated Ligament, which arises from the inner Ankle, and spreads in a radiated manner, to be fixed partly in the Cellular Substance and Fat, and partly to the Os Calcis, at the inner side of the Heel. It incloses the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Digitorum Longus. The Vaginal Ligament of the Tendon of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, which runs in a Crucial direction. The Vaginal Ligament of the Tendon of the Flexoi' Longus Pollicis, which surrounds this Tendon in the hollow bf the Os Calcis. The Vaginal and Crucial Ligaments of the Tendons of the Flexors of the Toes, which inclose these Tendons on the Surfaces of the Phalanges, and form their Bursae Mucosae. The Accessory Ligaments of the Flexor Tendons of the Toes, which, as in the Fingers, arise from the Phalanges, and are included in the Sheaths of the Tendons in which they terminate. The T ansverse Ligaments of the Extensor Tendons, which run between these Tendons, and preserve them in ihcir places behind the roots ot the Toes. END OF VOLUME FIRST. T’lLl.ANS & SONS, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.n .’ '*. ^Wf ^ y t ' t* ^ .- ^ ^•> ' ^ . ;- •- * ..A*v %-*"Af,.5.- •# ,. , • * • ^ * »if X ►. ^Vv * i c ' < : vw’ •■'>' ^ ./. ♦. ‘ % *1 ’%. ttiivV Vi/oT /.y jNliWf^'iij / ♦' ■ ' ■ .* r . \ Jtt^t ^ p(fj *‘U u 0^ ,o. . • ^ '4 jih iOli#','’ Km* 3ill m jud (iittii^: iifi ,»»jjii/. )H,' l•uul>8 li-Tu^r ♦ ^ •'M'l , H'*», f 07 '■1l#t; jf, ' rj«i'1 7'»rj[^ ^1 »»f O' fH)ho'> I ♦‘■••:^r •■ JJobn>l-j ! .'A ’ *i^ A t^' . niiiu ftfft '^Mii' '»> •* Tjt |K> # Inxd kJ t; -himjt Oi^vJ^lC'j buj;''.!>. { b'l,- ».iesii-' ^ -■ I^' % ' 4 •■<oi.'}ni ll l‘>*d I ‘ 4|^ > . (> ^ f -sh^ikkI nuiloJiji^di tijK K'i b<i« >*f ■'in m t •-.,» 0 , A • ' •*■ * 'f intr"' f \ ,»'•■■ ^'1 ^ ‘ . nrKvmib Irjijin:) K »7 r/Hi’ ds: ' *• K'vA’^ ',V 'iV‘. \ > -^»>.-v. #, ,. , i • 7d» n< nuhayi ; .un.v d..ii^- . . r ' ‘ ’ . i V« '\ ^ •? !»o ^lUibn-il ■vjl'il II *4>viildl ntuii i;jiol lit-.. u. .. \ '»•< 1 * , •• 7\*^>V', io»' T ^'•l V' r,l. It! > *A tn,-^ 'V*'. -'r,- \»> iv« .•Yu''..v A. ai 1 . :% .... ■ . ■• -,;, ', au '■ . • ■ ' : >. 1' . j t ’ r.‘ # . ' \ t»4 t i'. #r^l‘'f>i' • 1 •* >H. ,v .] • >‘_S. i." t- •r 'rdl V ».'o; H. '♦<#-• "»\ i I . . XTABLE V. FIG. Represents the Muscles situated on the Fore Part of the Head and Neck. FIG. 1. The First Order ^Muscles on the Fore Part of the Head and Neck, after the Integuments have been removed, a. The frontal part of the occipito-frontalis. bi The tendon of that muscle. c, A fleshy slip descending from the occipito-fi’ontalis over the root of the nose. The attollens aurem. e. The anterior auris. ft The orbicularis palpebrarum. g. The ciliary part of the orbicularis. hf The compressor naris. The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. It The zygomaticus minor. I, The zygomaticus major. viy The levator anguli oris. ?j, The cartilage of the nose. Oy The depressor anguli oris. Pt The depressor labii inferionV. q. The buccinator. r. The orbicularis oris. s. The masseter. ty The platysma myoides, its upper end passing over the jaw. 7/, The sterno-cleido-mastoideus.TABLE V. CONTINUED. FIG. 2. The Second Order 0/Muscles on the Fore Part of the Head a7id Neck. ar, The corrugator supercilii. The levator palpebrae superioris. c, The temporalis, the tendon of which is seen passing under the zygoma. fit The masseter. The levator anguH oris. f, The buccinator. ", The orbicularis oris. //, The nasalis labii superioris, at the upper side of which is a portion of the depressor labii superioris almque nasi. *, The depressor labii inferioris. /•, The sterno-cleido-mastoideus. /, ^The sterno-hyoideus. m. Part of the trachea. 7j, The omo-hyoideus. Oy The hyo-thyroideus. V, The os hyoides. <7, The levator scapulae. / , The scalenus medius. FIG. 3. The Third Order (f Mvsclt.s on the Fore Part of the Head a7id Neck. a. The insertion of the abductor oculi. ly The adductor oculi of the right side, r, The insertion of tho levator oculi. dy Theft The T A B L E V. coNTiNUEi>. rf, The trochlea, and part of the tendon of the obliquus superior. e, The obliquus inferior. ft Tire depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. gt The orbicularis oris. lit The buccinator. it The levator labii inferioris. Ix't Part of the pterygoideus externus. It Part of the pterygoideus internus. irit The sterno-thyroideus. 72, The thyro-hyoideus. o. The os hyoides. ’Pt The thyroid cartilage. qt The cricoid cartilage, with the two crico-thyroid muscles arising from it. r, The trachea. St Part of the pleura. tt The scalenus anticus. u, The scalenus medius. w, A portion of the trachelo-mastoideus. wi. The rectus capitis anterior major. 2T, The longus colli. 7/, The constrictor pharyngis inferior. FIG. 4. The Fourth Order of Muscles on the Fore Part of the Head aud Neck. o, The levator palpebroe superioris. ht The levator oculi. r, The adductor oculi. dt The abductor oculi.TABLE V. CONTINUED. I The depressor oculi. yi The obliquiis superior. gi The obliquus inferior. The pterygoideus interims. 2, The obliquus superior capitis. The scalenus niedius. /, The longus colli. jw, OT, The intertransversales colli- . *-TABLE VI. l*OL. I. FIG- '' ^ Represents the Muscles situated about the Throat. FIG. 1. Part of the Muscles of the Os Hyoides. «, Part of the masseter. . hy The posterior head of the digastric., c. Its anterior head. dy The stylo-hyoideus, with the tendon of the digastric passing through it. €y e, The sterno-hyoidci..^ ft The omo-hyoideus. . gy The pharynx. h, Tlie submaxillary gland. FIG. 2. Muscles deeper seated than the former. tty fl. The mylo-hyoidei. * by The hyo-glossus. Cy The sterno-thyroideus. dy The thyro-hyoideus. f', The submaxillary gland, raised from its place behind the angle of the lower jaw. fy The stylo-glossus, supported by a ligament, ig, The stylo-pharyngeus. fly The pharynx.CONTINUED. TABLE VI. FI G. 3. Muscles deeper seated than the former. 'Z a, The genio-liyoideus. The genio-hyo-glossus. c, The stylo-glossus, witli its supporting ligament, rf, The stylo-phai*yngeus. r, The submaxillary gland, raised, by which its duct is seen advancing towards its termination at the side of the froenum linguae. f The sublingual gland. gy The os hyoides. hy The thyroid cartilage. iy The cricoid cartilage, with the crico-thyroid muscles. ky The thyroid gland. ly The trachea. OT, The pharynx. FIG. 4. Muscles of the Palate, vieveed on the Under Side. c, The levator palati. byCy The circumflexus palati *, c, Its tendon passing over the hook-like process of the pterygoid plate. dy The membrane of the palate. €y ey The mouths of the Eustachian tubes. fyfyfy The circumference from which the membrane of the palate is cut off. . j FIG. 5. A Lateral View of the Muscles seated under the FIead, and befwe the Vertebree of the Neck. e, Tlie pterygoideus externus. by The LTABLE VI. CONTINUED. Z-, k. The r 2 b , The pterygoideus internus. Cf The mylo-hyoideus. d. The stylo-hyoideus'. e, J'y The digastricus. gi 1i^ The hyo-glossus. 7, The os liyoides. ky The tbyro-hyoideus!. Z, The thyroid cartilage. ?», The crico-thyroideus. riy The cricoid cartilage. o, A section of the oesophagus. yj, The constrictor pharyngis inferior. 7, The constrictor pharyngis medius. r, The constrictor pharyngis superior. / FfG'. 6. * A Back View of the Pharynx, with the Under Part of the Bones of the Head, to which the Pharynx isfxed. The upper point of the constrictor pharyngis inferior. The upper end of the pharynx, and inner transverse fibres of the oesophagus. c, c, The outer fibres of the oesophagus, descending ob- liquely backwards on each side. I <?, A section of the oesophagus. I e, e, A section of the trachea. fyf The extremities of the cornua of the os hyokles, with the ligaments which join them to the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. Igy gi The constrictor pharyngis medius, on each side. ihy h, The constrictor pharyngis superior, on each side. J7, The naked membrane of the pharynx.Table vi. continued. hy I’y The stylo-pharyngcus, on each side. ly ly The styloid processes of the temporal bones. lUy niy The pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, w, 7iy The backmost tooth of the upper and under jaws, on each side. FIG. 7. 2hc Muscles h/ing immcdialcly under the Membrane of the -Pharynx, vihichy *with the CEsophagus and Trachea, are removed. Oy The Jevatot palati. hy The azygos uvula;. Cy The palato-pharyngeiis. dy That part of»it which passes imder the levator palati. ty TJiat part of it called by Albinus Salpingo-pharyngeus, fy Part of the common end of the palato-pharyngeus and stylo-phar^ngeus. gy The posterior edge of the velum palati. hy The uvula. iy The tonsil, projecting before the palato-pharyngeu* muscle. Jcy The tongue. /, The epiglottis. my lUy The points of the arytenoid cartilages. fly The arytenoidei obliqui. Oy Oy The arytenoideus transversus. Py The crico-arytenoideus posticus, ^y The cricoid cartilage. ?*, r. The posterior edges of the tliyroid cartilage, which conceal the two small muscles on each side, termed Crico-anitenoideus Tjoteralisy and Thyro-arytenoideus.• f . J . « 4 r . i . ' 1 ' r 4 ' » ' w ■i «) . r . .6,1 ( * # 9 • ■ "a"' ^ Ni ' j i»,« , . :c» I •■ 2> fi|'•'* ■ ' *J ■!.« . ' '-trTABLE VII. Represents the Muscles situated on the Back Part ot the Head and Neck. FIG. 1. The First Oi da- of Muscles 07i the Back Part of the Head and Neck, after the Integumeiits have been re- moved. I a, The occipital part of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The fleshy, and, c. The tendinous part of this muscle. I d, A tendinous membrane, joining the opposite sides of the muscle. I e. Part of the tendinous membrane, covering the upper part of the temporal muscle. f The attollens aurem. The anterior auris. th, A small portion of the retrahentes aurem. i^’, The back part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. I kf The zygomaticus major, i i I, The masseter. \m, The pterygoideus internus. ■n. The platysma myoides. t o. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus. ]pi The upper end of the trapezius. <qy The tendinous portion of that muscle, in the nape of the neck, called higamentim ^uchce.CONTINUED. TABLE VII. FIG. 2. Th9 Second Order ^Muscles on the Back Part of the Head and Neck. The temporalis, the aponeurosis being removed. h. The tendon of tlie temporal muscle, passing under the zygoma. c. The pterygoideus internus, d. The masseter. c. The mylo-hyoidcus. f The levator scapulae, g. The spicnius. /;, The upper end of the complexus. 2, A portion of the rhomboidcs major. Part of the rhomboides minor. /, The upper end of the serratus posticus superior. FIG. 3. The Third Order of Muscles on the Back Part of the Head and Neck. a, The back part of the buccinator. J, The pterygoideus internus. c, The mylo-hyoideus. rf, e,f The complexus ; f, A fleshy slip from the spi- nous jirocess of the first dorsal vertebra, g. The trachelo-raastoideus. /z, The scalenus medius 7, The scalenus posticus. /f. The semi-spinalis colli. Z, Z, The interspinales colli. The obliquus capitis superior. //, Thetable VII. CONTINUED. 71, The transversalis colli. Oy The upper end of the longissimus dorsi, joining the trachelo-mastoideus and cervicalis descendens. The fleshy slip from the sacro-lumbalis, called CervU cab's Descendens. FIG. 4. The Fouiih Orddr Muscles on ihe Back Part of the Head and Neck. c, The rectus capitis posterior minor. hj The rectus capitis posterior major. Cy The obliquus capitis superior. dy The obliquus capitis inferior. Cy The scalenus medius. J’y The upper end of the multifid us spinas, gy gy The interspinales colli. hy hy The intertransversales colli, iy iy The semispinalis colli.Y 5? I > ■ /• #.• • ^ ’ • V ♦. .flSBxi'ri!0& .U'{ ^ T U('i^U:ri>v4fl/;ni .'liii' ,1% *^,y !i ^niaJoi <!!nn.w!»'^/tof ni y mjl-oT /;' 'vU. T a ‘ 4 ^ ■■ -4 • K. •-'A- . Kv ?..i» ■if • <L-^' ) > M *f^ '*w4. X* r ..»1 . . . ii ^\.. i .,\» „:. rC^T'.‘f,4 - . . --^ •".* ro *<- ■ -.V 'I ''*-v»i iff i OfH | yit.'Tj ipi-fvlgffi ’ tki.VCj 9^T ,4 1 rOUpv<?<1^^ , ^ r. ;’* ^^ 'm;. -y*' .iwr»irfs>»''i{fl' A> B* «> I s 4 > m ,'i^ ,''.-y-: »i I . i , K ^4i > Vi A' .fS ITa.m . vm.♦ < T ABLE VIII, . JlEpnESENTS Muscles on the Fore Part of the Trunk of the Body.—On the Right Side, the Muscles are exposed which lie immediately under the Common Integuments.—On the Left Side, the Muscles are seen which are placed under the former. Thorax. <2, The under end of the platysma myoides, b, The pectoralis major, with the deltoides at the outer side of it. c, c, Part of the serratus magnus. d, The edge of the lattissimus dorsi. i The subclavius. J\ The pectoralis minor. - g, g, The serratus magnus. Farther out, the subscapu- laris is seen. 7/, hy The intercostales intemi, the tendinous fascia be« ing removed. Abdomen. 2, iy The obliquus descendens externus. hy The beginning of the tendon of that muscle. Ij The obliquus internus, shining through the tendon, of the obliquus externus. ?rt, ruy The linea semilunaris. 21, riy The rectus abdominis, also shining through the tendon of tlie obliquus externus. “O, Oy TheTABLE VIII. CONTINUED. Uy Of The tendinous intersections of the rectus. Pf The linea alba. 2', The umbilicus. Tf The pyramidales. The ring of the external oblique muscle, transmitting the spermatic cord. tf The cremaster muscle, covering the spermatic cord, w. The lower edge of the external oblique muscle, termed Ligament of Poupart. V, The obliquus internus ascendens. ty, w. The tendon of the obliquus internus, part of which is left covering the outer side of the rectus ■ muscle.—Between the two t»’s, the tendon splits into two layers, which inclose the rectus. From the lower •w to the pubis, the whole of the tendon goes before the rectus. ar, Xf The rectus abdominis. Pf Pf Pf The tendinous intersections of the rectus. 2, The cremaster testis.»» ••Vr. V ' - •'"T'v ■;; •:; - *f" : * j fllV J T A”? -■ ''.‘r ut.w ro*f:>')^1f'^-^^^ vifOIt^f>•ta^ w r vji* f.',inJ--Hn .<>,■ V ,r'‘Uibim£T ?q ■>»< I ^ '•' •% .hroi »nirrtbf<^Jnu ,•«. ^.'t<>, ,*»in.tHjci /i/up* . * ‘ ,'xt' •u.'jUi* i:>1l*9 ‘»?‘';j !3 ^ ^ rmi7fT«>t flfl' ' •\*/7 % 9||b' e'^ j|p|f ?>*!i o.i «»fii <0 luc •'^ -:j«r j'T ■' « i* 14'' ^ y I \ I'K' " v''- V\ *>» •: Vj'. • ' * ’• 4 .1 ■VI f 1 '>1 k* ^•1TABLE IX, Represents the Third Layer of Mus cles on the Right and the Fourth Layer of Muscles on the Left Side of tlie Anterior part of the Trunk of the Body. FIG. i. ^ Thorax. a, The intercostales externi. bi h, by The intcrcostales interni. c, c, The convex or thoracic side of the diaphragm. tl, Its middle tendon. CfJ] gy hy The fleshy origins of the diaphragm, sepa^' rated from the inferior margin of the thoi'ax. Abdomen. iy The transversalis abdominis. Icy That portion of the tendons of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, which lies behind the rectus. ly The remains of the tendons of the oblique and trans- verse muscles, forming the linea alba. my Tlie spermatic vessels, passing under the edge of the transverse muscle. Tiy The peritoneum, marked by one of the umbilical ar- teries and the urachus. Oy The tendinous crura of the inferior muscle of the diaphragm. l)y Tlie passage for the aorta, between the crura. y, qy The fleshy heads of the small muscle of the dia- phragm. « ?■, The part where the fibres of the fleshy heads of the opposite sides cross each other, to form, Sy ATABLE IX, CONTINUED.' fy A passage for the oesophagus. ty The origin of tlie diaphragm from the twelfth rib» 7iy The psoas parvus. V, Vy The psoas magnus. Ki)y The iliacus intern us. Xy A section of the penis, in which the corpora caver- nosa appear. •: FIG. 2. A View of the Inner Surface of the Steuno-Costalis Muscle. (ty tty The tendinous origin, from the cartilage ensiformis, and under half of the middle bone of the sternum. ty hy The tendinous insertion into the third, fourth, and fifth ribs. Cy Part of the stcrno-costalis, passing between the se- cond and third ribs, and which is found in some sub- jects only. FIG. 3. Muscles about the Root (f the Penis, and Under Rnil of the Intestinum Rectum,—in a Child. Oy Uy The sphincter ani. }}y The levator ani. Cy The transversalis perinei. dy The erector penis. €y The accelerator urinae. fy The corpus cavernosura penis, g, The corpus spongiosum urethra?, hy The scrotum turned up. iy Part of the thigh. hy The cut edge of the integument?.rTABLE X. \ Represents the First Layer of Muscles on the Right, and Second Layer of Muscles on the Left Side of the Back Part of the Trunk of the Body. \ Right Side. ct, o, The thoracic portion of the trapezius. b, by Its insertion into the spine of the scapula. f, The ligamentum nucha:. dy dy Tlie latissimus dorsi. 6y Its tendinous origin. J", Part of the obliquus extcrnus abdominis. g, Part of the rhomb oideus. Left Side. 7iy The rhomboides major, and, 2, The rhomboides minor, covering the serratus posti- cus superior. Jg*y A portion of the serratus posticus superior, the rest of it extending as far under the rhomboides as the dotted line at b. Icy The serratus posticus inferior. I, The part from which the latissimus dorsi was cut. viy Tlie under part of the serratus magnus. Vy The tendons of the sacro-lurabalis. Oy A portion of the longissimus dorsi. y), Part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. q. The spinalis dorsi. r, The broad tendon common to the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior. .c. TheTABLE X. CONTINUED. Sf The back part of the obliquus internus abdominis.- ty ty The intercostalcs cxtcrni. Uy The coccygeus. Vy The levator aiiL It’, The sphincter anK•r / . TABLE XI. Hepresents the Third Layer of Muscles on the Right, and Fourth Layer of Muscles on the Left Side of the Back Part of the Trunk of the Body. Right Side. a, a, a. The spinalis dorsi. by by Part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. Cy The longissimus dorsi. ■dy dy The tendons of the sacro-lumbalis. €y The common fleshy head of the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis. fy The tendon covering and partly giving origin to this fleshy head. gy Part of this tendon upon the longissimus dorsi. hy The transversales abdominis. iy iy The intercostales extern!. hy hy Portions of the intercostales externi, called by Al- BiNUS Levatores Costai'Utn. Left Side. a, a, The semi-spinalis dorsi. by by The multifidus spinae. Cy Cy The intercostales interni. dy dy The pleura. Cy Cy The intertransversales dorsi. fyfy The interspinales dorsi. gy The quadratus lumborum. Jiy hy The intertransversales lumborum. iy if The interspinales lumborum.r V' V”' * ( ,*• • *0 ^ I* , ^ ■ * • 4 * , *-'• ' ‘ -V ; ■'• tvi ' ‘' - ir 7 ' , .• > Aiii A7 :i .7 fl 1 , ‘^ V‘ V*; .\ . ;jH ^' * • , ak - m 'M*, ^ V)’-.I.v . uj Ji'. •'*> 5.1 :’/tfja'l liii"- .V ?*»•';',/v;'t *r. ^..: :_o ’ w V. • ri;,i,! ;• . < 'i -,ci u I. ’ ' .1'•■eb-iii- .'. ■ •■- *• f- * * ' / ’.i V • .V #.. i k .; V .. K , I ■ -k , ,• ; ' ' .-4' L r " *• j' .V* I'T'Fi :. ^ « * t;ii. ;7; .<«• J1. , . . •.. ■ ■ '!-t!{i J T- ’..h ^ :.k>r'AVH 71 ncL - - D»>4 ^ 7 ■• . »»* '.. .1 ■ ■« . . •Y»»< • *V ^ >-j;../‘f. r.^Urtt *(|R’ . •!“ -'i •' «• IJ; ■ .• t'/jV. .;,_'.o itnoiir»'i ,X • ■■$!- ■ ■’'■■ ' . ^-5r .. ,, - r r •( V ■'.V '" • 'C ' < \ V-l '. ^ v<;* , H ‘ ■ f -- I ' .-'■#.V* ;■>>.; . Wi ■ , ,\i »rr*^.■■■'.’ I • . /.I • * «■' ■*' > \',' \>:cfV_ V • ;■ .111 vA 1; ^^;\. r’-. -jV ■ ■"• .' ■.i‘t*'''‘n. * * .A.l-tii : I - ^ • ■ - %r ' , 'I r 'T.»Zi.jaLTABLE XII. ilEPRESENTS the MuscLEs situated on the Fore Part (rf the Superior Extremity. , . FIG. 1.^ A Vie-s of the First Layer ^Muscles on the Fore Part of the Superior Extremity, the Interments and Aponeurosis being removed, a, The deltoidcs. b, The insertion of the pcctoralis major. c, The biceps flexor ciibiti. df The aponeurosis of the biceps cut off. €, The round tendon of the biceps. f. The long head of the triceps extensor cubiti. g, g, The brachialis internus. hi The third head of the triceps, ca]ledBrachialisFAe77iK'i i. The supinator radii longus. k. The pronator radii teres. ly The flexor carpi radialis. ?ny The palmaris longus. n, n, Part of the flexor digitorUm sublimis. o, The under end of the flexor carpi ulnaris. p, Part of the flexor longus pollicis. g, The tendons of the extensores ossis metacarpi et primi internodii pollicis, with their annular ligament, r. The abductor pollicis, at the outer edge of which is a small portion of the flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 5, That portion of the abductor pollicis, called by Al- BIN us Abductor Brevis Alter, ty The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, bound by a ligament. VOL. I. ‘ I) TheTABLE XII. CONTINUED. Uy The ligamentum carpi annulare anterius. iiy The aponeurosis palmaris, extending from the anmr- lar ligament of the wrist to the transverse ligaments at the roots of the fingers, and the adjacent edges of the metacarpal bones. te, The palmaris brevis, covering part of the abductor, arid flexor parvus minimi digiti. Upon the fingers are seen the annular ligaments retain- ing the tendons of the flexor snhlimis, and flexor pro- fundus, in tlieir places. FIG. 2. The Second Layer of Muscles on the Fore Part of the Superior Extremity. Uy The biceps flexor cubiti. by Its long head, r. Its short head. dy A section of the aponeurotic tendon of the biceps, r. The round tendon of the biceps. fy Part of the coraco-brachialis. gy The subscapularis. hy The teres major. . iy The long head of the triceps extensor cubiti. hy Its short head. ly The brachialis externus of the triceps. niy my The brachialis internus. 71, The extensor carpi radialis longior. Oy The extensor carpi radialis brevior- j>y The supinator radii brevis. qy The insertion of the flexor carpi ulnaris. r. The flexor digitorum sublimis ; its tendons dividing nearTABLE XII. cd^TiNiiED.' near their insertion in the second phalanx of the’bones of tlie fingers, for the passage of the tendons of the' flexor profundus. Sf The extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi in**' ternodii pollicis. t, Part of the flexor pollicis longus; fly Its tendon.' V, The ligamentum carpi annulare, to, The flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis. .r. The abductor pollicis brevis alter of Albinus; 7/y Part of the flexor brevis pollicis. Zf Part of the adductor pollicis. 1, The abductor indicis. 2, The adductor minimi digiti. 3, The flexor parvus rninimi digit!. 4, 4, The four lumbricales. - ' ' FI G. S. The Third Layer of Muscles on the Fore Part of tfie Superior Extremity. tty The subscapularis; by Its tendon. Cy Tlie teres m‘ajor; dy Its tendon. €y The coraco-brachialis.' fy The brachialis internus. gy The brachialis externus of the triceps. Jiy The extensor carpi radialis longior. i> Part of the extensor carpi radialis brcviof. ky The supinator radii brevis. /, The flexor digitorum profundus. n 2 my Th^TABLE Xlf. CONTINUED. w, The tendons of that muscle passing under the liga- mentum carpi annulare, to be inserted into the third phalanx of the fingers. The ligamentum carpi annulare, o, o, The four lumbricales. I'he flexor longus pollicis. <7, A slip which it sometimes receives from the inner condyle of the os humeri. r, The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis inserted into the last joint of the thumb. .t, The flexor brevis pollicis. The first interosseous muscle of the fore finger. M, The adductor minimi digiti. FIG. 4. The Fourth Layer of Muscles on the Fore Part of the SuPEnioR Extremity. <?, The subscapularis. by The supinator radii brevis. fy The pronator radii quadratus. dy The flexor brevis pollicis, with its insertion into the ossa sesamoidea. fy The adductor pollicisi fyf The seven interossei,—the first placed at the outer side of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger,—the rest of them between the metacaqial bonea. ITajh.XIIL /. \ dTABLE XIli: Represents the Muscles on the Back Part of the Superior Extremity. FIG. 1. A View of ihe First Layer ^Muscles on the Back Fart of the Superior Extremity. o, The deltoides, with its insertion into the os humeri. hf The infra-spinatns. Cy The teres minor. dy The teres major. Cy The triceps extensor cubiti. fy The long, and, gy The short head of the triceps. hy The tliird head, called Brachialis Extennis^ iy The common tendon of the three heads. Jcy Part of the brachialis internus. ly Part of the anconeus. my The supinator radii longus. iiy The extensor carpi radialis longiof. Oy The extensor carpi radialis brevior. Py Part of the flexor profundus, which comes from tlie ulna. i q. Part of the pahnaris longus. « . Vy Part of the flexor digitorum sublimis. ' Sy The flexor carpi ulnaris. t. The extensor carpi ulnaris. tty The extensor digitorum communis, in which are seen, Its passage under u, theligamentum carpi annuTarepo.s- terius ; The portion tu, which it sends to the little flun^er; D 3 Its•TABLE XIII. $ C9NTINU£p. Its flat tendons, running along the metacarpal bone§ j The aponeurotic slips, which join these tendons together near the first joint of the fingers j The tendons upon the back of the fingers, forming broad expansions which cover and adhere to the first and second, and arc inserted into the base of the third phalanges ; The splitting and rej.oining .of die tendons, between the first and second phalanges, for facilitating the motion of the joints. ^ ar. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and, The extensor prinai internodii pollicis, with their annular ligament. 2, The tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. FIG. 2. t The Second Layer of Muscles oif the Back Part of the Superior Extremity. a, The supra-spinatus. > i, The ihfra-spinatus. Cf The teres minor. dy The teres major. €y The triceps extensor cubiti, fy Its long head. gy Its short head. ' hy Part of the tliird head, named Brachialis Externuu iy The common tendon of the triceps inserted into the olecranon. Jiy Part of the brachialis internus. ly The anconeus. m. The extensor carpi radialis longior. fly The extensor carpi radialis brevior.TABLE XIII. CONTINUED. The supinator radii brevis. p. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The extensor primi internodii pollicis. 7", The extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Sf The conjoined tendons of the three extensors of the thumb. The indicator. K, The flexor digitoruin profundus. V, The flexor carpi ulnaris. w, A small portion of the flexor sublirais. ar, X, The cut tendons of the extensor djgitorum com- munis. y, y, The tendinous slips of the extensor communis, fix- ed to the second phalanx. z, The adductor pollicis. ], The abductor indicis. 2, The abductor minimi digiti. 3, 4, 5, The posterior interossei, consisting of, 3, The' prior medii digiti, 4, The posterior medii digiti, and, 5, The posterior annularis. FIG. 3. The Third Layer of Muscles upon the Back Part of the Superior Extremity. a, The teres major. Z>, Part of the subscapularis. Part of the coraco-brachialis. J,- Part of the brachialis internus. c. The brachialis externus. f The extensor carpi radialis longior. The extensor carpi radialis brevior. i> 4 //, TheTABLE XII. CONTINUED* hy The flexor profundus perforans. i iy The supinator radii brevis. kj Part of the flexor longus pollicis. I, The pronator radii quadratus. viy my The cut tendons of the extensor digitormn, Tiy The flexor brevis pollicis. Oy The adductor pollicis. j)y py The intcrossei interni, with portions of the inter- ossei externi, the rest of the intcrossei externi bcino- cut off. At the lateral parts of the roots of the fingers, in this and the two former figures, are seen the joining of the tendons of the extensor digitorum, and of the lumbricalcs and intcrossei. FIG. 'A Posterior picxv nf the Fourth Lajjer q/’Muscles on the SuPEiuoR Extremity. 0y The subscapularis. • i i l)y The supinator radii brevis, Cy The pronator radii quadratus. dy '^Tlic flexor brevis pollicis. ty The adductor pollicis.^ w*’*» ai;^ .t.' ' ■* ■ V «U.. ‘J.' ■• \t r / L' ' V I :.#• ’• ) ' • . ,i • ^ •*?i» ' f > ]’ r «3 <* '•<. "E -XJTABLE XIV. 1 Represents the Muscles on the Fore Part of the Inferior Extremity. FIG. 1. •77ie Virzt Layer of Muscles o?i the Fore Part of the Inferior Extremity. The tensor vaginae femoris. ' hy The anterior edge of the gluteus medius. c, The under end of the iliacus internus, and of. The psoas inagnus. e. The pectinahs. . . f The adductor longus femoris. gf The gracilis. hf The sartor!us. ’ 2, The rectus femoris. . './in 'j-U . ' h. The vastus externus. ’ ‘ ’ .) .hr/. . j r ?, The vastus internus. ' I' m, The ligament common to the extensors of the leg, fixed to the patella. i • ' The ligament fixing the patella to the tibia. ' o, The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semimem- branosus. jP, The under end of the biceps flexor cruris. y. The tibialis anticus ; • ' r, Its tendon. s, The peroneus longus. f) The extensor longus digitorum pedis. U} The tendons of the extensor longus. TheTABLE XIV. CONTINUED. Tlie extensor proprius pollicis. iVf The gastrocnemius externus. T, Xi The gastrocnemius internus. The flexor longus digitorum pedis. 2T, The tibialis posticus. ], The tendo Achiliis, and tendon of the plantaris. 2, The upper and under portions of the ligamentum tarsi annulare. 3, Ligaments retaining the tendons at the inner ankle. 4, The abductor pollicis. FIG. 2. The Second Layer of Muscles on the Fore Part of the SuPERioB Extremity. Oy The under end of the iliacus internus. by The under end of the psoas magnus. i ‘ Cy The pectinalis. » ’ . , dy The cut end of the rectus femoris. «y The anterior edge of the gluteus medius. J"y The gluteus rainknus. gy The cruralis, with its tendinous fascia. hy The vastus internus. « iy The vastus externus. ky The cut edge of the rectus fixed to the patella. I, The adductor longus femoris. my A small portion of the adductor magnus. 71, The gracilis. Oy The tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus. Py The tendon of the biceps flexor cruris. qy The peroneus longus. Ty The peroneus brevis. \ s,TABLE XIV. cDNTiSUEp. 6f The cxtensoi- longus digitorum pedis a • ' /, Tlie tendons of that muscle. u, The peroneus tertius. - ^ V, The extensor proprius pollicis; tt’, Its tendon; T, A branch of that tendon not constant. j/j y. The edges of the gastrocnemius iaternus. Zy The edge of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. ], The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum. 2, Part of the flexor brevis digitorujn. FIG. 3, The Third Layer of Muscles on the Fore Fart of the Inferior Extremity. ‘ Uy The gluteus minimus, l)y The iliacus internus. Cy The psoas magnus. dy The obturator externus. €y The adductor brevis. fyfy The adductor magnus. gy The gracilis. hy The semi-membranosus, with its insertion in the tibia, iy The short head of the biceps flexor cruris. hy The peroneus longus. ly The peroneus brevis. lUy My The tibialis posticus, the interosseous ligament being removed. fly The flexor longus digitorum pedis. q, Tlie tendon of the tibialis posticus. Pi TheTABLE XIV. CONTINUED, FIG. 4. fcjo Py The tendon of the flexor longus digitoruni. y, The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis pedis. r. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis. An Anterior Vie*ia of flip Fourth Layer of Muscles the Inferior Extremity. Oy The psoas magnus. hy The iliacus internus. Cy The obturator externus. dy dy The adductor magnus. fy The tibialis posticus j fy Its tendon. The peroneus brevis. The interossci externi.4TABLE XV. Represents tlie Muscles situated on the Back Part of e the Inferior Extremity. FIG. 1. A Vie^JO of the First Layer ^Muscles on the Bach Fart of the Inferior Extremity. fl!, The gluteus maximus. b. Part of the gluteus medius. Cf The vastus externus. d, Part of the adductor magnus femoris. €y The gracilis. J\ Part of the sartorius. gi The long head of the biceps flexor cruris*; hi Its short head. 2, The semi-tendinosus. hi The semi-niembranosus. ly Part of the vastus internus. THy Tile edge of the plantaris. Tiy The gastrocnemius externus. Gy Oy The edges of the gastrocnemius internus. j)y The tendo Achillis. qy The peroneus longus. r, The peroneus brevis. • s. The flexor longus pollicis pedis. ty The tendon of the peroneus brevis. Vy The tendon of the peroneus longus, in its passage to the sole. •Sy TheTABLE XV. CONTINUET). Vf The tendons of the extensor longus digitorum pedis. W, The tendon of the peroneus tertius. jTf The abductor minimi digiti pedis. 3/, A ligament common to the long and short peronei muscles, and one proper‘to each of them. Zf The ligamentum tarsi annulare. FIG. 2. 77/f Second Layer o/* Muscles on the Back Part of iJir Inferior Extremity. a. The gluteus medius; by The pyriformis. Cy The gemini. dy The tendon of the obturator internus passing bc" tween the gemini. €y The quadratus.femoris. fy The vastus extern us. gy The adductor magnus femorisi hy The serai-tendinosus. iy The gracilis. ky The semi-membranosus. ly The biceps flexor cruris. my The long head of the biceps. iiy The short head. Oy The common tendon of the two heads; j)y Part of the vastus internus. q, qy The cut heads of the gastrocnemius externuf'. r, The popliteus. Sy The soleus. ty The plantaris. M, The cut tendon of the gastrocnemius externus. V, The fTABLE XV. CONTINUED. FIG. Vy The tendo Achillis, with the tendon of the plantaris- adhering to it. The peroneus longus. Xy The peroneus brevis, y, The flexor pollicis longus. Zy The tendons of the extensor digitorum longus. 1, The extensor brevis digitorum. . 2, The flexor bi’evis digitorum. FIG. 3. The Third Layer ^Muscles on the Back Part of the Inferiok Extremity. Uy The gluteus minimus. by The obturator internus. Cy The tendon of the obturator externus. dy The gracilis. Cy The semi-membranosus. fyfy The adductor magnus femoris. gy The short head of the biceps. hy hy The cut heads of the gastrocnemius externus, with a view of the semUunar cartilages. iy The popliteus. k. The tibialis posticus. Iy The flexor longus digitorum pedis, ra, The flexor longus pollicis pedis. 7j, The peroneus longus, with the passage of its tendon to the sole. Oy The peroneus brevis. Py The extensor brevis digitorum pedis, y, The flexor digitorum accessorius.TABLE XV. CONTINUED’, FIG. FIG. 4. A Posterior Vitia of the Fourth Layer o/* Muscles oji the Inferior Extremity. Oy Part of the iliacas internus. by Part of the psoas raagnus. Cy Their insertion into the trochanter minor. dy The obturator externus. Cy The adductor magnus femoris. fy The tibialis posticus. gy The peroneus brevis, with the insertion of its tendon; FIG. 5. Represents the First Layer of Muscles on the Sole of the Footy after removing the Common IntegumcntSy the A- ponezirosis Plantaris, and the Vagmal Ligaments of the Toes. Oy The flexor brevis digitomm, the tendons of which arc perforated by the tendons of the flexor longus, and in- serted into the second phalanx of the four small toes. by The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, at the sides of which the flexor brevis pollicis appears. Cy The abductor pollicis. dy dy The abductor minimi digiti. ^y fy The transvcrsalis pedis.T A .B L E XV. CONTINUED, EIG. 6. • * ! • J7ie Muscles ’which appear in the Sole, after those re'pre-^ sented in thefoi'Vief Figure have been removed. a, The tendon of the flexor lotigus digitorum. b, b, The flexor digitorum accessorius, with its insertion into the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. c, The connection of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. d, d. The insertion of the teffdons of the flexor longus digitorum into the last phalanx of the four small toes. e, e, e, e. The fouf lumbricales. ff The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. g. The insertion of the tibialis posticus. h. The insertion of the tibialis anticus. i. iy The two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis. ky A small portion of the adductor pollicis. Iy The insertion of the peronedg brevis. niy The tendon of the peroneus longus passing to the sole.’ The flexor brevis minimi digiti. O Oy- Two of the interossei, the insertions of which, and of the other interossei,• are seen at the lateral parts of the roots of the toes. Pi Pi The transversalis pedis. VOL. r. jj-* ’T I ' . • »- T ' -y Li’^.c jwn ■. **■' UiVva ’■., »:jiwr vl^ 'iu n*/. ."•»? 5<;ji' «•]»• jaiioA- . %■ **p> -w .*'11*,'^^ .fui. v.3‘* V. iiy\.' yi i ojoi 'fcrra *wmoiIuU> I 'Jt-'n 0-’"f * frU*'-)‘iM.yj'N'. r .-i . ’ ' cio'‘ti’* f. .. * •* • -% ^ . '■ ^ ^ x.»fl».'j; ■ "-* 961- ,Vi ,V • ^ 'W'.i i’^ «.■**£ 9iii lo rv!j*?J4 ‘n^!* M ii iilj'# cU'.V*! ^<>1 'lu il- ]}\’ ^iMTT■?Sff^ ,ft : V ...' '.' s^yKr^-y\}/»\>IT :\,'. .V,p,U«ti r .,T hi: ^ b 1' A ■ •V*-' * ^■.nTi,-jj » % .ir ' ^ U; nc’r, r<iT j * * -• • J fcV •i ) i cs .hh'h j#P;,il.n «v.ni •K.i'J!! *w< l* **• ‘ Vni »*JJ ■!‘.^'*» v'j >> ^ <* .■«i - j. .' T T ‘v • i. M ■ MM* ,«. ■'. ■ ■ . r A ■ ?N ‘ .t -lOT /J,K \, * * • •v-y % sjf. V* •' ' "k / ;m r^'l‘ ■■■'-■ ‘ ' r* ,r • »V ' r - ‘ ■-V'■■^ * /^''h ':^- V» • JC» j • A -i ••'.yf' ‘ '^‘J’ ■ ■ ' •<t,.* r'-'* ' ..•t t\KING’S College LONDON . rf ‘ . .* » 4 • ’ • ■ • ■mV^rn .:. ♦ .« • v,:ii.... ' ' •' V •.. Library KING’S COLLEGE LONDONn» -t-v* '1^ '* * . -I-.* v^ ll.^,•^-<.^^ y; . . »i»...,H^k..l.^^^.- ■ . f 7^-. '»-J.-.\U»^ ijfk'/f -. , • kv. .. / i<OV 4 fiC^i A i.f> .-,^'-,loV*.- »••»» ■■••%'>#/ .4^ v^7.>y», r^i- i— * • .--.V .»«<-< -r-.* v>t »*. ‘t** • 'A/Vi «-••'..'«4 »»W*>^S« <'W . ,,4^V. -‘ .< ,k-.»» <•■,-. •*'^.<v,».^ .♦. W..-»' '»«•**■-' . ■•'•♦« I* ‘ ■-i+V - ,. ^ ^y. nr-' - • y H,K A*', r- is »«■'•-*> *- ..,-,.4 ,. ••.,M'>.-,':.-.*V»''V"" '♦, > • ,'‘*4>i‘.'4».•.«*..•..,-.M-Jt--.,^s-. /•|-'»i‘.^’ - -f •' » !■ ••• «r^*i*-. •• ^fc'*v* . » I* •• . >.,.H V. ."•*• ■' ^1 . ,»V^ .*■••. ..., '•»••■/' .-,- t '••■ ’'-ti •*• —»1. •/.••»•••, 1, . '..’ , .. ' 4.U r,:.-* - r.-, ,, ,,«... .4, - 4 r ►!>*♦>- , »-v N*. 4' ••fV**' •“ ■ *•’•*"»» yi»4r4*k- *' r . • vy .v^. a-,'*.'' '. , '-4* . • 1M-''■’«»'« » '.- V*.*'*' •' ■■ ■ ■• .— a-. ,. ,.,.;,ls ', . , t, .... ■'k V"' i*** r< '-k <•* •>‘‘Vv‘*A'( '‘*’r^T*’,»' i»i» ' »,... •/4» »• «4/. V^* » y.' lyt* > -i,’f<>. • vVi(4-4 f. .-.. .,