'ION :s 22101454476 L S.Med K10736 I4/-The Child’s Cookery BookPublisher’s Announcements BOOKS FOR CHILDREN A Book of Verses for Children. Compiled by E. V. Lucas. With cover, title-page, and end-papers in colours by F. D. Bedford. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [Fourth Edition. All the World Over: A Picture Book for Children. By Mrs. Farmiloe. With Verses by E. V. Lucas. Coloured Plates. Oblong folio, half cloth, picture boards, 6s. [Second Edition. Rag, Tag, and Bobtail: A Picture Book for Children. With Verses by Winifred Parnell. Coloured Plates. Oblong folio, half cloth, picture boards, 6s. *,* Pictures of the above two books may also be had, un- coloured, as a portfolio, for children to colour. Oblong folio, canvas, as. net each. The Book of Shops : A Picture Book for Children. With Verses by E. V. Lucas. Coloured Plates. Oblong 4to, half cloth, picture boards, 6s. Paleface and Redskin, and Other Stories for Boys and Girls. With cover, title-page, and over sixty Illustrations by Gordon Browne. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 6s. [Second Edition. Little Bertha : A Story for Children. By W. J. Stillman. i8mo, cloth IS. 6d. The Realms of Gold: A Book for Youthful Students of English Literature. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. The Dumpy Books for Children. Edited byE. V. Lucas. i8mo,cloth, IS 6d. each. With end-papers by Mrs. Farmiloe. I. The Flamp, The Ameliorator, and the School- boy’s Apprentice. By E. V. Lucas. II. Mrs. Turner’s Cautionary Stories. III. The Bad Family. By Mrs. Fenwick. IV. The Story of Little Black Sambo. By Mrs. Helen Bannerman. With Coloured Plates by the Author. LONDON : GRANT RICHARDS 9 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, W.C.The Child’s Cookery Book By Louisa S. Tate “ The children must be practised well to this, or they’ll ne’er do it.” 3\ierry Wives of Windsor London Grant Richards 9 Henrietta Street Covent Garden mdcccc1 WELLCOME INSTUUTeI 1 1IBRARY 1 Icoll. welMOmec 1 Ino. <?T 1TO H.R.H. PRINCESS CHRISTIAN OF SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN WHOSE SYMPATHY WITH CHILDREN, AND INTEREST IN THEIR PURSUITS IS WELL KNOWN, THIS LITTLE BOOK IS, with her kind permission, respect- fully DEDICATED BY LOUISA TATEMy readers will find at the end of the book a few blank pages for their notes and recipes.7 Preface Many years ago I wrote a small cookery book for children which was a great success, and was much appreciated by boys and girls generally, who found it a constant source of amusement for a rainy day. I have had many letters asking for other recipes, and these I am now adding to a new edition, together with several others, which will, I hope, make a pleasant variety. My idea in writing the book was that children might be able to cook dainty and palatable food, without wasting a large amount of material, should their efforts prove unsuccessful, and to put it into their power to make, on a small scale, dishes as good as those found on the dining-room table.8 None of these recipes require any great outlay, and I have been careful not to give any very rich or complicated dishes. I have also tried, as far as possible, that much cooking over the fire should be avoided, I hope that when anything has to be fried, great care will be taken, for if the least drop of water has got into the drip- ping or lard which is used, it will splutter when heated, and may cause a painful burn. My chief aim has been to.give no recipe which a child could not be trusted to carry out with a little supervision. In giving recipes for soups, I have had some difficulty, as of course the secret of good soup is well-made stock, and this can only be procured by constant attention and care, which is impossible in the case of children. I have, therefore, taken it for granted that the cook will supply the stock ready made; but there is no reason whyPreface 9 girls should not know how to make it, if necessary. For an economical stock nothing is essential but bones, cooked or uncooked, just covered with water, which must be added to as it boils away, and the bones kept boiling until they are perfectly soft. Bones which have been cooked still retain a vast amount of goodness. Many cooks will not agree to this, but the fact remains that it is so. The bones should all be cracked before being put into the saucepan or stock-pot. After boiling a sufficiently long time the stock must be strained off, and when cold will be found to be in a thick jelly. To extract all the goodness the stock should be boiled for at least three days. It is not generally known that in every pound of bone there are six ounces of good nourish- ing food. There is no necessity whatever to use meat if bones are properly boiled, thoughPreface of course a richer soup is made by the addition of gravy beef, knuckle of veal, or, best of all, an old fowl. No vegetables should be put into stock, or it will not keep. It is well to remember that stock, however thin, is better than water for soup. I have not arranged many meat dishes; they are not interesting to children, and generally entail much standing over the fire. Those I have put in are easily pre- pared, and form nice supper dishes for the schoolroom. For the same reason the fish and egg recipes are few in number, and will be found quite easy to carry out. About puddings and cakes the important things are that the eggs should be fresh and well beaten. It is almost always better to beat yolk and white apart, and remember that, should you wish to use the white alone, to make a souflde, it will be impossible to beat it sufficiently stiff if, in loseparating the white from the yolk, you allow the yolk to break. Never use unwashed or unpicked cur- rants, and when used they must not be either wet or hot. It is well to prepare them some time before using by picking out the stems, &c., and washing and dry- ing them in a clean cloth. Rice does not require washing before it is cooked. It is a great mistake to do so, and one that is very usually made. For beating up eggs I recommend a Dover’s egg-whisk, used in a pound jam- pot. The smallest child can manage in this way without spilling. Boiled puddings when cooked should be plunged into cold water; the cloth will then be easily removed, and the pudding will not break. I have made an addition to the recipes, which will, I know, be appreciated by the children, in a large collection of sweets of various kinds, interesting to make and12 quite wholesome. In searching for some- thing new (or old) to add to the variety, I consulted a cookery-book which is more than a hundred years old, and, for the amusement of the children, have copied out a recipe which is given to be used for a grand party. At the end of the book I have put a few recipes which I have no doubt will appear dull, but, in spite of adverse opinion, I believe that there are manv children to whom it is a real pleasure to have it in their power to do a kindness to those who are ill. I have therefore added a few very simple recipes suitable for sick people, and I am quite sure that some of my readers will be very glad to know how to make gruel, &c., properly. I know that if they master them thoroughly, there will come a day when they will find the knowledge useful. LOUISA S. TATE.13 Conte nts PAGE SOUPS: PEA SOUP .... • • 23 LENTIL SOUP • < . 23 POOR man’s soup 24 TOMATO SOUP 25 ARTICHOKE SOUP . 26 POTATO SOUP 27 MRS. TATE’S VEGETABLE SOUP 27 dolly’s favourite soup . 30 FISH: fish pie .... • • 33 a delicious breakfast dish • . 33 FISH OMELET . 34 KEDGEREE .... . 35 FISH BALLS .... • 36 TO BOIL RICE • , 36Contents MEAT: STUFFED TOMATOES STUFFED CUCUMBER HIDDEN MORSELS. POTATO BALL HARICOT MUTTON POTATO PIE . SURPRISES . MORE SURPRISES . CURRIED FOWL . CHICKEN PATTIES EGGS: SWISS EGG . SANDWICHES FOR MAMMA dolly’s breakfast dish EGGS IN CREAM . BIRDS IN THE NEST PICNIC SANDWICHES CHEESE AND SALAD: CHEESE BISCUITS . PAGE 41 41 43 43 44 45 46 47 47 48 53 53 54 54 55 56 14 CHEESE FONDU 59 59Contents 15 CHEESE AND SALAD—continued CHEESE OMELET , CHEESE FINGERS . A DAINTY SALAD . TO MAKE MAYONNAISE. PUDDINGS : sybil’s favourite pudding ROLY-POLY PUDDING THE BEST OF PUDDINGS SISTER Ann’s fritters Joan’s prize pudding ALMOND PUDDINGS jack’s pudding . SAUCER PUDDINGS THE LITTLE INVALID’S PUDDING HISTORICAL PUDDING , AUNT jane’s pudding . PATIENCE PUDDING SCHOOL-ROOM PUDDINGS baby’s birthday pudding . HIDE-AND-SEEK PUDDING LITTLE lady’s PUDDING PAGE . 6o 60 61 6l 65 66 66 67 68 68 69 69 70 70 71 71 72 72 73 74Contents 16 PAGE PUDDINGS—continued MAID Marion’s pudding 74 mother’s own pudding 75 GINGER PUDDING 76 queen’s pudding . . . . . . 76 TAPIOCA AND APPLE PUDDING . . . . 77 ROCK PUDDINGS 78 TOM thumb’s batter PUDDING , . . . 79 RICH RICE PUDDING 79 princess’s pudding 80 baby’s pudding 81 sauce for boiled puddings .... 82 TIPSY CAKE ........ 82 LEMON DUMPLINGS 83 APPLE CHARMS 84 FAIRY SNOW 85 ALMOND CUSTARD 85 CHOCOLATE CREAM 86 RICE CREAM 86 MY BIRTHDAY CREAM 87 QUEEN OF CREAMS . . . . . • 87 TO MAKE PASTRY 88Contents PUDDINGS—continued master’s pudding ALMOND ARROWROOT SHAPE. GOOSEBERRY FOOL THE PEARL OF MILK PUDDINGS . CHEESECAKES . . . . PAGE 89 89 90 91 91 CREAMS AND JELLIES: TOO GOOD . WEST INDIAN TOO GOOD ORANGE JELLY TUTTIFRUTTI SWEET SUMMER SALAD. STEWED FRUIT 95 95 96 97 98 99 CAKES, BISCUITS AND BREAD : baby’s cake .... SUNNY DALE CAKES HAZEL-NUT CAKES PICNIC CAKE .... COUSIN lily’s cake MURIEL’S CHRISTMAS CAKE . 17 103 103 104 • 105 • 105 106 BContents 18 PAGE CAKES, BISCUITS, AND continued EVERY-DAY CAKE Io6 HALF-HOLIDAY CAKE I07 SUSAN’S TEA CAKE I07 COCOANUT CAKE . ’ I08 CHOCOLATE CAKE. . . . . . . 109 LUNCHEON CAKE IIO QUEEN MAB’S own CAKES IIO BLUETTE Ill WHITE WONDERS Ill LITTLE queen’s FAVOURITES . . . . 112 BIRTHDAY BISCUITS II3 baby’s biscuits 113 billy’s biscuits 114 COCOANUT GINGERBREAD II4 THE chief’s favourite ROLLS . . . - US RUSKS 116 LOAF OF BREAD sandy’s favourite buns 118 Marian’s buns 119 SHORT bread 119Contents 19 I SWEETMEATS: SWEETMEATS ALMOND TOFFEE . TREACLE TOFFEE . EVERTON TOFFEE. MY FAVOURITE TOFFEE ARMENIAN DATES ALMOND ROCK PEPPERMINT BULLSEYES STRAWBERRY DROPS BRAZIL-NUT CANDY STUFFED WALNUTS baby’s kisses ROSE LEAF COMFITS ALMONDS PERDU . DAINTY DATES PEANUT CANDY . ] COCOANUT CANDY I I TO MAKE A DESERT ISLAND I I INVALID COOKERY: OLD FASHIONED GRUEL PAGE 123 124 124 125 125 126 126 127 127 128 128 129 129 130 130 131 131 132 137Contents 20 INVALID COOKERY—continued GRUEL OF PATENT GROATS . LEMONADE .... BARLEY WATER . BEEF TEA .... PAGE 138 138 139 140SOUPSi Pea Soup Put into a saucepan with a pint of water, half a carrot, half an onion, half a turnip, a potato, one teacupful of split peas, and (if you can get it) a piece of celery. Cut the vegetables up small, and wash and pick the peas before putting them into the saucepan. Boil altogether till the peas are quite soft, rub through a wire sieve, put the purde into the saucepan again, boil it up, stirring well I all the time, and add pepper and salt. I The peas must have been soaked all night in a basin of water, then strained. Lentil Soup Put a teacupful of lentils and two table- spoonfuls of rice into a pint of water in the evening. Next day cut up half an onion, a 23The Child'*s Cookery Book 24 piece of carrot, a piece of turnip, and a potato, add them to the lentils, from which the water has been strained, and put them into a saucepan, with a pint of water or, better still, stock. When the lentils and vegetables are soft, rub them through a wire sieve, and then replace in the saucepan. \ Add enough milk to make it the consistency of cream, and salt to taste. Stir till hot, ; but do not let it boil. Poor Man^s Soup | ] Put a dessertspoonful of dripping into a i stewpan. Fry in it a sliced onion till it is a | nice brown. Pour over one quart of stock. Shred finely a small lettuce and a potato. Throw them into the boiling stock. When the vegetables are quite tender the soup will be done. A slice of ham or bacon minced small will be found a great improve- ment, and also a stick of celery, but celery salt does instead very well. The ham should'The Child’’s Cookery Book 25 be boiled with the lettuce. Potatoes which have been cooked will do for this soup, or cabbage instead of lettuce. Tomato Soup Three tomatoes, half an onion, one tea- spoonful of parsley, one tablespoonful of rice. Put the onion and a dessertspoonful of dripping into a stewpan and let it simmer till the onion is of a reddish brown ; add the tomatoes cut in slices, and stir all up till it is very hot, pour upon them half a pint of boiling water, add the parsley, and stew for a quarter of an hour, then rub the whole through a sieve, put it back into the stewpan, season it with pepper, salt, and sugar, add one teaspoonful of butter rolled I in flour, and a minute later a tablespoonful of boiled rice, simmer for five minutes before serving.The Child'^s Cookery Book 26 Artichoke Soup Get some artichokes, about eight will do if you peel them carefully, and don’t waste any. They are very knobbly vegetables, and so easily wasted, but you must peel all the little knobbles. Cut up the artichokes with half an onion and a potato. Put them all into a saucepan with a slice of bacon and one ounce of butter, and when they have cooked a little add a pint of stock or water. Stew gently till the vegetables have become a pulp, then add one pint of boiling milk, stir it well, pass through a sieve, and return to the saucepan to get hot. Add a little celery salt, put into your soup tureen the well- beaten yolk of one egg, and when the soup is quite hot, pour it into the tureen, stirring all the time. The piece of bacon, which will remain on the sieve when the vege- tables have been passed through, must be thrown aside.T'he Child’’s Cookery Book 27 Potato Soup Half an onion, three potatoes, an egg- spoonful of chopped parsley, the yolk of one egg, half a pint of milk, pepper and salt. Cut the potatoes and onions into slices, fry them a light brown, when slightly coloured put them into a teacupful of water, and boil till quite soft, press through a wire sieve, and return the purde to the saucepan, simmer for a few minutes, beat up the yolk of the egg, and add it to the ! milk, stir the hot soup into the milk, then I return it to the saucepan to heat, but do 1 not let it boil after the yolk of the egg is added, or it will curdle; put in pepper and salt last, as they make the soup more likely to burn. Mrs. Tate^s Vegetable Soup This is a most delicious soup of my own invention, and I do hope you will take a"The Child’^s Cookery Book 28 great deal of trouble to make it nicely. On this occasion you must borrow Cook’s mincing machine, and pray do not mince your own fingers ! Collect every variety of vegetable you can get, a piece of carrot, onion, parsnip, potato, celery, cauliflower, a leaf or two of cabbage, and, in fact, a little bit of any vegetable in season, which, of course, differs according to the time of year. In summer, for instance, peas, beans, asparagus, &c., make an excellent addition, always beginning, however, with a piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and potato. Whatever you use must go through the mincing machine. When minced, the mixed vegetables ought to fill a breakfast cup. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a lined and unburnt saucepan till melted. Then add the vegetables. Cover the saucepan closely and leave it over a low fire or a small jet of gas till they get soft."The ChiWs Cookery Book 29 Have ready a pint of stock and add it to the vegetables when they are soft. Stir well and bring it to a boil. Add a small coffee-cupful of tapioca and let it all simmer till it is cooked, stirring from time to time. Add two lumps of sugar, salt and pepper, and it is ready to serve. An eggspoonful of Liebig’s extract of meat stirred in at the last moment improves this soup very much. You must shake the saucepan several times to prevent the vegetables from stick- ing to the bottom, but don’t uncover it oftener than you can help because the steam cooks the vegetables, and it will escape if the lid is raised. Remember the saucepan must be a good one, or it will burn, and the vegetables must be raw."The Child^s Cookery Book 30 Dolly's Favourite Soup Take one large tablespoonful of rice, pick and wash it in cold water, and put it into one pint of boiling water. When it begins to thicken add the peel of a quarter of a lemon, and a large tablespoonful of sultana raisins which have been carefully picked ; when the rice is quite soft beat up the yolk of one egg in a wineglassful of milk or cream, add the juice of half a lemon and a little sugar, stir it lightly in and do not let it boil again.FISH33 c Fish Pie Get about four ounces of the remains of any cold fish, and break it into small pieces, add either an anchovy chopped finely, or a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and a tablespoonful of milk. Butter a small pie-dish, and put in this I mixture. Then mash three cooked potatoes I with a small piece of butter and a dessert- spoonful of milk. Spread over the fish, and bake till the potato has browned. A Delicious Breakfast Dish Get a piece of a smoked haddock which has been cooked, and break it into small pieces. Boil a teacupful of rice according to the recipe, and when the water has been strained off, return it to the saucepan with"The Child'^s Cookery Book 34 a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix in the haddock and a hard-boiled egg chopped into small pieces. Stir well, put on a hot dish, and sprinkle thickly with grated cheese. Serve very hot. This mix- ture may also be used as a savoury piled on small rounds of buttered toast. To cook a haddock, put it in a frying- pan filled with hot water, and boil for five minutes. Fish Omelet Whisk an egg thoroughly well, add one ounce of cooked fish broken into small pieces, a tablespoonful of milk, and a pinch of salt. Melt a good teaspoonful of butter in a pan, and when it stops frizzling put in the mixture. Stand it over the fire for a few minutes, and when it has set, hold it in front of the fire, or—in the case of a gas-stove—under the gas for a minute, so that the upper part may finish cooking.T^he Child"*s Cookery Book 35 Fold the omelet over, and serve in a very hot dish. A little finely-chopped parsley is a great improvement added to the mix- ture, but it is not necessary. Kedgeree Remove the skin and bones very care- fully from two ounces of boiled fish, break it into small pieces, and put it on one side, while you boil two ounces of rice according to the recipe given. Boil an egg for ten minutes, and chop it up small. Now put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a stewpan, and, when melted, add the boiled rice, stirring all the time, and then the fish, pepper, and salt. Stir till it is quite hot, turn out on a well-heated dish, sprinkle the chopped egg over it, and serve.T^he Child'^s Cookery Book 36 Fish Balls Break the remains of any cold fish to pieces with a fork, remove all skin and bone, and shred very fine, add the same quantity of mashed potato, and make it into a stiff paste with butter, a little milk, and the yolk of one egg, pepper, and salt. Flour the hands well, and make into small round balls. Put about two ounces of dripping into a frying-pan, and make it very hot, then drop in the fish balls, being very careful not to let the fat splash out, and fry till they are a nice brown. Drain the fat off on kitchen paper before dishing up. To Boil Rice Put on a large saucepan of water, and put in a good handful of salt. When the water is boiling hard, throw in a breakfastT^he ChiWs Cookery Book 37 cupful of rice which has been carefully picked over, but not washed. Leave the cover off, and stir occasionally, boiling as hard as possible all the time. Take out a grain and press it between your finger and thumb, and when the rice is boiled it will all press out and leave no hard part. Turn it out into a colander, and throw a jugful of cold water over it; cover the colander with a napkin, and put it into the oven or before the fire to keep hot till required. If this recipe is followed carefully every grain will be separate, but remember the rice must be boiled in plenty of salted water, and boiled hard.MEATStuffed Tomatoes This will make an excellent dish for the schoolroom supper. Get four tomatoes, cut a thin slice from I the stem end, remove the seeds and soft j pulp, and put them into a basin with a small teacupful of soft bread crumbs and a : slice of meat finely minced. Add a pinch I of salt, a sprinkling of pepper, and a piece ! of butter, or beef dripping, the size of a : marble. Mix them well together, fill the ; tomatoes with the mixture, and put them ; on a baking-tin which has been well rubbed ' with dripping. Bake them till they are soft. Stuffed Cucumber Peel a short, fat cucumber thinly, cut off i the top and scoop out the seeds. Put the 41 I I"The Child'^s Cookery Book 42 cucumber into slightly salted water, and let it boil for ten minutes. Peel a small onion and a good-sized apple, cut them up into slices, and fry them slightly in a frying-pan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When they are soft, but not brown, stir in an eggspoonful of sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, an eggspoonful of curry powder, a pinch of salt, and a dessertspoonful of milk. Stir it well over the Are for a few minutes, but do not let it burn. Turn it out on a plate to cool. Fill the boiled cucumber with the mixture, then roll the cucumber in flour, then in a well- beaten egg, and then in bread crumbs. Place it in a well-greased tin, and bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Heat a coffee-cupful of tomato sauce, pour it over the cucumber, and serve. I can strongly recommend this dish."The Child'^s Cookery Book 43 Hidden Morsels Take a slice of beef or mutton, cut it into small squares, and lay them in a pie- dish. Take one ounce of flour, mix with this, by degrees, a teacupful of milk, add the well-beaten yolk of one egg, and a little salt; pour it over the meat, and put it into a hot oven; bake till it rises and is of a nice brown colour. Potato Ball Butter a mould well, line it thickly with mashed potatoes ; cut up a slice of mutton very small, add a little pepper and salt and a tablespoonful of gravy, put it into the mould, cover the top with potato, and bake for a quarter of an hour in a very hot oven; turn it out on to a dish, and serve. A kitchen-cup will do for this mould.The Child'^s Cookery Book 44 Haricot Mutton Soak a teacupful of haricot beans all night. Next day get half a pound of mutton from the best end of a neck, if possible, and cut it into neat joints (two bones will make four nice little cutlets), trim off all the extra fat, and get the cook to cut the bones off short, but put the little short bones in with the cutlets, as they are very nice. Put into a stewpan half an ounce of dripping (beef dripping is the best), and when it is quite hot, fry the meat a nice brown on both sides. Take it out, and stir into the fat, very carefully, a dessertspoonful of flour. When the flour is a dark brown, but not burnt, pour in a breakfast-cupful of water, and let it boil. Prepare half a turnip and half a carrot cut into small dice, with a stick of celery, if possible, and a small piece of onion. Put them into the gravy with the meat, and letThe Child'^s Cookery Book 45 all stew together, very slowly, till the meat feels tender. While it is cooking, boil the haricot beans, and when they are soft, add them to the stew, with pepper and salt at the last moment. Potato Pie Get two slices of cold meat, and chop them very small. Peel four potatoes, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, and a pinch of salt sprinkled over. Let the potatoes boil gently till a fork goes into them easily. Strain off the water, and mash in the saucepan, with a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Pry half a sliced onion in a tea- spoonful of dripping, add a teaspoonful of flour, sprinkled by degrees over the onion. When it makes a little brown ball in the frying-pan, add a teacupful of water, or stock, and stir till it is smooth and brown. - Put the meat at the bottom of a small pie-The Chtld'^s Cookery Book 46 dish, add the sauce, and then cover the top with the potato very thickly. Bake in a hot oven till the pie gets nicely browned on the top. • ; i Surprises Wash two large, well-shaped potatoes very thoroughly, and put them to bake in a hot oven for three or four hours. Then, when they are soft, take them out, and cut off the tops. Scoop out all the potato into a basin with a spoon, mash it up, and add one ounce of butter, a small teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a doll’s cupful of milk, also pepper and salt. Mix all well together, refill the skins, put the tops on •; again, and replace them in the oven for a few minutes to get hot. Serve with the | cut end hidden. It is well to wrap a napkin round the potato while scooping it out, as they are very hot and burn the fingers.T'he ChiWs Cookery Book 47 More Surprises Prepare your potatoes in exactly the ! same way as you did when you were cook- i ing Surprises: but when you have turned 3 out the potato into the basin, remove some 1 of it, and instead put some meat of any I sort, finely minced, a teaspoonful each of Worcester sauce and mushroom ketchup, : and one ounce of butter. Mix them well I together with part of the potato, replace the ! mixture in the potato-skin, and proceed as i in the former recipe. I Curried Fowl 1 Cut the meat off the leg of a fowl into tiny squares ; fry half an onion in butter, : take the onion out and put it on a plate; fry the pieces of fowl, take them out, and put in a teaspoonful of curry powder, an eggspoonful of Worcester sauce, an egg-T^he Child'^s Cookery Book 48 spoonful of vinegar, and a pinch of salt; rub it round in the frying-pan till it forms into a little ball, mix in half a teacupful of stock, boil it up again, put the meat and onion back again, stirring all the time, boil it up, and it is ready; serve with boiled rice. Chicken Patties Pick the meat from some cold fowl; take two ounces of it and one ounce of ham, mince them well together, add half an ounce of butter rolled in a teaspoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and one of gravy or stock, a little pepper and salt, a few pieces of rind of lemon, and an eggspoonful of the juice of lemon. Put these into a saucepan and stir gently for six minutes, being very careful that the mixture does not burn. Make some paste, roll it out thin, and line some well-buttered patty-pans with it, put aT^he Chtld'^s Cookery Book D 49 small piece of bread or a spoonful of un- cooked rice into each patty-pan, and bake the paste till it is done; take out the bread or rice, fill the patty with the mixture, remove from the pans, and serve.-■< ’-i 5,EGGSV 1^.53 Swiss Egg Grate three ounces of cheese, butter a large saucer rather thickly, and cover it with part of the grated cheese. Break three eggs into the saucer, being careful not to break the yolks. Chop a small teaspoonful of parsley and mix it with the rest of the grated cheese, strew this over the eggs, and put a small bit of butter on each egg. Bake in a quick oven till the ep'gfs are set. Sandwiches for Mamma Boil two eggs hard, take out the yolks and put them into a cup, and mix thoroughly with them a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt ;The ChilTs Cookery Book 54 chop the white up small, spread the yolks thickly between two slices of thin bread and butter, sprinkle the whites over it, with finely chopped lettuce, and cut into neat sandwiches. These sandwiches are excellent made with hot buttered toast. DoIly^s Breakfast Dish Break an egg into a cup, beat it slightly, add a teaspoonful of milk, a pinch of pepper and salt, and a small piece of butter. Put altogether into a saucepan and stir till the mixture gets thick; have ready small rounds of buttered toast; heap the mixture on each piece and serve. Eggs in Cream Boil two eggs for ten minutes, cut them into nice slices, put them on a small dish. Put into a saucepan a small teaspoonful ofT'he Child^s Cookery Book 55 flour rubbed in butter (about half an ounce), a little parsley, a tiny bit of onion chopped fine, and a pinch of salt and pepper; mix it thoroughly over the fire and add two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. When upon the point of boiling, pour it over the eggs in the dish and serve. Birds in the Nest Boil two eggs for ten minutes, take off the shells, cut the eggs in halves, and cut a tiny piece off each end to make them stand upright, take out the yolks, chop up a slice of chicken into tiny pieces with a small piece of beetroot and the yolk of the egg, and add a little pepper and salt; fill each cup with the mixture, put them on a dish, and surround them with watercress.T'he Child'^s Cookery Book 56 Picnic Sandwiches Boil four eggs quite hard; wait till they are cold, or, if in haste, put them into cold water till cold ; break the shells, cut some thin bread and butter, and lay between the slices the egg cut into thin slices ; pepper and salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg.CHEESE AND SALAD59 Cheese Biscuits Rub three ounces of flour into three ounces of butter and add three ounces of grated cheese, make into a paste with the yolk of an egg just beaten up with a dessert- spoonful of water. Roll it out rather thick and cut into biscuits with a doll’s tumbler, bake for ten minutes a light brown in a quick oven. Cheese Fondu Take two eggs and the weight of one in grated cheese, this is particularly nice with Gruyere cheese, but any other will do. Break the eggs into a basin and beat them well, add the cheese, and a piece of butter the size of a nut, broken up small. Put the mixture into a saucepan and stir"The Child’'s Cookery Book until it is thoroughly mixed and quite hot, then pour on to small pieces of toast and serve. Cheese Omelet Take a tea-saucer, fill it with small pieces of cheese; mix a saltspoonful of mustard with an eggcupful of milk, add salt and a little pepper; pour it over the mixture and stand it in the oven till the cheese has melted; beat one egg into it, and put it back into the oven till it is a nice brown ; take out and serve. Cheese Fingers One and a half ounces of grated cheese, one and a half ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, half an eggspoonful of baking powder, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Mix these ingredients to a stiff paste with a very little milk, roll it out, and cut in narrow 6o"The Child'^s Cookery Book strips; bake on a tin in a brisk oven for five minutes to a very light brown. A Dainty Salad Get a small cucumber, cut it lengthways and scoop out the seeds, rinse it in cold water, chop up three or four sticks of celery in small pieces, fill the cucumber with the pieces of celery, and arrange each half of the cucumber on one or two lettuce leaves. Then make a mayonnaise mixture, the recipe for which you will find below, and pour over the celery. If you can get a few nasturtium blossoms from the garden, drop three or four on the lettuce leaves, and you will have an exceedingly pretty dish. To make Mayonnaise Boil an egg hard, take out the yolk and cru sh it with the back of a spoon till it has 6iThe Child^s Cookery Book 62 crumbled, mix in a saltspoonful of mustard, and then drop in very slowly a tablespoon- ful of oil. When it is well mixed add a teaspoonful of vinegar, then another tablespoonful of oil and another teaspoonful of vinegar. If you can get a small quantity of cream, it is a great improvement, or if the mixture is very thick, make it thinner by adding a small quantity of milk. Then add a little pepper and salt and a pinch of sifted sugar. The oil ought not to curdle if the vinegar is added very slowly, but if it does, add the raw yolk of an egg, and the mixture will become like thick cream again. Chop the hard boiled white of the egg into small pieces and add it to the mixture.PUDDINGS65 E SybiFs Favourite Pudding One egg, its weight in sugar and flour. Break the egg into a basin, and throw over it the sugar, beat it up well, then add the flour, beating all the time; dissolve as much carbonate of soda as will cover a threepenny piece in an eggcupful of boiling water and add to the mixture ; butter a piece of writing paper well and make it into ; a tray by turning up the edges, spread the I mixture over it and bake for ten minutes ; have ready another piece of paper on the table with sugar strewn over it, turn the tin I over on it, and peel off the paper ; cover it with jam while very hot, and roll up into the form of a bolster ; to be eaten cold.T'he Child^s Cookery Book 66 Roly-Poly Pudding Shred one and a half ounces of suet very fine, mix it with a quarter of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt and an eggspoon- , ful of baking powder ; make it into a firm | paste with cold water, roll it out to the i thickness of a quarter of an inch, spread ! some jam over it, but don’t let it come too near the edge, damp the edges with water, and roll the paste up into the form of a bolster, tie it up in a well-floured cloth and put it into boiling water; let it boil for three-quarters of an hour at least, then , drop it into cold water, take off the cloth, ' and serve. \ r The Best of Puddings One teacupful of bread crumbs, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a pint of milk, and one egg. Soak the bread crumbs in"The Child'^s Cookery Book 67 the milk made hot, add the lemon rind and beaten yolk of the egg, sweeten to taste, mix it well, and pour it into a buttered pie- dish and bake till it is set, spread it with jam, and then heap upon it the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth and flavoured with sifted sugar, and the juice of half the lemon. Set it in the oven till it is a nice light brown, and serve either hot or cold. Sister Ann^s Fritters Put one ounce of flour into a basin, and mix it to a stiff paste with boiling water, stir quickly and beat the batter well to make it smooth. When the batter is cool break in one egg, both white and yolk, and one with the yolk only; beat well together with a wooden spoon, whisk the white of the second egg till it is well frothed, and, when the lard is ready for frying, add the whisked egg to the mixture, and drop a teaspoonful at a time into the frying-pan.T^he Chtld'^s Cookery Book 68 Joan's Prize Pudding Mix with four ounces of bread crumbs three ounces of well-chopped beef suet, then add two tablespoonfuls of sugar, four ounces of orange marmalade, one egg, a pinch of salt, and half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat all well together and add a little milk. Pour into a mould, tie over it a well-floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Almond Puddings Boil half a pint of milk and let it cool ; beat one egg with one ounce of flour, blanch one ounce of almonds and chop them very fine, melt half an ounce of butter in the milk, add two ounces of pounded sugar, and then add the other ingredients, beating it well all the time ; bake it in small buttered doll’s cups for a quarter of an hour.T"he Child'^s Cookery Book 69 Jack^s Pudding Shred two ounces of suet very fine, mix with it two and a half ounce^f well-grated bread crumbs, and two and a half ounces of good figs minced as small as possible, and two and a half ounces of flour, add a pinch of salt, one tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and one well-beaten egg; beat the mixture with a fork, pour it into a buttered mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil for one and a half hours. An ordinary kitchen tea-cup makes a very good mould for most of the boiled puddings. Saucer Puddings Warm together a quarter of a pint of milk and one ounce of butter, then mix separately one tablespoonful of flour, one ounce of sugar, and one well-beaten egg; add the70 -i The Child'^s Cookery Book warmed milk, and bake for ten minutes in doll’s saucers. The Little Invalid’s Pudding Mix one ounce of arrowroot smoothly with a little cold milk, then stir in half a pint more milk, and add one well-beaten egg, and sugar to taste; put it into a well- buttered bowl, tie a cloth securely over, and steam it for three-quarters of an hour with the lid of the saucepan on. Historical Pudding Quarter of a pound of dates, stoned and chopped very small, two ounces of suet also chopped fine, to this add two ounces of sifted sugar, and a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs ; mix altogether with one egg well beaten and two tablespoonfuls of milk, boil it in a basin for two hours.I'he ChiWs Cookery Book 71 Aunt Jane’s Pudding Beat up two eggs, and add gradually to them a quarter of a pint of new milk, stir well together, add one ounce of moist sugar and a little nutmeg, then stir in very slowly two ounces of flour and beat it till it is a perfectly smooth batter, cut a few raisins in small pieces and add to the pudding, with three and a half ounces of suet chopped very fine. Mix all well together half an hour before it is to be boiled. Butter a mould well, pour in the pudding, and tie it tightly down with a well-floured cloth. Boil it for two hours. Patience Pudding One ounce of pearl barley, one pint of milk, and two and a half ounces of moist sugar. Soak the barley in cold water for twelve hours, then drain the water away,T^he Child'^s Cookery Book 72 and put the barley into a pudding dish with the sugar and milk, sprinkle a little nutmeg over it, and bake for three hours in a slow oven. School^Room Puddings Make a nice batter of one egg, one ounce of flour, and a quarter of a pint of milk, beaten up well together and mixed by degrees, egg and flour first, then the milk ; butter some patty pans, pour the batter into them till they are three parts full, bake for a quarter of an hour, fill with jam and serve. Baby^s Birthday Pudding Put half a pint of milk into a saucepan with a small piece of stick cinnamo>p ; let it simmer gently till the flavour of the cinna- mon is drawn out, then boil and strain. Moisten one ounce of ground rice with aT‘he Child's Cookery Book 73 little cold milk, add the strained milk, and stir over the fire till thick ; pour out, and when cool, add one egg slightly beaten; bake in a well-buttered dish in a slow oven. If baked too quickly the pudding will be watery. Hide^and^Seek Pudding Make a rich batter with two tablespoon- fuls of cream mixed with three well-beaten eggs, half an ounce of flour and a table- spoonful of sugar. Melt a little butter in the frying-pan, pour in a teaspoonful of the mixture and fry a nice brown. The mixture must be poured in much thicker than for an ordinary pancake ; turn it over carefully and fry both sides; turn it out on to a plate, and fry the rest of the batter. When cold, cover with jam, and serve.T'he Child''s Cookery Book 74 Little Lady^s Pudding Stew two apples, pared and cored, in a little water, with a pinch of cinnamon. Take them up, drain off the water, and beat them to a pulp with a fork. Let them get cold, then mix in the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one, well beaten (beat yolks and white separately), a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, three drops of vanilla, one ounce of fresh butter, and one and a half gills of milk ; line a pie-dish with paste, pour in the mixture, and bake for twenty minutes. Maid Marion^s Pudding Crush finely two ounces of Osborne biscuits, put them into a bowl with two ounces of powdered sugar, a little nutmeg, and salt. Add gradually half a pint of milk, beat it well that it may be quite free from‘The Child's Cookery Book lumps, put it into a saucepan with one ounce of butter, and stir it over a gentle heat for four minutes ; pour it out into a plate, and, when it is quite cold and stiff, cut it up in pretty shapes, and fry in a little butter a nice brown. Sauce may be eaten with it. Mother^s Own Pudding Put two ounces of stale bread into a basin, and over it pour half a pint of boiling milk. Let the bread soak till quite soft, I then beat it with a fork till no lumps remain ; add, whilst beating, one egg, one i tablespoonful of finely shred suet, or a tablespoonful of butter or dripping, one tablespoonful of currants, one tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and one apple, pared and i cored, and minced fine; pour the mixture j into a buttered dish, and bake for about I three quarters of an hour.T'he Child'^s Cookery Book 76 Ginger Pudding Chop two and a half ounces of suet very finely, and add to it a quarter of a pound of flour. Mix it well together and then stir in a quarter of a pound of moist sugar and a tablespoonful of ground ginger. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly and put them dry into a well-buttered mould, tie a small pudding cloth over it, and drop the mould into boiling water. This must boil for three or four hours, and be kept boiling all the time. Queen^s Pudding Butter a plain mould or large breakfast cup rather thickly, flour it well, and stick raisins over the inside in rows; fill the basin with layers of bread and butter, and between each layer put sugar, chopped raisins, candied peel, and almonds; pourT'he Child's Cookery Book 77 over the whole half a pint of milk and one well-beaten egg; tie a well-floured cloth over the basin, and boil for half an hour. See that the water boils all the time. In boiled puddings this is most important; if the water goes off the boil the pudding becomes sodden. Tapioca and Apple Pudding Wash a dessertspoonful of tapioca and put it to soak in half a pint of cold water for an hour. Put it in a saucepan and let it boil, then simmer it gently until it is smooth and clear, stirring it frequently to avoid lumps. Pare and core two apples, and cut them into thin slices. Put them into a pie-dish and bake till the apples have become rather soft, in a moderate oven. Put one dessertspoonful oi castor sugar into the tapioca, and one of lemon juice, and pour it over the fruit. Bake till the apples are quite done, and serve either coldT^he Child'^s Cookery Book 78 or hot. In summer raspberries or currants may be used, but then the tapioca and fruit should be turned out into a wet mould and left to get cold. Cream is a great improve- ment to this dish. If raspberries, currants, or gooseberries are used, they must be put in the oven with a tablespoonful of sugar till soft. Rock Puddings Beat an egg very well and sift in by degrees two ounces of flour. Add a pinch of salt, a small teaspoonful of ground ginger, a large tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and one tablespoonful of milk. Fill some well-buttered little cups with the mixture, and bake in a hot oven. Turn them out before serving, and pour over them some sauce made as follows: Soak a dessertspoonful of tapioca in half a pint of water for half an hour. Let it boil, and then simmer gently until it isI'he Child’'s Cookery Book 79 quite clear. Put in three lumps of sugar and a large teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir till the sugar is dissolved and then pour the sauce round the puddings. Tom Thumb^s Batter Pudding Make a batter of one egg, the yolk and white beaten separately, then thrown into a basin together; to this add by degrees an ounce and a half of flour, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of milk. Cut up two large apples, pared and cored, into small pieces, and put them into a well- buttered dish, pour the batter over, and bake for three quarters of an hour; when quite done, put on some tiny knobs of butter and sprinkle white sugar thickly over it. Rich Rice Pudding Boil half a pint of milk, and shower into it by degrees one ounce of Carolina rice,T^he Child'^s Cookery Book which is the best sort for puddings, as Patna is for curries. Cover the saucepan, and let the rice simmer gently till the grains are soft, stirring occasionally that the rice may not stick to the saucepan. When the rice is done, add the yolk of an egg, half an ounce of butter, and an ounce of sifted sugar. Pour it into a pie-dish, and bake it till it is pale brown. Whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, sifting about a tablespoonful of sugar into it while you beat, and spread it over the pudding. Dust it over with sugar, and put it back into the oven till it is a very light brown. Serve hot. When I say a spoonful, I mean as much as a spoon will hold. Princesses Pudding Beat one and a half ounce of butter to a cream, and add the same amount of castor sugar and one egg, beat the mixture well. Then sift in two ounces of flour. Butter a 8oT"he ChiWs Cookery Book pipe mould very carefully, put in the mixture, and bake for about a quarter of an hour. Turn the pudding on to a dish, and put some stewed fruit into the centre; a little whipped cream may be heaped up over the fruit. A pipe mould is one shaped with a hole down the centre into which fruit, &c., can be put: they can be bought of a very small size. Baby^s Pudding Boil half a pint of milk, and drop into it slowly, when boiling, a dessertspoonful of tapioca. When this is cooked add the yolk of an egg, well beaten, and a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar. Pour into a dish, and leave till cold. Whisk the white of the egg with a little more sugar, pile on the tapioca, and serve. A dessertspoonful of jam may be spread over the bottom of the dish, and makes it very nice. 8i FT^he Child'^s Cookery Book 82 Sauce for Boiled Puddings Mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water, add a teaspoonful of sugar and a little juice from a lemon, or three drops of vanilla. Stir in half a pint of boiling water, and boil for four minutes. Tipsy Cake Cut four sponge cakes lengthways and spread them alternately with strawberry and apricot jam. Place them in a glass dish with a layer of macaroons, also covered with jam, and then cover with a layer of ratafias, fill up all the corners with ratafias, and make a compact mass. Over this pour a teacupful of raisin wine, or if wine is not permitted, soak in milk flavoured with vanilla, but remember if you ever have to make tipsy cake with wine that the great secret of a good one is to use raisin wine’The Child'"s Cookery Book 83 and different coloured jams. After soaking the cakes for two or three hours, put over the top a gill of cream beaten very stiff, and, to make it very pretty, sprinkle the cream with hundreds and thousands—you know the tiny coloured sugar plums I mean, don’t you ? all pastrycooks sell them under that name. Lemon Dumplings Grate two ounces of bread crumbs very finely, add two ounces of suet chopped fine, two ounces of moist sugar, the juice and rind of half a lemon, and one well-beaten egg. Beat all well together, put into large doll’s teacups, tie over little cloths, and boil for twenty minutes. These bread crumbs must be made from soft bread, not that which is baked in the oven.The Child'^s Cookery Book 84 Apple Charms Put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin. Beat up the yolk of an egg, and pour into it a small teacupful of milk. Then stir it carefully into the flour, very slowly or the mixture will be lumpy. When you have poured in all the milk, and beaten the batter thoroughly, peel two apples, core them, and cut them into rings. Add the well-beaten white of your egg to the mixture, have ready plenty of boiling fat, dip the apple rings first into castor sugar, then into the batter, and drop them into the fat. Fry them till they are a light brown, turning them over to brown on each side. Put the fritter in to the fat very gently on the end of a fork, and be very careful it does not splash out on your face or hands. Fat is boiling when it is still, and does not frizzle. Put the fritters on a plate covered with kitchen paper to drainI'he Child’’s Cookery Book 85 when they are done, then serve in a hot dish, placed in a ring, with a sifting of sugar over them. Batter is always im- proved by keeping, it is a good thing to make it some hours before using. Fairy Snow Sweeten the juice of half a lemon, put it in a dish, beat up the white of an egg, and mix it with half a pint of cream, add a little sugar and whisk it well; as the froth rises on the top of the cream take it off with a fork and put it on the lemon ; do this till all the cream is whisked. It is better to prepare this dish the day before it is wanted. Almond Custard Half a pint of milk, one ounce of loaf sugar, two bitter almonds, and the yolks of two eggs. Put the milk into a saucepan, pound up the almonds after removing theI'he Child’^s Cookery Book 86 skins, and put it into the milk, with the sugar, when it is hot, but not boiling; stir in the eggs well beaten. Then stir till it thickens, but do not let it boil ; when it thickens pour it into glasses or over fruit. Chocolate Cream One bar of chocolate broken into small pieces, half a pint of milk poured over it to soak till it is dissolved. Put into a cup one tablespoonful of corn flour, mix it well with a little milk, then add the half-pint soaked in chocolate, and a dessertspoonful of sugar, boil for ten minutes, and pour into a wet mould. Rice Cream Mix one tablespoonful of ground rice very smooth with a spoonful of milk, add one egg and half an ounce of sifted sugar, boil a quarter of a pint of milk, pour it over"The Child's Cookery Book 87 the rice and egg, stirring all the time, boil the mixture for three minutes, and put it into a mould which has been filled with cold water and emptied out again without drying. Turn it out on a dish and serve with jam round it. My Birthday Cream Sweeten to taste half a pint of cream, add to it the peel of half a lemon pared thin, and let it boil slowly. Mix half a teaspoonful of ground rice with a little of the cream, add the juice of the half lemon to it, mix it with the boiled cream and let it boil again for a few minutes, divide two Savoy biscuits, lay them on a dish, and pour the cream over them. Queen of Creams Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isin- glass in a little water; strain it and addT"he Child‘ss Cookery Book 88 half a pint of cream, the peel of half a lemon grated, and a little sugar. When it has boiled for one minute, put it into a jug with a lip, and when nearly cold put in the juice of the lemon. Spread thickly in a dish any preserve you like, and pour the mixture in the jug over it very evenly. Leave it all night, and it will be set firmly. To Make Pastry Quarter of a pound of flour to two ounces of dripping, butter, or lard, add a little salt and a pinch of sugar. Rub the dripping into the flour, and when all lumps are gone, sprinkle over the sugar and salt, and mix it with water into a stiff paste; flour the board and the rolling pin, and roll the paste out several times lightly, when it is ready for use. The less water used the crisper the crust will be.T’he Child's Cookery Book 89 Master^s Pudding Take the weight of an egg in flour, sugar, bread crumbs, currants, minced apple, and suet. Mix the ingredients together, and add the egg well beaten, with sufficient milk to make a stiff paste. Put it into a well-buttered mould and let it boil for about two hours. It is not necessary in this case to beat the white and yolk of the egg apart. Almond Arrowroot Shape Mix one tablespoonful of arrowroot with half an ounce of crushed sweet almonds and a dessertspoonful of sifted sugar. Take a small wineglassful of cold milk from half a pint, and stir it into the other ingredients. Boil the rest of the milk, and add to it a piece of butter the size of half a’The Child^s Cookery Book 90 walnut, when the milk is quite boiling pour it on the mixture and stir till it is thick. Put it into a mould and leave till cold. Gooseberry Fool Boil a pint of gooseberries in sufficient water to cover them, when they are soft rub the pulp through a wire sieve till nothing is left but the seeds. Put the pulp back into the saucepan to get quite hot, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of sugar or more if not sweet enough, a dessertspoonful of butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Beat this well together and pour into a glass dish. The whites may be beaten quite stiff and piled on the top, or cream may be eaten with it.l^he Child'’s Cookery Book 91 The Pearl of Milk Puddings Soak an ounce of pearl barley in cold water all night, next day drain the water away, and put the barley into a pudding dish with three ounces of brown sugar and a pint of milk, let this bake in a slow oven for about four hours. This pudding I can thoroughly recom- mend ; if it is nicely baked it should be as thick as cream. Cheesecakes Put two ounces of ground rice in a basin and add to it two ounces of sifted sugar, then stir in two ounces of butter after it has been melted, and an egg thoroughly well beaten, add to this a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Line some patty-pans with pastry, fill them with the mixture, and bake them till they are a nice brown. A quarter of an hour should be long enough.CREAMS AND JELLIES95 Too Good This is a mixture which is best when made abroad, but a good imitation can be made at home in the way I will now de- scribe to you. , Afterwards, I will tell you about the one you can only dream of till you go to the West Indies. Get three bananas, cut them into rounds, and put them at the bottom of a glass dish; over this, spread three tablespoon- fuls of strawberry jam. Cover them with a gill of cream, and serve. Do not whip the cream. West Indian Too Good Get a cocoa-nut, out off the black rind, and grate it carefully. Tie up the grated cocoanut in a piece of muslin, put this intoT'he Child'^s Cookery Book 96 - a basin, and pour over it about a coffee- cupful of boiling water. Leave it for two or three hours, then cut up five or six fresh bananas, and hull a tin measure of moun- tain strawberries. Mix these together. Then squeeze the muslin bag over a basin, and the most lovely rich cream will pour out of it as you squeeze. When the bag is quite dry, pour the cream over the fruit, and you will say it is the most delicious dish possible. I have tried to make cocoanut-cream in England, but it is quite impossible; the cocoanuts have become too dry. Orange Jelly Peel the rind off four oranges and a lemon very thinly, so that no white comes off. A very sharp pocket-knife does it better than anything else, but the very greatest care must be taken. Never press hard on the knife; by slightly sawing no"The Child‘Ss Cookery Book 97 G pressure is necessary, and no hand need ever be cut in peeling anything if you do not press hard on the knife, as there is no force to make the knife slip. Please make a very careful note of this. Put the rind into a saucepan with one pint of cold water and one ounce of gelatine. Squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemon into a basin with three ounces of sugar. Pour the melted gelatine, &c., over the juice and sugar as soon as the latter is dissolved. Strain into a wet mould, and leave till the next day. Tuttifrutti Peel an orange very carefully, take out the pips, and cut it into small pieces, removing the white centre. Peel an apple, and prepare it in the same way, cut a banana in small rounds, and seven or eight preserved cherries in halves. Mix them all together, cover them with sifted sugar"The Child'^s Cookery Book 98 (which is the same as castor), and add the juice of another orange. If it is allowed, half a glass of raisin wine is a great im- provement. Stir all well together, and serve in a glass dish. Sweet Summer Salad Take a quarter of a pound each of hulled strawberries and raspberries, stringed cur- rants, and stoned cherries. Mix them all in a glass dish, and cover them with castor sugar. Beat up a gill of cream with a little sugar, and pour it over the fruit. In giving you this recipe I must tell you a very funny, and at the same time excellent, prescription for getting rid of chilblains. When you have hulled the strawberries (which means pulling out the stalk, and with it the little pink centre which always adheres), rub this same pink centre all over the place where you get chilblains in the winter, and, if you do itT'he Childs's Cookery Book 99 often, the winter after you won’t be troubled with chilblains at all. Stewed Fruit Make a quarter of a pound of sugar into a syrup with half a pint of water. When it is boiling, drop in any fruit you wish to stew, and boil it gently till the fruit is soft. Apples and rhubarb will take longer than raspberries, strawberries, currants, or other summer fruits.CAKES, BISCUITS AND BREAD103 Baby^s Cake Four ounces of corn-flour, three ounces of white sugar sifted, two ounces of butter, one egg, and one eggspoonful of baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour, mix in all the other ingredients, lastly stir in the egg and, if necessaiy, a tiny drop of milk, beat well together and bake on a tin in a slow oven. Sunny Dale Cakes Put half a pound of flour into a basin, and rub into it with your hands three quarters of an ounce of butter. Beat an egg and add it to the mixture. Make one teacupful of milk just warm, and pour it over a quarter of an ounce of German yeast. Mix it thoroughly, andThe Child'^s Cookery Book 104 when it is free from lumps, pour it into the flour, &c., and mix all well together. Knead the dough thoroughly. This is done by doubling up your fists and punch- ing it hard till it is a nice ball on your pastry board. Then grease three cake tins, divide your dough into three pieces, knead each piece, and put it into a cake tin. Put it before the fire to rise for an hour, and then bake for about twenty minutes in a good oven, not too hot. Turn out on a sieve to get cool. HazeKNut Cakes One ounce of hazel nuts, after they are cracked, and a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds minced very finely, one and a half ounces of sifted sugar, the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth, mix the ingredients well together, and add sufficient flour to make it stiff, roll out the paste, cut into rounds with the top of the flour dredger,T'he ChiWs Cookery Book 105 and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. Use as little flour as possible, or the biscuits will be too hard. Picnic Cake One egg, its weight in flour, butter, ground rice, and sugar, one teaspoonful ot baking powder, and a very little milk. Mix all well together, and spread on trays made of buttered paper turned up at the sides, bake for ten minutes in a quick oven. Spread with jam, and put one layer of cake on the other, sprinkle with castor sugar, and cut in small squares. Cousin Lily's Cake Three ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of flour, a tablespoonful of water, the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Prepare the tin by making it warm and buttering the inside well, then sift sugar over it andT^he Child'^s Cookery Book shake out all that does not stick. Whisk the eg-gs well, and then boil the sugar and water together, and add it boiling to the eggs, beating all the time ; beat this mixture for half an hour, then gradually stir in the flour, which should be warmed, then pour quickly into the tin, which should not be quite filled. Bake for half an hour. MurieFs Christmas Cake Beat a c|uarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add a quarter of a pound each of sugar and flour, half an ounce of candied peel chopped fine, and two very well-beaten eggs ; bake in a buttered tin in a quick oven. Every-day Cake Two ounces of beef dripping, six ounces of flour, two ounces of sugar, one teaspoon- ful of caraway seeds, a quarter of a pint of io6T'he Child'^s Cookery Book 107 milk, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Rub the dripping into the flour, add the sugar and caraway seeds and mix it altogether with the milk in which the soda has been dissolved. Bake for half an hour. HaIf"HoIiday Cake One ounce of ground rice, one ounce of flour, two ounces of sifted sugar, one ounce and a half of butter, one egg, and an egg- spoonful of caraway seeds. Rub the butter and flour together and mix in the sugar, rice, and caraway seeds, then add the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth, beat it up well and add the yolk. Stir all together. Line a tin with buttered paper, and bake. Susan^s Tea Cake Rub one ounce of butter into half a pound of flour, add one egg and one tea-T'he Child'^s Cookery Book spoonful of sugar, lastly one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix altogether with a little cold milk, make into small cakes, and bake in a quick oven. Cocoanut Cake A quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of butter, one eggcupful of milk, a quarter of a pound of flour, the grated peel ot half a lemon, one egg, two ounces of grated cocoanut, and enough carbonate of soda to cover a threepenny bit. Mix the sugar with the butter beaten to a cream, the grated lemon, milk, and the egg beaten separately. Stir all well together, and add the soda, then add the flour by degrees, and lastly the cocoanut, which can be grated from a fresh cocoanut or bought in packets ready for cooking. Line a tin with buttered paper, and bake for twenty minutes. io8T^he ChiWs Cookery Book 109 Chocolate Cake Beat four ounces of butter to a cream ; add to this three well-beaten yolks of eggs ; scrape finely a quarter of a pound of choco- late, and heat it in the oven till it is soft; beat it into the eggs and butter; add one and a half ounce of flour, four ounces of castor or sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded almonds, and half a teaspoonful of sal volatile ; beat up the three whites of the eggs till they are in a stiff froth, and add. Bake in a slow oven. N.B.—This recipe is given for older girls ; well made, it is most delicious, and I believe is not generally known. It was given to me by the inventor; the great secret of its turning out a success is to beat it up well and thoroughly."The Child'^s Cookery Book Luncheon Cake Rub two ounces of dripping into half a pound of flour, add two ounces each of currants (well washed), raisins, and sugar, and one ounce of candied peel, half a tea- spoonful of ginger, and a teaspoonful of Borwick’s baking powder; mix altogether with a quarter of a pint of milk and one well-beaten egg. Let it be baked at once. Queen MaVs own Cakes Put a quarter of a pound of desiccated cocoanut into a basin with three ounces of castor sugar. Break one egg into this, and mix it all up well with your hand. Shape the mixture into little balls, the size of that useful walnut, and bake them in a moderate oven till they are a light brown. I lO'The Child'^s Cookery Book 111 Bluette Beat up one ounce of butter till it is quite creamy, then add an ounce of castor sugar, and beat it in well. Then add a well- beaten egg. By degrees sift in a dessert- spoonful of corn-flour, and the same quantity of ordinary flour. If the mixture is very thick, add a teaspoonful of milk, into which you may drop ten drops of vanilla. Grease a tin, and at the last moment stir into the mixture a teaspoonful of baking powder and a pinch of salt. Put it into the tin and bake in a hot oven till brown. It will take about ten minutes. White Wonders Whisk the whites of three eggs, in which there is not a speck of yellow, to a stiff froth, and stir into it three ounces of castor sugar and two ounces of desiccated cocoa-T^he Child'^s Cookery Book nut. Grease some paper and put it in a tin. Put the mixture in rough heaps on the paper, sift a little more sugar over them, and bake in a very slow oven, till they feel quite hard when you touch them. The oven ought not to be hot enough to turn them brown. Little Queen^s Favourites Blanch and pound one ounce of almonds with a little sugar, mix them with three ounces of sifted or castor sugar; beat the white of one egg to a stiff froth and add it to the almonds and sugar; then add one ounce of ground rice; beat the mixture all well together, and when very light drop it from a spoon in small round cakes on to the tin, and bake in a slow oven. I 12T'he Child''s Cookery Book Birthday Biscuits Mix six ounces of sifted sugar with half a pound of flour, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, a tablespoonful of orange- flower water, and, if necessary, a little water; mix into a stiff paste, roll it out thin, and cut into shapes; sprinkle sugar over, and bake in a quick oven. Baby^s Biscuits Mix four ounces of flour and four ounces of sifted sugar together, rub into this one and a half ounces of butter, and add half a teaspoonful of baking powder and a well- beaten egg; roll out the paste, cut it into different shapes, and bake them in a quick oven. I13 H’The Child'^s Cookery Book 114 Billyhs Biscuits One ounce of rice flour, one ounce of sugar, and one egg. Put in a basin together and beat till it becomes a perfectly smooth batter. Butter a piece of writing paper and turn the edges up all round to form a tray. Pour the mixture in and bake it in a very quick oven. Take it out and cut it into small squares. Cocoanut Gingerbread A quarter of a pound of treacle, two and a half ounces of flour, two ounces of ground rice, a quarter of an ounce of ground ginger, two ounces of butter, two ounces of moist sugar, one ounce and a half of cocoanut grated, the peel of half a lemon, a quarter of an ounce of candied orange peel. Put the treacle into a saucepan with the butter, and when hot, pour it into theT'he ChiWs Cookery Book 115 flour, and all the other ingredients which have been previously mixed together, only omitting the cocoanut. Beat the mixture well together, and set it to become cold, then stir in the cocoanut, beat it for a few minutes, and then drop a teaspoonful at a time on a buttered sheet, and bake in a slow oven. These cakes may be made with almond instead of cocoanut. The Chiefs Favourite Rolls Put half a pound of flour into a basin with a saltspoonful of salt and a tea- spoonful of castor sugar. Dissolve one ounce of butter in a teacupful of tepid milk, mix half an ounce of yeast with a little drop of cold milk, and add it to the tepid milk, &c. Work it into the flour till it is a stiff paste ; add more flour if it is necessary. Let it rise covered with a cloth for about three-quarters of an hour in a warm place, then put on a pastry-board,T~he Child'^s Cookery Book cut into small pieces, make up into balls the size of a small orange, and bake for about twenty minutes. Rusks Four ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of lard, half a tea- spoonful of baking powder, half a tea- spoonful of sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, and one egg. Mix with the flour the baking powder, sugar, and salt; rub in the butter and lard, beat up the egg with a very little milk, pour into the flour, and mix as dry as possible. Roll it out, and cut into shapes with the top of the flour-dredger, and bake at once. When half done, split open with a fork, and put back into the oven, till slightly brown and crisp."The Child'^s Cookery Book 117 Loaf of Bread Dissolve half an ounce of German yeast in a very little water, then add half a pint of warm water; put a pound of flour into a basin, add a teaspoonful of salt and one of sugar, mix in the dissolved yeast till it is in a firm dough, and put it in a warm place to rise. Leave it for half an hour or so, and when it has risen to about double its original size, knead it well, adding a little more flour if the dough sticks to your hands. Have ready a well-greased bread- tin, and half fill it with the dough, or make the dough up into small cottage loaves, and bake it for about an hour. After putting the bread into the oven, do not open the door lor at least twenty minutes | and when you have looked at the loaf, if it is rising and browning nicely, shut the door very gently, and don’t look again for some time. When it is done it will be a nice brown.T^he Chtld'^s Cookery Book If you are not sure whether it is done, run a perfectly clean knife into the bread, and if the knife comes out clean the bread is done; if it is dulled and sticky it must remain in a little longer. Sandy^s Favourite Buns Beat one and a half ounce of butter to a cream, add two ounces of castor sugar, then one and a half ounce of flour, and a quarter of a pound of oatmeal. Moisten with a teacupful of milk, beat it well, and leave it for about an hour, that the oatmeal may swell. Grease some patty-pans, and when the mixture has stood long enough, add a doll’s teaspoonful of baking powder and an egg beaten up. Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. ii8"The Chilcf s Cookery Book 119 Marianas Buns Beat one ounce of butter to a cream, and add one ounce of castor sugar. Then break in an egg, and leave it while you mix together one ounce of ground rice and a doll’s spoonful of baking powder. Sprinkle half an ounce of flour over the egg, and mix it, then add the rice and baking powder. Put a teaspoonful of the mixture on a well-greased tin, and bake at once in a hot oven. Anything that has baking powder in it must be cooked imme- diately, or the good of the baking powder goes off, and the cakes are heavy. Short Bread Put two ounces of flour into a basin with a pinch of salt and one and a half ounce of castor sugar. Add two ounces of butter, and knead it well in. Flour"The Child'^s Cookery Book your board, and roll it out very carefully. Cut it into small shapes, and bake it on a greased tin till it becomes a nice light brown. This is rather troublesome to make, because it breaks so easily, and won’t stick together without a great deal of kneading, but patience and perseverance will turn out very excellent short bread.SWEETMEATSISweetmeats 123 And now we come to the sweets. They are an excellent employment for a wet day, and amply repay the trouble of making. We will begin with toffee, which has, I suppose, been made by generations of children for hundreds of years. This is the absolutely simple recipe of my child- hood, but there are many varieties, all of which I must give you. Melt over a clear fire three ounces of fresh butter, and when it is melted, pour into it one pound of Demerara sugar, and keep stirring unceas- ingly till it is done. This can be found out by dropping a little of the mixture into a glass of cold water and tasting it. When the toffee hardens at once it is done, and may be poured into buttered soup plates to cool."The Chtld’^s Cookery Book Almond Toffee Melt five ounces of fresh butter, stir in a pound of brown sugar, and let the mixture boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring well. Prepare two ounces of sweet almonds, and when the toffee is done stir them in, and pour the mixture on to buttered plates. Treacle Toffee Melt four ounces of butter, add one pound of brown sugar and two tablespoon- fuls of treacle. Boil the mixture till it hardens when thrown into water, add a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, or thirty- drops of essence of lemon, and pour it into buttered soup plates.Tthe Child’^s Cookery Book 125 Everton Toffee Put one pound of brown sugar and one teacupful of cold water into a saucepan which has been well rubbed with good fresh butter. Boil over a slow fire till the sugar is perfectly melted, then stir into it half a pound of butter and boil all together for half an hour. To find out if it is cooked, drop some on a plate, and if it dries hard, it is ready. My Favourite Toffee Put half a pound of butter into a sauce- pan with one pound of treacle and one pound of brown sugar. Boil it fast over a clear fire, stirring well all the time. Bake four ounces of blanched almonds in a hot oven till brown, and when the mixture is done, stir in the almonds. Bring it to a boil, and pour it into a clean and well-T^he Child^s Cookery Book 126 buttered Yorkshire pudding tin. When half cold, mark it into small squares by pressing on it with a silver knife, and leave till cold. Armenian Dates Stone some Tafilat dates, blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, and cut thin strips of candied lemon and orange peel. Stuff each date with a piece of peel and an almond, and close them carefully that the almond and peel may be quite hidden. Almond Rock Take half a pound of sweet almonds and a pound of loaf sugar and pound them to- gether in a mortar, then pass the mixture through a wire sieve. Put the whites of four eggs into a pan, and whisk them to a stiff froth. Add gradually the almonds and sugar and three quarters of a pound of almonds cutT^he Child'^s Cookery Book 127 into slices. Make small heaps of the mix- ture on buttered paper, and bake in a cool oven till they are a pale brown. Peppermint BuIIseyes Rub a saucepan well with butter, and pour into it one and a half pound of treacle. Let it boil gently until it hardens when thrown into cold water. Stir in one tea- spoonful of essence of peppermint, pour it upon a buttered dish, and when cool form into balls or sticks. Strawberry Drops Rub some fresh strawberries through a fine hair sieve, weigh the pulp and the juice, and when you have two ounces add eight ounces of crushed sugar, not castor. Stir these well together over a fire till the mixture is liquid and beginning to bubble, then take it off, stir it continually for six^he Child'^s Cookery Book 128 minutes, and then let it fall in drops slowly upon a piece of buttered paper. When cold, take them off the paper, and let them dry on fresh paper in a cool oven. Brazil-Nut Candy Dissolve a pound of sugar with a tea- cupful of water over the fire, and boil till it forms into threads on the spoon and snaps when you take the spoon out of the sugar. Then stir in a pound of Brazil nuts, chopped, and pour the mixture into a well-buttered tin, and when nearly cold mark with a knife into squares. Stuffed Walnuts Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth with one teaspoonful of vanilla and one teaspoonful of water, then add gradually one pound of icing sugar, until the mixture forms a stiff paste. Work it very smooth"The Child'^s Cookery Book 129 I with a spoon, and then form it into balls and place each ball between two halves of walnuts. The walnuts may be bought ready cracked and dried at any grocer’s. Baby^s Kisses To one pound of loaf sugar add a tea- cupful of water, stir it over a slow fire till it is melted. Add a teaspoonful of essence of lemon and stir well. When the mixture bubbles take it off the fire and stir It for a few minutes, then let drops of it fall on an oiled dish. Let the drops cool and then remove them to a warm place to dry thoroughly. The point of a knife will remove these best from the plate. Rose Leaf Comfits Collect half an ounce of red, sweet' smelling rose leaves, dry them carefully, and pound them in a mortar to a fine dustThe Child^s Cookery Book 130 Mix the dust__with one pound of castor sugar, and make it into a stiff paste with the juice of one or two lemons. Stir over the fire till boiling, then add four drops of cochineal, and drop the mixture on an oiled dish. Let the drops dry in a warm place till next day. Almonds Perdu Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds (the best), cover them with the same mix- ture as that which is used for stuffed walnuts. Dip them in white of egg, and roll them in coarse white sugar. Dainty Dates Stone some dates, and insert small rolls of the fondant mixture used in stuffed walnuts in the place of the stones, dipping the rolls first into corn-flour."The Child'*s Cookery Book 131 Peanut Candy Bake some peanuts till the kernels are crisp, shell them, and break them into small pieces with a rolling-pin. Boil one pound of Demerara sugar with six ounces of butter for about ten minutes, stirring all the time. Then throw in the peanuts. Stir well, and pour into a buttered tin. A delicious sweet may also be made by using chopped walnuts or hazel nuts. Cocoanut Candy Take one pound of loaf sugar, and put it with a wineglassful of cocoanut-milk and a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a white enamelled saucepan over the fire. When it boils, which it should be allowed to do slowly, add the cocoanut coarsely grated. Boil the mixture for ten minutes, stirring well all the time with aT'he Child'^s Cookery Book 132 long-handled wooden spoon, as it will probably spurt up and scald you. When cooked, put the saucepan into a basin of cold water, and beat the mixture till it is nearly cold. Pour on the buttered plates, and leave to get cold. To Make a Desert Island Take a lump of paste, and form it into a rock three inches broad at the top; colour it, and set it in the middle of a deep china dish, and set a cast figure on it, with a crown on its head, and a knot of rock candy at the feet; then make a roll of paste an inch thick, and stick it on the inner edge of the dish, two parts round, and cut eight pieces of eringo roots about three inches long, and fix them upright to the roll of paste on the edge; make gravel walks of shot comfits, from the middle to the end of the dish, and set small figures in them; roll out some paste, and cut itThe Child'^s Cookery Book 133 open like Chinese rails : bake it and fix it on either side of one of the gravel walks with gum, have ready a web of spun sugar, and set it on the pillars of eringo root, and cut part of the web off to form an entrance where the Chinese rails are. This recipe is more than a hundred years old, and will not, I think, be one that the children will care to follow, but it is amusing to see the sort of sweets which our great-grandmothers enjoyed.i / <INVALID COOKERY137 Old Fashioned Gruel Into three pints of equal parts of milk and water sprinkle a quarter of a pint of Embden groats very slowly, and when it is smooth, boil it gently for two hours or more till it is thick. Stir the groats constantly, and don’t put the saucepan over a hot fire. Strain off the groats, and then return the gruel to the saucepan, and add enough milk to make it as thick as cream. When quite hot, pour into a cup, and serve with thin toast very daintily cut into thin strips on a plate. Send up a bowl of castor sugar, but do not sweeten it yourself; invalids often have to eat gruel which is almost uneatable, because the cook has sweetened it to her liking, instead of the patient’s.T^he Chtld'^s Cookery Book 138 Gruel of Patent Groats Mix in a basin a teaspoonful of patent groats very smoothly with two tablespoon- fuls of milk. Pour it into a pint of boiling water, then put it into a perfectly clean enamelled saucepan and boil for ten minutes. When it is ready, serve with toast and sugar as in former recipe. If the gruel is preferred thicker, use more groats, or if a pint is more than is required use half the quantity of milk, but when once made carefully it will be just as nice heated up for a second cup. Lemonade Take four lemons and thoroughly rub all the yellow off on to lumps of sugar. Use one and a half pound in making the lemonade. Put the sugar into a jug, cutThe Child's Cookery Book 139 the lemons in half and squeeze out all the juice, strain away the pips, and add it to the sugar. And now comes the secret of nice lemonade. Add one and a half pint of cold water, and let it stand all day, stirring from time to time. Don’t put any hot water at all; if you prefer it less sweet, put only one pound of sugar. And now comes the recipe for barley- water which in cases of illness is of the greatest possible importance. This recipe, as it stands, was given to me by a very clever and exceedingly kind doctor, and I have always used it since. I give it to you exactly as he gave it to me, so I hope you will appreciate it. How TO MAKE Barley-Water, BY One who Knows. Take of Pearl barley. . . . Four tablespoonfuls. Wash this in cold water and reject theThe Child'^s Cookery Book 140 washings. Boil the washed barley with one and a half pint of boiled water for twenty minutes in a covered vessel. Strain. Product— Beautiful Barley-Water I must add to this that if permitted lemon juice is a great improvement, and in cases of coughs, &c., sweetened with glycerine it is very soothing. Beef Tea Cut into small pieces a quarter of a pound of gravy beef without any fat. Put it into a clean two pound jam pot, and just cover the meat with water. Place a saucer or small plate over the top to act as a lid, and put into a slow oven for three or four hours. Look at it occasionally to see that it is only simmering; if it boils, it will waste. Should the oven be too hot, stand the potT"he Child's Cookery Book in a soup plate full of cold water and renew from time to time. Do not put any salt, it can be added if required. It is a good plan to put the pot into the oven at night and it will be cooked by the morning. Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson dr* Co London <5r> EdinburghNotes*T Mr/-'' ■ -t . * t* . •< ' ^4 ■JK:-- V' > 7> V - • "V • * >.'-»^vw2V " r* ,* M. C 4 : •#-. i|x -. 'ii '} '♦n‘. V. ;i •>,. ‘: ' • fevv ‘‘^•V>/: / ■<^- 1 J- fr. ;3VAf .V: .V K* /