PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Our Food and Drinks By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free, Is. 2d. Dr. Wilson 19 recognised as the standard authority on what may be termed Domestic Chemistry, and the subject with which he deals in this little volume is one the importance of which cannot be over- estimated. The subjects dealt with in this book are:— The rudiments of health—About our food—Diet rules and diet adjuncts—Our drinks—About water—Impurities in foods —How our food is digested—Digestion in the stomach—Digestion in the intestine— How food is absorbed. & jt Infectious Diseases And how to Prevent Them. By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free Is. 2d., This little work is intended as a guide to the householder (and especially to mothers) in the all important matter of the prevention of infectious diseases. The subjects dealt with in this book are :— CHAP. I.—WHAT INFECTIOUS DIS- EASES ARE. II.—WHAT INFECTION MEANS. m III.—WHAT FEVERS ARE. IV.—DISINFECTION AND DIS- INFECTANTS. Household Hints Edited by " ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This volume deals with every kind of advice and recipe for keeping a house in perfect condition. The aim in all the recipes is to make them exceedingly simple and practical, and of use to the veriest amateur. Sc ? the numerous recipes are :— Advantage of air beds—To make alum water—A t,af e antidote—To destroy ants— To keep bacon—Cold bandages — Damp beds—To clean brass—To make blacking —Blankets—Blinds—To preserve boot9— Hints about unbleached calico—To lay carpets — Hints on carving — To make cement—To clean leather chairs—Cure for chilblains — To destroy cockroaches—To make cold cream — Cooking terms — To make court plaster—To kill crickets— To colour lace curtains—To clean curtains —Hints on washing dishes—To preserve egg9 — To clean engravings — To curl ostrich feathers—To polish steel—To clean filters—To smoke fish—To remove ink- stains—To clean fur—To keep cut flowers —Hints on food—To clean gilt frames— To wash leather gloves—To clean gloves— To remove grease — To make gum—To make hair wash, hair lotion, etc.—Remedy for chapped hands, etc., etc., with many household remedies. Plain Needlework Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. The object of this book is to show, by examples and simple directions, the best way of executing all the most necessary details of what is usually termed plain work. It is a fact that many a one is heavily handicapped in her work because she does not know the ordinary methods of hemming, sewing on braid, etc., all very simple when learnt, but without which she can make no progress, and the time to be spent in class learning, cutting out or fitting, etc., has often to be devoted to teaching her to sew. To those, too, who wish to instruct their children or pupils to sew, this book may prove of use.