Over Seventy Years9 Established Reputation. FOOD FOR INFANTS, GROWING CHILDREN, INVALIDS, AND THE AGED. “This is an excellent Food, admirably adapted to the wants of Infants and young persons, and being rich in phosphates and potash is of the greatest utility in supplying the bone-forming and other indis- pensable elements of food. Although peculiarly adapted to the wants of the young, this Food may be used with advantage by persons of all ages.”—Sir Chas. A. Cameron, M.D. “ Carefully prepared and highly nutritious.”—The Lancet. “NeaYe’s Food is a typical one in every respect, containing, as it does, flesh and bone-forming constituents in the protein and salts and combustible material in the carbo-hydrates to give heat and energy to the body. The latter, moreover, is in a very assimilable form, thus being well fitted for the delicate stomachs of children, invalids, the aged, and those otherwise debilitated.”—Extract from Health, April 30,1898. A MOST NUTRITIOUS FOOD FOR NURSING MOTHERS. Indigestion And How to Cure It By LYDIA LENEY, M.D., Clinical Assistant to the New Hospital for Women. Author of “ The Mother’s Guide to the Management of Children in Sickness and Health.” Cloth, Price Is. Indigestion is such a common disorder that a book dealing very simply with its prevention, alle- viation and cure, should be very useful. An attempt has been made to simplify the subject by a careful arrangement of the chapters ; and the sufferer at any age or having any complaint com- plicated with indigestion has only to look through the contents and read the chapter which applies to his own particular case. Vegetarian Cookery With Menus Edited by “ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Cloth, Price Is. The object of this book has been to make a collection of recipes for those who adhere to vegetarian- ism which shall be both nourish- ing and attractive to the palate. Indeed, the majority of them will form a welcome addition to any table, especially so where there are young children. The sections deal with Soups—Sauces—Salads —Entrees hot and cold, and many savoury dishes suitable for any meal or menu. At all Booksellers, Or post free for Is. 2d. each from the Book Publisher, C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17/18, Henrietta Street, W.C,