PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Handwriting as an Index to Character By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. By comparing your writing with speci- mens given in the book you will be able at a glance to read your own character. Some of the subjects given in this valuable handbook are :— Famous Autographs and their Signification Character shown by flourishes. Activity and Jealousy in handwriting. All about the Graphological System. Handwriting affected by illness. The writing as an index to temperaments. Effect of education on handwriting. Handwriting and nationality. Professions indicated by handwriting. Qualities shown by handwriting. Representative examples of handwriting. Artists 6 examples. Clerical 6 examples. Law 6 examples. Literature 6 examples. Medical profession... 4 examples. Music 6 examples. Philanthropists 4 examples. Poets 6 examples. Political 9 examples. Science 6 examples. The Services 6 examples. & HahHc And How t0 IlCdUb Read Them A Popular Guide to Phrenology. By STACKPOOL E. O’DELL, The Eminent Phrenologist. With 20 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Contents of this Useful Handbook are :— The Head—The aspiring head—The benefit of brains—Correct measures—The domestic head—Faults and failures—For a business man—Friendship indicated on the head—How to discern temperaments —How to be happy—The imaginative head—Intellectual heads—Mechanical and business heads—Men women ought and ought not to marry—The moral head—Of a woman in the Civil Service—Of an eccentric—Of millionaires—Of reliable men—Of unworthy mothers—The per- ceptive head—Photos tell a tale—The professional head—The reflective head— A born cook—A servant who will do her best—How to choose servants—Head showing activity, matrimonial tempera- ment, refined mind, vitality, etc.—Speci- mens of girls’ heads.—To choose a career for girls—A word to ladies about types, etc. UnM/ln And How to IlanUS Read Them By E. RENE. Crown 8vo. Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the contents of this book are :— The different types and what they indi- cate—Short and long fingered people— Fingers as the indicators of talents, etc. —Evidence of will-power in the thumb— How to judge of temper by the nails— Indications of health on the nails—The mounts and their characteristics—Hands devoid of lines and covered with lines— Principal lines and their meanings—Signs of marriage—Influence lines—Children— Ambition—Intemperance—How to mea- sure time and calculate age—Rules for reading the hands—Straight and crooked fingers—A nervous child—On training youth and choosing a profession—Hands of a lawyer, clergyman, artist, musician, actor, diplomatist, soldier, sailor, author, and other occupations—Hands of the working classes—Signs of good and bad health—Cause of unhappy marriages— How palmistry can help—How to choose domestic servants—The hand of a cook, housemaid, and nurse—On fortune-telling —Predictions in regard to love and marriage—The line of fame or fortune— Good and bad points to be found on a man’s hand—Why date of death or pro- bable insanity should not be foretold, etc. How Shall I Word It? A Complete Letter Writer for Men and Women on all Subjects. By ONE OF THE ARISTOCRACY. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price la., post free Is. 2d. Among the numerous letters contained in the book are the following :— Letters and Replies to application for a situation as butler, clerk, companion, cook, governess, groom, housekeeper, lady’s maid, secretary, shop assistant, typist—Asking for characters of a cook, housemaid, nurse—“At Home” invitations —Breaking off engagement — Bride's thanks for wedding present—Dance and dinner invitations—From a workman to his sweetheart—From gentleman or lady announcing his or her engagement— Gentleman reproaching his fiancee with being a flirt—Invitation to be bridesmaid —Lover to his fiancte offering her her freedom—Mistress to servant—Notice to quit — Letter of condolence — Proposal from widower to widow—Proposal of marriage—Servant to mistress—Thanking fiancte for present—To a doctor—To a tradesman—To an editor—To publishers— When sending tickets to a lady—The best taste in notepaper—Rule of punctuation—■ Underlining words—Forms of address— Ways of ending letters, etc., etc.