333 DISPLACEMENTS IN FEACTUEE, XXO^OOo forward its sternal end (the first rib preventing its moving backward), while tlie sternal fragment remains in the normal position.' The Sccqmla.—Fracture of the acromion. The Deltoid draws the detached fragment downward and forward. The coracoid process. The detached portion is drawn downward by the Coraco-Brachialis and the short head of the Biceps nuiscie, and downward and inward by the Pectoralis Minor. As a result of the severance from the scapula the fragment moves with the humerus in manipulation of the parts. The Humerus.—The greater tuberosity. The frag- ment is pulled backward by the Supra-Spinatus, In- fra-Spinatus, and Teres Major muscles. The lower fragment is drawn inward by the Subscapularis, and forward by the Pectoralis Major. The surgical neck. The displacement is confined for the most part to the lower fragment. The sternal portions of the Pectoralis Major, the Latissimus Dorsi, and Teres Major muscles draw the arm toward the chest. The shaft of the humerus is drawn obliquely out- ward by the Deltoid, so that the upper fragment tilts toward the axilla; this is possible from the fact that no fibres of this muscle are inserted above the deltoid ridge. Once in this obliqiie position, the lower frag- ment is pulled upward, and maintained in this position by the muscles passing from the scapula to the hume- rus or bones of the forearm, viz., the long head of the Triceps, the Biceps, and the Coraco-Brachialis. The upper fragment moves but little. It may be slightly . tilted and elevated. The same kind of displacement, differing in degree only, will be recognized in any fracture of the shaft above the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The displacement is least marked in a moderately oblique fracture, the compact muscidar masses about it being well in the embrace of the fascia of the arm, which acts as a bandage, keeping the fragments in position. When the fracture exists at the lower third of the shaft, the lower fragment ordinarily slips upward behind the upper and toward the inner side, the Triceps being the chief factor in the displacement, the Biceps and Brachialis Anticus assisting. Fracture of internal epicondyle. The fragment is drawn slightly downward and outward {i. e., toward the forearm) by the flexor mass. The Badius.—The neck. The forearm being ex- tended, the Biceps muscle would rotate the lower 1 R. W. Smith, Dublin Jouni. Med. ?ti., 1., 1870, 8. fragment outward and upward. The u])per fibres of the Supinator Brevis have been charged (probably on theoretical grounds) with rotating the upper frag- ment outward. In fact, the fracture is so deeply seated that the displacement (if any) is difficult to make out. The lesion is an exceedingly rare one. When the bone is fractured a short distance below the insertion of the Pronator Eadii Teres, the upper fragment is pulled upward by the Biceps muscle at the same time it is rotated inward by the Pronator Teres. The lower fragment is draAvn ulna-ward by the Pronator Qaadratus, a movement which is aided by the tilting upward of the distal end by the Supi- nator Longus. When the bone is fractured at the lower extrematy, either at or immediately above the wrist, a charac- teristic deformity results. The most conspicuous appearance seen is an adduction of the hand, and an undue prominence of the styloid process of the ulna. These signs have a single cause, viz., the extensors and the flexors of the carpus, and the extensors of the thumb (which normally have but slight power in adducting the hand) exerting inordinate action upon the radial border of the hand. The adduction is ex- aggerated when the internal lateral ligament and the triangular cartilage are ruptured. In addition to the above, a broad prominence is seen on the dorsum of the forearm a short distnnce above the wrist, due to the over-riding of the lower fragment upon the upper. In the instances where the fracture has followed a fall \ipon the hand (in- cluding the greater number met with in practice) the lower end of the the upper fragment is violently driven forward into the substance of the Pronator Quadratus. The Ulna.—The ulna when fractured at or near the centre usually exhibits a slight deformity de- pendent npon the lower fragment being drawn to- wards the radins by the Pronator Quadratus, the upper fragment remaining at rest. When the coracoid process is fractured, the severed tip is drawn upward by the Brachialis Anticus, and flexion of the elbow joint is impaired. Should the fracture have occurred at the base of the process, the ulna is dislocated backward by the traction of the Triceps muscle. When the olecranon is fractured, the fragment is drawn upward by the Triceps, and is hence above the line of the epi-arthritic processes. Extension of the elbow is partially destroyed, while flexion makes the depression between the olecranon and the shaft pro- nounced.