THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 260 i>00^00<^ The Levator Palati receives mucli attention in the improved operation of staphjlorraphy. Fergusson. having noticed the influence of this muscle in widening the cleft in the soft palate, essays its division before uniting the freshened edges. This procedure is now an established antecedent to the operaticni. The actions of the Levator Palati and Tensor Palati muscles have been tlie subject of controversy. Valsalva, as long ago as 1742, described both the above muscles fis di- lators of the tube. Toynbee,' in 1853, revived Valsalva's account; and later RiiJinger and otlier German writers have accepted this as tlie true action. Respecting tlie Tensor Palati, Henle'' is inclined to adopt the view that the muscle closes the orifice; while, as seen in another part of the same volume (p. 117), he doubts the ability of the muscle to close the tube. His views U[)on the function of the Levator Palati agree with those expressed in the text. The author has long taught that the contraction of the Levator Palati narrows the pharyngeal orifice of the tube. Tliis action can be readily seen in the living subject by the aid of reflected light. Cleland' studied the action of the same muscles in a man who had lost the soft palate by ulceration. He doubts the efficacy of tlie Tensor Palati in dilating the tube, while he assigns to the Levator Palati its j)roper function, in assisting to narrow the orifice. That the Eustachian tube {q. v.) is always patulous in health, and that, while certain muscles tend to narrow its lumen, none can obliterate it, seem to be fair deductions from its nature. THE AZYGOS UVUL^. The Azygos UvuIeb muscle is a slender slip arising from the posterior palatal spine and inserted into the free extremity of the uvula. Use.—To contract the uvula. The Salpingo-Pharyngeus is a small muscular slip passing from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube to the pharynx. Use.—^To assist the action of the Palato-Pharyn- geus. 1 Trans. Phil. Soc. Lond., 1853. 2 Anatomie, ii. 755. 3 Joui-n. of Anat. aud Phys., ill. 1869, 97. The Platysma Myoides. The Platysma Myoides muscle is a thin quadran- gular sheet arising from the subcutaneous connective tissue and from the fascia over the Pectoral, Deltoid, and Trapezius muscles. It passes upward and for- ward over the clavicle and the acromion to the lateral region of the neck to be inserted into the horizontal portion of the lower jaw in advance of the Masseter muscle. Some of the fibres pass further upward to be lost upon the face. Use.—To elevate the skin over the chest, and tben, being fixed, to depress tbe lower jaw. It doubtless also aids in making tense the superficial cervical fascia. Eejiaeks.—The two muscles tend to decussate at a point below the symphysis of the jaw.—The facial fibres, when inserted at the angle of the mouth, con- stitute the Eisorius muscle.—Welcker^ describes the muscle as arising from the lower jaw, and as being inserted directly into the skin over the front of the sternum and the lower part of the neck. He ascribes to it a function of elevating the skin over these jjarts. Variations The acceptance of the Platysma as a rudi- ment of the Panniculus Carnosus, or the great subcutaneous muscle of quadi'upeds, yields a clue to the variations of the muscle in the liuman subject. To rare instances of defect in development may be added frequent errors of excess by which slips from the muscle pass to one or more of the muscles of expression, the thyroid cartilage, the mastoid process, or the costal cartilages. Detached fascicles can be sometimes traced to the axilla. Relations Above the muscle is the integument. Beneath, at the supra-hyoid region, lies the facial artery. A little farther down lie the external jugular vein, its tributaries, and the ascending superficial branches of the cervical plexus. Above the clavicle lie the termination of the external jugular vein, and the descending superficial branches of the cervical plexus. Separated by the layer of the cervical fascia are the superficial cervical lymphatics and the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoideus muscle. ■ Zeitschi'. fiir Anat. und Entwickeluiigsgescli., i. 1876, 198, fig. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLV. Fig. 1. The deep muscles of the neck, and tlie muscles of the pharynx in part. Fig. 2. The muscles of the pharynx, seen from behind. 3. The muscles of the neck, attached to the vertebrae.