323 THE FASCIiE OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. c>oo^O<x^ one over the tuberosity of the ischium; a patellar bursa; three in the popliteal space, an internal, ex- ternal, and median (in connection with which Coulson narrates an instance of a female, aged thirty-two, in whom a bursal tumor containing an ounce and a half of fluid formed in the middle of the popliteal space) ; one over eacli malleolus, that over the external being the larger; and one over the distal end of the first metatarsal bone. The Anatomy of the Parts Involved in Ingui NAL AND IN FeMORAL HeRNIA. (a) INGUINAL hernia. Since much of the interest of the study of fascia pertains to hernia, the varieties of this lesion will be here discussed, and the structural features in connection therewith be given in the order of their importance. By inyumal hernia is meant a protrusion of some of the contents of the abdominal cavity along the path already selected in the male by the testis in its descent from the abdomen, or in the position of the round ligament in the female. Ordinarily a loop of the small intestine constitutes the hernia. The ciecum and a portion of the omentum may also be engaged. Other contents of a hernial protrusion are so rare that they need not here be mentioned. The anatomy of in- guinal hernia will be described as occurring in the male. In the descent of the testicle a part of the peri- toneum is carried therewitli to the bottom of the scrotum. In normal development the lower part of this extension of the peritoneum forms the tunica vatjinalis, while the connection between it and the peritoneal cavity disappears. If it should not disap- pear, but remain open, opportunity is aftbrded for loops of intestine to descend as far as the testis. This constitutes conrjenital inguinal hernia. If the sac of sucb a hernia is improperly formed, and the peritoneal canal simply narrowed but not obliterated, the hernia occurring therein is called infanlile. It is evident, however, that this condition is simply a variety of congenital hernia. Hernia occurring under circumstances other than those mentioned above is called acquired. The coverings of hernia will be described from within outward. An examination of the inner surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen above the groin in .a subject whose arteries have been injected will show two shal- low depressions of the peritoneum immediately above Poupart's ligament. Between them extends a verti- cal or nearly vertical elevation Avhich corresponds to the position of the deep epigastric artery. These depressions are intimately concerned in the mecha- nism of inguinal hernia. If the loop of intestine car- ries the outer (lateral) depression or pouch in front of it, it forms what is known as indirect inyuinal hernia; if it carries the inner (median) depression in front of it, it forms direct inyuinal hernia. Indirect Inguinal Hernia.—A protrusion of intestine through the outer poucb pushes before it first the peritoneum lining the pouch. Beneath, the perito- neum lies the sub-peritoneal connective tissue or transversalis fascia. The loop thus covered pushes its way through the internal abdominal ring into the inguinal canal, and, inasmuch as this ring is occupied by connective tissue known as the infundihnliform fascia^ the bernia acquires a third layer. If the pro- trusion goes no farther, the lesion constitutes incom- plete inguinal hernia, and possesses as additional cov- erings—the tendon of the external oblique abdominal muscle, the superficial fascia, and the integument. Ordinarily, however, it descends the entire length of the inguinal canal in company Avith the spermatic cord, which lies to its inner (median) side, and escapes at the external abdominal ring, where it constitutes complete inguinal hernia, and loses the external abdo- minal muscle as a covering. An old neglected com- plete inguinal hernia is apt to gravitate into the scrotum, where it will add the scrotal tissues to its Fig. 78. ViF.w OF THE Parts CoNCERNrD \s iNritTiN-Ai, IIernia.—A External oblique tendon, thrown down. B. Internal oblique, the lower jiart raised, c. Cre- master muscle in its natural position D. Transversalis muscle with a free border. F. Spermatic cord. n. Fascia transversalis. h. Conjoined tendon. a. Epiyastric vessels, h. Branch of the circumflex iliac artery.