OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 295 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA 'XX'^ The fourth muscle arises by its first head from the median border of the fourth metacarpal bone, and by the second from the lateral border of the fifth metacarpal bone. Its tendon is inserted on the median border of the ring finger. The fasciculi of each muscle arise from either side of the ridge marking the second and t!ie third metacarpal bone, as well as from the lateral side of tiie fifth metacarpal bone and the median side of the corresponding bone of the thumb. THE PALMAR INTEROSSEI. The Palmar Interossei muscles are three in number and are situated on the palmar aspect of the metacar- pus. Each muscle is short and prismatic, and pur- sues a course parallel with the axis of the hand to terminate in a small tendon "which is inserted on the base of the first phalanx, and on the dorsal aponeu- rosis of the finger from whose metacarpal bone the muscle arises. The first muscle arises from the median side of the second metacarpal bone. The second and third muscles arise from the lateral side of ^the fourth and the fifth metacarpal bone respectively. The third finger is thus free from palmar attachments. Use.—To adduct the fingers, and, with theLumbri- cales, to assist in extending the second and third phalanges of the fingers. The dorsal Interossei ab- duct the second, third, and fourth fingers. The Pal- mar Interossei adduct the second, fourth, and fifth fingers. These muscles, when powerfully excited by an electrical current, flex the first phalanx of each finger on the corresponding metacarpal bone, and, by means of the slips passing to the dorsal aponeuroses (Fig. 77, and fig. 2, Plate XLIX.), extend the second and third phalanges. The fourth finger is flexed at the first phalanx chiefly by the fourth Dorsal Inter- osseous muscle. Fig. 77. The Fockth Finrer of the Left Hand, with its Dorsat. Interosseocs or Adpuctor.—a. Doi-sal interosseojs or adductor, b, h. Phalaugeal tendon of the dorsal interosseous, c. Tendon of the common extensor of the fingers. d. Aponeurotic expansion uniting the phalangeal tendon of the interosseous to the tendon of the common extensor of the fingers. The muscles are thus seen to assist the lumbrical muscles in some of their movements, and the digital flexors and extensors in others. Duchenne^ has paid special attention to these mus- cles, both in their physiological and clinical relations. According to this authority, individuals who have lost the use of the Interossei and the Lumbricales, can neither extend the second and third phalanges nor flex the first, while those who have lost the use of both the flexors and extensors (properly so named), can yet flex the first phalanges and extend the second and third. These muscles do not entirely fill the spaces in wliich they are found, thus permitting a portion of each Dorsal Inter- osseous muscle to appear at their sides. The first dorsal, according to Henle, receives a slip of origin from a tendinous arch which runs over the deep • Physiologie des Mouvements. branch of the radial artery from the anterior surface of the trapezium to the dorsal surfaces of the bases of the first two metacarpal bones. Neither the palmar nor the dorsal Interossei appear to be endowed with a high degree of sensibility. Portal refers to instances of religious fanatics and mountebanks piercing the interosseous spaces without appearing to suffer much from the self-inflicted wounds. JSTerve.—The Interossei, both Palmar and Dorsal, as well as the Flexors and Abductors of the thumb, receive their nerve supply from the ulnar nerve, and are paralyzed after its section. Each Interosseous muscle is a reinnant of the Metacarpo-phalangeal Flexor of quadrupeds. This muscle as it exists in the cat, consists of a single metacarpal belly and two heads, each being in- serted into the border of the base of the first