THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 299 ■ <x:>ogooo V. THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Hip. The muscles of the hip include— The Gluteus Maximus. The Gluteus Medius. The Gluteus Minimus. The Pyriformis. The Obturator Internus. The Obturator Externus. The Quadratus Femoris. TPIE GLUTErS MAXIMUS. The Gluteus Alaximus is the coarsest muscle in the body. It is a broad fasciculated mass giving promi- nence to the buttock. It arises from the posterior fifth of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the lumbo-sacral aponeurosis, from the lateral border of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the sacro-iliac ligament along its entire extent. The fibres pass downward and outward, forming a quadrilateral mass thicker at the centre than at the borders. The muscle is inserted into the femur at a part answering to the expanded outer lip of the produced linea aspera, as well as into the fascia lata, from a point near the base of the great trochanter to one near the middle of the thigh. The muscle is flesliy througliout tlie greater part of its course. The thick aponeurosis arising from the anterior portion of the crest of the ihum is continuous with the Gluteus Maximus at its upper and anterior border and may be said to constitute part of it as well as part of the Gluteus Medius, with which muscle it, is described. The fibres arise by two concentric lines, the superficial and tlie deep; the superjictal form an arched line extending from the lumbo-sacral fascia to the sacral cornu ; the deep, from the outer border of the sacrum and the great sacro- sciatic ligament The insertion of the muscle may be minutely described as follows: The upper fibres are par- allel with a thick fibrous lamina which passes over the great trochanter. They are inserted on a duplication of the fascia lata, as well as on the femur. The inferior fibres have a large but short tendon, wliicli is continuous above with the preceding lamina, and with the aponeurosis of the external ])ortion of the Quadriceps Extensor. They are attached to the outer lip of tlie linea aspera and to the parts above this line The majority of the fibres are inserted into the fascia lata; the lower part only is tendinous, and is inserted info the femur at the height of the lesser trochuntcr at the line of the upper outer limb of the linea aspera. Between the tendon and the lower part of the great tro- clianter and extending thence a short distance along the Vastus Externus, a large bursa is seen. A second bursa, lying between the muscle at the great trochanter and the skin, may suppurate and simulate hip-joint disease.' Relations Above to the inner and outer side lie the skin and a thin translucent fascia. Below lie the Glutens Medius, Pyriformis, and Quadratus Femoris muscles, the tendon of the Obturator Internus, the Gemelli, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the great trochanter, the tuberosity of the ischium, and the pelvic origin of the hamstring muscles. Also beneath the muscle, and lying in the space between the great trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium, are tlie inferior gluteal vessel.s The muscle forms in part the outer border of tlie ischio-rectal fossa. The lower border is the inferior boundary of the nates. It is tense when the muscle is contracted. Hence the value of this line in detecting painful con- ditions of the hip-joint, especially coxalgia in its first stage. The patient will not place any weight upon the aflected thigh, the fascia lata and Gluteus Maxi- mus are relaxed, and the " fold of the buttock" sags downward. Tlie fibres of the Gluteus Maximus are divided in operations upon the gluteal artery. Lizar's line is drawn from the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium downward between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter. Use.—The Gluteus Maximus forcibly extends the thigh upon the pelvis. When the anterior fibres of the muscle act alone the femur is rotated inward. It is probable that when the posterior fibres act alone the bone is rotated outward. According to Duchenne, it is not so efficient in pre- serving the erect position or in the act of walking as has been generally supposed. The muscle aids in certain motions of the limbs, such as are made in ascending stairs, in leaping, in dancing, and in rising from a sitting posture. When the muscle is atrophied, the extending force of the limb is impaired, notably when weights are borne upon tlie shoulders. Nerve.-—The muscle is supplied by the superior and inferior gluteal nerves. Variations.—A tendency exists for Longitudinal cleavage to take place between the coccygeal and sacral fascicles. Tiie former are then homologous with the Agitator Caudse of many quadrupeds. Slips may arise from the lumbar apo- neurosis, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the ischial tube- rosity. ' T. G. Teale, Lancet, Oct. 1870, p. 506.