318 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. Use.—To flex the great toe. The tendon supports the ankle-joint posteriorly. It suffers contracture in atrophy of the Peroneus Longus. Nerve."—-It is supplied by a branch of the posterior tibial nerve. The tendon of insertion can be traced within the muscle throughout its entire length as a broad coarse aponeurosis. At the region of the ankle-joint it lies in a distinct sheath. Relations.—In the leg the muscle lies beneath the nar- rowing portion of tlie Soleus and the tendo Achillis. It lies upon the fibula and the Tibialis Posticus muscle. To the median side is the Flexor Communis Digitorum, and to the lateral the septum between it and the Peronei. In the interval between the inner malleolus and the calca- neum, the tendons of the Tibialis Posticus, of the Flexor Communis Digitorum, and of the Flexor Longus Pollicis lie in close relation. Tlie tendon of tlie Tibialis Posticus lies di- rectly behind the inner malleolus ; tliat of" tlie Flexor Longus Pollicis (more deeply marked) near the astragalus, which it grooves at tlie posterior border; and tliat of tlie Flexor Communis Digitorum lies superficially between these two. Tiie Flexor Longus Pollicis crosses tlie tendon of the Flexor Communis Digitorum at an acute angle to the median side of and beneatli the Flexor Accessorius and Flexor Brevis Digi- torum, and at its insertion lies between the sesamoid bones at the first metatarso-phalangeal joint. In talipes varus the tendon does not run through tlic groove on the back part of tlie astragalus, and thence under the sustentaculum tali, but goes direct to the sole of tlie foot. Variations The muscle, at its origin, is subject to few variations. It may be regaixled as a derivative from the Flexor Longus Digitorum; from wliicli, indeed, it is rarely entirely separated. As mentioned above, it is associated in its insertion with the same muscle, by sending a slip to the second toe in common with it. At times this slip is ex- tended to one or more of the remaining toes. An attempt at longitudinal cleavage is rarely noted, the tendon being inserted, undivided, into tlie calcaneum. The tendon may send a fibrous slip to tiie Flexor Accessorius. THE TIBIALIS POSTICUS. The Tibialis Posticus muscle arises from that por- tion of the posterior surface of the fibula, from tlie tibio-fibular articulation to the middle of that bone, extending from the tibia at the margin of the inter- osseous membrane, from the entire posterior surface of the membrane itself, and from the septa between it and the other muscles of its group. The muscle forms a broad stout tendon at about the lower fifth of the leg, which lies at first in a groove on the tibia above the inner malleolus, then winds round the malleolus, and is inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. Use.—To extend the foot and to slightly adduct it. It is the chief factor in drawing the scaphoid bone inward and upward in talipes varus, and is assisted by the Tibialis Anticus and the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. The tendon supports the internal lateral ligament and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. It is active in the act of climbing. Nerves.—^It is supplied by a branch of the poste- rior tibial nerve. The muscle is obscurely bipenniform in appearance, the concealed tendon passing nearly the entire lengtii of the muscle. The tendon sends a stout fibrous slip backward to the calcaneum at the sustentaculum tali. Relations At the proximal portion the muscle is be- neath the lower border of the Popliteus. In the calf it lies beneath the Soleus. Between the tibial and fibular ori- gins the posterior tibial artery and nerve pass down tie leg. Anteriorly tlie muscle lies on the interosseous mem- brane. To the inner side is the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and to the outer the Flexor Longus Pollicis. The tendon, at the ankle, lies nearest to the bone, and comes well up in relief in adduction of the foot. It lies close to and parallel with the inner edge of the tibia, so that this edge is the best guide to it. Therefore in tenotomy the knife is introduced pei-pen<liculariy between the tendon and the bone. Variations It may be in part fused with the Flexor Longus Digitorum. It may send slips of insertion into the bases of all the toes. The occasional slip to the internal cuneiform bone may be blended with the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. A nodule of fibro-cartilage found in the tendon at the internal malleolus sometimes becomes ossified. A tendi- nous slip may be tributary to the tendon of the Peroneus Longus. The muscle may be absent—A nodule of fibro- cartilages (sometimes bony) is often found in the tendon as it winds round the malleolus. Eeimabks.—In talipes varus the tendon of the Tibialis Posticus pursues a nearly straight course downward, and near its insertion is slightly inclined backw^ard, and is thus less closely hdd to the inner malleolus than is the case in the normally constructed foot.—The muscle is pushed backward or is torn in lateral dislocation of the astragalus.^ In a case recorded by Mr. Stanley,^ the bursa undcrlyino; the tendo Achillis became the seat of inflammatory thickening and distension. The skin sloughed, and an ulcer developed which extended down into the sole of the foot and exposed the com- mon sheath of the Tibialis Posticus and the Flexor Longus Digitorum. 1 Paul Bvoca, Mem. Soc. Chir., iii. Paris, 1S53. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, July 13, 18S0.