275 THE MUSCLES AND FASCITE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. -POO^OO-O form with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side an ellii)tical a[)oneurotic space. Tlie fibres from the remaining four spines are short, but again become conspicuous toward the hist three dorsal spines, where, in conjunction with the corresponding slips of the opposite side, a small triangular space is seen, whose base is directed upward. The fibres of insertion of the upper set are musculo-tendinous, and sliort toward the clavicle and acromion, while those received along the spines are distinctly tendinous The fibres of insertion of the lower set end in a small triangular aponeurosis, which is received upon the triangular eminence at the root of the spine of the scapula. A small bursa was found by Luschka and Synnestedt beneath this tendon. The Variations of the Trapezius embrace: (1) Errors of cleavage, by which the occipital, cervical, and dorsal por- tions may be distinct from one another, or by wliich a deeper lamina may pass from some of the transverse cervical pro- cesses to the humerus (Occipito-Humeral muscle), or to the clavicle (Occipito-Clavicular muscle), or by which a deep fascicle may pass from the occiput to the scapula (Occipito- Scapular muscle). These variations are reversions to the forms of tlie muscle seen in quadrupeds. (2) Errors of fusion, by which either the occipital or the clavicular fibres unite with adjacent portions of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. (3) Errors of defect, seen in both origin and in- sertion. Thus the occipital portions may be absent, and fewer vcrtebriB be included in the origin than is normal—In tlie same manner the clavicular portions may be absent. THE LATISSIMUS DOESI. This, the broadest muscle in the body, is of a rectangular shape. It arises from the lower four or six dorsal vertebrie (where it is covered by the lower portion of the Trapezius), from the aponeurosis connected with the spinous processes of the remain- ing dorsal vertebrse, from the spinous processes of the sacrum, and from the posterior portion of the outer lip of the innominate bone. A few muscular fibres of origin arise from the pelvis to the outer side of the aponeurosis, and yet others from the last three or four ribs. The muscle is directed upward and outward, and crosses the angle of the scapula. Its fibres here converge and wind around the Teres Major to form a flat quadrilateral tendon about two inches in length, which is inserted in the posterior lip of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Use.—This varies according to the position of the arm. When the arm is elevated, the muscle aids in depressing and drawing it backward; when the arm hangs at the side, it pulls the arm backward and toward the buttock. Hence the Latin names given it of the Tersor Ani and the Sculptor Am. When the Trapezius and the Rhomboideus are atrophied, the Latissimus Dorsi draws the scapula toward the spine. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the subscapular nerve and the intercostal nerves. The fibres of origin are composed of two sets: one, the thin, small slips covered by the Trapezius muscle ; and the other, more extensive, arising from the lumbar aponeurosis. —The upper fibres of the muscle are Iiorizontal, the lower oblique; those arising from the pelvis and the ribs are ver- tical—As the muscle passes over the inferior angle of the scapula it receives quite constantly a special fasciculus from it. —Beyond the inferior angle the muscle is slightly twisted, so that the inferior border is at first anterior and then superior, while the superior, or horizontal, is afterward inferior The tendon is at first adherent to the tendon of the Teres Major, but becomes free prior to insertion The tendon may be inserted at the bottom of the bicipital groove, or at the base of its inner lip. It extends a little higher than the tendon of the Teres Major, and occasionally sends a fibrous slip as far as the lesser tuberosity. The Variations of the Latissimus Dorsi are of two kinds. (1) Variation in origin: The origin from the dorsal spines may include the fourth dorsal; accessions may come from the eighth dorsal, and from the ninth rib The iliac origin may be absent. (2) Variation in insertion : Slips may pass to the capsule of the shoulder-joint, to the cora- coid process, to tlie fascia of the arm, and to the Pectoralis Major, Teres Major, and Serratus Magnus muscles. Some of tiiese slips may be separated from the main muscle by inscriptions. The last-named variations are suggestive of the arrangement in quadrupeds, in some of which the Latis- simus constantly effects important fusions with the Pectoralis Major, and sends slips down the anterior extremity, often as Axr as the elbow, or in some forms even to the wrist. Relations In front of the tendon, just prior to the inser- tion, lie by direct relation the musculo-spiral nerve and its muscular branch to the Triceps. Still further in front, by indirect relation, lie the axillary vein and artery, the mus- culo-cutaneous, ulnar, and median nerves. The muscle forms the posterior wall of the axilla. THE RHOMBOIDEUS. The Rhomboideus muscle consists of two slips: the Rhomboideus Major and the Rhomboideus Minor. The Rhomboideus Major arises partly by short ten- dinous slips, and partly by a short aponeurosis from the dorsal spines of the four upper dorsal vertebras and the corresponding supra-spinous ligaments. It passes downward and outward without suffering diminution, and is inserted into the inner margin of the vertebral border of the scapula.—The Rhomboi- deus Minor lies proximally to the Rhomboideus Major. It arises from the ligamentum nuchas in the region of the lower cervical vertebra?, and from the first dorsal spine. It is inserted on the triangular space at the beginning of the spine of the scapula.