307 THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. OOO^OOo Use.—The Sartorius muscle flexes the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, la the execu- tion of these movements the femur is rotated slightly outward. la conjunction with the Gracilis, Semi- teudinosus, and Biceps muscles it assists in raising the foot from the ground, and may make tense the deep fascia of the leg. Nerves.—The Sartorius receives branches of the middle cutaneous nerve, which enter on the median border by an imperfectly defined interlarninate space. A few distinct twigs from adjacent cutaneous nerves supply it further down. The muscle, near its insertion, sends a fibrous slip to the capsule of the knee-joint and to the i'ascia of the leg. Two bursse are found in relation witii the tendon: one lies between the muscle and the internal femoral condyle; and the other lies beneath the patte d'oie. Relations These, owing to the proximity of the muscle to the femoral artery, are important—From its origin to a point on a hypothetical transverse line answering to the i'emoro-scrotal fold—a distance of about three inches—the muscle lies to the inner side of the Tensor Vaginae Femoris, which protects and in a measure conceals it. It is crossed (sometimes pierced) by a branch of the middle cutaneous nerve. To tiie inner side (the thigh being extended) is the eminence of the head of the femur. Beneath lie the tendons of the Iliacus Internus and the Psoas. The muscle here lies well to the outer side of the sheath of the great vessels From tlie transverse line, at the point of chief nerve supply, to tlie inner side of the thigh, tlie muscle crosses the thigh obliquely. It liere, at first, rests on the Rectus Femoris, and afterward on the Vastus Internus. Separated by a thick layer of deep lascia, it lies over the deep branches of the anterior crural nerve. It lies at first over and then to the inner side of the sheaths of the great vessels.—The remaining portion of the muscle in the thigh is nearly vertical, and lies in a deep sulcus defined by the Vastus Internus on the outer side, and by the Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus muscles on the inner. Tlie sheath of the great vessels is beneath the muscle above, and to the outer side below. Opi)Osite the knee-joint and at its insertion it is in advance of and above the Gracilis and the Semitendinosus.—Beneath the muscle, near its insertion, is tlie long saphenous nerve. When the head of the lemur is drawn down, these muscles are relaxed, and the finger can be pushed in the hollow be- tween them. Variations It rarely presents a transverse inscription. Its belly may divide—one portion going to tiie posterior ligament of the knee-joint, or both portions going to the tibia ; or a portion may be lost over the fascia of the Vastus Internus, or be inserted upon the femur. THE TENSOR VAGINA FEMORIS. This muscle arises from the anterior superior spi- nous process, and from the notch lying beneath, as well as from the anterior portion of the crest of the ilium. It forms a quadrilateral or triangular figure situated at the upper third of the thigh between the Sartorius and Gluteus Ma.ximus muscles, with the latter of which it is intimately associated. It is inserted into the fascia lata at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the thigh. Use.—The muscle first makes the fascia lata tense, in which act it is aided by the Gluteus Maximus. It exerts no appreciable influence in extension of the thigh, but induces to a limited extent flexion with rotation from without inward. It may thus turn the toes slightly inward when the foot is extended. The degree of this rotation is about equal to that eff"e<jted by the Psoas. The thigh being fixed, the muscle can slightly aid in flexing the pelvis. Nerve.—This is derived from the inferior branch of the superior gluteal. The Variations of the Tensor Vagina? Femoris are un- important. According to Barwell, the muscle can rotate the flexed leg outward.—Maissiat and II. Meyer consider the portion of the fascia lata lying between the Tensor and the tibia to be equivalent to a prolonged tendon of the former ; the muscle has thus received the name of the Ileo-Tibiale. In emaciated individuals the tibial attachment of the fascia answering to this so-called tendon is sufficiently prominent to produce for a short distance above the tibia a ridge-like elevation of the skin. THE QUADRICEPS EXTf:NSOR. This muscle, as the name implies, is composed of four more or less distinct portions, namely, the Rectus Femoris, the Vastus Externus, the Vastus Internus, and the Crurmis. The Rectus is of pelvic origin,' the remaining three are femoral. The numerous fibres of the muscle all converge to act upon the patella, which may be considered to be a sesamoid bone within a tendon ; this tendon, under the name of the ligamentum patelke, is inserted into the tibia at the anterior tuberosity. The common tendon is received upon the front of the oblique proximal border of the patella. The Rectus Femoris arises tendinously from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and by a distinct horizontal slip from the superior part of the