247 GENEEAL CONSIDERATIONS. C-OO^OOO ■ points of attachment to muscles, and often determines the lines of their traction. It aids in forming inter- muscular bands as in the Digastric muscle, or inter- muscular sheets as in the Occipito Frontalis. It sends slips of attachment to strengthen the tendons of muscles, as in the Biceps Flexor Cubiti and the Latissimus Dorsi, and also gives definition, as in the thigh and the neck, to canals for bloodvessels and nerves. Slips of fascia are often of importance in ascertain- ing the significance of muscular variations. Thus the internal brachial ligament (q. v.) is a fold of deep fascia which represents a muscular tract in some of the quadrupeds, and which may even become so in man. The transition of folds of deep fascia into ligaments is evident in the neighborhood of joints, the capsules of which are thus strengthened. Examples of such fascia-like extensions are seen passing from the tendons of the muscles about the hip-joint to its capsule. Belonging to the group of the deep fascia is a loose connective tissue layer lying between the parietal peritoneum and the adjacent parts. It is properly a sub-peritoneal connective tissue, and communicates with the thigh at about the insertion of the Psoas Magnus, with the hip-joint through the bursa iliaca, and with the buttock through the ischiatic foramen. Above it constitutes the retro-peritoneal space. A very useful method of studying this fascia in connec- tion with the behavior of a quantity of pus lying within it is to inject the sub-peritoneal space with water, as recommended by Koenig.^ The following terms are used in describing fasciiB: The envelope of a muscle is called its sheath.—The sheath of a tendon is called its theca or vagiiia.—Un- der the name of retinacula are described bundles of fascia pertaining to the ligaments. They aid in deter- mining the lines of traction of important muscles. The posterior portion of the capsule of the knee-joint exhibits two examples of the retinaculum. One of these extends from the head of the fibula to the capsular ligament, and assists the Popliteus muscle in maintaining traction upon the last-named structure. A second example of a retinaculum is seen where the oblique band of the same ligament receives some of the fibres of insertion of the Semimembranosus muscle.— A layer of fascia having a well-defined broad surface of attachment, especially when readily demonstrable, 1 Lelirliuch, der Spec. Cliirurg., Band II. is called an aponeurosis. This term is restricted to a sheet of deep fascia which is set apart for a special use, and which is ordinarily accessory to muscular action.—A layer of fascia placed between two or more muscles, and affording points of attachment for them, is called an intermuscular septum. A synovial chamber yields a glairy fluid called synovia, whose function in the fasciae is to prevent friction, as between a tendon and its sheath. When it is in the form of a rounded sac, lodged between two opposed muscular or tendinous surfaces, the synovial chamber is called a lursa. The membranes forming the sheaths of tendons, according to Brodie, have the same structure as have those of other bursse (the bursee proper of Bichat), and cannot be distinguished from them. Fascial bands assist in strengthening joints, when they are termed ligaments; such as the annular liga- ment of the wrist-joint. In this way they often act as pulleys to adjacent muscles. Fascia, like all forms of fibrous and connective tissue, shrink when not in use. When muscles lose in volume the sheaths shrink, and when they gain the sheaths enlarge to accommodate them. The sheaths, however, cannot follow the muscles beyond a certain point. Hence the feebleness of an emaciated person; this feebleness arises not only from the loss of muscu- lar force, but from the inability to economize muscular force by the aid of the opposed sheaths. Long-continued malposition of a part may gradually induce shortening and shrinkage of fibrous tissue. The plantar fascia thus shortens in club-foot. Some curious examples of shrinkage are met with in the palmar fascia, which in elderly persons will some- times end in marked deformities through forced flexion of the fingei's. The fascia lata shortens in limbs in which the thigh has been for a long time flexed, and it can always be felt, in the emaciated, as a cord-like band extending downward from the crest of the ilium. A laj'er of fascia is frequently a means of influ- encing morbid processes, either fixing them by ana- tomical limitation, or furnishing them the means of extending from one region to another. Fascia in the form of an intermuscular septum may act as a barrier to diffuse suppuration, but in the form of a synovial sheath it may facilitate the spread of inflammation. Butcher^ believes that non-malignant growths differ from malignant in not incorporating adjoining tissues into their structure. Thus a cancer will involve by ' Operative and Conservative Surgery, 255.