321 THE FASCIA OF THE INFEKIOR EXTREMITY. pear in time on the dorsal surface of the metatarsus. The dorsal muscles are thus seen to be of less import- ance than the flexors, and may be absent or imper- fectly differentiated. D. L. Cunningham' divides the interosseous muscles of the foot into the plantars or adductors, the dorsals or abductors, and the intermediate group or the flexors. The Deep FAsciiE of the Lower Extremity. Tlie Deep Fascia of the Thiyh.—The plan of arrange- ment of the fascia of the thigh is best understood by bearing in mind the important relations existing be- tween the trunk and the lower extremity. These are quite different from those existing between the trunk and the upper extremity. In the former the aponeu- rosis of the muscular abdominal wall and the sub-peri- toneal connective tissue are continuous with the fasciae of the limb. In the latter the aponeurotic extension from the chest-wall does not involve any important muscular action, nor is it anywhere of special strength ; and the thoracic region in no way contributes to the formation of the brachial fascia. The fascia) of the thigh are derived from three sources: (1) the back; (2) the anterior wall of the abdomen; and (3) the interior of the abdomen. (1) The Fascia Derived from the Back.—The Glu- teus Maximus muscle is covered by a thick layer of firm adipose tissue, and the muscle itself is inti- mately incorporated with a fibrous sheath. The Gluteus Medius muscle is covered by a well-defined layer of fascia, which is in common with that of the Tensor Vaginte Femoris. The lower portion of the Gluteus Maximus yields an important accession to this system of fascite, and contributes to form the thick and important aponeurosis of the outer side of the thigh, which has received the name of the fascia lata. Posteriorly the fascia lata is attached to the outer lip of the linea aspera, and to the intermuscular septa of the posterior femoral group of muscles. The Vastus Exteruus receives accessions from it in front, and the short head of the Biceps Flexor behind. In- feriorly the fascia forms a rounded cord lying di- rectly beneath the skin above the outer femoral con- dyle. Some writers trace the fascia lata to the head of the fibula; and consider such fibres as can be traced in a straight line to the Tensor Vaginas Femoris as functionally the tendinous fibres of insertion of that muscle. Whether the innovation be adopted Journ. of Auat. and Pliysiologj', xiii. 1879, 1. 41 or not, it is of value to insist upon the functional relation existing between the Tensor Vaginas Femoris and other muscles of the same group which are inserted, in part, at least, upon the fascia lata. The fascia lata may be defined as that part of the femoral aponeurosis which can be influenced by the action of the muscles of the gluteal group. Anteriorly the fascia lata divides at the posterior border of th^ Sartorius muscle, one layer passing in front, the other behind. Upon the inner (median) border of the muscle, the fascia, although often de- nominated the fascia lata, will in this connection be designated as the sartorial fascia. Pus or blood under the fascia lata develops a welb defined group of characters. As a result of spontane- ous rupture of a femoral aneurism, the blood spreads rapidly in the cellular interspaces of the thigh, and causes the integument from the groin to the knee to swell uniformlj' and to present the superfi- cial appearances of a deep abscess. Such a collection has at times been opened by incautious surgeons, with the unexpected result of fluid arterial blood escaping from the puncture instead of pus. Eichet,^ who dissected the thigh of a subject in which the condition described above had been detected during life (the external iliac artery having been secured), found that the blood had not only infiltrated the muscular interspaces and the cellular tissue, but even the muscular substance itself; yet, in spite of the enormous pressure which had been brought to bear to effect such a result, the fascial covering of the thigh remained intact. Mr. John Adams^ records an example of a femoral hernia descending beneath the fascia lata over the Pectineus muscle, behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, but to the inner side of the vein. The muscles inserted on the fascia lata may slightly extend the leg after fracture of the patella.^ (2) The Fascia Derived from the Anterior Wall of the Abdomen.—The sartorial fascia is the same as the iliac portion of the fascia lata of authors. It is derived from the anterior wall of the abdomen, and is continu- ous with the aponeurosis of the External Oblique muscle at the front of the thigh. In passing to the groin, it forms Poupart's ligament, and below this structure it is continuous with the fascia lata at the Sartorius muscle. This layer of fascia might be compared to an apron attached above at the aponeurosis of the External 1 Traite Prat. d'Auat. 1869, 982. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans, xliii 127. 3 W. W. Keen, Annals of Anat. and Surg., Jan. 1881.