* 282 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. COO^JOO^ Both heads of the muscle are almost entirely tendinous as they lie beneath the Pectoralis Major. The tendon of in sertion is robust and rounded on the outer boi'der. Use.—The arm being pronated, the muscle restores the forearm to supination, and then flexes the radius, and consequently the forearm. Contraction of the Biceps interferes with elevation of the humerus above the horizontal line. Nerve.—-This muscle is supplied by the external cutaneous nerve. Relations The tendons of origin are covered by the Pectoralis Major and the Deltoid muscle. Tlie body of the muscle lies beneath the skin, forming upon contraction a conspicuous mass. Behind are the humerus and the Brachialis Anticus. Tiie external cutaneous nerve lies behind the body, and is held closely thereto, so that the finger thrust between the Biceps and tlie Bracliialis Anticus will dis- place the nerve forward witli the former muscle. The twigs from tlie brachial artery enter the posterior surface near the inner border On the inner side, at tlie upper third, the muscle lies in contact with the Coraco-Brachialis; at the lower two-thirds, in contact with the brachial artery and the median nerve Tlie external cutaneous nerve becomes superficial at the outer border of the tendon of insertion. The Brachialis Anticus is visible here, the Supinator Longus lying just outside of it. Variations of the Biceps are numerous, but are capable of the following arrangement: (1) Errors of cleavage, by which the muscle may be split in various degrees, either longitu- dinally, as in the belly, or in planes, as in one or both of the heads. (2) Accessions may be received from botii points of origin; from the neck, tlie bicipital groove, the deltoid ridge, and the external condyloid ridge of the hume- rus ; and from the internal intermuscular septum. These embrace the most frequent variations, and may occur singly, or, in some instances, together. (3) Accessions may be received from the Pectoralis Major, the Coraco- Brachialis, the Brachialis Anticus, the Supinator Longus, and the Pronator Eadii Teres, (4) Slips may be sent to the Flexor Carpi Radialis, to the bursa over the tubercle of the radius, to the capsule of the elbow-joint, and to tlie coro- noid process of the ulna. (5) The long head of tlie muscle, according to H. Welcker,' may arise from the bicipital gi'oove. (6) The entire muscle is inserted into tiie ulna when the radius is absent. (7) The muscle or any of its parts maybe absent. Care should be taken not to confound the effects of disease in and about the long tendon with the variations in that portion of the muscle (see group (5) of variations). Chronic rheumatoid arthritis sometimes causes the long head to be absoi'bed as it passes tlirougli the shoulder-joint, when abnormal attachments are in consequence established at the bicipital groove. In place of such disappearance of the long tendon, it may be found atrophied and split up into ' Zeit. fiir Anat. uiid Eutwickelungsgesch., i. 1876, 173, fig. many fibrils as it passes tiirough the shoulder-joint Both heads have been known to rupture, as the result of prolonged and excessive contraction. THE BRACHIALIS ANTICUS. This muscle arises on either side of the deltoid ridge, and from the anterior surface of the humerus below this point, as well as from the intermuscular septa, notably the external. The muscle passes down- ward and slightly inward over the anterior surface of the elbow-joint, with which it is intimately connected, and is inserted on the anterior surface of the coronoid process of the ulna. Use.—To flex the ulna, and consequently the fore- arm, upon the humerus, and to draw the anterior portion of the capsule of the elbow joint forward during flexion. Nerve.—The median portion is supplied by the external cutaneous nerve, the lateral portion by the musculo spiral nerve. Eemarks.—The muscle is fleshy at its origin at the inner aspect of the humerus, and tendinous at the outer side, where, for a short distance, it contributes to the formation of the external intermuscular septum, from which some muscular fibres arise. At and below the elbow it is fibrous. The fibres along the inner border of the muscle in part arise from the inner intermuscular septum. Relations In front, the Biceps, the brachial artery and veins, and the median nerve. Behind, the humerus; on the inner side, the internal cutaneous nerve. To the outer side, above, the external head of the Triceps; between the two muscles are the musculo-spiral nerve, and the superior pi-o- funda artery and vein ; below, the Supinator Longus muscle, with the same structures intervening as above. Vai'iations of this muscle consist of four kinds: (1) A disposition to cleavage—either longitudinal or planar. In the latter instance the deeper set of fibres may be inserted into the capsule of the elbow-joint. (2) Accessions may be received from tiie Coraco-Brachialis muscle. (3) Slips may be sent from the muscle to the fascia of the arm or forearm, or to the following muscles: the Supinator Longus, the Pronator Radii Teres, the Biceps, and the Flexoi Sub- limis Digitorum. THE TRICEPS. The Triceps muscle is composed, as the name ex- presses, of three heads. One of these arises from the axillary border of the scapula; and the remaining two from the posterior surface of the humerus. The part answering to the belly or body of other muscles is imperfectly defined. The muscle is inserted into the ulna at the olecranon.