THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 294 OOO^Jooc thumb, and on the capsule of the metacarpo-phalan- geal articulation. Use.—When the thumb is flexed on the carpus the muscle is an extensor; when the thumb is abducted it acts as a flexor and draws the thumb forward and inward; or it may adduct the thumb. It commonly acts in conjunction with the deep head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the ulnar nerve. Relations.—Above it lie the flexor tendons of the index finger, with the first lumbrical muscle, the deep head of the short flexor, and the branches of the median nerve to the thumb. Beliind it lie the deep palmar arch, and the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Variations The carpal origin may be attached to the trapezium, to the os magnum, and to a fibrous arch extending from the trapezium to the base of the first phalanx. The metacarpal origin may include fasciculi from the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. THE ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. This muscle arises from the distal half of the pisi- form bone, and from the termination of the tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. It is inserted on the ulnar border of the first phalanx of the little finger, a slip passing to the dorsal aponeurosis. Use.—To abduct the little finger from the axis of the hand. Nerve.-—It is supplied by the ulnar nerve either from the deep or the superficial palmar branch. Variations—The muscle may have an origin from the ulna. All slips of origin may be absent, save that from the pisiform bone. The muscle may be absent. A muscle described by Gruber, extending from the liamular process of the unciform bone to the pisiform bone, is probably the result of cleavage of the above muscle. It may fuse in part witli the Opponens Minimi Digiti. It may arise bi- penniform from the inferior tfiirJ of the lateral margin of the ulna, and, passing beneath the annular ligament, lie to the lateral side of the Adductor of the same finger, and have an insertion in common with it (Giintiier). THE FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI. This narrow muscular slip arises from the ulnar side of the uncinate process of the unciform bone, and from the annular ligament. Its fibres pass forward to be inserted at the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. To its radial side lies the superficial branch of the ulnar artery. Use.—To flex the little finger. Nerve.—The nerve is derived from the ulnar. Variations.—The muscle may receive an acicession from the Palmaris Longus. It may have no origin from the annular ligament. Minimi Digiti. It may be fused with the Abductor THE OPPONENS MINIMI DIGITI. The Opponens Minimi Digiti muscle arises from the uncinate process of the unciform bone and from the annular ligament. It is inserted along the entire ulnar border of the fifth metacarpal bone. Use.—To draw the fifth metacarpal bone forward and toward the median line of the palm. This move- ment is sometimes spoken of as one of abduction since the little finger is drawn away from the fourth. Nerve.—The nerve is derived from the ulnar. The muscle is slightly tendinous at both origin and insertion. It lies beneath both the preceding muscles. Variations—The muscle may be fused with the Abductor Minimi Digiti. It may undergo entire cleavage. It may be absent. THE DORSAL INTEROSSEI. The Dorsal Interossei muscles are four in number. They are best seen from above, where the dorsal sur- faces occupy the interosseous spaces on a level with the plane of the back of the metacarpus. Each mus- cle is bifid at the proximal end, the main portion arising from the metacarpal bone corresponding to the phalanx on which it acts. The short tendon is in each instance inserted into the border of the base of the first phalanx, and, also, by a fibrous sheet, into the delicate dorsal aponeurosis. Use.;—The Dorsal Interossei are all abductor mus- cles. The first of the series constitutes the fleshy mass that can be felt in the hand between the first and second fingers. The following includes the description of each of the four muscles:— The first muscle is the largest. Its first head—the outer and larger—arises from the upper half of the median border of the first metacarpal bone; the second from the entire length of the lateral surface of the second. The tendon joins the extensor of the index finger on its lateral aspect The radial artery descends to the palm between the two heads of this muscle. A bursa is described by Synnestedt as lying beneath the tendon. The second muscle arises by its first head from the ulnar border of the second metacarpal bone, and by its second from the radial border of the third. Its tendon joins the lateral border of the extensor tendon of the middle finger. The third muscle arises by its first head from the ulnar border of the third metacarpal bone, and by its second from the lateral boi'der of the fourth metacarpal. Its tendon is inserted on the lateral border of the extensor tendon.