THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJ^. 322 Fi"-. 3. The interossei muscles of the foot, s,ien from above. Fig. 1. Tlie third layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. Oblique, and banging downward over tlie groin. It differs from most of the deep fasciae of the body in being intimately connected with the superficial fascia, and in being itself freely divisible. In a word, it is of a relatively loose texture, and readily permits of lamellar division by dissection, perforation by vessels, and the lodgment of fat and lymphatic glands. Inferiorly, it is gradually lost upon the Sartorius and Gracilis muscles, besides giving accessions to the femoral sheath and intermuscular septa, while to the inner (median) side it is continuous with a deeper layer of fascia known as the pectineal fascia.^ (3) The fascia derived from the interior of the aldo- men.—The layer derived from the interior of the ab- domen consists of the subperitoneal connective tissue. The transversalis fascia is derived from the parietal layer of the abdomen, and serves to strengthen the previous layer. It is for the most part inserted at the line of Poupart's ligament, although the anterior surface of the femoral vessels receives an important accession from its inner (median) portion. The last- mentioned membrane is sometimes called the deep crural arch.—The pectineal fascia is the same as the pubic portion of the fascia lata of authors. It is derived from the iliac fossa, and, passing out of the pelvis at the crural arch, forms the posterior wall of the femoral sheath, and is continuous, over the Pec- tineus muscle, with the fibrous sheaths of the muscles at the inner side of the thigh. Here it is lost in the general fibrous sheaths and septa at the lower part of the thigh, becoming continuous with the fascia lata posteriorly, and with the sartorial fascia anteriorly. For details of this and the preceding portion see Surgical Anatomy of Femoral Hernia. Tlie Deep Fascia of the Leg.—The deep fascia of the leg forms a uniform covering for tlie muscles, and, indeed, for the entire leg excepting the subcu- taneous inner (median) surface of the tibia. The posterior portion of this fascia is divided into a superficial and a deep division: the former embraces the Gastrocnemius, the Soleus, and the Plantaris; the latter forms a well-defined transverse membrane which 1 For a special stndy of the fascia lata, see H. Welcker, Archiv fiir Auat. uiid PLysiologie, 187G, fig. stretches across parallel to the plane of the tibia and fibula, and which covers in the posterior part of the Tibialis Posticus, the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and the Flexor Longus Pollicis, with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The fascia of the inner aspect of the leg, in addition to affording sheaths to the several muscles, yields partial origin to the Tibialis Anticus and the Ex- tensor Communis Digitorum. Pronounced septa extend between the peroneal and anterior tibial groups of muscles on the one hand, and between the peroneal and posterior tibial groups on the other. The fascia of the leg is made tense by the muscles of the thigh. The Semimembranosus affects the pos- terior portion over the inner head of the Gastrocne- mius; the Gracilis, the fascia over the belly of the Gastrocnemius; the Semitendinosus and the Sartorius, the fascia over the front of the leg; and the Biceps Flexor Femoris that over the fibula and adjacent parts. The Plantar Fascia.—The plantar fascia is a thick layer of fibrous tissue occupying the sole of the foot between the skin and subcutaneous fat and the first layer of muscles. It is divided into three portions, the inner, middle, and outer. The inner portion lies over the Abductor Pollicis muscle. Posteriorly it forms an arch extending from the inner malleolus to the calcaneum, behind which pass the plantar vessels. The middle or main piortion lies over the short flexor of the toes. At its origin from the under aspect of the calcaneum it is tense and of uniform thick- ness. As it passes forward it becomes weaker, and finally splits up into five slender divisions, one for each of the toes. It also sends fasciculi of support to the metatarso-phalaugeal joints, and strengthens the fibres connecting them. The outer portion is less uniform than the others. In addition to covering in the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Flexor Minimi Digiti, and being in- serted upon the distal end of the fifth metatarsal bone, it sends a stout slip from the calcaneum to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The following is a list of the superficial bursa; of the inferior extremity : one over the trochanter major; EXPLANATION OF PLATE LVIL Fig. 2. The interossei muscles of the foot, seen from below.