309 THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The anterior surface at its lower two-thirds is fibrous. Relations—In front the Rectus Femoris and the Vastus Externus. To the inner side tlie Vastus Internus, and to the outer side the Vastus Externus. Behind it is the shaft of the femur. The Snhcrureus is a name given to a delicate bundle of fibres arising by fleshy slips from the anterior surface of the shaft of the femur a short distance above the patella, and descending thence to be inserted into the synovial pouch of the knee-joint. Use.—When all the parts of the muscle act to- gether, the leg is extended upon the thigh. In addi- tion to the above action the Rectus aids in holding the head of the femur against the acetabulum when the body is erect. Its atrophy causes great difficulty in -walking. To relax the Rectus the hip must be elevated and the knee extended. The Vastus Externus draws the patella upward and outward. Its strength is greater than that of the Vastus Internus, which draws the patella upward and inward. When both act the patella ascends, aided by the Rectus and the Crureus. Dislocation of the patella is ordinarily outward, a fact readily explained by the greater strength oi the Vastus Externus. It may be induced by rapid walking, jumping, dancing, etc., or by powerful contraction under electricity. The Subcrureus makes tense the synovial prolon- gation beneath the tendon. Nerve.—The Quadriceps Extensor is supplied by the anterior crural nerve. As the extensions downward of tlie fascia lata reach tlie region of tlie patella they secure additional strength by union with fleshy fibres of tlie two Vasti muscles. Thus increased strength is secured to the sides and front of tlie knee-joint, and more or less influence, besides tliut directly secured tlirough the line of its main tendon, is exerted upon the leg by the contraction of the Quadriceps.—-A bursa lies beneath the aponeurosis over the patella; and another is seen lying between tlie skin and tiie aponeurosis directly over the first- named bursa.—A tliird bursa lies between the ligamentuni patelliB and the tibia. Remarks.—The Ligamentum Patellas often fur- nishes signs of great value in the study of disease and injury. R. Cleemann found its relaxation and the wrinkling of the integument over it to be charac- teristic of fi-acture of the neck of the femur.—Any deviation of the tendon from the vertical line indi- cates, according to Holden, displacement of the tibia. The ligament is best seen in .semi-extension, the foot being unsupported. When in this position, as when one sits with the limb under observation thrown over the knee of the limb of the opposite side, a smart blow is struck directly over the ligament, the patella, or the muscle directly above this bone, the leg and foot are perceptibly extended. This movement, which has received from Erb the name of " patellar tendon reflex," is absent as a rule in locomotor ataxia.^ The Ligamentum Patella3 can suffer spontaneous rupture, as shown in the following case: A man, aged thirty-one, in attempting to save himself from a violent fall backward, ruptured this tendon. The knee swelled after the accident and became painful, the patella being drawn up an inch.^ The entire muscle may undergo partial atrophy or loss of tone after fracture of the patella.^—The Rectus Femoris may be ruptured* -or undergo atrophy in chronic contracture of the Biceps Flexor in children (Dachenne). The Lxternal Femoral or Adductor Muscles. The muscles of this group embrace— The Gracilis. The Pectineus. The Adductor Lonorus. The Adductor Brevis. The Adductor Magnus. THE GRACILIS. This muscle arises by a thin broad tendon from the pubis close to the suspensory ligament of the penis, and from the entire border of the descending ramus of the pubis. It passes down the inner side of the thigh, and becomes tendinous at about the middle or lower third to form a rounded tendon which passes downward parallel with the Sartorius, below the in- ternal condyle, where it is expanded into a broad aponeurosis to be inserted into the median surface of the shaft of the tibia. A bursa lies between the mus- cle and the internal lateral ligament. Use.—The Gracilis adducts the thigh, flexes the leg upon the thigh, and rotates the thigh from with- out inward. Nerve.—The Gracilis is supplied by the obturator nerve. Relations.—The muscle is subcntaneoiis. To the outer side lie tlie Adductor Brevis, from wliicli it is separated by fascia, and the Adductor Magnus. At the lower tliird of the ' See G. Steward, Med. Times and Gazette, Jan. 1878, aiid W. R. Gowers, Medico-Cliirurgical Tians., 1879, 2G9. * Bryant's Surgery, 901. 3 Jonathan Hutchinson, Med.-Chir. Trans., lii. 340. * Sedillot, Mem. et Trix de la Soo. de Med. de Paris, 1817.