271 THE MUSCLES OF THE TEUNK. tor Ani and Sphincter Ani muscles are to the inferior trunkal plane, and what the Mylo-Hjoid muscle is to the floor of the mouth. It descends in inspiration, and becomes slightly flattened; it ascends in expira- tion, and becomes convex. Moderate stimulation of the fibres of the muscle in a living animal will cause only those fibres receiving the stimulus to contract. Pronounced stimulation will throw the entire muscle into contraction. In tranquil breathing the muscle ascends about one inch. The right half reaches a point as high as the fifth rib, i. e., about two inches below the nipple. It may, under favorable condi- tions, ascend as high as the fourth costal cartilage. Eemarks.—Diaphragmatic hernia: This rare form of hernia is usually seen in the left side, owing pro- bably to the imperfect support here observed as com- pared with the right. It may occur through a scar caused by a gunshot wound or by any old injury. The opening may be in the middle of the left leaflet, and barely admit the tip of the forefinger, or it may allow a loop of the transverse and descending colon to pass together with a large portion of the omentum. A case is recorded by Chas. W. Chancellor,' in which a knuckle of the transverse colon and jejunum had passed through an artificial opening in the middle of the left leaflet. Instances are known in which the pjdoric end of the stomach passed into the thorax through a diaphragmatic rupture. ■ The Diaphragm may be congenitally imperfect. Gilman Davies^ met with an instance in which the left leaflet was defective, excepting at its posterior portion. The intestines, from their origin to the lower portion of the large intestine, were lodged in the thorax. Severe violence, as compression of the lower part of the chest between the cars of a railway train, may cause rupture of both the muscular and the tendinous structure of the Diaphragm. Vincent Jackson^ men- tions such a case; the rent beginning near the middle line in the neighborhood of the vertebral column, and extending thence obliquely upward and outward, but not quite reaching the thoracic wall. The rent ad- mitted tlie stomach, spleen, transverse colon, and part of the small intestine.—The rupture sometimes occurs in the muscular structure only, and extends in the direction of the fibres. In a case described by Ken- dall^ the slit was four inches long. Through this ' Amer. ,Journ. Med. Sci., Oct. IS.'iS, 40.5. >■ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1846, 127. 3 Med. Times and Gazette, March, 1858, 318. * Med. Times aud Gazette, 1865, 253. opening the stomach, transver.se colon, and about two feet of the small intestine had protruded. Palpitation of the heart, when associated with a state of inanition, is, according to Winslow and Por- tal,' due to the weight of the liver, stomach, and in- testines making traction upon the Diaphragm. Owing to its comparatively loose texture, and to its intimate relation both to abdominal and thoracic or- gans, the Diaphragm transmits inflammatory changes. Hepatitis and nephritis may thus secondarily induce pleurisy and pneumonia. An abscess between the liver and the thoracic wall may excite empyema. An abscess above the Diaphragm may rupture the muscle and permit the pus to escape into the abdo- men, while on the other hand hepatic abscess may perforate the Diaphragm, allowing pus to enter the thorax. The vault of the Diaphragm can be forced by abdominal tumors to a higher point than that men- tioned in the text. It has been found under these circumstances as high as the third or even the second dorsal vertebra, or as high as the second rib on the right side, and the fourth rib on the left.^ The descent of the Diaphragm in respiration is greater than the descent of the liver, thus showing on theoretical grounds that the liver may be compressed. The Diaphragm has been known to be perforated by fragments of a fractured rib.^ It is difficult to surmise how^ a wound penetrating the chest walls at the lower ribs during expiration can fail to penetrate also the diaphragmatic fibres.—In advanced post-mortem di- gestion of the stomach the Diaphragm is often in- volved.* Muscles of the Abdomen. The muscles in the region of the abdomen are— The External Oblique. The Internal Oblique. The Transversalis. The Eectus. The Fyramidalis. The Quadratus Lumborum. THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE. The External Oblique muscle, the most external of its group, is a broad sheet of muscular tissue ex- ' Anatomie Medicale, torn. v. 94. 2 Bonnet, Traite complet des Maladies du Foie, 1841, 187. 3 Carle Morgan, Trans. Patli. Soc. London, 1873, 173. « P. H. Bernard, quoted in Richet, Auat. Cliirurg., 564.