THE MUSCLES AND FASCIAE, 280 the humerus in close contact with tlae scapula, while the depressor fibres of the Deltoid muscle in lowering the arm were sufficiently strong to throw the head of the humerus out of the glenoid cavity. Duchenne^ believes that the Supra-Spinatus muscle, aided by the Serratus Magnus and the superior portion of the Trapezius, can elevate the humerus without the assistance of the Deltoid. In this act the hume- rus is carried forward and a little outward. This writer states that, in patients suffering from atrophy of the Supra-Spinatus muscle, the Infra-Spinatus and Trapezius muscles, the Teres Major and the long head of the Triceps can dislocate the head of the humerus with ease. Nerve.—This is derived from the suprascapular. No iai[)ortaiU Variations of tlie muscle arc known. THE INFRA-SPIJfATUS. The Infra-Spinatus muscle arises from the infra- spinous fossa of the scapula, from the under surface of the spine, and by a few fibres from the infra-spinous aponeurosis. The tendon passes over the capsule of the shoulder-joint, from which it is occasionally sepa- rated by a bursa (bursa of Hagen), and is inserted into the middle facet of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Use.-—^To roll the arm outward, and to draw it down after it has been elevated. Nerve.—This is derived from the suprascapular. The muscle derives some support from the fascia passing between its lower border and the Teres Major, and from the long head of the Triceps muscle. Variations The muscle may split into two or three laminje, of wliich the middle, when present, has received the name of the Middle Infra-S[)inatus muscle The Infra- spinatus may fuse with the Teres Minor, and may send ac- cessions to the Deltoid, or receive slips from that muscle. THE TERES MINOR. The Teres Minor is intimately associated with the Infra-Spinatus. It arises from a groove on the dor- 1 Pliysiologie des Mouvemeiits, 1S78. sum of the scapula at its axillary border, and from the inter-muscular septum between it and the Teres Major muscle, as well as from the inferior part of the infra-spinous aponeurosis. The muscle is directed outward to be inserted tendinously into the lowest facet of the greater tuberosity of the humerus, and, by a few fleshy fibres, upon the adjacent portion of the shaft. Use.—To assist in outward rotation of the arm. Nerve.—This is supplied by the circumflex humeri nerve. Variations of the Teres Minor include fibres of origin from the long head of the Triceps muscle and the fusion of the muscle with the Infra-Spinatus. Rarely it is absent. THE TERES MAJOR. The Teres Major muscle arises from the quadri- lateral space on the dorsal surface of the scapula near its inferior angle, and from intermuscular septa be- tween it and the adjacent muscles. It passes upward and forward to be inserted by a thin broad tendon into the posterior lip of the bicipital groove, in close proximity with, if not actually attached to, the tendon of the Latissimus Doi'si. A small bursa is usually interposed between the two tendons. Use.—The Teres Major raises the glenoid angle of the scapula by approximating the inferior angle to the humerus, at the same time drawing the lunne- rus to the chest and rotating it slightly inward. Acting with the Latissimus Dorsi it depresses the elevated humerus. Nerve.—The nerve is derived from the subscapular. Variations prove that the Teres Major has close atfinities with the Latissimus Dorsi, if it may not be considered the result of cleavage of this muscle. It sometimes fuses with the latter. It may send accessions to the fascia of the arm, or receive them from the Rhomboideus. THE SUBSCAPULARIS. The Subscapularis arises from the venter of the scapula throughout its extent, excepting the neck and the margin for the insertion of the Serratus Magnus. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLVL Fig. I. The superficial muscles of the shoulder and the arm, seen from in front. Fig. 2. The deep muscles of the shoulder, the arm, and the side of the chest. The position of the subclavius muscle is indicated, but the muscle itself is not figured. Fig. 3. The deep muscles of tlie shoulder, the arm, and the chest. The pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, and sub- clavius muscles have been severed, the clavicle detached fj-om the sternum, and the scajjula rotated outward.