310 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIyE. • oOG^^CX^ thigh the Sartorius lies to its inner side and in i'ront. To the outer side, Ironi the middle of the tiiigli, lies the Semi- membranosus. The Gracilis is singularly constant. THE PECTINEUS. The Pectineus muscle arises from the entire length of the crest of the pubis, from the pubic spine, and in part from Gimbernat's ligament. A deep fasciculus arises from the upper border of the obturator foramen and from the space between it and the base of the spine of the pubis. The muscle passesdownward and slightly outward, gradually entering a plane deeper than that of its origin, and is inserted by a broad thick tendon into the femur on a line extending from the begin- ning of the linea aspera (spina trochanterica minor) to the lesser trochanter. Tiie muscle is covered at its origin by a well-defined fascia, which is continuous with the fascia lata, and fi oni which some of the muscular fibres arise. The tendon of insertion is smooth and aponeurotic. The muscle is flesiiy above, where it may be readily torn by rough handling; but is firmer and more aponeurotic near the insertion. It is entirely fibrous where it lies in contact with the troclianter minor. The muscle may be divided into two layers, more or less perfect above, the superficial and the deep. The superficial or flat portion (supplied by a branch of the anterior crural nerve) is that described as arising from the pubic bone. Tiie deep or slender portion (supplied by a branch of the obturator nerve) is that seen arising from the upper border of the obturator foramen. A well-defined layer of fascia separates the two portions. This division is maintained in some lower animals. Relations In front lie the femoral vessels and the fascia lata. Beneatli, separated by a well-defined fascia, are the obturator artery and nerve, and tiie I^xternal Obturator and Adductor Brevis muscles. To the outer side is the Psoas Magnus, to the inner is the Adductor Longus. A small muscular artery, an ascending branch of tiie internal circum- flex, often runs upward along the inner border of the muscle. —The tendon is applied directly to the trochanter minor in rotation inward, and is in contact on its inner side witli the tendon of the Adductor Brevis. Use.—To draw the femur inward and forward as in crossing the limbs. It is thus a flexing adductor. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the obturator and anterior crural nerves. Variations The muscle may receive a slip from the Adductor Longus and Iliacus Internus, as well as send a slip to the Obturator Externus and the capsule of the hip- joint It may join the Iliacus Internus in its insertion at the trochanter minor. A slij) may pass in front of the femoral vessels. THE ABDUCTOR LONGUS. This muscle arises tendinously from the pubic bone between the spine and the symphysis. It is a flat fleshy muscle whose edge is turned upward and in- ward, and passes downward and outward, becoming broader as it does so, to be inserted by a flat, thin tendon into the femur at the middle third of the linea aspera. The tendon unites with the Vastus Internus and with the tendon of the Adductor Magnus. It sends a slip to the Adductor Magnus. Tiie tendon of origin is robust, and resembles a ligament. It is produced along the inner border for a short distance, but tiience to about the middle of tlie muscle (where it dis- appears) it is concealed—The tendon of insertion is apo- neurotic. Three layers of tendinous fibres are seen at the insertion; one anterior, one posterior, and one intermediate. Relations In front, and to the outer side, lie the femoral vessels, a portion of the Sartorius muscle, and a thinned extension of the fascia lata. Behind it lie the Adductor Brevis, and below, the Adductor Magnus, with which it is continuous. To the outer side, above, and on a deeper plane is the Pectineus. To the inner side, above, lies the Gracilis The Adductor Longus forms the inner side of Scarpa's tri- angle—After the fascia lata has been cut through along the subcutaneous surface of this muscle the finger can isolate the Adductor Longus from the contents of the triangle, and roughly define the branches of the profunda femoris as they enter the Adductor group of muscles. Use.—To adduct the femur and thus to assist the other muscles of its group. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the obturator nerve. By abducting the thigh the tendon of the muscle is made tense and prominent, and, in this condition, ha! been claimed by Holden to be a useful guide to the spine of the pubis, and this in turn to the position of the external abdo- minal ring. Hancock* mentions three instances of rupture of this muscle occurring as a result of sudden and violent contraction attending the effort of riders to retain tiieir seats on jumping or lunging horses. The tendon of origin is often divided subcutaneously by the surgeon for contracture ac- companying hip-joint disease. Variation It may undergo cleavage throughout, both longitudinal and j)lanal. It may receive an accession from the Pectineus. THE ADDUCTOR BREVIS muscle arises from the base of the pubic spine and from the entire length of the descending ramus at the symphysis. It forms a thick stout belly, which is ' Anat. and Surg, of Human Foot, 1873, 99.