THE MUSCLES O THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 305 The Anterior Muscles of the Thigh. Tlie anterior muscles of the thigh are—• The Psoas Magnus. Tlie Iliacus Internus. The Sartorius. The Tensor Vaginas Feinoris. The Quadriceps Extensor Cruris. the psoas MAGNUS. The Psoas muscle arises from the border and the transverse process of the last dorsal and the first four of the lumbar vertebras, and from the intervertebral tissues. The muscle possesses a soft fleshy belly broader behmd than in front, and forms at the sacro- iliac junction a conspicuous tendon which passes be- neath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the femur at the trochanter minor. The tendon is joined late- rally just before its insertion by the fibres of the Iliacus laternus muscle. Tlie muscle arises from tendinous arclies at the side of the bodies of the vertebra; rather than from the bones them- selves, and may secure additional origin by minute slips from the costo-transverse ligaments The fascicles from the transv'erse processes are more pronounced above than below. A distinct accessory bundle, known as the Psoas Parvus, arises from the transverse processes of the upper lumbar ver- tebra3, and is inserted by a distinct tendon into the tendon of the main muscle. It is often absent. Another slip, named the Psoas Minor, arises from the transverse processes of the last dorsal and the iirst lumbar vertebrae, passes along the inner border of the main muscle, and is lost in the iliac fascia at the border of the true pelvis. Use.—To flex the femur upon the pelvis. The muscle cannot produce this movement without turn- ing the femur from within slightly outward. When acting with the anterior portion of the two smaller Glutei muscles, it swings the limb not merely for- ward, but slightly outward. Nerves.—These are derived from the third lumbar nerve. Variations.—The Psoas and the Iliacus Internus may be distinct throughout. The Psoas may arise from all the lumbar vertebra?. This origin is given as the normal one by Cruveilhier. Remarks.—The deep position of the Psoas muscle in the abdomen and the thigh, as well as the 3nelding character of the tissues about it, determine the form and direction of a clot, or of an abscess occurring in the neighborhood of the muscle or in its substance. Inflammation within the jnuscle is frequently excited 39 by contiguous disease of the lumbar vertebras, or, more rarely, by infiltration of the connective tissue about the kidney. An infrequent cause is rupture of some of the fibres of the muscle by violent over action. It is well known that, after death, the fibres of the Psoas are often lacerated by rough handling of the subject. It is possible, therefore, to conceive of lacera- tion of the muscle by blows even when the muscle is at rest. In a case reported by J. W. Grosvenor,^ a few of the anterior fibres of this muscle were ruptured—a lesion Avhich was followed by suppuration. The pus burrowed behind the muscle, and thence passed up- ward to a point between the stomach and liver, where it opened into the peritoneal cavity. R. G. Butcher^ found, in the case of a girl six years old, who perished by a venous hemorrhage into the sac of an old psoas abscess of the right side, that the clot occupied the iliac fossa, extending itpward within one inch of the origin of the Psoas muscle, and downward along its course beneath Poupai't's ligament, where it seemed to bifurcate; one branch of the coagulum lay beneath the conjoined tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus Internus muscles, and thence expanded so as to fill the entire sac of the abscess in the thigh; the other (being comparatively superficial) was situated to the inner side of the Sartorius muscle between it and the femoral vessels. The clot was defined infe^ riorly by the point w'here the Sartorius crosses the thigh. The position and limitation of the clot in the thigh illustrated the yielding character of the connec- tive tissue in Scarpa's triangle as well as its continuity with the retro-peritoneal space. Examples of pus follov/ing a similar course are not infrequent. The pus may lie in front of the muscle, and thence gravitate toward its insertion. It may form a rounded mass in the iliac fossa, or upon reach- ing the thigh may form a fluctuating mass to the outer side of Poupart's ligament and beneath the fascia lata. Dr. Gordon Buck^ collected a number of illustrative cases of this phase of abscess, in none of which spinal disease existed. The Iliacus muscle was thought to be more intimately related to the abscess than was the Psoas. In females the exciting cause of the collection may be in an inflammation of the pelvic organs and of the connective tissue about them. John Hilton* describes an abscess occurring be- > N. Y. Med. Record, Dec. 2, 1867. 2 Essays and Reports on Oper. and Conserv. Surg., Dublin, I860, 340. 3 N. Y. Jouru of Medicine, 1857, 147. Lancet, Nov. IbGO, 455 ; also Lectures on Rest and Pain.