286 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. ■ o<x>§^OC>o . an inflammatory excitement may extend up into the forearm, a result frequently seen after amputation of any portion of a finger. Variations The muscle may be fiiseil in part with the Palmaris Longus, the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, or the Flexor Longus Pollicis The several slips may be separated by cleavage from one another. The slip to the fifth finger may be separate from the remaining slips Inscriptions may exist on one or more of the slips Defects are rare, and ai)- pear to be confined to the slip to the fifth finger and to the origin of the muscle from the radius. An accessory slip from the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum may rarely join the tendon of the Supinator Longus, or the muscle may itself receive a slip from the Pronator Radii Teres. Li the light of comparative anatomy, the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum is the result of a superficial i)lanal cleavage from tlie Flexor Profundus Digitorum. In the majority of animals it is the smaller of the two muscles, and is often a mere superficial slip from the deep flexor. THE FLEXOR PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM. This muscle is situated beneath the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum to the inner side of the Flexor Longus Pollicis and on the same plane with it. It arises from the depression on the median surface of the ole- cranon, from the upper two-thirds of the shaft of the ulna, and from the interosseous membrane. It divides unequally at the lower third of the forearm into four tendons. The lateral slip designed for the index finger (Flexor Indicis) soon separates from the remain- ing three, which continue in close relation until they have passed beneath the annular ligament to the palm, when they diverge to be inserted into the bases of the last phalanges of the second, third, fourth, and fifth fingers. The tendons perforate those of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. They lie close to the lateral margin of the pisiform bone, and hold to it a relation similar to that held by the Flexor Longus Pollicis to the trapezium. Use.—To flex the fingers. The action is checked by fibrous sheaths associated with the tendons as they pass beneath the annular ligament. It acts synergeti- cally during extension of the fingers. The anterior surface of the lower half of the muscle is occupied by broad tendons, while the upper portion is entirely muscular. A few fibres arise from the aponeurosis of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris; these fibres are more extensive at the upper part of the ulna than elsewhere. Relations—Above it is the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, and crossing the muscle obliquely is the ulnar artery. At its origin near the coronoid process it is in contact with the Brachialis Anticus. The median nerve is in part in con- tact with the deep flexor, but its more important relation is with the superficial. Behind are the radius, the ulna, and the interosseous membrane. To the lateral side are the Flexor Longus Pollicis and the radius. Here also are seen the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. To the median side is the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and lying upon this aspect (commonly described as in front of the muscle) are the ulnar nerve and the lower part of the ulnar artery. Behind is the Pronator Quadratus. Nerve.—The deep Flexor like the Flexor Brevis Pollicis derives its nerves from both the median and the ulnar, the supply for the index slip coming from the former and the supply for the remaining portion from the latter nerve. For the details of this somewhat complicated muscle the reader is referred to the following:— The muscle is susceptible of division into a lateral and a median mass, which are more or less distinct and are sup- plied by diflx^rent nerves. The lateral longitudinal portion occupies the anterior concave surface of the ulna, and yields the slip for tlie index finger. It is supplied by a branch of the median nerve. The median portion is inclined more obliquely forward and downward, and appropriates to itself a slip from the aponeurosis of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. It yields the bellies for the third, fourth, and fifth fingers, and is supplied by a branch of the ulnar nerve. The tendons for this portion keep well togetlier to the wrist, while the EXPLANATION OF Fig. 1. The superficial muscles of the flexor surface of the forearm, seen from in front. The slender muscle to the median side of the flexor carpi radialis is the pal- maris longus. The muscular fibres between the flexor carpi radialis and the supinator longus belong to the flexor sublimis digitorum. The hand is not displayed beyond the metacarpus. PLATE XLVIL 'ig. 2. The deep muscles of the flexor surface of the fore- arm, showing also some of the muscular attachments of the superficial set, and some of the muscles of the hand. The muscles seen between the palmar tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum are the lumbricales. Fig. 3. The superficial muscles of the lateral (radial) border of the forearm, including some of the muscles of the arm and the hand.