291 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY, beneath the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and from the deep fascia. The muscle passes obliquely down- ward and inward, closely following the radius, to be inserted into the oblique line, and into the neck of that bone. Use.---To supinate the radius and directly antago- nize the Pronator Radii Teres. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the posterior interosseous. The muscle is single at its origin, but soon becomes bi- laminate. The superficial lamina forms the greater portion of tlie muscle. It is composed of longer and more oblique fibres, and contains on the surface a few coarse tendinous slips. It is pierced by twigs of the posterior interosseous artery. The deep lamina is situated near the head, is almost entirely muscular, and contains proximally some horizontal fibres. The posterior interosseous nerve lies in the inter- laminate space, and in dissection is lifted up with the super- ficial lamina—A few tendinous slips descend vertically on the muscle from the epicondyle. Relations Anteriorly lie the bellies of the Extensores Carpi Radiales Longior and Brevior, and tlie radial artery. Posteriorly are the elbow-joint and tiie radius. Directly upon its distal border is the tendon of insertion of the Pro- nator Radii Teres. Laterally lies the Extensor Communis Digitorum.—A bursa lies between it and the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. Variations—It may contribute slips to the Biceps and the Pronator Radii Teres. THE EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLICIS. This muscle arises from the elongated depression on the posterior surface of the ulna below the origin of the Supinator Brevis, from the interosseous mem- brane, from the middle third of the posterior surface of the radius, and from a septum between the muscle and the Flexor Longus Pollicis. It is inserted upon the posterior aspect of an aponeurosis which be- comes condensed into a flat tendon, turning obliquely round the radial border of the forearm (over the ten- dons of the Supinator Longus and of the extensors of the carpus), and, passing along the lateral groove at the distal end of the radius in company Avith the tendon of the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, ends on the radial border of the distal end of the first metacarpal bone. Use.—To move the first metacarpal bone outward and forward. Albinus (and, following this authority, Continental writers) named the muscle Abductor Longus Pollicis from tlie fact that the thumb under its contraction is drawn away from the axis of the hand, the muscle in this respect acting in common with the Abductor Pollicis. The two muscles are often more or less fused (see Variations). Nerve.—It is supplied by a branch of the posterior interosseous. The groove containing the tendon is converted into a canal by a stout prolongation of the posterior annular liga- ment. A bursa lies between the tendon and the radial ex- tensors. Variations.—The muscle is often fused in part with the Abductor Pollicis. It frequently undergoes partial longitu- dinal cleavage; one tendon passing to the metacarpal bone, and the other joining the Opponens Pollicis. It may be in- serted in part upon the trapezium. In some mammals, with a rudimentary first metacarpal bone, it may pass entirely to the carpus It was thought best in the text to follow the description usually given by writers respecting the tendon of this muscle. It is probable that more than a single ten- don will be found present in the majority of instances. THE EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODII POLLICIS. This muscle is much smaller than the preceding. It arises from the radius and the interosseous mem- brane near the middle of the forearm. The tendon accompanies the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis, and is received within the same groove on the pos- terior surface of the radius. It passes downward on the lateral aspect of the carpus, and is inserted by a thin tendon on the aponeurosis of the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of the thumb. ' Use.—To extend the first phalanx upon the first metacarpal bone. Vi'^hen this act is complete, the muscle can abduct the thumb. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis act on the thumb in the line of the radius, the stout prolongation of the posterior annular ligament acting as a pulley to the tendon. Nerve.—It is supplied by a branch of the posterior Interosseous. Relations Tlie muscle lies to the ulnar side of the Ex- tensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. Variations.—The muscle is an inconstant one, being found in about five per cent, of subjects. It is peculiar to man. Tlie tendon may be continuous in part with the Abductor Pollicis or the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. A tendi- nous slip may pass to the base of the first metacarpal bone. THE EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODII POLLICIS. This muscle arises from the crest and the posterior surface of the middle third of the ulna, and from the distal portion of the interosseous membrane. The tendon crosses obliquely the sheaths of the extensors of the carpus. It is free directly above the annular ligament, and enters a narrow oblique groove on the posterior surface of the end of the radius to be in-