THE MUSCLES AND FASCIyE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 285 arise from this aponeurosis. At the upper half the tendon is enveloped by muscular fibres. Use.—To flex the carpus, and to deflect it from the ulnar side. The statement that this muscle is an adductor of the hand is disputed by Duchenne. In the judgment of this observer, the adduction of the hand is effected by the combined action of the flexors, and is a restrained motion. There is no doubt, how- ever, that in many of the lower animals the muscle is a true adductor. Kerve. — The muscle is supplied by the median nerve. Relations In front lie tlie skin and tl'.e fascia. Behind it are the border of the ulna and the fascia of the back part of the forearm. Tiie ulnar nerve enters between its two heads, and runs along the entire extent of the muscle. The ulnar artery lies beneath it at the proximal iialf. The j-e- lation of the muscle to tlie artery is so constant ti)at Cruveil- hier calls it the satellite of the artery. A fibrous arch near tlie origin of the muscle affords room for the passage of the ulnar nerve and of the ulnar recurrent artery. Between the tendon at the wrist and the pisiform bone a small bursa is exceptionally seen. Variations.—Tlie muscle may derive a slip from the Tri- ceps, and send slips to the fourth metacarpal bone, to the interosseous, or the annular ligament, and to the muscles of the little finger. It may be compensatory with the Pal- maris Longus. On the whole, variations are rare. In tiie lower animals the muscle frequently receives a slip from the Latissiraus Dorsi. THE FLEXOR SUBLTMIS DIGITORUM. This, the most powerful of the superficial muscles of the forearm, extends from the epitrochlea of the hu- merus and passes to the second phalangeal row. It arises from the epitrochlea in common with the other flexor muscles, from the ulna near the coronoid pro- cess, from the anterior border of the radius by a thin membrane-like slip, and from the intermuscular septa. The muscle passes down the forearm, and divides into four tendons, each of which passes beneath the annu- lar ligament, and is inserted into the base of the second phalanx of each of the four outer fingers. Each ten- don is perforated to permit the transit of the tendon of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum.—As the muscle divides at the base of the first phalanx, two lateral processes of the tendon pass forward again to unite and to be inserted at the sides of the second phalanx. Prior to this division and insertion each tendon is inclosed in a sheath which is fixed to the sides of the phalanx. This sheath is strengthened, in front, by interlacing fibres which have received the name of the chiasm of Camper. The tendons themselves are strengthened by small accessory bands termed vincula accessoria tendinum^ which are connected with the phalanges. Use.—To flex the second and third rows of the phalanges, and these being flexed, to assist in flexing the first row and the carpus. "With the aid of the Lumbricales and the Interossei, the muscle flexes the first phalanx upon the metacarpus. In the action of this muscle the flexion of the second and third phal- anges must precede that of the first, a point often overlooked in studying malpositions of the fingers in flexion.1 Nerve. —The muscle is supplied by the median nerve. The fibres arising from the shaft of the radius to tlie outer side of the Flexor Longus Pollicis form a thin lamellitbrm slip. The under surface is fibrous proximally where it covers the ulnar nerve. Of the divisions of the muscle the ulnar is by far the most important. It presents a superficial and a deep set of fasci- cles. The superficial set is external, receives the radial slip, and yields the portions for the tliird and fourth fingers. Tlie deep set is internal, and supplies the slips going to tlie second and fifth fingers. The tendon for the fourth finger is the largest, and that for the fifth the smallest The ten- dons are received witliin fibrous sheaths at about the lower border of the Pronator Quadratus. They are lined Avitli synovial bursce, whidi inconstantly communicate with the sheath of the tendon of the Flexor Longus PoUicis. Relations Above lie the Flexor Carpi Radialis, the Palmaris Longus, and the Pronator Radii Teres. The radial artery runs upon the upper surface near the radius at its upper half and to the inner side at tlie lower half of the radius. To tlie outer side lies the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Beiiind tlie muscle is in contact with the Flexor Pro- fundus Digitorum and the Flexor Longus Pollicis. Lying directly upon the Flexor Profundus Digitorum is the ulnar nerve. The median nerve is generally described as lying between the superficial and the deep flexor, but, more pro- . perly, it may be said to lie within the embrace of the super- ficial flexor. Remarks.—In contracture of the muscle the fingers can be extended by manipulation, especially if the wrist be previously flexed.—The fibres of the muscle can be lacerated by powerful traction on one or more of the tendons, and under rare conditions a portion of a finoer and the entire flexor tendon in connection therewith can be severed from their attachments.^ The sheath of the tendon either in the hand or the forearm may be the seat of diseased action. Synovial distension may occur, forming cyst-like collections; or ' W. W. Keen, Pliila. Med. Times, xii. 1882, 373. 2 T. Nuunely, Trans. Path. Soc. Londou, 1860, 199.