FOR SALE BY SUBSCRIPTION ONLY. REYNOLDS' SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Revised Edition. Now Ready. A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE Edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M. I)., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College, London. With notes and additions by Henry Hartshorne, M. D., late Professor of Hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania. In three large and handsome royal octavo volumes, containing 3056 double-columned pages, with 317 illustrations. Per volume, cloth, ^5; leather, $6; half Russia, $6.50. Per set, cloth, ^15; leather, $18; half Russia, I19.50. The labors of the American dlitor, Pr. Hartshorne, have been very conscientioii-ly performed, ami his jiulicious notes ilistribulcil IhroHghout, allord abundant evidence of the thoroughness of the revision at his hamls. In conclusion, yio lake pleasure in commending this work to our readers, feeling confident that it will not only become s/andanl, but from its containing' just that information which tlie busy practitioner frequently finds himself in need of, from its completeness, its fulness of detail, and its excellence, it will be justly ap- preciated by tlie entire profession on this i ontinent.—Southern Practilioner, April, 1880. For conciseness and corapreliensiveness in the treatment of all the subjects embraced under the heail of " Practice of Medicine," there is no work in the English language, or in any other language, for that matter, which equals, much less excels, Keynolds' Sy.-tem. Each volume contains a complete index, a feature whieli tliose who may have encyclopadic works of medicine not containing tliis index can fully appreciate.—Michignn Mr.lical News, June 10, 1880. We regard this the finest work on tlie practii e of medicine in the English language' In fact, we do not think it has its superior in any language iu the world. Combining, as it docs, a complete history of diseases, a thorough account of their pathology, a full description of therapeutics, and a iiiinutc> detail wf treatment, etc., it embodies all that a practilioner can wish.—Ciiiciiinn/i JA i//r,i/ Timrs, August 1880. HOLMES' SYSTEM OF SURGERY. Americanized. Just Ready. A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. In Treatises by Various Authors. Edited by Timothy Holmes, M. A., Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgery at St. George's Plospital, London. American edition, thoroughly revised and much enlarged, by John H. Packard, M. D., Surgeon to the Episcopal and St. Joseph's Llo.spitals, Philadelphia, assisted by a corps of thirty-three of the most eminent surgeons of America. In three large and very handsome royal octavo volumes containing 3137 double-columned pages, with 979 illustrations on wood, and 13 lithographic plates, beautifully colored. Per volume, cloth, $6; leather, $7 ; half Russia, raised bands, ^7.50. Per set, cloth, ^iS; leather, ;^2i; lialf Russia, raised bands, $22.50. Representing originally the mo.st advanced school of British surgery, it has been supple- ' sufiieient guarantee that the work lu\s not only been brought fully up to date, but also that men ted, thtough tlic labors of its editor, by ivl)ut is late-t and best in the surgery of America. | it lias been accomplished iu this large, thorough and scientific S]iirit, which characterizes rt may therefore lie regarded as emhodying -.vlKitrver is i.f eslablished \alue iu this depart- i the contributions to the original edition.—I'miaihi Juurnalnf Jfrdiea! Seience, Nov. l.'^S!. ment of uur ai t. Xo surgcn w ho pioposes to 1;( ep abreast with Iiis rivals can afford to be ■ The eK gant Amei ieaii i evision of this ju.-lly celebrated work, will give to the Auk riean withoutit.-.1/»C( ."1 '//'Vj/ir;-, .\pril, 1882. ' piaetitii.iieis, a corrcspDnding collaboration uf surgical lore, to that they already have iu It is a subject Im- tongi stnlaliDii tliat the idea of an American edition, incorporating | possi'ssing llie volumes of Reynolds' System of Jlcdicine, and willi the two woiks, the all recently acquired knowledge and e.xperieiiee, should have been conecived and its fortunate possessor has a most complete liliraiy on Piaetieal Jledicine and Surgery.— esecutiou entrusted to sueli able hands as Packard's. The names of coadjutors aftbrd a I Brui/htmile's Iiehvspecl and Quarter!!/ Jijiilonte (if /'rar/. Mid. innl S^ri/., )<ept. ISSl. PERIODICALS. SUBSCRIPTION RATES, POSTAGE PAID. The Medical News (pul)lislied every Saturday) in advance .......... Thp; AmI':ric.\n Journal df the Medical Sciences (quarterly) in advance ....... COMMUTATION RATES The Medical News ............... The American Journal of the Medical Sciences THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. I. MINIS HAYS, A. M., M. D., EDITOR. For sixty-two years the American Journal has maintained its position in the front rank of medical literature, and to-day it .stands alone as the only periodical in the English language capal)le of presenting extended and elaborate articles on every branch of medical science, the very class of ci inlributioiis, in fact, in -which nearly all the important discov eries in the science have been communicated to the profession. During tlie year the Jul rn.vl v^•ill present, in its original depart.ment, a continuation of elaborate articles from the pens of the most eminent members of the profession throughout the country. The review df.p.artmicnt will contain extended reviews of prominent new works, by competent writers, together with numerous analytical and bibliographical notices, giving a full survey of medical literature. The quarterly sum.m.VRY of imfrovemen'^s and discoveries i.n the MEDICAL sciences, classified and arranged under various heads, will furnish a digest of medical progress at home and abroad. With the issue for January, 1882, the size of the Journ.\l was permanently increased by the addition of 16 to 20 pages. It is still furnished, free of postage, for FIVE DOLLARS per annum, in advance. THE MEDICAL NEWS. A NATIONAL WEEKLY MEDICAL PERIODICAL, PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, EACH NLMl'.l R ( (iNTAININCr ' ■ 28 DOUBLE-COLUMNED QUARTO PAGES, EXCLUSIVE OF ADVERTISEMENTS. The Medical News aims to satisfy the demand of the profession for the most na-pid ]>ossible conveyance of intelligence, in short, to be a professional news- paper. To this end it comprises the following departments: 1st. Clinic.\l Lecturics, by the aldest teachers of the day. 2nd. Orioinal .\k i icli:s, cif a brief and practical nature. 3rd. Hospital Notes, gleaned from the leading hospitals on both conlinenls. 4th. The Progress of Micdical SciiiNci'., being extracts liom the medical and scientific journals in all quarters.of the globe, showing the advances made in medicine. 5th. The Editorlm. Di;i'ARTMi:nt, comUictcd by a large and able Editorial Staff 6th. Proceedings of the meetings of prominent medical societies. 7th. News items and correspondi;nce from the pens of medical men in the leading cities of the United States, Canada, Great Britain, the Continent of Europe, Asia, South America and Cuba. 8th. Notices of new publications, new instruments, and new phamiaceutical preparations, and a column of Notes .\.\d Queries. A feature characteristic of the News will be a liberal use of the telegraph. The News is printed by the finest Hoe presses, on handsome paper, from beautiful type cast expressly for its use. The price, FIVE DOLL.ARS a year, in advance, places it within the means of every physician to subscribe to a medical newspaper, which represents the mo.st enlightened thought, and posses.ses the mo.st progressive spint of the age. The American Journal and the Mldic-\l NI'AVS together contain an amount (jf the choicest medical literature equal to 4000 large octavo pages, in which duplication of matter is prevented by .special arrangement. They wilT be furnished for NINE DOLLARS per anmiin, in advance, an offer unparalleled in the history of medical journalism. HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., PHILADELPHIA. . $s.oo • in advance, ,$9.00