THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJ^. cles named the femur tends constantly to moderate rotation outward. Inversion is usually the result of impaired power in one or more muscles of the group. The action of the Obturator Internus is antagonized by the anterior fibres of the Gluteus Medius and Glu- teus Minimus muscles. Nerve.—The Obturator Internus is supplied by a separate branch of the sacral plexus. Eelations.—Above the muscle lie the Gluteus Maximiis, the great sciatic nerve, and the vessels escaping from the lesser sacro sciatic foramen. Beneath are a portion of the ischial tuberosity, the upper border of the Quadratus Femoris, and a large bm-sa. The muscle is tendhious in the interior. The tendon is broad, but more or less plicated. Eemarks.—H. J. Bigelow^ finds that dislocation of the head of the femur upward and back^vard, " below the internal obturator tendon and the subjacent cap- sule," is "probably common, as the neck of the femur is here first arrested in its ascent from the frequent downward displacement which occurs v/hile the limb is flexed, as it is in the great majority of such acci- dents." He proposes to call such displacements luxations helow the tendon to distin2;uish them from luxations above the tendon. F. S. Eve^ found the mus- cle ruptured in dislocation of the head of the femur upward and backward. He also found, the Gemelli and Pyriformis muscles ruptured in dislocation of the head of the femur backward.^ THE OBTURATOR EXTERNUS. The Obturator Externus muscle arises from the upper and the inner border of the obturator foramen and the corresponding portion of the obturator mem- brane, and from the transverse fibres which extend from the obturator membrane to the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres converge to form a stout belly, which turns round the neck of the femur to be in- 1 The Hip, p. 37. 3 Ibid. ' Med.-Cliir. Trans., Ixii. 51. serted by a stout rounded tendon into the femur at the posterior edge of the digital fossa, below the ten- don of the Obturator Internus. Use.—To roll the femur outward, and to support the head of the femur m the erect position. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the obturator nerve. In a case of long standing hip-disease, recorded by Mr. Ilulke,' pus found its way into the pelvis, whence it was guided by the tendon of this muscle to the ob- turator membrane, piercing which it was conducted to the exterior of the pelvis. Dense fascia excluded this collection from the pelvic cavity. Variations—Slips may pass from tliis muscle to the Ad- ductor Brevis. Unimportant fascicles arising from the walls of the true pelvis may contribute to the body of the muscle. The fact that tlie muscle may contribute to the composi- tion of an Adductor muscle, and tliat it is supplied by the same nerve as the Adductor group, places the Obturator Ex- ternus in close relationship to the Adductors. THE QUADRATUS FEMOKIS. The Quadratus Femoris arises from 4he lateral border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and passes liorizontally outward to be inserted on the femur at a vertical line {linea quadrat/) extending downward from the centre of the intertrochanteric line toward the linea nspera. Use.—To adduct the femur. From its tendency to fusion with the Gemellus Inferior it is probable that this muscle may assist in rotating the femur inward, and thus aid the muscles inserted into the digital fossa, while feebly antagonizing the muscular fibres supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve. The fibres are short and interspersed with fibrous tissue or fat. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a long and deli- cate branch from the sacral plexus. I Tians. Path. Soc. Loud,, 18G3, xiv. 213. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LI*. Fig. 1. Tlie muscles of the back including tlie extrinsic muscles of the superior extremity. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LII. Fig 1. The deep muscles of the nape of the neck. | Fig. 2. The diaphragm, seen from beneath.