OF THE PERINEUM. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA 331 o<X>^C>Oo second layer is continuous witla the slieatli of the penis. The Fascia Projma is a firm unyielding membrane filling in the inferior strait of the pelvis at the pubic arch, and in part continuous posteriorly at the peri- neal centre with the second layer of the superficial fascia. It is composed of two layers, the anterior and posterior. The anterior layer is lost inferiorly on the bulb of the spongy body, and is pierced by the urethra. The poslerior layer is continuous with the ligamentous bands of the pelvic fascia supporting the prostate gland. The interval between the layers, answering to the thickness of the abutments of the pubic arch, is occupied by the membranous portion of the urethra, the Compressor Urethr^e and deepTransvcrsus Perinei muscles, and the glands of Cowper. The anterior layer of the fascia propria is divided in lithotomy. The triangular liyament is a term in general use to signify that portion of the fascia pro- pria supporting the prostate gland and the membran- ous portion of the urethra. The triangular ligament is a membrane formed in front by a fascial expansion answering to a pro- cess of the deep perineal fascia, and behind by the pelvic fascia. The anterior layer unites, behind the Superficial Transverse Perineal muscle, with the deep perineal fascia and with a thin anal fascia extend- ing backward. It would be unwise to attempt to ignore a term that has been in general use so long, although it is necessary to remember that the mem- brane so named is not a true ligament, and has no distinctive anatomical value. The pelvic fascia underlies the fascia propria as already described (p. 330, 2d col.). The posterior perineum embraces— The Anal Eegion. The Ischio-Rectal Fossa. The Anal Region (ischio-rectal region). The space thus named extends from the coccyx to the posterior border of the Transverse Perintei Superficiales mus- cles. On either side it is defined by the median border of the Gluteus Maximus muscle. The region includes the anus and the ischio-rectal fossa. The Anus is the outlet of the rectum. It is a closely constricted orifice, lined with mucous membrane with- in and with integument without. Coarse hairs and a number of sebaceous glands are found about its bor- ders. The Ischio-Rectal Fossa is defined within by the under surface of the Levator Ani muscle, without by the obturator fascia, and below by the origin of the last-named muscle as well as by the Ischio-Coccygeus muscle. The fascia of the under surface of the Levator Ani joins the obturator fascia above. Below, it is continu- ous as a thin layer over the External Sphincter Ani, and is lost anteriorly on the deep perineal fascia. This membrane is the ischio-rectal fascia of some authors. The fossa is filled with fat, which is con- tinuous with that of the buttock. Remarks.—The perineum is a region within which occur many lesions of practical importance. The superficial structures maybe the seat of aJscess, which, as a rule, is situated in the anterior peiineum only. The connective tissue beneath the second layer of the perineal fascia and between the two Bulbo-Caver- nosi muscles may become the seat of localized inflam- mation due to traumatic irritation transmitted from the urethra, and often breaks down, forming an alscess at a point answering to the perineal raphe. Rarelv the pus passes forward to involve the sheath of the penis, but never backward beyond the perineal cen- tre, on account of the union of the second laj^er of the perineal fascia with the fascia propria. When pus forms in the space between the two layers of the fascia propria, it meets with less resist- ance backward and outward than elsewhere, and is apt, therefore, to flow toward and into the posterior portion of the perineum, either superficially at the side of the anus or more deeply seated at the sides of the rectum. One of the most frequent instances in which pus is found occupj'ing this space occurs in 'prostatic alscess. This abscess may thus be sought for by rectal examination, the pus being frequently found directly in front of the anterior wall of the rectum. In rapidly formed urinary infiltration^ occurring in advance of the fascia propria, the fluid, guided by the second layer of the perineal fascia, extends forward to the sheath of the penis, and thence to the scrotum and the superficial fascia, by means of which it can be easily conducted to the abdomen. Owing to the union existing between the second layer of the perineal fascia and the fascia propria no infiltration occurs posteriorly about the anus. If urinary infiltration occurs between the layers of the fascia propria, the urine flows backward, as in the case of the pus in an abscess in the same situation. Fracture of the pelvis involving the attachment of the fascia propria necessarily lacerates the soft parts lodged between the two layers. Urinary infiltration