THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 814 OOO^CXX Variations The slip to the first toe is often distinct from the rest of the muscle. A slip may pass to the fifth toe. Some of the slips may be absent. The Muscles of the External (Fibular) Eegion of the Leg and Foot. The muscles of the external (fibular) region of the leg and foot include— The Peroneus Longus. The Peroneus Brevis. the peroneus longus. The Peroneus Longus muscle arises from the lateral and anterior surfaces of the head of the fibula, from the upper third to one-half of the fibula, by extensive oblique fibres from the septum between the muscle and the Extensor Longus Digitorum, and by relatively unimportant fibres from the head of the tibia and the Soleus and Flexor Longus Pollicis muscles.' From this extensive origin the muscle passes downward along the lateral border of the leg; the tendon becomes free at about the lower third of the fibula, and is directed behind the external malleolus, about Avhich in company with the tendon of the Peroneus Brevis it turns to gain the outer side of the calcaneum, and the lateral border of the cuboid bone. It is thence deflected abruptly around the sole of the foot in a groove on the under surface of the cuboid bone to be inserted on the base of the first metatarsal bone. Use.—To extend and abduct the foot and to turn the plantar surface somewhat outward, thus depress- ing the inner border of the foot. Acting with the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus it directly extends the foot. It is antagonized by the Tibialis Antictis, and in part by the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus. C. Hueter^ has made an elaborate study of the function of the Peroneus Longus and of other muscles supplied by the peroneal nerve. The actions, as observed by him, were modified by traumatic paraly- sis of the anterior tibial nerve. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the musculo- cutaneous branch of the popliteal nerve. The muscle is stout at its origin from the head of the fibula, but is thin and sheet-like as it arises from the shaft ' The fibres of origin arrange themselves into two sets or imper- fect laminations. The snperficial or upper lamina arises from the head of the fibula and the head of the tibia, and is in part con- tinuous with the Biceps Flexor. The deep or lower lamina arises from the remaining parts as described in the text. In the space between the lamina; the external peroneal nerve ent»rs. 2 Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Chirurgie, vol. vii. 1866, 827, fig. of the fibula While passing along tlie groove of the cuboid bone the tendon is secured from dislocation by a layer of the calcaneo-cuboid fascia or ligament. Nevertheless, such a dislocation is possible according to Bryant,' who quotes an instance.—At the ankle the tendon is held to the lateral side by an exceptionally broad and stout vinculum carrying bloodvessels. The tendon of the Peroneus Brevis is con- nected to that of tlie Peroneus Longus by a similar sheet. Variations The Peroneus Longus may send slips to tlie fifth, first, or third metatarsal bone; to the first cuneiform, or to the cuboid bone, or to the external malleolus. It may fuse with the Peroneus Brevis. It may receive a slip at the origin from the Biceps Flexor A small slip of insertion may be continuous with the First Dorsal Interosseous muscle, and afford a small surface of origin for the Flexor Minimi Digiti At the main points of friction of the tendon, namely, at the external malleolus and at the groove of the cuboid bone, a sesamoid cartilage is not infrequently developed— The lower of these nodules may undergo ossification. Relations To the inner side lies the Extensor Longus Digitorum, to tiie outer side are the Soleus and the Flexor Longus Pollicis. The Peroneus Longus overlies tiie fibula and the Peroneus Brevis. At the ankle it lies in the same sheath with the Peroneus Brevis. In the foot it lies beneath the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Adductor Pollicis. Contracture of the Peroneus Longus depresses the internal border of the foot, and creases the integument of the sole, while the foot itself is abducted and rests upon the inner side. The internal malleolus is under these conditions unduly prominent. An instance de- scribed by Duchenne followed chorea, and was cured by faradization of the antagonistic muscles. When the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus are atro- phied, the Peroneus Longus, acting with the Extensor Communis Digitorum, can extend the foot at a right angle to the leg. Atrophy of the muscle is followed by inclination inward of the plantar surface. In attempting to bring the sole of the foot to the ground, the great toe is involuntarily flexed. Thus a corn is developed upon the under surface of this toe. Flat foot follows in time. In talipes varus the tendon of the Peroneus Lon- gus runs below the calcaneum in a special groove, and does not lie upon the cuboid bone, which is witli- out a groove. the peroneus brevis. The Peroneus Brevis muscle arises from the lower half or two-thirds of the outer surface of the fibula by close-set muscular fibres, frorn the intermuscular 1 Surgery, 900.