245 GENEKAL CONSIDERATIONS. c-oogJ<XX= more contractile fibres relatively to their size than the deep-seated ones. Other modifications of a topographical arrangement are implied in the use of such terms as intrinsic and extrinsic. The Biceps Flexor Cubiti is an intrinsic muscle of the superior extremity; while the Pectoralis Major is an extrinsic muscle, since, notwithstanding its insertion into the superior extremity, it secures its origin from the thorax. Muscular masses may have a broad origin and a small insertion, such as the Temporal muscle and the Latissimus'Dorsi; or they may have a small origin and a large surface of insertion, as the Adductor Magnus; or they may have origins and insertions of nearly equal proportions, as the Masseter. When a muscle lies above the axis either of the trunk or of a limb it is said to be epi-nxial, and when below it, hypo-axial. The study of the development of a limb is essential to a correct understandins; of the nomenclature of muscles, and of their plan of arrangement. A limb in its earliest expression is a growth from the sides of the body. It projects at the distal end; while the proximal end aids more or less in making up the con- tour of the trunk. The limb at first carries Avith it the muscular laminaa of the trunk, but soon the hand or the foot projects through the laminre, and in the adult state the muscles passing from the body to the limb represent the remnants of the general trunkal layer, as modified by the presence of the limb. The most instructive muscle of this group is the Latissimus Dorsi. In mammals this muscle has points of inser- tion along the anterior extremity from the bicipital ridge of the humerus to the carpus. In short-limbed animals there is a tendency for the muscles of the extrinsic group to pass further along the extremity than in the long-limbed animals. The human subject will sometimes exhibit the extremities in an aborted or imperfect form. In these examples the extrinsic muscles advance further toward the distal end of the limb than is normal. The Functions of Muscles.—Muscles in the form of specialized circular bands are called sphincters. They serve to constrict the tube about which they occur. They are placed at the orifices of tubes, or separate one compartment of a common canal from another. There is usually no muscle antagonistic to a sphinc- ter. When the constricting action is suspended the muscle is said to be relaxed and the orifice to be dilated^ or inhibited. Muscles are named flexors, extensors, abductors. and adductors, as they influence the joints near which they are placed. Pronation is a form of modified flexion. Siqjination is a form of modified extension. Abduction and extension do not essentially differ, nor do adduction and flexion. Rotation is a form of adduction or abduction according to the line of trac- tion of the rotating muscles. Muscles, dilating orifices not guarded by sphincters, are often called dilators. Other terms in common use, such as elevators, depressors, etc., do not demand special definitions. The flexors are as a rule stronger than the extensors; they are apt to act more inde- pendently, and are less compact in form. A muscle is powerful in proportion to the number of the fasciculi of which it is composed. The dispo- sition of the fasciculi varies in muscles, and, as stated above, the shapes of the muscles are in great measure determined by this disposition. Muscles in which the fasciculi are straight, i. e., parallel to the line of the tendon of insertion, are weaker, and move more slowly than do those in which they are arranged obliquely to the line of the tendon. At the same time the oblique fasciculi shorten the muscle more than the straight fasciculi, and require less effort to approximate the points of origin and insertion. Assuming that both the flexor and the extensor muscles are preserving their tonicity, it follows that the contraction of the muscles of either set must exert a force sufficient to elongate the opposing mus- cles, as well as to lift the weight of the portion of the limb on which they are inserted. The flexors of the leg, for example, not only exert a degree of force sufficient to raise the bones of the leg and the foot, but must overcome the force exerted by the tonicity of the muscles that extend the leg. This force is known as the antagonistic force, and acts as a check to the degree of contraction of the active set. When this force is withdrawn, either by paralysis or section of the tendon, undue action is at once manifested in the opponents. Some writers describe the muscles opposed to the contracting ones as being relaxed to a degree in exact proportion to the amount of movement in the contracting group. Muscles in certain positions are said to have liga- mentous functions. Their tendons, while crossing- joints, will assume to the joint surfaces the character of accessory ligaments, and may be said to differ in function from the intrinsic ligaments of the joint only in being influenced by muscular action. Even when not crossing the joints, but when inserted in or about them, tendons are intimately associated with the