THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA, 2fi2 — =.<:>o^o.c.<s Use.—To depress the liyoid bone. Relations This muscle is covered with the sternum below, and with the Platysma and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid above. Below lie the Sterno-Thyroid and the Thyro-Hyoid muscles, as well as a branch of the superior thyroid artery. To its inner border lies the muscle of the opposite side. These muscles, however, are not in contact, save at a small surface. The origin of the Sterno-Hyoid muscle exhibits frequent Variations, which are due to its extension behind the sterno- clavicular articulation, or to the clavicle. The posterior surface may be marked by a transverse tendinous inscription. THE STERNO-THYROID. The Sterno-Thyroid muscle arises from the poste- rior surface of the sternum and the first rib, and passes upward to be inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage. It is somewhat broader than the Sterno-Hyoid muscle, but resembles it in its general features. Use.—To depress the thyroid cartilage, and indi- rectly the hyoid bone. Relations Benealh the muscle, at its origin, often lies a branch of the superior thyroid artery. Below it are the trachea, the thyroid body, and the thyroid cartilage. Above it are the sternum, the Sterno-Hyoid, and the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid muscle in part. To its inner side, near the sternum, it is in contact with the muscle of the opposite side in front of the trachea. The upper part of the muscle is firmly held in place by fascia; but the lower part, near the sternum, is surrounded by connective-tissue of loose texture. To the outer side is the internal jugular vein. According to Quain, slips may pass to the Thyro-Hyoid muscle or to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Like the Sterno-Hyoid, the Sterno-Thyroid is often marked by a transverse tendi- nous line. THE THYRO-HYOID. The Thyro-Hyoid muscle arises from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, and passes upward to be inserted into the hyoid bone at the body and at the greater cornu. Use.—To raise the thyroid cartilage, or, Avhen the thyroid is fixed, to depress the hyoid bone. Relations Above, the muscle is covered by the Sterno- Hyoid and the Omo-Hyoid muscles. Below it are the thy- roid cartilage and the thyro-hyoid membrane. Passing beneath it to effect entrance into the larynx through the thyro- hyoid membrane are the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. Variation—Gruber' describes a slip passing from the surface of the thyroid cartilage to the trachea. THE OMO-HYOID. The Orno-Hyoid muscle arises from the upper bor- der of the scapula, near the supra-scapular notch. It passes upward and forward, and is inserted into the hyoid bone at the lower border of the body. It is a thin slender muscle, and is remarkable for exhibiting a central tendon, which separates the muscle, more or less distinctly, into two bellies. The tendon is held in a loop of deep fascia, and lies behind the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. Relations—Anterior belly: Above lies the Platysma. Beneath are the Sterno-Hyoid, and a branch of the superior thyroid artery and vein. Posterior belly: Above are the Tra- pezius, the Subclavius, the clavicle, and tlie Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid muscle. Beneath are the Scaleni, the brachial plexus in part, the sheath of the great vessels, the descend- ing branch of the hypoglossal nerve, and the Sterno-Thyroid muscle. At its insertion the Omo-Hyoid lies to the outer side of the Sterno-Hyoid muscle. Burns^ narrates a case where destruction of the de- pressors of the hyoid bone by suppuration caused such pressure upon the trachea during inspiration as to interfere with respiration. The trachea, the innomi- nate artery, and the thyroid branch of the lower thy- roid artery were found to be covered merely by a thin pellicle of skin. Variations The muscle may undergo cleavage through- out or in part. It may be absent, or one belly alone be present. It may fuse with the Sterno-Hyoid. It may receive an accession from the clavicle. The line of origin may be shifted forward to the coracoid process or to the first rib. An independent slip may extend from the hyoid bone to the clavicle.^ The Deep Lateral and the Prevertebral Muscles of the Neck. These embrace the following:— The Deep Lateral. Scalenus Anticus. Scalenus Medius. Scalenus Posticus. The Prevertebral. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. Eectus.Capitis Anticus Minor. Rectus Capitis Lateralis. Longus Colli. the scaleni muscles. These extend from the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. They are three in number: the Anterior, the Middle, and the Posterior. ' Bull, de I'Acad. Imp. St. Petersbourg, 1861, 154. ' Surgical Anatomy, 36. 2 Gruber, Bull, de I'Acad. St. Petersbourg, 1872, 158.