FASCIA, THE MUSCLES AND 24e :»C-0^000 disposition and function of joint surfaces. The shoul- der-joints and the Icnee-joiuts especially illustrate these statements. The section on the general consideration of the bones embraces a paragraph on the influence exerted by the muscular system upon the shapes of bones. The muscles of the subject are usually no longer soft and extensible, but are firm and brittle, either from rigor mortis or from the nature of the preserva- tive agent employed. Careless handling of the sub- ject often lacerates the more tender muscles, as the Psoas Magnus and the Semimembranosus. Care should be taken in studying such material that erroneous conceptions of function be not entertained.' The Numher of tlie Muscles. — The number of muscles in the body, excluding'those belonging to the bloodvessel system and alimentary canal, is 229. Thev are arranged as follows: — Muscles of the vertebral column and trunk Muscles of the neck (exclusive of those of the vertebral column) . Muscles of the head . Muscles of the limbs Upper limb Lower limb 51 24 37 117 58 59 Tlie Nerves and Bloodvessels of Muscles.—Muscles are vascular, and, as a rule, abundantly supplied with nerves. Euge attaches great importance to the man- ner of nerve termination in muscle. He sees in the pad of protoplasm (see p. 83) evidence in favor of ' According to H. Morris (Med. Chir. Trans., xl. 169), in dislo- cation of tlie liip on the dorsum of the ilium, induced after death, the Pectineus, Quadratus Femoris, andOhturator Externus muscles are quite constantly ruptured ; the Gemellus Inferior, the Obturator Internus, the Adductor Longus and Adductor Brevis, Pyriformis, Obturator Internus, and the Gluteus Medins less frequently, the last three, indeed, very rarely. How different is this statement from that of Gross (System of Surgery, ii. 95), who says, "the two Ob- turators, Gemiual, Quadratus Femoris, and Pyriform muscles are greatly stretched, and sometimes even partially ruptured." On the other hand, F. S. Eve (Med. Chir. Trans., Ixii. 51) found by actual dissection that the only muscles that are apt to be ruptured by this dislocation occurring during life are the Gemelli and the Pyriformis. It is in every way likely that the effects described by Morris were greatly exaggerated by the post-mortem changes in the muscles ; it is also conceivable—nay, more than this, it is sufficiently probable to make the observer cautious—that the rough handling of the cadaver which has been the subject of unreduced dislocation may cause rupture in miascles already over-tense and in a state of rigor mortis, and that the defection of such ruptures should be accredited to the primal effects of the displacement. How can ante-mortem rupture be distinguished from post-mortem ? As a rule easily, viz., by the presence of blood-clot or blood-iufiltratiou iu the former instance, and its absence in the latter. the hypothesis that each muscle is an aggregation of differentiated organs developed about the ends of nerves. From this point of view the study of such terminations becomes a matter of great morphological interest. A CLASSIFICATION OF MUSCLES. 1. The Limbs— . I. muscles of the Head, ISTeck, Trunk, and The Muscles of the Head. II. The Muscles of the Neck. III. The Muscles of the Trunk. IV. The Muscles of the Superior Extremity. V. The Muscles of the Inferior Extremity. 2. The Muscles of the Alimentary Canal— I. The Muscles of the Pharynx. II. The Muscles of the Anal Eegion. 3. The Muscles of the Larynx. 4. The Muscles of the Genital Apparatus— I. The Muscles of the Male. II. The Muscles of the Female. FASCIA. The term fascia is given to a thin sheet of fibrous or connective tissue which is ordinarily appended to the muscular system or to the general integument, and which serves in the limbs as sheaths to muscles, or as a surface for muscular attachment, and in the cavities of the body for the general protection of the viscera. The fasciae of the limbs and of the parietes of the trunk are divided into the superficial and the deep. The superficial fascia is subcutaneous, and more or less intimately associated with the skin by means of delicate bands or trabeculte. In some regions, as at the groin, several layers of this fascia can be demon- strated. Frequently loaded in health with adipose tissue, as at the buttock or on general limb-surfaces, it may also be without fat, as in the eyelids a-nd the scrotum. The fascige are absent in the face and the scalp. In the former region the subcutaneous fat is not divisible into layers, the Buccinator muscle alone among all the facial muscles having a fascia-like cover- ing. The superficial fascia and the fat form together with the skin an envelope of the limbs of variable thick- ness, which, excepting at the joints, enables consider- able motion to take place between the superficial and the deep fascise. In emaciated subjects the fat of this layer is absorbed, when the skin forms wrinkles or hangs in folds. The deep fascia gives shape to the limbs, furnishes