284 THE MUSCLPJS AND FASCIA. Use.—To pronate the radius, and to assist in flexion of the forearm on the arm. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the median nerve. Relations In front of the humeral head lies the integu- ment. The radial artery and nerve cross the muscle near its insertion. The muscle rests upon the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and the radius. To its inner side lies the Flexor Carpi Eadialis. The outer side forms the free edge of the flexor mass, and lies near the Brachialis Amicus At the ulnar head, in front, lie the radial artery and nerve. To the outer side is the Supinator Brevis; at the inner border the humeral head of the muscle. In front lies the median nerve, and behind the ulnar artery. Variations.—The muscle may undergo cleavage in whole or in part. It may receive accessory slips, higher up the humerus, from the Brachialis Anticus and the Biceps muscles. It may be fused with the Flexor Carpi Radialis. The humeral slip may contain a sesamoid bone. The coro- noid head may be absent or be duplicated. When the supra- trochlear process of the humerus is present, a fibrous band passes thence to the epitrochlea, and from it arise fibres of the Pronator. THE FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS. The Flexor Carpi Radialis arises tendinously from the epitrochlea, and by fleshy fibres from the inter- muscular septum and the antebrachial fascia. It passes downward and laterally to become tendinous at the upper third of the forearm. The tendon enters a special sheath in the anterior annular ligament, and passing beneath the ball of the thumb is inserted upon the base of the second metacarpal bone. Use.—To flex the carpus. Nerve.—It is supplied by the median nerve. The tendon embraces the palmar surface of the base of the second metacarpal bone, and gives off expansions to the trapezium. Relations.—At its origin and throughout its proximal third the muscle forms part of the flexor mass, and lies between the Pronator Radii Teres and the Palmaris Lon- gus. On the lateral border of the tendon lies the radial artery. Behind it is the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Variations Slips of origin in excess may arise from the ulna below the coronoid process, from the radius, aud from the Biceps muscle. The median nerve may pass between the humeral and ulnar origins. The muscle may fuse with the Pronator Radii Teres. The main tendon may be inserted into the trapezium, the scaphoid bone, the annular liga- ment, or into the third or the fourth metacarpal bone. A muscle representing a shifted radio-carpal flexor may ai-ise from the radius, and be insei'ted into the first metacarpal and the trapezoid bones. THE PALMARIS LONGUS. This muscle arises from the epitrochlea by a slen- der tendon and from the intermuscular septa. It passes downward and forward, becomes tendinous at about the lower third of the forearm, and is inserted partly into the palmar fascia and into the fascia over the ball of the thumb (volar aponeurosis), and partly into the annular ligament. Its tendon forms an emi- nence above the wrist in the undissected subject. Use.—To make tense the palmar fascia and adja- cent parts, and to flex tiie hand. The action of this muscle may be described as a forerunner of other flexor movements. Nerve.—It is supplied by the median nerve. Variations—Tiie Palmaris Longus, while the most vari- able of all the muscles, presents but few distinct types of variation. It may be fused with one or more of the flexors of its own group, notably the digital and the carpo-ulnar flexors. It may undergo cleavage so that two or even three muscles exist. It appears to have close afUnity with the Abductor PoUicis, since it may send accessions to it or be inserted upon it—Slips may pass to the Abductor Minimi Digiti—The muscle may be inserted into the ulna or the carpus; when the latter, it is inserted most frequently into the pisiform bone. It may be absent While this muscle is compensatory with the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and is held with the latter muscle in the same sheath of the deep fascia, it receives its nerve supply, not from the ulnar, but from the median nerve. THE FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS. This muscle lies in the anterior and in the median part of the forearm, and extends from the epitro- chlea of the humerus to the carpus and the meta- carpus. Its tendon for a short distance above the wrist forms a conspicuous subrounded eminence in the undissected arm. It arises from the epitrochlea of the humerus in common with the other superficial flexor muscles, and to a slight extent from the coronoid process of the ulna. It also arises from the posterior border and upper two-thirds of the ulna by a strong aponeurotic expansion. It passes beneath the annular ligament and is inserted into the pisiform and fifth meta- carpal bones. A distinct tendinous fascicle extends from the pisiform to the unciform bone. A thin fibrous expansion is lost upon the palmar aponeu- rosis. The muscle is tendinous at the inner surface for nearly its entire length. It is slightly fibrous at its origin, while its lateral border is continuous with an aponeurosis which is inserted into the ulna. Some of the fibres of the deep flexor