THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 311 =00^000 ■ directed downward and ontward, slightly increasing in breadth, and is inserted into the inner lip of the linea aspera, or into a line extending thence to the inner side of the base of the trochanter minor. Use.—To adduct the femur. ]sjerve.—This is derived from the obturator nerve. Relations The muscle lies beneath the Adductor Longus and the Pectineus, and a small portion of the Gracilis, and the anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerves, which lie on this muscle rather than in the space between it and the Adductor Longus. The muscle, from its origin at the pubic spine, is fleshy, and at its origin from the descending ramus of the pubis it is tliia and aponeurotic. At the insertion the upper portion is tendinous and aponeurotic, the remaining portion is fleshy. A few fibres of the muscle may arise from the under surface of tlie origin of the Gracilis. Variations The muscle may fuse with the Adductor Magnus, It may be divided into two or three parts. THE ADDUCTOR MAGNUS. The Adductor Magnus muscle arises from the de- scending ramus of the pubis, from the ascending ramus of the ischium, and by a robust bundle of fibres from the anterior portion of the tuberosity of the ischium. The fibres pass for the most part downward and out- ward, and are inserted into the entire length of the median lip of the linea aspera below the Quadratus Femoris. Use.—The Adductor Magnus is the main adductor of the thigh. Its lower part rotates the femur in- ward. Atrophy of this portion causes the foot to turn a little outward wdien the limb hangs vertically. When the action of the Adductor Magnus and of the Adductor Brevis and Adductor Longus is suspended, the limb swings a little obliquely outward during the second movement of the act of walking. Nerves.—These are derived from the obturator nerve and from short branches of the great sciatic. Tlie fibres which arise from the pubis and the front part of the tuberosity pass horizontally outward, and are inserted into a line extending from the middle of the intertrochanteric line to the linea aspera. Those arising from the inferior margin of tiie pelvis and the ischial tuberosity pass down- ward and outward to be inserted into tlie linea aspera for its entire length, into its inner lip below, and by a vertical slip into the tubercle at the inner margin of the shaft near the inner condyle; and also to be attached at the lower third of the femur together with tlie Vastus Internus muscle and the internal intermuscular septum—The muscle is pierced by the femoral vessels at the lower third, elsewhere by the per- forating arteries The ischial origin is conspicuously fibrous posteriorly. Lusciika describes the fibres of the muscle as spiraliform. According to Sappey, a bursa underlies the horizontal fibres as they pass over the trochanter minor H. Meyer' proposes for that portion of the muscle pierced by the branches of the profunda femoris artery the name Adductor Perforatus. Relations In front are tlie Adductor Longus, the Adduc- tor Brevis, and the femoral artery and nerve. At the mid- dle third, and thence to the lower third, is the long saphenous nerve. A large branch of the profunda lies in iront of the upper half. Behind lie the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Behind, and to the outer side at the lower third, are the femoral head of the Biceps, and the popliteal artery and vein. Tlie femoral sheath passes ratlier between the median and lateral divisions than through the muscle. The cord-like tendon, below tlie point of entrance of the femoral artery, is crossed by several of the cutaneous nerves. Variations.—The muscle may fuse with the Quadratus Femoris. Horizontal cleafage may in great part separate the median fibres, which are inserted into tlie femoral con- dyle, from the lateral, which are inserted into the linea aspera. Muscles of the Leg and the Foot. The muscles of the anterior region of the leg and the foot include— The Tibialis Anticus. The Extensor Proprius Pollicis Pedis. The Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis. The Peroneus Tertius. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum Pedis. THE TIBIALIS ANTICUS. The Tibialis Anticus muscle arises from the proxi- mal two-thirds of the lateral surface of the shaft of the tibia, from the tibial tubercle, from the septum between the muscle and the Extensor Longus Digi- torum, from the fascia of the leg, and from the interosseous membrane. The muscle is pyriform ; the stout tendon becomes free at about the middle of the leg, and passes at first vertically downward, then obliquely across the front of the leg beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted at the tubercle of the first cuneiform bone and at the proximal end of the first metatarsal bone. The muscle is superficial throughout. The tendon lies in a loose synovial sheath, and, owing to the circumstance that the annular ligament lies loosely over it, is, in the living subject, the most conspicuous of all the tendons cross- ing the front of the ankle. JJse.—To flex the foot and at the same time to rotate it a little inward on its longitudinal axis so ' Anatomie; also Zeit. fiir Anatomie und Entwickeluiigsge- schiclite, 187(j, 29.