AND FASCIA. 252 ' THEMUSCLE Iq a case of necrosis of tlie frontal bone, where the offending fragment was situated near the frontal emi- nence, the writer found the associated oedema near the median line at the brows. Such a collection is very deceptive. Its resisting boundaries give to the fluid the physical signs of an abscess, and if it is associated with redness of the skin the incautious may needlessly open it. Paget^ believes emphysema of the forehead to be a common sign in fracture of the frontal bone involving the frontal sinus. The Fascia of the Side of the Face.—Immediately beneath the skin of the temple is a well-defined though thin layer of fat, which is continuous with that covering the parotid gland. On the temple this fat is in intimate association with the superficial temporal fascia and its continuation downward into the so-called parotid fascia. The manner of the connection of this fascia with the tendon of the Occipito-Frontalis and with the auricular muscles is worthy of careful study. "With a little care it can be lifted from the parotid gland so as to include within it the superficial lamina of the masseteric fascia, the deep lamina being continuous with the cervical fascia. This arrangement would point to the conclusion that the masseteric fascia is derived from below (deep layer), as well as from above (super- ficial layer). Between them passes the transverse facial branch of the temporal artery. Filaments of the facial nerve lie also in this position. By tracing the filaments backward, or by freely elevating the fascia and the superficial lobules of the parotid gland from the position of the venules which are constantly found lying directly in front of the auditory meatus, the entire pes anserinus of the facial nerve can be displayed. The position of the firm masseteric fascia prevents the Masseter muscle receiving its arteries and nerves from in front. The entrance of the artery into the muscle at the sigmoid notch caused Velpeaa^ to assert that in dislocation of the lower jaw the vessel is of necessity compressed. The Muscles of the Auricle. The Auricular Muscles—namely, those that are in- serted into the auricle—are three in number:— The Attollens Aurem. The Attrahens Aurem. The Retrahens Aurem. THE ATTOLLENS AURE>r. The Attollens Aurem arises from the superficial temporal fascia by a broad fan-shaped origin. It is a thin band of pale fibres, which narrows to a small point of insertion upon the upper surface of the auricle near tlie external meatus. The Nerve-supply is secured from the small occipi- tal. THE ATTRAHENS AUREM. This small flat muscular fasciculus arises from the superficial temporal fascia in front of the auricle, and is inserted into the tragus. The Nerve-supply is derived from the facial and the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary. THE RETRAHENS AUREM. The Eetrahens Aurem, stou.ter than the remaining muscles of the group, is composed of two or three separate fascicles. It arises from the temporal bone at the mastoid portion, and passes forward, slightly nar- rowing as it is inserted into the posterior aspect of the auricle. It lies on the same plane as the occipital portion of the Occipito-Frontalis muscle. The Nerve-supply is derived from the posterior auricular branch of the facial. Eemarks.—The above are all rudimentary forms of larger muscles found in the lower animals. They are, as a rule, not under the control of the will, and usually are incapable of moving the external ear. The first two would appear to assist in maintaining lateral traction upon the epicranial and temporal aponeuroses. The Muscles of the Orbit. The Muscles of the Orbit are as follows:— The Levator Palpebras Superioris. The Superior Rectus. The Inferior Rectus. The Internal Rectus. The External Rectus. The Superior Oblique. The Inferior Oblique. the levator PALPEBRJi: SUPERIORIS. ' Med. Times and Gaz., 1867, 251. * Chirurg. Anat., i. 80. The Levator Palpebras Superioris arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, as a narrow,