THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. 277 (3) Excesses of development, by which the muscle may be doubled, by which fibres may pass across the median line to the muscle of the opposite side, and by which additional slips of origin may be secured from the seventh and eighth costal cartilages. (4) Defects of development, by which one or more of its three divisions may be absent. Eemarks.—The interval usually present between the Pectoralis Major and the Deltoid muscle serves as a guide to the position of the coracoid process of the scapula and the axillary artery. The rather loose connective tissue between the muscle and the Pectoralis Minor is sometimes the seat of abscesses. These do not tend to involve the axilla, since a tole- rably firm layer of fascia extending from the clavicle and the coracoid process confines the pus to its sub pectoral bed. Very rarely enormous collections of pus form at the side of the chest, dissecting beneath the Pectoral, Serratus Magnus, and Latissimus Dorsi muscles.—Collections between the skin and the mus- cle do not involve the Deltoid by reason of a similar septum of fascia passing through the pectoro-deltoid interval from above downward to join the costo- coracoid membrane. THE SUBCLAVIUS. This little muscle is concealed by the coraco- clavicular fascia, and lies between the approximate surfaces of the clavicle and first rib. It arises from the upper surface of the first intercostal cartilage at its junction with the rib, and is inserted on the under surface of the clavicle at its outer part. Use.—The Subclavius muscle fixes the clavicle to the thorax, and aids in preventing dislocation of the sterno-clavicular joint. It will be observed that the muscle will, in contracting, force the sternal end of the clavicle deep in its articulation. According to Sappey, when the clavicle is broken at its middle, the muscle acting with tlie adductors of the arm will pull in the outer fragment, which is thus placed below and a little in front of the inner fragment. Among the Variations may be mentioned the following:— The muscle may be duplicated, i. e., it may have two separate slips upon the first rib. A separate fasciculus may extend from the front of the sternum to the corresponding surface of the clavicle.' At its origin the muscle presents a cylindroid compressed tendon. It soon assumes a bi-penniform appearance, the tendon appearing for the most part on the under surface of the muscle. At the middle of the mass the tendon is con- cealed. The fleshy fibres on the upper portion of the muscle are of different degrees of obliquity; those farthest from the insertion being but little inclined, while others are nearly parallel to the axis of the clavicle. According to Henle, the costo-clavicular ligament passes for the most part behind the muscle. The Siqyra-Clavicular Muscle.—Under this head Luschka describes a small slip, fleshy throughout, arising from the upper margin of the sternum, and inserted into the external end of the clavicle. THE PECTORALIS MINOR. The Pectoralis Minor muscle is placed at th-e side of the chest beneath the Pectoralis Major, which con- ceals it. It arises from the upper borders of the costal cartilages, from the third to the fifth, passes upward and outward, and is inserted into the coracoid process of the scapula. Use.—To draw the scapula toward the thorax. Nerves.—The Pectoralis Major and Minor muscles are supplied by the anterior thoracic nerves. Above the muscle lies the Pectoralis Major, from which it is separated by a quantity of loose connective tissue. To the outer side, below, is the Serratus Magnus. The Pectoralis Minor is a thin, delicate muscle, covered by a glistening fascia, which is continuous above with the costo-clavicular fascia, and below with an aponeurosis over the external intercostals. It is inserted upon the anterior half of the inner border and the upper surface of the cora- coid process near its summit, and sends a thin layer outward to the tendon of origin of the Coraco-Brachialis. A bursa is often found beneath the tendon which has often been seen to communicate with the shoulder-joint. Giinther mentions a case in which an abscess was found limited to the surface of the coracoid process corresponding to the insertion of the Pectoralis Minor. Variations The lower border of the Pectoralis Minor rarely appears below the lower border of the Pectoralis Major..— The muscle may arise from the second to the fourth, or from the fourth to the sixth ribs, or may extend its line of insertion to the capsule of the slioulder-joint or to the humerus. Infrequently the muscle is inserted entirely upon the capsule A muscle, superficial to the Pectoralis Minor, may arise from the sternal ends of the first and the second ribs, and pass to the capsule of the slioulder-joint.' THE SERRATUS MAGNUS. The Serratus Magnus is a flat, nearly square mus- cle, placed at the side of the thorax, presenting a digitate oblique lower border, and extending -from the ribs to the scapula. It arises by fleshy slips from the first to the eighth or ninth rib inclusive; passes backward and upward, following the general curve of the side of the thorax ; and is inserted along the 1 W. Gruber, Mem. de I'Acad. St. Petersbourg, 1860, 3, fig. • W. Gruber, Mem. de I'Acad. St. Petersbourg, 1860, 3, fig.