320 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Fig. 3. The second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. Fig. L The plantar fascia. Variations It may send a slip to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe. It may fuse in part with the outer head of the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and the Flexor Brevis PoUicis Under the head of Opponens Hallucis some anatomical writers include a frequent variation of the Ad- ductor. It is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the first toe. THE TRANSVERSALIS PEDIS. This muscle is closely allied to the foregoing. It arises by separate slips from the capsules of the meta- tarso-phalangeal joints and the associated fibrous tis- sues. It passes toward the median border of the foot, and is inserted into the fascia on the outer side of the lateral sesamoid bone over the Adductor Pollicis. It lies directly beneath the tendons of the Lumbricales. Use.—To assist in adducting the first toe. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by the deep branch of the external plantar. THE FLEXOR MIXIMI DIGITI. This muscle arises from the sheath of the Peroneus Longas and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and is inserted into the under surface of the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the fifth toe. Use.—To indirectly flex the fifth toe by making traction on the plantar portion of the capsule of the fifth metatarso-phalangeal joint. Nerve.—The muscle receives a branch from the superficial branch of the external plantar nerve. Variations It may send a slip to the base of the first phalanx of the fifth toe, or to the lateral aspect of the joint. The muscle is a rudiment of the fifth Metatarso-Phalangeal Flexor of quadrupeds. The muscles of the fourth layer include— The Interossei. THE INTEROSSEI. These muscles are composed of the dorsal and the plantar set. Each consists of a single belly and a distinct tendon, which is inserted into the dorsal aponeurosis of the phalanges at the metatarso-phal- angeal joint. The Dorsal Interossei, four in number, are arranged as follows: Each muscle, excepting the first, arises from the opposed sides of the interosseous space, with- in which it is lodged, and on a level with the dorsum of the foot. The jirsl arises from the borders of the first inter- osseous space, and is inserted into the extensor tendon and the base of the first phalanx. The second arises from the second interosseous space, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the second toe on its lateral surface. The third arises from the third interosseous space, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the third toe on its outer border. The fourth arises from the fourth interosseous space, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the fourth toe on its outer border. Use.—The outer three muscles are abductors of the second, third, and fourth toes respectively, while the first is an adductor of the second toe, and assists the Plantar Interossei. The Plantar Interossei, three in number, are small muscles, each a single, slender, fusiform mass, lying on a level with the plantar surface of the foot, and lodged in the interosseous spaces, but not, as in the case of the dorsal muscles, entirely occupying them. The muscles are arranged as follows: They are placed on the median side of the lower surface of the third, fourth, and fifth metacarpal bones, respectively, and are inserted into the dorsal aponeurosis of the corresponding metacarpo-phalangeal articulation at the median margin. Use.—To flex the first phalanx and extend the second and third phalanges. In addition they adduct the toes upon Avhich they are inserted. Nerves.—The nerves of both groups of Interossei are supplied by the deep branch of the external plantar. Geo: Ruge,^ who has studied the development of the intrinsic muscles of the foot, has arrived at the conclusion that the muscles were all originally plan- tar, and that the Dorsal Interossei are the results of advanced specialization by which plantar slips are pushed through the intermetatarsal spaces, and ap- 1 Morph. Jahresbr. iv. 1878, 117, supplement. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LVI. Fig. 2. The superficial muscles (first layer) of the sole of the foot.