270 FASCIA, THE MUSCLES AND oOO^<X><=- with the fascial extension passing in front of the sternum. Use.—Concerning the functions of the intercostal muscles observers are by no means agreed. The writer has taught that the External Intercostals raise the ribs, and that the Internal Intercostals depress them. In the spaces between the costal cartilages it appears that both muscles depress the cartilages.' THE TRIANGULARIS STERNI. The Triangularis Sterni muscle, also known under the names of the Sterno-Costal and Transverse Tho- racic, arises from the lateral margin of the lower portion of the gladiolus, from the upper half of the ensiform cartilage, and from the sternal ends of the fifth and sixth costal cartilages. Its fibres diverge to be inserted by fleshy digitations into the costal cartilages and into the sternal ends of the ribs from the fifth or sixth to the second. This muscle is believed to be an upward extension of the Transversalis Abdominis. The Diaphragm. The Diaphragm is a musculo-tendinous septum be- tween the thorax and the abdomen. It is wider from behind forward than from side to side. Above it is in contact with the pleurae and the pericardium; and below with the peritoneum. Since the tendinous fibres are central and continuous "with the complicated peripheral muscular fibres, it is well to arrange the description under the following heads: (a) Muscular fibres arising from the bodies of tlie vertebras; (h) Muscular fibres arising from the transverse processes of the vertebrae and the associated structures; (c) Muscular fibres arising from the side of the thorax; (cZ) The central tendon. (o) The muscular fibres arising from the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae from the first to the fourth are called the crura. They ascend to decussate in the posterior central margin of the Diaphragm to inclose the aortic orifice, thence to diverge to define the oeso- phageal orifice, again to converge to limit this orifice anteriorly at the edge of the central tendon. ' For an account of the diflFerent views concerning the action of these muscles the reader is referred to Quain's Anat., 8th ed., vol. i. 312 ; Kuss's Physiologic, Amer. ed. Note, 290 ; A. W. Volkmann's Zeit. fiir Anat. und Entwickelungsgesch., ii. 1876, 159 ; Martin and Hartwell, Journ. of Physiology, ii., 24 ; W. W. Keen, Trans. College of Physicians of Phila., i. 3d Series, 97. L. Traube, Gesam- melte Beitrage zur Pathologic und Pliysiologie, Berlin, i. 142-183, 1871. A. Ransome, Proc. Roy. Soc, Nov. 22, 1872. (b) The fibres from the transverse processes are short and broad, and continuous Avith the preceding. They pass directly upward into the lateral posterior portions of the tendon. They likewise arise from the li'jamenta arcuata—a name given to the arches of tendinous fibres passing from the body of the first lumbar vertebra over the Psoas muscle to the end of the transverse process [It(/amentum arcuatum inler- num), and from the last-named point to the last rib {liyamentum arcuatum, externum). (c) The costal portions arise from the inferior mar- gins of the thorax from the last six or seven ribs and the ensiform cartilage, interdigitating with the origin of the Transversalis Abdominis muscle. These fibres are shorter than the vertebral. They are weakest opposite the ensiform cartilage, where indeed the peritoneum and pericardium often lie in contact. (ri) The central tendon. This is more or less tri- lobed, the middle portions answering to the deficiency of the ensiform muscular fibres; of the lateral portions the right is somewhat the longer. It is pierced by an opening, foramen quadratum, for the passage of the inferior vena cava and a branch of the phrenic nerve. The foramina of the Diaphragm, as above indicated, are three in number: the aortic, oesophageal, and the foramen quadratum. The aortic is defined at the sides by the tendinous fibres at the median edges of the decussating crura, and behind by the bodies of the vertebras. In addi- tion to the aorta it transmits the thoracic duct and azygos vein. The elliptical oesophageal foramen is embraced by muscular fibres of the crura. Occasionally its ante- rior portion is tendinous. It transmits the oesophagus and the pneumogastric nerves. The foramen quadratum is described above under section (d). The great splanchnic and other sympathetic nerves pass through the Diaphragm to the outer side of the crura, or they may sometimes, in part, joierce their structure. The left convexity of the diaphragm usually extends fron\ one to two ribs below the level of the right. Instead of the left being oval, like the right, it is more of a half-moon shape; the greater portion of it is behind, owing to the position of the ventricles and apex of the heart in front of the left side of the chest.' Use.—The Diaphragm is the chief muscle of respi- ration. It is to the base of the thorax what the Leva- ' Sibson's Medical Anatomy, Col. 41.