264 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. :»oo^oo<= THE CERVICAL FASCIA. The soft parts of tlie neck are held together by fascia and intermuscular septa, which pi'esent some peculiarities. At the back of the neck, and for the most part at the sides, the fleshy and fibrous elements are compactly adapted to one another and to the ver- tebrae. At the front the case is difterent: Here the lower jaw, the respiratory apparatus and its asso- ciated muscles, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle, the great vessels as well as the movable bounda- ries of the superior thoracic aperture, all permit considerable latitude of motion. The disposition of the fascia to facilitate this motion, and at the same time to afford protection to the vessels and nerves of the neck, is sufficiently striking to demand a separate section for its consideration. The fascia of the front of the neck forms many layers, of which may be mentioned the following:— (1) A su]ierficial layer in which is incorporated the Platysma Myoides. It is continuous with the super- ficial fascia on the chest and with, the fascia of the superior extremity. (2) Two layers, in the space between which is inclosed the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. These layers are for the most part thin, and allow the muscular fibres to be seen through them. Above, near the angle of the jaw, they become thicker and are more adherent to the muscle than elsewhere. On either side of the muscle the two inclosing layers unite: The inner passes inward to cover in the great vessels, and the Sterno-Hyoid, the Sterno-Thyroid, and the anterior belly of the Omo Hyoid muscles. The outer lies over the origin of the brachial plexus and over the origin of the Scalene muscles; it contains some adipose tissue, small veins, and lymphatic glands. At the anterior margin of the Trapezius mnscle it again divides to inclose this muscle, and is lost on the back. (B) The layer inclosing the lower belly of the Orao- Hyoid (Omo-Hyoid fascia). ■ This is a rather stout fascia which passes over the muscle down to the first rib. Upon this layer the intermediate tendon of the Omo-Hyoid is secured. (4) The sheath of the great vessels and the pneu- mosastric nerve. This is somewhat distinct from the preceding, as is the connective tissue in front of the cervical vertebrte. (5) The fascia associated with the depressors of the hyoid apparatus. This can be traced downward into the thorax, and thence as far as the pericardium (cervico-pericardial aponeurosis of God man), and ex- erts, it is thought, slight influence in suspending the heart. (6) The layers inclosing a space about the position of the submaxillary salivary gland, the associated lymphatic gland, and stretching between the inter- mediate tendons of the Digastric muscles. The lateral border of the inter-digastric layer coincides with the level of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. This division of the fascia is sometimes called the supra-hyoid aponeurosis. Its position corresponds to that of a sheet of muscular fibre belonging to the Digastric muscles in some of the lower animals. In the variations of the Digastric in man, slips of con- tribution are described passing over this aponeurosis to the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. Eemares.—The medical relations of the cervical fascia are numerous and important. The following comments, with cases, will doubtless prove of interest. Abscess above or in the superficial layer has no disposition to burrow, no matter how extensive a surface it may occupy.-—In the space above the clavi- cles, between the Sterno-Cleido Mastoid muscles, ab- scess sometimes forms at a point midway between the prevertebral and the superficial localities. This space is occupied with fat, with the common truuk of the anterior jugular and median jugular veins, and occa- sionally with a small lymphatic gland. It communi- cates with a recess behind the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle carrying the transverse cervical vein. The pus in this space inclines by gravity to extend behind the sternum.-—The case is far different in an abscess situate between the fascia inclosing the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid and that inclosing the Omo-Hyoid muscle. The pus here is inclined to follow the plane of the posterior belly of the Omo-Hyoid muscle to the first rib, and thence to the axilla.—Should an abscess occupy the space between the Omo-Hyoid fascia and that of the great vessels of the neck (often described as the space between the second and the third layers), the pus is inclined to pass downward along the course of the jugular vein, or inward about the trachea or oesophagus, or somewhat laterally toward the back of the neck. Abscess in the prevertebral space is either formed about the deep cervical lymphatic glands found in that position, or gravitates thence from behind the pharynx. Should there be no point of softening to serve as a guide, the incision for relief should be made parallel to the outer border of the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid muscle. The great vessels are liable to be displaced by such a collection to a remarkable degree. A careful dissection should be made, and the director