THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 254 =OO^OOC is couvenientlj included under the same heading with the fascias of the head and face. The periocular space is of interest from the variety of ways in which it may be involved in lesions of the neighboring parts. The inflamed lachrymal gland will press upon it, and the pus from a glandular abscess may flow into it. Abscess of the frontal sinus may also implicate it, as may the inflammation attend- ant upon ostitis or necrosis of any portion of the orbital walls. Distension of the maxillary sinus may narrow the orbit by elevation of its floor, and thereby alter the normal relations of parts within the periocular space. The Movements of the Eyelids.—The lids in great measure follow the lines of motion of adjacent facial and orbital muscles. If the elevation of the upper lid is decided, it is always accompanied by elevation of the brows and by upward movement of the eyeball. The lower eyelid also moves upward slightly in the movement just described. W. R. Gowers' ascribes this to the pressure of the lower convexity of the sclera against the tarsal cartilage, a pressure which can be readily seen or felt if the finger is placed upon the lower eyelid during the movement. In like manner the downward motion of the eyeball tends to draw the upper eyelid down- ward. The two last-mentioned motions being accom- panied with rotation of the eyeball, it follows that at least one of the uses of the oblique muscles is to secure, in the rotation and the slightly protruding motion above mentioned, such pressure against the eyelids as to permit of these secondary motions. As the upper eyelid descends the lower eyelid ascends slightly, and is drawn inward. The ISTerves of the Superior Rectus, Inferior Rec- tus, Internal Rectus, Inferior Oblique, and Levator PalpebriB are secured from the third cranial nerve. The motor nerve of the Superior Oblique is derived from the fourth cranial nerve, and that of the Exter- nal Rectus from the sixth. To the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve is due the general sensibility of all the muscles of the group. ' Med, Chir. Trans., Ixii. 432. The Muscles of Mastication. These comprise— The Masseter. The Temporal. The Internal Pterj^goid. The External Pterygoid. They are all powerful muscles inserted into the ramus of the lower jaw, and supplied by the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve. THE MASSETER. The Masseter is a stout quadrilateral muscle extending from the zygomatic process to the outer surface of the ramus of the lower jaw. It is composed of two portions, the superficial and the deep, of which, the former is the larger and stronger. The superficial part arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior two- thirds of the zygomatic arch and the lower margin of the malar bone, and passes downward and slightly for- ward to be inserted into the lower half of the ramus and the angle of the jaw upon its outer side. The deeper layer is tendinous below, namely, at the line of insertion, and is less obliquely situated than the superficial. The posterior edge of the muscle ex- hibits a separation into two layers, but at the anterior edge these layers are united. Monro described a bursa lying in the pouch-like space between the two layers.—The anterior border of the Masseter, formed, as already mentioned, of both layers, is thick and co- lumnar. It can be readily felt by the finger inserted between the cheek and the malar bone. The division of the muscle at this point for false anchylosis of the temporo-maxillary articulation could be better secured by a submucous than by a subcutaneous myotomy.' Dr. Dixon^ describes an instance in which slougb- ing of this muscle followed intense traumatic inflam- mation. Relations Tlie muscle is covered by the masseteric fascia (which adheres intimately to the tendon of origin) 1 R. L. Howard, N. Y. .lourn. of Medicine, 1848, 177. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loudon, ii. 276. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLIV. Fig. 1. Tlie pterygoid and the buccinator muscles. Fig. 2. The muscles of tlie neck. Fig. 3. The superficial muscles about tlie eyeball.