AND FASCIA. 328 ■ THEMUSCLE dorsum of the penis, thereby compressing the dorsal veins. It also involuntarily expels the semen left in the urethra at the close of coition. Eemarks.—The description of the muscle as given is based upon a dissection made from below, that is from the perineum. It is in every way probable that a reversal of the description would be more appro- priate. Fibres arising from the triangular ligament and the dorsum of the cavernous body, inserted upon the raphe, would be well adapted to compress the bulb, while no motion could ensue from fibres inserted on a fixed structure like the triangular ligament. THE ISCIIIO-CAVERNOSUS MUSCLE. The Ischio-Cavernosus muscle (Erector Penis) arises from the median aspect of the ascending ramus of the ischium, immediately in advance of the tuberosity, and in close association with the crus of the penis. It passes forward and is inserted upon the outer side of the cavernous body. An inconstant slip passes upward to meet its fellow of the opposite side at the median line of the dorsum of the penis. Function.—In the unerected penis the muscle retracts the root of the penis. In the erected organ, it aids in maintaining erection. It is doubtful whether this muscle in any way initiates erection. In the female a muscle analogous to the foregoing (Ischio- Clitoridis) arises from the ischium and is inserted upon the clitoris. THE TRANSVERSUS PERINEI PROFUNDUS. This muscle occupies the base of the triangle be- tween the tuberosity of the ischium and the Bulbo- Cavernosus muscle. It arises from the side of the descending ramus of the pubis as a loosely fasciculated layer, whose fibres are inserted some over and some under the membranous portion of the urethra, em- bracing the glands of Covvper. Function.—This muscle aids the Bulbo-Cavernosus. THE CONSTRICTOR URETHRA. The Constrictor Urethrae muscle surrounds the urethra more intimately than does the preceding. It arises from the layer of fascia extending between the pubis and the prostate gland, known as the pubo- prostatic ligament. The fibres split into an anterior and a posterior set inclosing the urethra between them. A delicate fascicle passing from the posterior sur- face of the pubis to the neck of the bladder has received the name of the Pubo-Vesical muscle. Both of the above-named muscles are considered by Luschka to be parts of a single muscle which he describes under the name of Musculus Urethrahs Transversus. Function.—The muscles act together in compress-- ing the urethra, and thus assist the action of the Bulbo-Cavernosus. They resist the sudden introduc- tion of a catheter. M. Cadiat,' as a result of an elaborate study of the muscles of the perineum, states that the so-called muscles of Wilson and Guthrie are best included within a muscular layer Avhich permits of the fol- lowing description. There exists in the perineum between the anal sphincter and the circular fibres about the urethra (included here in the two muscles last described) an arrangement of imperfectly special- ized transverse muscular fibres of variable form. These fibres are in part inserted into the raphe, in part are continuous with the Bulbo-Cavernosus muscle, and in part serve as subdermal fasciculi, and like such fibres are not properly described from the standpoints of origin or insertion, but are related to the different bands of connective tissue. ISTone of the fibres exert any action upon the venous circulation. THE SPHINCTER ANI. The Sphincter Ani muscle (External Sphincter, see illustrations of the genito-urinary apparatus) arises from the tip and the adjacent surface of the coccyx, passes forward, and, surrounding the anus by a thick bundle measuring about one-half an inch in width, is inserted into the perineal centre directly behind the Bulbo-Cavernosus muscle. Some of the marginal fibres are continuous with those of the last-named muscle. In the female the anterior fibres interlace and are lost within the Constrictor Vnginaj muscle. Function.—To constrict the anus. Eemarks.—The Sphincter Ani belongs to the skin layer of muscles, and in a strict sense cannot have any important association with the skeleton. Leidy, indeed, describes it as arising from the subcu- taneous tissue at the end of the coccyx.—A small bursa is sometimes found between the fibres of origin and the coccyx.—It is of importance to ascertain the condition of this muscle in studying many morbid conditions of the anus. It is relaxed in prolapsus of the rectum and in that condition of the parts which is associated with haemorrhoids. Absolute rest of the anus—a state demanded by the surgeon in his attempts to relieve the distress arising from anal fissure and fis- tule—is secured by division of the muscular fibres ' Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Pliys. 1877, 39.