290 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJE. carpo-phalangeal articulation, is inserted into the base of the first phalanx. Beyond the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tion the tendon divides into three fasciculi, two lateral and one central. The former, more robust, embrace the first pha- langeal articulation to unite at the proximal extremity of the terminal phalanx- The middle fasciculus is inserted on the base of the second plialanx, and receives accessions from" the tendons of the Lumbricales and the Interossei, which converge from both borders of the fingers beneath the lateral fasciculi, {. e., between them and the bones, and are inserted into the central tendon. The membrane formed by these agencies is called " the doi'sal aponeurosis." Variations The variations of this muscle embrace the following: (1) A tendency to excess in the tendons of in- sertion. This is most frequently witnessed in the tendons of the second and third fingers, but may occur in all. (2) A tendency to longitudinal cleavage, by which each of the fingers may be extended by a separate muscle. (3) The muscle may fuse with the Extensor Indicis and the Extensor Secundus Internodii Pollicis, and send slips to the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris and Extensor Minimi Digiti. (4) The ten- dons of the second and fifth fingers may be absent. « THE EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI arises by a thin tendon in common with the Extensor Communis Digitorum, from the external condyle of the humerus and the fascia of the forearm. It also arises from the ulna by a coarse thin tendon between the Anconeus and the Supinator Brevis, and from the septa between the muscle and the Extensor Communis Digitorum and the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. It rests upon the Supinator Brevis. When isolated from its relations, it presents a coarse fibrous appearance at the sides. A short distance above the wrist the mus- cle forms a tendon, which passes through a distinct fibrous canal behind the radio-carpal articulation, and, joining the fourth tendon of the common extensor, is inserted into the base of the first plialanx of the little finger. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Use.—To extend the first phalanx of the fifth finger and, according to Duchenne, to adduct it. Variations This is an exceedingly variable muscle. It may be wanting. It often forms two tendons, which sub- sequently reunite; or, remaining separate, pass to the fourth and fifth fingers. The tendon may split just below the annular ligament into two, which subsequently unite at the base of the fifth finger, or the cleavage may be complete. The radial slip may join a tendinous slip from the Extensor Communis Digitorum. Thus the muscle cannot extend tlfe fifth finger entirely without assistance from the Extensor Communis Digitorum. THE EXTENSOE CAEPI ULNARIS arises by a thin slip from the epicondyle of the humerus, from the aponeurosis of the forearm, from the septum between it and the Extensor Minimi Digiti, and from the shaft of the ulna as far as its middle third. The muscle inclines somewhat to the ulnar side of the forearm, and ends in a tendon which is free at the inferior third of the forearm. This tendon runs within a deep groove upon the posterior surface of the ulna between the articular surface and- the styloid process, and is inserted into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Its superficial surface is conspicuously occupied by an aponeurotic membrane nearly its entire length. The lower third of its deep surface is tendinous. The tendon is stouter than any of the tendons of the common extensor. Use.—To extend the carpus as well as to elevate and adduct the hand. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Relations The lower portion of the belly and the tendon lie loosely secured in a sheath; the anterior wall being the ulna, while the posterior wall is united to the uln^ by fibrous tissue. At the wrist the tendon is in common or nearly so with the tendon of the Extensor Minimi Digiti. In the forearm the two muscles are separated by a septum. Beneath the upper end of the muscle a bursa is occasionally seen (Meckel) According to Luschka the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris is analogous to the slip in the leg, which joins the Extensor Minimi Digiti to the Peroneus Brevis. The muscle is covered by integument above ; it lies upon the convergent surfaces of the Anconeus, and Extensor Communis Digitorum above, to which it is slightly attached. Below it rests upon the ulna, the fibres of origin of the Ex- tensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis and those of the Extensor Indicis. To its radial side lies the Extensor Communis Digitorum; to its inner the Supinator Brevis above, and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris below. The Variations are, as a rule, infrequent. It is compen- satory with the Extensor Minimi Digiti. It receives an accession from the Triceps. Its tendon furnishes a surface of origin for the Abductor Minimi Digiti. It may send accessions to the fascia of the dorsum of the hand, especially along the median border of the fifth metacarpal bone, and to the dorsal aponeurosis of the fifth finger. Some writers believe these fibres to be constant. THE SUPINATOE BREVIS. This muscle arises from the external lateral liga- ment of the elbow-joint, from the orbicular ligament, from the posterior border of the shaft and a depression