THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 258 c-OOfgocx: The Muscles of THE Pharynx Palate. AND THE Soft These embrace— The Superior Constrictor. The Middle Constrictor. The Inferior Constrictor. The Stjlo-Pharyngeus. The Palato-Glossns. Tiie Palato-Pharyngeus. The Tensor Pahati. The Levator Pahiti. The Azygos Uvulas. THE SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR. The Superior Constrictor arises from the lower portion of the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo- maxillary ligament, the mylo-hyoid ridge of tiie lower jaw, and the side of the tongue. The fibres from this extensive and varied origin pass directly backward, and are inserted on the posterior wall of the pharynx from the level of the angles of the lower jaw to the occipital bone; a few fascicles being received upon the pharyngeal spine and the aponeurosis attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone. Some of the fascicles are continuous with the Buccinator, and others with the Genio-Glossus. The upper margin of the muscle is concave, and resembles the festooned border of a curtain held np at two points: viz., the pterygoid process in front, and the pharyngeal aponeurosis behind. The space intervening between the upper border and the base of the skull is occupied by the aponeurosis just named. The remaining fibres are nearly transverse. The lower border of the muscle is lost in the wall of the pharynx, and is, in part, overlapped by the more oblique fibres of the Middle Constrictor. Use.—The pterygoid fibres, fixed as they are at their ends, convert, during contraction, the curved upper border into a straight one, and exert lateral pressure against the side of the naso-pharynx. Neither these, the buccal, nor the mandibular fibres can have a constricting action. The mandibular fibres can draw the posterior wall of the pharynx forward. The glossal fibres assist the Middle Constrictor. Variations The several portions of the muscle may be distinct. Under the head of the Azygos Pharyngis, Meckel describes a small slip arising from the pharyngeal spine and becoming lost on the median line of the posterior pharyngeal wall. Relations.—Lying to the outer side of the muscle are the internal carotid artery, the pneumogastric, the glosso-pharyn- geal, and the spinal accessory nerves. Adjacent to the inner side are the Eustachian fossa and the origin of the Levator Palati muscle. THE MIDDLE CONSTRICTOR. The Middle Constrictor muscle (Plate XLY. fig. 2) arises from the greater and the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. The fibres of the several portions pass upward and backward, directly backward, and back- ward and downward, and are inserted on the median line at the posterior wall of the pharynx from a short distance below the level of the hyoid bone to a point near the occipital bone. The upper fibres overlap the Superior Constrictor, in part, as the lower fibres in turn overlap the Inferior Constrictor. Use.—-To assist in elevating the hyoid bone; to ad- duct the cornu of the hyoid bone, and to draw forward the posterior pharyngeal wall. The hyoid bone is ele- vated by the Stylo-Hyoid muscle at the completion of the movement just named, and the fibres become of necessity less oblique than when the muscle is at rest. Variations.—The slips from the lesser cornu may be dis- tinct from those arising from the greater. Fibres may arise from the stylo-hyoid ligament, as well as from the body of the hyoid bone and the thyro-hyoid ligament. Fibres of conti- nuity with the Genio-Glossus are here noted as in the case of the Superior Constrictor. The upper fibres may reach the occipital bone. Relations.—Between the Superior and Middle Constric- tors, at the side of the pharynx, the Stylo-Pharyngeus muscle passes. The superior laryngeal nerve lies between the Middle and Inferior Constrictor on its way to the thyro- hyoid membrane. THE INFERIOR CONSTRICTOR. The Inferior Constrictor muscle (Plate XLV. fig. 2), the shortest of the three, arises from the side of the thyroid cartilage, at the oblique lateral ridge, at the cricoid cartilage, and from a tendinous arch between these two points; the fibres pass upward and back- ward to be inserted on the median line of the pharynx for over one-half its length. The lower fibres are shortest, and merge gradually into the cii'cular fibres of the oesophagus. Use.—To constrict the lower part of the pharynx, and to serve as a protection to the laryngeal aperture. As such it may be seen in the living subject acting independently of the other muscles of its set. It assists in the propulsion of the bolus of food. In young subjects it may have some power in adducting