THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 304 c.^O^^>OC tubercle of the tibia, and by an aponeurotic slip into the fascia of the leg. Tlie muscle exhibits a tendinous inscription at about its middle A bursa is seen between the tendons of the Semi- membranosus and the Semitendinosus—The muscle is bi- laminate for a short distance from its origin, the space between the laminaj receiving bloodvessels. The superficial lamina fuses with the Biceps; the deep lamina furnislies a small surface of origin for some of the fibres of tlie Semi- membranosus The tendons of the Semitendinosus and the Gracilis pass through a loop at the upper and inner part of the deep fascia of the calf, and are thence inserted beneath the aponeurosis of the Sartorius. It may be said that the deep fascia of the leg is made tense by a pulley-like action on the part of the two muscles in question, as well as by the Sartorius. Use.—To flex the leg on the thigh, and to rotate it in^vard.—In paralysis of this muscle (commonly associated with paralysis of the Biceps) the trunk has a tendency (the body being erect) to fall forward. Tlie muscle, assisted by the Gracilis and Sartorius, makes the fascia of the leg tense. Nerve.—This is derived from the great vSciatic. Relations In front are the Adductor Magnus, a few small bloodvessels intervening, and the tendon of the Semimem- branosus in part. To the inner side, in front, lies the Semi- membranosus. To the outer side lies the Biceps Femoris. The muscle assists in limiting the popliteal space medianly. It is singularly tree from variation. THE SEJtlMEMBRANOSUS. The Semimembranosus muscle arises, by a stout tendon, from the tuberosity of the ischium in front of the conjoined tendon of the Biceps and the Semiten- dinosus. The long tendon passes thence downward and inward to end abruptly in a large fleshy mass at the lower third or half of the thigh. This mass, the belly of the niuscle, presents a rounded outer border, and is for the most part inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. A careful examination of the tendon of insertion shows that it is composed of three portions, as follows: First, a large slip of fibres, passing inward and upward to the outer con- dyle of the femur, constitutes tlijc posterior oblique ligament of the knee-joint; it aids in strengthening the ligament of Winslow. Second, a bundle of nearly vertical fibres answering to the main mass of the muscle is inserted into the internal tuberosity. Third, a set which is inserted into the inferior margin of the articular surface of the tibia. This muscle and the Semitendinosus form the internal liamstrings. A bursa exists beneath the origin of the Semi- membranosus; and a second between the tendon of the muscle and the tibia. W. Mace wen' describes a bursa common to the Semimembranosus and the internal head of the Gas- trocnemius. Use.—The Semimembranosus flexes the leg on the thigh, and aids in extending the thigh on the pelvis. It aids in rotating the leg, and, in connection with the Biceps, the thigh also. Nerve.—This is derived from the great sciatic. Fergusson^ describes an instance of a popliteal aneu- rysm bursting, the blood entering the bursa lying beneath the Semimembranosus, and thence entering the knee-joint.—Bryant^ mentions the rupture of this muscle near its origin in a man of sixty-five years. The rupture was caused by an attempt to lift a heavy weight while the body was bent forward. Variations The muscle may be absent. It resembles the Biceps in a disposition to increased proximal origin, notably from the great sacro-sciatic ligament The three hamstrings may fuse at tlieir origin, leavuig a bui-sa within a cylinder-like fibrous tendon. Relations The tendon of origin lies in front of the common origin of the Biceps and the Semitendinosus, and behind the Quadratus Femoris in part, and the Adductor Magnus. At the lower third of the thigh, it lies behind the Gracilis. With the Semitendinosus it aids in defining the inner bordei' of the popliteal space. A broad fascia extends from the median border of the tendon of the Semimembranosus, as it crosses the knee- joint; it lies beneath the deep fascia, and is lost over the Gastrocnemius muscle. 1 Glasgow Med. Journ. 1876, 4G9. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., ix. 122. 3 Surgery, 899. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LIII. P^ig. 1. The muscles of the groin and anterior aspect of the loin. Fig. 2. Frontal section of a poi-tion of the wall of the thorax, showing the position of the intercostal muscles. Fig. 3. The deep muscles of the buttock.