THE MUSCLES AND FASCIAE, 321 ^OO^OOO coverings, including the Cremaster muscle whicli is composed of a few of the lower fibres of the Internal Oblique muscle which have been carried downward in the descent of the testicle. Accordingly, in cutting down upon a complete in- direct inguinal hernia, the following structures ai'e met with in the order named:— Skin, subcutaneous or superficial fascia, Cremaster muscle, iufundibuliform fascia, transversalis fascia, and the peritoneum. The structure last named is called the sac of the hernia, and usually contains a moderate quantity of serous fluid. When a hernia can be replaced at will in the ab- domen it is said to be reducible^ and when it cannot be replaced, irreducible. Irreducible or incarcerated hernia may in turn become strangulated, when, the bloodvessels of the loop of intestine being compressed, the integrity of the parts is seriously threatened. The point of constriction of a strangulated inguinal hernia is ordinarily at the neck of the sac, that is, at the point where the sac is held at the internal abdo- minal ring. Direct Inguinal Hernia.—Should the pressure against the abdominal walls cause the loop of intes- tine to protrude within the inner pouch or depression (known also as the triangle of Hasselbach), the lesion termed direct inguinal hernia is initiated. The loop in Fix. 79. View of the Parts Concerked in Femoral Hernia.—a. Iliacns covered by the iliac fascia, b. Rectus, c. Transversalis covered by the transversalis fascia. D. Crural ring. e. Gimbernat's ligament, a. Iliac artery, h. Iliac vein. c. Epigastric branch of external iliac, d. Circumflex iliac e. Obturator artery, with its nerve. /. Small branch joining the obturator and epigastric arteries. this variety carries before it the peritoneum and the transversalis fascia as in the'indirect form. The hernia next pushes before it the conjoined tendon of the In- ternal Oblique and Transversalis muscles, and presents itself at the external abdominal ring, through which it protrudes. It now secures additional coverings of superficial fascia and skin, and lies above and to the outer side of the spermatic cord. Prof. D. H. Agnew doubts that this hernia ever retains the conjoined tendon as a covering. In his judgment the loop escapes to the outer side of the conjoined tendon. Proceeding from without inward the coverings of a direct inguinal hernia are as follows: skin, super- ficial fascia, conjoined tendon (?), transversalis fascia, and peritoneum (sac). In both varieties of inguinal hernia it is important to remember the position of the deep epigastric artery. In the indirect the artery lies to the inner side of the neck of the sac • in the direct it lies to the outer side. (b) FEMORAL HEENIA. In this variety of hernia the loop of intestine escapes to the inner side of the track prepared for the accom- modation of the femoral vessels. As in the previous examples, the loop of intestine pushes before it a layer of peritoneum and of subperitoneal connective tissue. The subperitoneal connective tissue just mentioned is often called the septum crurale, by reason of its posi- tion. The femoral ring lies to the inner (median) side of the femoral vein. It is defined above by Poupart's ligament below by the linea ilio-pectinea, to the outer Fig. 80. View of the Fascia and Associatkd Parts bei.ow Poupart's Lthament.— a. Fascia lata reflected. E. Crural sheath opened, c. Poupart's ligament. D. Fascia lata of the thigh in place. % Two septa dividing the space of the crural sheath into three compartments, a. Femoral artery ; b. Femoral vein ; and c. A lymphatic gland, all in the crural sheath, d. Superficial circumflex iliac artery, c. Superficial pudic artery. /. Saphenous vein. 1. Geuito-crural nerve. 2. Ilio-inguinal nerve. 3. External branch of middle cutaneous nerve. 4. Ex- ternal cutaneous nerve. side by the femoral vein, and within by a downward- expansion of Poupart's ligament known as Gimber- nat's ligament. Before advancing further, a knowl- edge of the relations existing between the abdominal and femoral fascia? is necessary. The Crural Arch.—The lower border of the anterior parietes of the abdomen and the upper border of the