THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. MUSCLES. Muscles are the principal organs of locomotion, and are of two kinds, the voluntary, which are under the control of the will, and the involuntary, which are not. Examples of the first are the muscles of the trunk and limbs; examples of the second are the muscular layers in the walls of the intestinal canal and bloodvessels, including the heart. An imper- fectly defined group, the semi-involuntary muscles, are thought to be represented in the diaphragm, in the pharynx, and in the lower portion of the rectum. The involuntary muscles are not described in this section, but will be found in the accounts of the viscera and the bloodvessel system. Myology is the technical word employed to include all subjects relating to the description and properties of muscle. The Properties of Muscles. The most important of these is contractility. In the voluntary muscles the contractions are followed by intervals of repose. By muscular tonicity is implied a state of passive activity that is constantly present during the con- scious state. It is illustrated in the manner by which the elevators of the lower jaw act in maintaining contact between the upper and lower teeth even when these muscles are not being influenced by the will. W. Adams happily describes muscular tonicity as a state of vigilant repose. An abnormal phase of tonicity is met with when a muscle sustains unduly prolonged action of its fibres; under these circumstances a shortening of its belly takes place, which persists as long as the cause of the contraction is maintained. Such abnormal modifica- tion of contraction is termed contracture. Contracture of muscle, according to Billroth, is due to disease of the muscles, to primary disease of the nervous system, to loss of antagonism, as well as to the excessive use of one set of muscles over another. Barwell has found that a muscle, owing to its elasticity, can be stretched to a distance equal to half of its own length when at rest, but when shortened to a distance in excess of one-fifth of its length, it will be thrown into wavy curves. Stretching of a contractured mus- cle is readily accomplished and maintained, provided the cause for the contracture be removed. Contrac- ture, clinically considered, is a subject of great im- portance. In psoas abscess the psoas muscle is con- tractured, and the thigh is slightly flexed on the pelvis. In lateral curvature of the spine, contracture of the muscles will take place on the side of least cur- vature. Congenital dislocation of the hip in the same way will excite contracture of the gluteal muscles. Coxalgia will excite contracture of the femoral mus- cles, etc. Muscles yield readily to pressure, as from an aneu- rism or abscess, and easily become infiltrated with the products of inflammation. In caries and necrosis the muscles in connection with the diseased bone undergo atrophy. Any cause of disuse, such as forced inaction, paralysis, etc., will cause muscular atrophy and fatty degeneration. Muscular tissue is easily affected by conditions of habit and state of health. The terms "strength" and " debility," as ordinarily used, express the degree of the systemic strength or weakness. As judicious use of the muscles causes in them an increase in size, so excessive use or inaction is followed by their de- crease in size. Of the complications following local injury, enforced disuse or rest of the muscles is per- haps the most annoying. The muscular fibres be- come reduced in volume and efficiency, and the syno- vial fluid both in the joints and along the sheaths of the tendons becomes scanty. After the primary effects of the lesion have disappeared, those created in the muscles will persist. ( )