THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 261 o<><>^0<><^ The Steeno-Cleido-Mastoideus. The Stenio-Cleido-Mastoicleus muscle arises by two heads: the one fi-oni the anterior border of the upper end of the sternum, the other from the sternal end of the clavicle. It passes upward and outward, forming a large sub-rounded belly to be inserted into the mas- toid process. It is composed of two laminas united at the anterior border. Use.—To bring the head forward in the nodding position when both muscles act together, or to bring the head downward and to one side, and to rotate it when one muscle acts singly. Each muscle may assist in actions of the anterior and the posterior set of cervical muscles. The head being fixed, the muscle becomes an accessory muscle of respiration by assist- ing in elevating the thorax. It also serves to fix the clavicle. Nerves.—The muscle is supplied by the cervical plexus and by the spinal accessory. Relations To its outer side is tlie external jugular vein. The superiicial branches of the cervical plexus of nerve escape at its outer border. The auricularis magnus and the superficial cervical nerves are conspicuous in crossing the muscle. At the upper posterior border the occipitalis minor nerve ascends to the occiput, while the sternal and clavicular branches are apt to cross the muscle obliquely on their way to the thorax. The spinal accessory nerve pierces the posterior border. Beneath the muscle lie the Splenius Capitis, the Omo-Hyoid muscle, the Digastric and Stylo-Hyoid muscles, and a portion of the Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyroid mus- cles. Over it is the Platysma Myoides muscle. It 5s in- timately held to the superficial fascia and integument at its insertion. Tlie anterior border overlies the parotid gland. Variations The muscle may be separated into two dis- tinct portions. The two heads are rarely fused. The sternal head may be duplicated. Slips may pass to the lower jaw (constant in the horse) and to the stylo-maxillary ligament. The sternal head may pass down on the sternum a variable distance. Gruber' identifies a fascicle wiiich passes down the entire length of the sternum as belonging to this head. Slips of the same head may overlie the Pectoralis Major and the cartilages of the true ribs. A separate group of muscles placed between it and the muscles on tlie back of the neck are thought to be variations of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus. Such are independent bundles from the occi[)ut and the cerv ical vert^ki;^ to the clavicle, or a slip from the cervical vertebra3 to the* acromion. Tiiese tend to I'use with tlie Trapezius and to be compensatory with the Levator Anguli Scapula?. ' Mi'm. de I'Acad. des Sciences, St. Petersliourg, 1860, 3. Eemarks.-—This muscle in contracting causes a pouch to form in the superficies of the neck at its lower part, between the trachea and the deep fascia. Erichsen' calls especial attention to this in describing tracheotomy. Instances have been known where the tracheal tube was thrust into this pouch, the operator believing that it was in the trachea. Whenever the deep-seated lymphatics at the base of the neck become enlarged, the tumor is formed behind the posterior belly of the Omo-Hyoid muscle, is bound down by it and the fascia, continues for a length of time unchanged in appearance. At last it is pro- truded outwardly, pushing before it the Omo-Hyoid, by which the acromial margin of the Sterno-Mastoid is turned forward, and its clavicular portion pulled up on the side of the tumor and carried away from the sternal part. This position of the Sterno-Mastoid depends on its connection with the Omo-Hyoid. When, therefore, the Sterno-Mastoid is seen pulled over a tumor situated between that muscle and the Trapezius, the surgeon may be certain that it is deeper than the Omo-Hyoid.^ This muscle is sometimes ruiitured in childbirth.'—L was found by Canton* exceedingly tense in luxation of the sternal end of the clavicle. There was no rupture of its fibres—a condition which, according to Neiaton, notably occurs in those cases in which the sternal end is inserted beneath the articulation itself.—Induration of a peculiar character is occasionally met with in this muscle in new-born children. It appears to be an obscure form of local swelling directly in the substance of the muscle. The Depressors of the Hyoid Bo^^E (fig. 2, Plate XLIV.; fig. 1, Plate XLV ). These include— The Sterno-Hyoid. The Sterno-Thyroid. The Thyro-Hyoid. The Omo-Hyoid. THE STERNO-HYOID. The Sterno-Hyoid muscle arises from the posterior surface of the sternum near its free upper border. It passes upward as a ribbon-shaped mass, having straight fibres to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone to the median side of the Omo-Hyoid muscle. < Surgery, 93 6. 2 Burns, Surg. Anat., 77. 3 Wm. Smith, Trans. Clin. Soc, iv. 70. " Lancet, Sept. 15, 1860, 264.