THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 256 process as well as from several adjacent areas upon the palate bone and the superior maxilla. The two heads unite to form a short stout belly, which passes outward and backward to be inserted into the de- pression on the anterior surface of the neck of the lower jaw, and into the interarticular cartilage of the temporo-maxillarj articulation. Use.—To draw the head of the lower jaw forward, and to assist in the act of grinding the food. Nerve.—The muscle receives its motor filaments from the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. Variations The muscle may receive a slip from the Temporal. Longitudinal cleavage may be seen in each of tlie heads. This separation, when taking place in the sphe- noidal head, gives rise to a fascicle which receives the name of the Pterygoideus Proprius. Relations Tlie internal maxillary artery lies at first to the outer side of the muscle, and afterward passes inward between the two heads. The temporal and masseteric branches of the fifth nerve cross it near its origin, and the buccal nerve passes between the heads. II. THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The muscles of the neck embrace the following:— The Muscles of the Supra-Hyoid Space. The Muscles of the Pharynx and the Soft Palate. The Platysma Myoides. The Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus. The Depressors of the Hyoid Bone. The Deep Lateral and the Prevertebral Muscles. The Muscles of the Supba-Hyoid Space (fig. 3, Plate XLIIL; fig. 2, Plate XLIV.; fig. 1, Plate XLY.). Tlie muscles of the space between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone (supra-hyoid space) include the following:— The Digastric. The Stylo-Hyoid. The Mylo-Hyoid. The Genio Hyoid. The Genio-Glossus. The Hyo-Glossus. The Stylo-Glossus. THE DIGASTRIC MUSCLE. The Digastric muscle arises from the digastric groove of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the digastric fossa of the lower jaw, near the symphysis. As the name expresses, it has tw o bellies. The poste- rior helly is the longer and narrower of the two. The anterior helly is broad, and its fibres sometimes decus- sate with those of the muscle of the opposite side. The tendon uniting the bellies is held down to the hyoid bone by a firm loop of fibrous tissue, so that the muscle is more or less V-shaped. Commonly the Stylo-Hyoid muscle is perforated by this tendon. Use.—The Digastric rnuscle depresses the lower jaw, and, when this bone is firmly fixed, elevates the hyoid bone. Nerve.—The posterior belly is supplied by the facial, and the anterior by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve. Variations The entire muscle may undergo cleavage, or the posterior belly be alone divided. Accessions may be secured to the posterior belly from the styloid process, the angle of the jaw, or the Splenius. The intersection may be absent, and the muscle inserted on the side of the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw. Slips may pass from the anterior belly to the hyoid bone. The tendon may fail to pierce the Stylo-Hyoid muscle. Relations.—The anterior belly is more superficial than the posterior. Above it lies the Platysma; below it, the Mylo- Hyoid muscle and the submental artery are found. The pos- terior belly has above it the anterior border of the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoideus muscle, and a lobule of the parotid gland. Below it lie the transverse process of the atlas, the internal jugular vein, the internal carotid artery, the second cervical nerve, the external carotid artery, and the origins of the facial and the lingual arteries The region of the interme- diate tendon is overlaid by the Stylo-Hyoid muscle in part, and by the submaxillary gland. A little below the tendon lies the hypoglossal nerve. THE STYLO-HYOID. The Stylo-Hyoid muscle arises from the outer sur- face of the styloid process, between its middle and base. It is a slender muscle, and passes downward and inward to be inserted on the hyoid bone at the junction of the great cornu and the body. As a rule it is pierced for the transit of the tendon of the Digastric muscle. Use.—To elevate the hyoid bone. Nerve.—It is supplied by the facial nerve. Variations Among the numerous variations of this muscle may be noted the following: Cleavage throughout— rarely three separate muscles may exist—It may vary in its place of origin from the styloid process. It may be fused witii the Omo-Hyoid at the hyoid bone. It may not be per- forated by the Digastric, It may send slips to the lower jaw or Genio-Glossus. It may be inserted entirely into the lesser horn. Relations.—These are essentially the same as those of the posterior belly of the Digastric.