THE FASCIvE OF THE INFEEIOK sxsO^CXx EXTEEMIT Y. 325 anterior femoral region are contiguous at the groin. A line drawn from the anterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to the pubis represents the lo^\er border of the abdominal muscles, and the upper border of the femoral fasciaa. By removing the abdominal muscles from about this line, and deflecting them up- ward, and by removing the femoral fascia) therefrom and deflecting them downward, there can be felt in position a fibrous cord extending between the ilium and the pubis, which has received the name of Pou- parfs lifjament or the crural arch. It is of great im- portance to remember that the cord or ligament has no existence in nature, but is a product of the dis- sector's art. The space which intervenes between Poupart's ligament and the innominate bone is often spoken of as the crural arch as well as the ligament itself. In the same manner as one can use the terms arch and arch- tuay interchangeably, so one may speak of Poupart's ligament and the space beneath i-t. Strictly speak- ing, however, the ligament constitutes the ctrch, and the space beneath the archway. In this sense the crural arch is secured to the pubis by a broad triangular abutment which has received the name of Gimhernafs liyament. This abutment differs from Poupart's ligament in receiving few or no fibres from the femoral fasciae, but all or nearly all from the abdominal muscles. It strengthens the at- tachments of the External Oblique muscle, is nearly horizontal in the erect subject, and occupies the nar- row acute interval between the pubic end of Poupart's ligament and the ilio-pcctineal line. The crural archway is occupied at its outer (lateral) half by the Iliacus Internus and the Psoas Magnus muscles. The external cutaneous nerves escape near the anterior superior spinous process, and the anterior crural nerve between the Iliac and the Psoas muscles. The inner (median) half is occupied by the femoral vessels, the artery lying to the outer side, and the vein to the inner. These structures are included in the femoral sheath, which is composed of three compart- ments—one for the artery, one for the vein, and one occupied by a small quantity of connective tissue (trans- versalis fascia, crural septum), and by an occasional lymphatic gland. It is along this last compartment that a femoral hernia descends. In technical lanouage, it may be said to lie within the femoral canal, which extends from the femoral ring at the plane of Pou- part's ligament and of Gimbernat's ligament to the saphenous opening in the deep femoral fascia. The manner of formation of the femoral canal is much more intricate than that of the inguinal canal, and requires for its comprehension an exact knowledge of the fasciag of both the abdomen and the thigh. The Fasciae of the Thigh in connection with the Anatomy of Femoral Hernia.—It has been said that the femoral ring is bounded externally by the femoral vein. In more exact language, it is bounded by the sheath enclosing this vessel and the femoral artery. What composes this sheath? The external iliac ves- sels (artery and vein) do not possess a sheath. What are the structures thus seen abruptly investing these vessels at the point of their exit from the trunk, and why the assumption of new names for them ? To answer these questions we are compelled to make a careful study of the sub-peritoneal connective tissue. Beneath the parietal (anterior) layer of the peritoneum lies a layer of connective tissue called the transversalis fascia. Beneath the visceral (posterior) layer, as ap- plied over the Iliac and Psoas muscles, the connec- tive tissue layer is called the iliac fascia. ISTow the transversalis fascia is lost upon Poupart's ligament throughout its entire length, except where the femoral vessels escape. At this point the transversalis fascia is continuous with and indeed forms the anterior layer of the femoral sheath. The iliac fascia in its turn, while continuous with Poupart's ligament at its outer (lateral) half, is free from and passes beneath this structure at its inner (median) half. It constitutes the deep layer of the femoral fascia (pectineal fascia) at the same time that it forms the posterior layer of the femoral sheath. The median and lateral limits of the sheath are of the nature of sej^ta. The superficial layer of the deep femoral fascia (often spoken of as the iliac portion of the fascia lata or the sartorial fascia) is continuous above with Poupart's ligament. It covers the femoral vessels and sheath in front, and is continuous with the i^ec^i- neal fascia (pubic fascia, pubic portion of fascia lata) at the inner aspect of the thigh. This blending of the two layers, which will henceforth in this description be spoken of as the sartorial and the pectineal fasciae, is interrupted at about the position of the femoral vein by an elliptical opening, measuring about an inch and a half in its longest diameter, designed to transmit the long saphenous vein from the plane of the sartorial fascia to the femoral sheath. This interruption consti- tutes the saphenous opeidng. It is imperfectly defined below, where the two layers of femoral fascia blend insensibly, but is sharply limited above on the plane of the sartorial fascia. This upper trenchant edge is crescentic, and its concavity is directed outward. In surgical language it is called the falciform process, or Hefs ligament.