THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 288 SOO^OOO ■ Nerve.—The Pronator Quadratus is supplied by the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve. Relations In front are the deep flexor of the fingers, tlie long flexor of the thumb, and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Behind are the interosseous membrane, the radius, and the ulna .The muscle protects the distal ulno-radial articula- tion. Variations It may be inserted into the annular ligament, or upon the end of the carpus, or it may be absent. Its vari- ations are infrequent. The muscle is slightly tendinous on its anterior surface at the insertion. When carefully dissected it resolves itself into two (or sometimes three) subequal tri- angular layers. The superficial layer is inserted into the outer and anterior surface of the radius. The deep layer is inserted nearer the wrist, and influences more especially the ulno-radial capsule. The Supinator and Extensor muscles in the region of the forearm include— The Supinator Longus. The Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior. The Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior. The Extensor Communis Digitorum. The Extensor Minimi Digiti. The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. The Supinator Brevis. The Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. The Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis. The Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. The Extensor Indicis. THE SUPINATOR LONGUS. The Supinator Longus muscle arises from two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus at its proximal portion, and is inserted upon the lateral anterior border of the styloid process. Use.—To flex the forearm. When previous to its action the forearm has been strongly pronated, the muscle supinates it before flexion occurs. It thus complements and assists the action of the Biceps Flex- or, the two muscles acting upon separate extremities of the radius. Should the muscle contract while the forearm is supine, semi-pronation results. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The tendon extends along the proximal half of the belly, and corresponds nearly to a similar surface on the Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior. It finally is entirely free at about the middle of the forearm. The tendon at the insertion is somewhat expanded, and in part lines the groove on the radius for the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis. Relations—Above the elbow they are as follows: It over- lies the outer half of the Bracliialls Anticus muscle; it is overlaid by a small portion of the Extensor Carpi Eadialis Longior, and the intermuscular septum between it and the Triceps muscle. The musculo-spiral nerve lies above the elbow between it and the Brachialis Anticus, and in the forearm to its outer side. Below the elbow the muscle covers the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior at its outer half; it covers the radial artery and vein along its median half. To the median side of its tendon lies the radial artery, to its outer side beneath the deep fascia is the radial nerve, and upon the deep fascia the anterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve. In the Variations of the muscle there may be found a slip in common with the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Its insertion may extend to the carpus, or to the third meta- carpal bone. It may undergo partial cleavage. It may fuse in part with the Brachialis Anticus and the Deltoid muscles. The Supinator Longus and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris resemble one another in the following respects: both in part overlie the other muscles of the anterior aspect of the forearm, and both suggest close relationship with the extrinsic muscles, the Supinator Longus with the Deltoid, and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris with the Latissimus Dorsi. After the removal of the Supinator Longus muscle the remaining muscles of the anterior aspect of the forearm lie upon the same plane, the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Pronator Quadratus excepted. THE EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR. This muscle arises from the distal part of the ex- ternal condyloid ridge and the intermuscular septum between it and the Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior, as well as from the fascia of the forearm. The broad ribbon-shaped tendon becomes cord-like a short dis- tance above the wrist, and is inserted upon the proxi- mal end (base) of the dorsum of the second metacarpal bone. Use.-—To extend the carpus and incline it laterally. When the muscle is atrophied the hand is extended and adducted. Its tendon supports the joint between the trapezoid and the trapezium. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral. The tendon at the belly is exposed for a short distance on the under surface. Eelations.—The muscle lies in part between the Supinator Longus anteriorly and the Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior posteriorly, but the greater portion of the belly is subcutane- ous. Behind it also lie the epicondyle in part, the head of the radius, and the Supinator Brevis. Laterally lie the Triceps and the Extensor Communis Digitorum. The ten- don and the Extensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior are embraced