268 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. Relations Above it lie the Trapezius, Riiomboid, and Serratus Posticus Superior. At the skull it lies beneath the thin aponeurotic tendon of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus. Below it are the Complexus and Trachelo-Mastoid muscles. The anterior border of the Splenius Capitis may be mistaken for a cervical lymphatic gland. THE INTEKSFINALES. These are short symmetrical bundles lying between the spinous processes of the vertebra3, the spaces be- tween the processes of the third and the tenth dorsal alone excepted. They are best developed in the neck. Slips pertaining to the luterspinales are seen in the cervical region overlying the spinous processes. These have received the name of the Supraspinales. Use.—To aid in extending the vertebriB. THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR. This arises from the spine of the axis, and passes obliquely upward and outward to be inserted into the inferior semicircular line of the occipital bone. It is homologous with an Interspinalis. Use.—To aid in extending the vertebra?. THE RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR. This lies beneath the Eectus Capitis Posticus Major. It arises from the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the inferior semicircular line of the occipital bone. It is analogous to an Interspinalis muscle or Semi- spinalis Colli. Use.—To aid in extending the vertebrae. THE INTERTRANSVERSALES. These are short vertical muscles, passing between pairs of adjoined transverse processes. An anterior and a posterior slip are recognized. They are best developed in the cervical region, and least so in the dorsal, where in the upper portion they are absent. Use.—To aid in lateral traction of the spine. The anterior slips may be said, strictly speakinji, to con- nect the transverse processes; the posterior are associated with the oblique processes. The Extensor Coccygis of lower animals appears to be composed of excessively developed elements of the Inter- transversales. RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS. The Eectus Capitis Lateralis arises from the free end of the transverse .process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. Use.—To aid in lateral traction of the head on the spine. THE TRACHELO-MASTOID. This muscle arises from the transverse and articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrte and the three upper dorsal vertebrai, ascends directly upward, and is inserted upon the mastoid process. Use.—To draw the head backward and to rotate it. Variation It is often fused with the Transversalis Cer- vicis. THE COMPLEXUS. The Complexus muscle arises from the transverse processes of the four lower cervical and the three upper dorsal vertebra, as well as from the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae from the third to the sixth. A slip situated at its median margin, and usually marked by a transverse inscription, is often described as a separate muscle under the name of Bi- venter Cervicis. Use.—To rotate the spine at the cervical region. The origin of the muscle may include the dorsal spines as far down as the seventh. Variations The Complexus may in part fuse with the Trachelo-Mastoid or the Longissimus Dorsi. THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR arises from the tips and upper surface of the trans- verse process of the atlas, and passes obliquely up- ward and inward to be inserted into the occipital bone at the inferior semicircular line. Use.—To aid in rotating the vertebrte. THE OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR arises from the spinous process of the axis, and pass- ing obliquely upward and outward is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. Use.—To aid in rotating the vertebras. THE SEMISPINALIS COLLI. The Semispinalis Colli extends from the transverse processes of the first four or five dorsal vertebra?, and is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the fifth. Use.—To aid in rotating the cervical vertebras. THE SEMISPINALIS DORSI. The Semispinalis Dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the fifth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of the last two cervical vertebrte and the first to the fourth dorsal vertebrae. Use.—To aid in rotating the cervical vertebras.