THE TEUNK. 267 THE MUSCLES OF COO^OOo- the ilium. It is seen to give origin to the Latissimus Dorsi muscle, and to protect and in part give origin to the Erector Spinee. When the extrinsic muscles of the superior extremity and the Posterior Superior Serratus muscles are removed, it is seen to pass up- ward, covering in the Erector Spin» and the Splenius muscles, while affording origin to the Inferior Poste- rior Serrate muscle. It here constitutes the vertebral aponeurosis of the English writers. The Second Group of muscles of the back em- braces— The Levatores Costarum. The Serratus Posticus Superior. The Serratus Posticus Inferior. THE LEVATORES COSTARUM. The Levatores Costarum arise from the tuberosity and the transverse processes of the last cervical ver- tebra, and from the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae but the twelfth. The fibres pass downward and outward in each case to the upper border and the posterior surface of the rib next be- low between the tubercle and the angle. Use.—To elevate the ribs. Variation.—Eacli muscle is inclined to undergo longitu- diiial cleavages, by means of which the superficial fibres are the longer, and are inserted into the second rib below the origin, while the deeper fibres reach to the rib directly below the origin. Some fibres of the Levatores Costarum, namely, on the four last ribs, pass from the transverse process of the seventh dorsal vertebra to the ninth rib, and from the transverse process of the tenth dorsal vertebra to the twelfth rib. These are often called the Levatores Costarum Longiores. Tlie Levatores Costarum are supposed to be specially differen- tiated slips of the external intercostal series of muscles. THE SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR. This muscle arises from the lower part of the liga- mentum nuchte, from the spines of the sixth and the seventh cervical vertebrae, and from the spines of the first and the second dorsal vertebrae. Its origin is aponeurotic. It is inserted by four digitations into the ribs from the second to the fifth. Use.—To raise the ribs. THE SERRATUS POSTICUS IJTFERIOR. This muscle is larger than the preceding, and lies beneath the Latissimus Dorsi. It arises from the lumbar aponeurosis in the region of the tenth to the twelfth dorsal vertebra, and the upper lumbar verte- bra5. It passes as a broad thin fleshy sheet upward and outward to be inserted into the lower borders of the eighth to the twelfth ribs. Use.—To depress the ribs. Variation The muscle may fuse with the Latissimus Dorsi. The Third Group is composed of— The Extensors. Splenius Colli. Interspinales. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor. The Flexors. Longus Colli.' Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. The Lateral Tractors. Intertransversales. Rectus Capitis Lateralis. Trachelo-Mastoid. The Rotators. Splenius Capitis. Complexus. Obliquus Capitis Superior. Obliquus Capitis Inferior. Semispinales Colli et Dorsi. Multifidus Spiua3, SPLENIUS CAPITIS ET COLLI. The Splenius muscle arises from the spines of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, and the spines of the dorsal vertebrae as far as the third or fourth. Its fibres pass upward and outward, and divide ordinarily into two sets of fasciculi. The lower fasciculus is inserted into the transverse processes of the second and third cervical vertebrae; while the upper is inserted into the skull at the mastoid pro- cess and the superior semicircular line. For convenience the two divisions of the Splenius are described together. The functional differences between the cervical and occipital portions should, however, be borne in mind. Use.—In part to turn the head and neck. Acting with the more superficial muscles at the nape of the neck, the Splenius can extend the head on the spinCj and extend the cervical portion of the spine. Variations.—Sometimes the two divisions are not appa- rent. A slip is often derived from the lower division, which is identical with the Levator Anguli Scapula—A slip may be traced to the occipital bone and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. ' The Longus Colli is described on p. 263.