250'. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJ3. o-OC Major, to be lost in the upper lip near the angle. It is often only a slip of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum, and is frequently absent. THE LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS. The Levator Anguli Oris arises from the superior maxilla at the canine fossa, and passes downward and slightly outward to the angle of the mouth. THE DEPRESSOR LABII SUPERIORIS. The Depressor Labii Superioris arises from the superior maxilla at the incisive fossa, and passes up- ward to the lower border of the nostril, and to the septum between the nostrils. It can be best displayed by removing the mucous membrane from the upper lip. It constitutes in part the M. Nasalis of Henle. THE DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS arises by a broad base from the external oblique line at the basal portion of the lower jaw. It narrows as it passes upward, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. THE DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS arises from the lower jaw, between the symphysis and the mental foramen, and passes upward to the lower lip. Its fibres are interspersed with fat. THE MEXTALIS. The Mentalis muscle arises from the alveolar pro- cesses of the lower incisor teeth, and passes radially outwards to the skin. It can be displayed by making an antero-posterior incision from the skin to the bone. THE BUCCINATOR. This muscle, ordinarily included in tlie facial mus- cles, or muscles of expression, belongs more properly to the pharyngeal constrictor group. It may be said to be projected from this group into the face. It arises from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and from the alveolar line of both tlie upper and the lower jaw, opposite the position of the molar teeth. Itr. fascicles pass forward to be inserted into the angle of the mouth. A partial interlacing of the upper and the lower sets of fasciculi is noticeable. ' Relations.—This muscle is remarkable for being covered by a thin fascia, thus distinguishing it from the other facial muscles. It is pierced by the parotid duct opposite the secontl molar tooth. In well-nourished individuals a lobule of soft fat lies between the Buccinator and the fat of the skin, and is continued upward between this muscle and the Masseter. THE FASCIA OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FACE. The skin of the face and of the vault of the cranium is not separated from the fat which lies beneath it; nor are the muscles ensheathed, but, instead, the fat and muscles are intricately associated. This absence of fascia is compensated for by cushiony masses of connective tissue, which are con- spicuous in the following localities: the hollow of the cheek; beneath the Zygomaticus, and over the Buccinator muscle, especially near the root of the coronoid process; beneath the lower fibres of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum, particularly where it over- laps the elevators of the upper lip ; between the latter group of muscles and the elevators of the oral angle; at the groove for the facial artery as it passes over the lower jaw; and at the symphysis menti beneath the depressor of the lower lip. The skin of the face is everywhere thin, so that its scars are as a rule inconspicuous. A very different result follows extensive cicatrization of the deeper parts. Here the connective tissue is abundantly pre sent, and, as seen after ulcerations from mercurial sore mouth, or after destructive stomatitis from any cause, serves to contract the oral fissure, and, as it were, to convert the cheeks into false ligaments holding the jaws close together. Anchylosis of the temporo- maxillary articulation, as a result of such contraction, is of common occurrence. In conditions more closely approximating the nor- EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLIII. Fig. 1. The muscles of expression. Fig. 2. The temporal muscle. Fig. 3. The muscles of the side of the face and the neck.