316 THE MQSCLES AND FASCIA. ■ ^xxZ^^^Xx- ■ The outer head of the Gastrocnemius arises chiefly from the corresponding femoral condyle and from a small portion of the long external lateral ligament; the inner head arises directly behind the inner condyle, and is intimately associ- ated with the ca{)sule, entertaining in this respect tlie relation held by the Plantaris to the capsule over the outer condyle— The inner head is obscurely bilaminate, the laminae being in great part fused. The deep layer is directly continuous with the aponeurotic extension of the under portion at its inser- tion, while the superficial layer is directly continuous with its proximal border. Tlie nerves and vessels enter between the laminjE. Tlie outer liead is not bilaminate.—From the fact that the outer head is the most constant, and is the sole head present,-as a rule, in tiie lower animals, it may be regarded in the light of the main or ancestral head, to wliich the inner iiead has been subsequently added. The Soleus is composed of three groups of muscular fibres. Tlie median portion of the muscle is occupied by the first of these groups, and is composed of oblique fibres arising from the tibia. The lateral portion constitutes the second group, and arises fiom the fibula, while a third and smaller grouj) lies between the two. The fibres of the groups are arranged obliquely to the longitudinal axis of the muscle, and those belonging to the first and the second are separated on the posterior surface of the muscle by the edge of a portion of a concealed tendon. Relations—The inner head, at its origin, overlies tlie stout tendon of the Semimembranosus. At and below the head of the tibia the inner head is loosely held throughout its entire extent to the tibia by the deep fascia and the tendons of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus muscles. The Gastrocnemius overlies the Soleus, Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles, and in part the capsule of the knee, the popliteal vessels, and tiie internal popliteal nerve. The two heads form the inferior boundaries of the popliteal space. The popliteal nerve lies close to the inner side of the outer head To the outer side of the outer head lies the Biceps Flexor; to the median side of the inner head lie the ham- string tendons.—The Soleus lies over the posterior tibial fascia, and a space, crossed by a few bloodvessels and occupied by loose connective tissue, separates this fascia from the fibrous posterior surface of the Soleus. The tendo Achillis is separated from the calcaneum by a bursa, and from tiie sheaths of the remaining tendons by a quantity of connective tissue. In Talipes Equinus the tendon inclines toward the fibula. The tendon is held in position by a girdle-like formation of deep fascia, and, as long as it is thus held, tends to be slightly curved—In separation of the distal epiphysis of the tibia t!ie slight curve in the tendon is exaggerated.' To the inner side of the tendon lie the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. ' R. Quain, Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 31, 1867. THE PLANTARIS. The Plantaris muscle arises from the posterior surface of the outer condyle of the femur, and from the capsule of the knee-joint in the same neighbor- hood. It forms a slender belly that soon ends in a delicate narrow tendon which is inserted into the cal- caneum at the median side of the tendo Achillis. Use.—To aid the action of the Gastrocnemius. Nerve.—The nerve of the Plantaris is derived from the internal popliteal. Remarks.—This muscle has been known lu be spontaneously ruptured, producing a peculiar drag- ging of the foot with eversion. Relations The muscle at its origin lies to the median side of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, and beneath the Soleus and the Gastrocnemius. It crosses the Popliteus muscle to gain its inner side, and along the corresponding side of the tendon of this muscle it descends to its insertion. Variations The Plantaris is sometimes absent. Its belly may be inseparable from the outer head of the Gastrocne- mius. Its tendon may be blended with the tendo Achillis, or be lost between the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus. Its origin may shift slightly downward, but retain its propin- quity to the knee-joint. It may be inserted into the annular ligament, or into the fascia of tiie leg above it, or into tlie plantar fascia. It may have a supernumerary slip attached to the capsule of the joint. THE POPLITEUS. The Popliteus muscle arises by a stout tendinous origin from the upper and fore part of the popliteal groove on the external condyle of the femur. It passes downward and inward, receiving as it does so small fibrous slips from the external semilunar carti- lage of the knee-joint, as well as one from the Semi- membranosus muscle, and is inserted oil the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia as far as.the oblique line, and along the median border of the shaft for the distance of two inches. Use.—To aid in extending the leg and in fixing the position of the external semilunar cartilage. Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by a branch of the internal popliteal nerve. The tendon of the Popliteus passes within the knee-joint, and is enveloped by synovial membrane. Beneath tiie tendon lies a bursa which, as a rule, communicates with the joint. The belly is strengthened by an aponeurosis received from the Semimembranosus Some of the muscular fibres (arcu- ate fibres) are inserted into the posterior capsule of the knee- joint.—The popliteal groove is lined with cartilage, and is continuous with liie synovial membrane, tlius forming a j)art