308 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIAE, OOO^OOO . rim of the acetabulum. The muscle passes directly do-\vn\vard upon the front of the thigh, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon upon the upper portion of the patella. The muscle is to a slight degree bi-laniinate near its origin, and is obscurely bi-penniform at the upper anterior por- tion of its belly. Near the insertion it is fleshy, the fibres being nearly vertical. The tendon of origin resembles a ligament, and is free at the inner border. It runs down ■within the muscle at the upper third—The acetabular head joins the main tendon at right angles, and is not free inte- riorly, being here continuous with a thin aponeurotic slip which passes downward The posterior surlace of the mus- cle is fibrous for its entire lengtli The lower Iwo-thirds of the posterior surface of the tendon of insertion receives at its outer edge the superficial fibres of the Vastus Externus, and to a much less extent receives muscular fibres from the Vas- tus Internus. Relations.—The Rectus is the most isolated of the divi- sions of the Quadriceps. It lies superficial to them ail in a groove between the two Vasti, and upon the Crureus—In front, at its origin, are the Psoas and tlie Sartorius. Lower down, the fascia and the integument. In front of the ace- tabular tendon is the Gluteus Minimus. To the outer side are the Tensor Vaginte Femoris and the Vastus Externus. To the inner side are the Vastus Internus, the Sartorius, and the Psoas. Behind lie the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, tlie Psoas, and the Crureus; between these and tlie muscle pass obliquely the external circumflex artery and a branch of the anterior crural nerve. The entire muscle lies within a sheath of fascia, the ante- rior portion of which is the thicker. The Vasivs Externus arises from the base of the great trochanter, Irom a line leading thence outv^^ard and downward to the linea aspera, from the entire length of the outer lip of the linea aspera, and by short dispersed fleshy slips from the posterior surface of the sheath of the muscle at the lower third. In addition to these it derives fibres from the inter- muscular septum between it and the short head of the Biceps Femoris, and from the posterior aspect of the femoral tendon of insertion of the Gluteus Maxi- mus. The muscle is inserted into the outer side of the patella and into the tendon of the Eectus Femoris. It forms a large fleshy mass extending along the entire length of the thigh upon its outer side, and is for the most part on a plane above that of the Vastus Inter- nus and the Crureus, but below that of the Eectus Femoris. It is continuous with the Crureus at its posterior border, and joins the Eectus tendon below. Tlie fascia lata is properly not connected with tlie muscle. It is held to the muscle, it is true, by a tougii layer of con- nective tissue, but presents no organic union. This union is firmer at the upper half of the muscle posteriorly than else- where. The intermuscular septum between it and the Biceps Femoris is pierced here and there by twigs of bloodvessels. The muscle is fleshy externally and fibrous internally at its lower lialf or two-thirds, where it lies in contact witli the tendinous suriace of the Crureus. The fleshy slips from tlie sheath below are arranged for the most part external to a central shining tendon, very much in the manner that the superficial fibres of the Temporal muscle are disposed in relation to their tendon. The Vastus Internus arises from an oblique line running from the front of the base of the neck of the femur to the linea aspera, from the internal lip of the same to the middle of the shaft, and from the tendon of insertion of the Adductor Magnus (internal inter- muscular septum). The muscle forms a pyriform mass, having its apex above, and is inserted upon the inner border of the patella, and the correspond- ing border of the tendon of the Eectus Femoris. Tlie fibres are fleshy, and are upon the same plane as those of the Crureus. Those from the linea aspera aresliglitly tendinous. The upper muscular fibres are oblique; tiie lower nearly horizontal A fibrous layer, continued over the great vessels and the long saphenous nerve at the middle tiiird of the thigh, is directed I'rom the Vastus Internus to the Ad- ductor Magnus, and tbrnis the anterior boundary of Hunter's canal. The Crureus is continuous witli the preceding, and the two may be said to form one great mass. They are sepa- rated for convenience in description. W. Roger Williams' describes the Crureus as composed of four laminte, each of which arises separately i'rom the femur. Tiie Subcrureus may be looked upon as a rudiment of a fifth lamina. Relations In front are tiie Sartorius and branches of tlie anterior crural nerve; some of the latter penetrate the upper border of the muscle. The great vessels also lie in front. Near the knee the muscle lies beneath the fascia and skin. Behind lie the femur, and the tendons of inser- tion of the Adductor Longusand tlie Adductor Magnus. To tlie outer side are the Rectus Femoris and the Crureus. To the inner side are the femoral vessels, tlie Adductor Longus, and the Adductor Magnus. The Crureus arises by fleshy fibres from the ante- rior and outer aspects of the shaft of the femur. It is more or less identified with both Vasti, parti- cularly with the Vastus Internus. It is covered in front and to the outer side by the Vastus Externus, and along its inner border it is continuous with the fibres of the Vastus Internus which are on the same plane with its own. The muscle is inserted upon the upper border and sides of the patella. • Joiirn. of Aiiat. and Pliys., 1S70.