276 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Use.—To draw the slioulder toward the middle line of the back, and to antagonize the tendon of the Trapezius in rotating the scapula. Acting with the Teres Major it can depress the elevated humerus (Duchenne). Nerve.—^The muscle is supplied by a continuation of the nerve for the Levator Anguli Scapulee. The Variations of tlie Rhomboideus include: (1) A dis- position to planar cleavage. (2) Slips of contribution to the Teres Major, Latissimus Dorsi, and Serratus Magnus muscles. (3) Arrests of development, by which the origin may be confined to a smaller number of spines than five, and the insertion to a portion only of the vertebral margin of the scapula. The genealogy of the muscle includes slips passing up- ward to reach the atlas or even the occiput. THE LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULA. This muscle arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four or five cervical vertebrte. The slips soon unite to form a flat narrow muscle which is inserted on the vertebral border of the scapula between the level of the spine and the superior border. Use.—To raise the superior angle of the scapula, and when the scapula is fixed to move the neck laterally. Nerve.—This is derived from a branch of the deep set of the cervical plexus. Variations—It may unite with the Serratus Magnus, and derive slips from the Trapezius. Its origin may reach as high as the transverse process of the atlas, or as low as the seventh cervical vertebra. Its insertion may not be limited to the angle of the scapula, but may include a portion of the upper border of the bone. It may send slips to the first and second ribs, to the Serratus Posticus Superior, to the Sca- lenus Medius, to the Splenius Capitis, and to the Complexus muscles. It may undergo longitudinal cleavage, and be composed of three to six slips. THE PECTOEALIS MAJOR. The Pectoralis Major muscle arises from the median two-thirds of the clavicle, from the greater portion of the front of the sternum, from the first six costal car- tilages, and from the aponeurosis of the External Ob- lique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres converge to be inserted into the outer margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle is a broad fleshy mass placed at the upper and anterior portion of the chest wall, and forms the anterior border of the axilla. Just prior to the formation of the tendon i.t is of a quadrate shape, and is rather coarsely fasciculated. The lower border of the muscle answers to the position of the fifth rib as it lies on the side of the thorax. Use.—To adduct the humerus. The shoulder, when its muscles are fixed, can be raised by the clavicular fibres; these also act with the anterior fibres of the Deltoid and the Coraco-Brachialis in swinging the humerus forward. The sternal fibres draw the shoulder downward and inward, and depress the arm from the elevated position. In this act they are assisted by the Latissimus Dorsi and the Teres Major muscles. Nerves.—These are derived from the anterior tho- racic branches of the brachial plexus. The Pectoralis Major consists of a clavicular and a sterno- costal portion separated by a horizontal interspace. This in emaciated subjects is sufficiently pronounced to be detected beneath the skin, and is marked when the arm is abducted. The clavicular portion arises by short, tendinous fibres from tiie anterior border of the sternal half or two-thirds of the clavicle, and at times from the sterno-clavicular capsule and the outer border of the manubrium. Tiie sterno-costal portion arises by two imperfectly defined layers as follows: the superficial layer from the anterior sur- face of the sternum, and interiorly by a slip from the anterior portion of the sheath of the Rectus Abdominis muscle; the deep layer by several irregular and inconstant digitations from the second to the sixth costal cartilage, and from tiie osseous part of the sixtii rib. The fibres from this extensive origin pass outward toward tlie liumerus: the upper fibres, the most robust of all, tend- ing downward, the middle fibres outward, and the lower fibres upward. They finally converge to constitute tlie inner wall of the axilla, at which po'int the clavicular fibres are found at the lower anterior portion, and the costo-clavi- cular fibres at the upper portion of the muscle. Thus, in part twisted upon themselves, the fibres form a pocket which is open above and occu[)ied by fat and connective tissue, and occasionally by a bursa. Tlie outer and inner walls of the pocket are formed by tlie clavicular and costal poi'tions of the muscle, wliile the base is formed by their union The clavicular portion is inserted in the outer bicipital ridge of the humerus near tiie deltoid insertion. The costal por- tion here passes upward nearly parallel to the foregoing, and is inserted into the upper part of the ridge. Both portions are intimately held to the fascia of the arm. The Variations of the Pectoralis Major arrange them- selves into four divisions: (1) A disposition in common with other extrinsic muscles to send slips to the superior extremity beyond the bicipital ridge, or to the muscles about the shoulder-joint. Among these may be mentioned slips to the fascia of the ai'm, to tlie Latissimus Dorsi, to tlie Supra-Spinatus, to tlie Deltoid, and to the Biceps muscles. (2) A tendency to unite in part with the Deltoid and the Pectoralis Minor muscles, and to effect an extension of fibres to the Rectus Abdominis, and to the I^xternal Oblique.