300 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. ^<>ogjoo>o i THE GLUTEUS MEDIUS. The Gluteus Meclius muscle arises fleshy from the anterior three-fourths of the external lip of the crest of the ilium, from the space upon the dorsum of the ilium between the superior and middle semicircu- lar lines, from a tendinous arch—stretching from the outer border of the sacrum to the upper border of the great sciatic notch—and from the fascia lata. The anterior border is more or less united with that of the- Gluteus Minimus, as the two layers of the Masseter are united at the anterior border of that muscle. The fibres of the Gluteus Medius converge from the point of origin; the posterior group, being the more oblique, passes downward and forward to be inserted tendinously into the outer aspect of the great trochanter throughout its extent. A small bursa lies between the tendon and the Pyriformis muscle, and another between the muscle and the great trochanter. W. Macewen' notes a case in which this bursa be- came enormously distended and was opened by a sur- geon. A second time it spontaneously discharged, and was finally permanently healed by free incision, the use of stimulating injections, and rest. Use.—The posterior fibres aid in rotating the thigh outward, and the anterior fibres in rotating it inward (see account at end of Gluteus Minimus). Nerve.—The muscle is supplied by both the supe- rior and the inferior branches of the superior gluteal nerve. The muscle secures an attachment from the anterior supe- rior spinous |)rocess of the ilium, and from the depression beneath it. A fibrous line, more or less pronounced (some- times being a tendon which divides the muscle), lies in the middle of the mass, and separates the posterior from the an- terior fibres. The muscle is radiated, with a concealed tendon. Relations In front lie the Gluteus IVIaximus and the fascia lata in part; behind lie the Gluteus Minimus, the dorsum of the ilium, and the superior gluteal vessels and nerves. Anteriorly it is continuous with the Gluteus Mini- mus and with the Tensor Vaginas Femoris. When the ' (jlassow Medical Journal, 1876, 477. femur is rotated outward the lower fibres of the tendon over- lie the Vastus Externus. Variations—The fusion with the Gluteus Minimus at its anterior border is subject to variation. Posteriorly the mus- cle may i'use with the Pyriformis. THE GLUTEUS MINIMUS. The Gluteus Minimus muscle arises from the dor- sum of the ilium between the superior and the infe- rior curved line. It also arises from a small portion of the crest anteriorly, and from the anterior border of the great sciatic notch. Its fibres are in part con- tinuous with the corresponding border of the Gluteus Medius. The fascicles converoe to form a narrow tendon, which is inserted on the anterior border of the great trochanter. Beneath it lies a small bursa.' A shining aponeurosis is extended on the outer sur- face of the muscle. Relations.—Above lie tbe Gluteus Medius and the deep gluteal artery. Below are the innominate bone, the posterior portion of the capsule of the hip-joint, the acetabular head of the Rectus Femoris in part, and the origin of the Vastus Externus. In front lies the Tensor Vaginae Femoris. Use.—Action upon insertion: The muscle is com- posed functionally of two fasciculi having different lines of action. The anterior jiart carries the limb obliquely forward and inward. The posterior portion initiates a movement of rotation from withii;i outward. —Action upon origin: Together with the Gluteus Mi- nimus the Gluteus Medius fixes the pelvis upon the thigh both during rest in the erect position and in the second stage of the act of walking. This fact is proved clinically, since in paralysis of the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus the pelvis is inclined to the opposite side at the moment when the body rests upon the afi'ected limb, notwithstanding that the Gluteus Maximus is in a healthy condition. Nerve.—Supplied by the superior and inferior branches of the superior gluteal nerve. ' H. Meyer (Zeit. fiir Anatomie uiid Entwickelungsgesdiichte, 1876, 29) describes the Gluteus Minimus muscle as tlie type of the gluteals to which the Gluteus Medius and Gluteus Maximus stand in tlie relation of planal repetitions (Verdoppelungs muskeln). EXPLANATION OF PLATE L. Fig. 1. The superficial muscles of the abdomen. Fig. 2. The internal oblique muscle of the abdomen. Fig. 3. The transversalis muscle of the abdomen.