297 THE MUSCLES AND FASCI^: OF THE UPPER EXTPEMTTY. OOO^OOO- and partially underlies the scapular division of the Deltoid muscle. To the median side of the arm the anterior and posterior sheets are continuous over the sheath of the brachial artery and over the vein and the main nerve trunks. At the lower third of the arm the fascia is pierced by the basilic vein, by the internal cutaneous nerve, and by the cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The External Intermuscular Septum extends from the epicondyle upward as far as the insertion of the Deltoid. It answers in position to the external supra- condyloid ridge, and separates the Brachialis Anticus, the Supinator Longus, and the Extensor Carpi Padialis Longior from the Triceps. The musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery pass through it. The Internal Intermuscular Septum extends from the base of the epitrochlea upward along the line of the supra-trochlear ridge as far as the insertion of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle. In front fibres of the Brachialis Anticus arise from it, and behind fibres of the Triceps. This septum differs from the external in having a conspicuous fibrous band which is continu- ous with the tendinous fibres of origin of the Coraco- Brachialis muscle, Avhich pass to the inner side of the septum as far as the free end of the epitrochlea This structure is called the internal brachial liyament by Struthcrs.' Behind the band near the elbow lies the ulnar nerve. Fascia of the Forearm.—The fascia of the forearm is firmer below than above. It is strengthened near the elbow by oblique fibres, and passes to the sides from the fascia of the upper arm, and by the semilunar fascia from the tendon of insertion of the Biceps Flexor. It affords attachment to muscular fibres. Thus the Flexor Carpi Uluaris in part, the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum, the Flexor Profundus Digito- rum, the Extensor Carpi Padialis Brevior, and the Extensor Communis Digitorum, arise from this fascia. The fascia is free below the fibres of origin of these muscles. Posteriorly it may be said to be continuous with the fascia covering the Triceps and Anconeus mu.scles. Near the wrist it surrounds some of the tendons of the muscles, notably those of the Palmaris Longus in front, and of the radial extensor muscles. The radial artery and nerve are inclosed in a fiiscial membrane of loose texture; this is continued across the arm to the ulnar border. This membrane answers to the posterior layer of a sheath covering the Flexor -Sublimis Digitorum. The fascia of the forearm is much stouter than that Brit and Foreign Mud.-Cliir 38 Rev., xiv. 1854, 22.5, note. of the arm. At the sides, and in front of the elbow it is stouter than behind. The fascia covers the forearm as a tight-fitting gauntlet, and is divided for convenience into three parts, vi/.: (1), that over the Supinator Longus and the two Padial Carpal Exten- sors; (2), that originating over the epitrochlea and the muscles arising from it; and (3), that originating at and between the epicondyles and the olecranon. (1) The fascia over the Supinator Longus and the two Radial Carpal Extensors is closely incorporated with the fibres of these mu.scles. Below it holds the tendon against the radius, and retains the tendons of the extensors of the thumb firmly in their oblique position. It ends laterally in the external inter- muscular septum, and at the fascial slip overlying the Supinator Brevis. (2) The fascia arising from the epitrochlea is con- tinuous laterally with that over the Supinator Lon- gus, and incloses the radial artery in the superficial portion of its course. It is held firmly to the Pronator Radii Teres and the Flexor Carpi Padialis muscles, while affording large surfaces of origin to them. To the ulnar side of the forearm it incloses the ten- dons of the Palmaris Longus and of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. The fascia, after having been dissected from the radial to the ulnar border of the forearm along the line of these tendons, can be removed with ease from the Pronator Radii Teres and the Flexor Carpi Pa- dialis muscles at their distal halves; but it is firmly united with them at their proximal halves. It cannot be raised from tlie tendons of the Palmaris Longus and of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris; but the latter are raised with it, and the fascia inclosing them is found attached to the ulna at its radial posterior border, where it assists in the formation of an intermuscular septum. The fascia cannot be raised from the muscles between the epicondyle and the olecranon at the proximal third of the forearm. (3) The fascia extending from the epicondyle to ■the olecranon, and thence down the dorsal aspect of the forearm, is in immediate connection with the Extensor Communis Digitorum and the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. It cannot be raised at any point for any considerable distance without making an artificial dissection. A well-defined intermuscular septum dips down between the Extensor Communis Dioitoruin and the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, and the entire divi- sion of fascia is firmly attached to the ulna for nearly its entire length. The fascia of the forearm, as it passes to the hand, is called the annular lijament. The annular ligament