26c THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The Scalenus Anticus muscle arises from the ante- rior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cer- vical vertebrae from the third to the sixth. It passes downward to be inserted into the first rib at a tuber- cle in advance of the subclavian groove. Relations.—The muscle lies to the outer side of the Longus Colli and the Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. To its outer side emerges the cervical plexus of nerves. Behiud it lies the subclavian artery, while in front lies the subclavian vein. The muscle is crossed by tlie phrenic nerve obliquely from without inward, while the Omo-Hyoid crosses it from below upward and inward. The muscle is sometimes pierced by the subclavian artery. In such an instance Albinus described the posterior fasciculus as the Scalenus Minimus. The Scalenus Medius muscle arises from the poste- rior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cer- vical vertebras excepting the atlas. It passes down- ward to be inserted into the first rib at the upper border and the posterior surface. Hyrtl gives the origin of this muscle from all the trans- verse processes. Relations The Anterior Scalene lies in front of the Posterior Scalene, and the Levator Anguli Scapula behind it. Between the two Scalene muscles is a triangular space occupied by the subclavian artery and the brachial plexus of nerves. The Scalenus Posticus muscle arises from the pos- terior tubercles of the transverse processes of the last three cervical vertebras. It passes downward to be inserted into the outer surface of the second rib between its tubercle and the angle, directly in ad- vance of the insertion of a digitation of the Serratus Magnus. Variations.—Tlie Scalene muscles are compensatory with one another; they may fuse with one another. They may range in origin along all the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, the seventh alone excepted. One may be absent The Scalenus Anticus may fuse with the Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. It may be pierced by the jihrenic nerve The Scalenus Posticus may send a slip to the Leva- tor Anguli Scapulae. It may undergo longitudinal cleavage, and be inserted into the first, second, and tliird ribs. Use.—To raise the ribs upon which thej are in- serted. Henle compares the Scalenus Anticus and Scalenus Medius to the intercostal muscles, since they are in contact with the pleura, assist in closing the superior thoracic aperture, and assist in protecting the chest wall at its upper part.—Slips of the Sca- lene group, apparently detached from one of the above-named muscles, have received the names of Scalenus Lateralis, Scalenus Minimus^ and Scalenus Accessor i us. THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae from the third to the sixth. It ascends inclining slightly toward the median line, and is inserted upon the basilar process of the occipital bone. Variations—It may fuse with the Longus Colli, and in part with the Scalenus Anticus. Its slips of origin are variable in a range from the second to the fifth. THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR arises from the transverse process and anterior arch of the atlas. It passes upward and inward beneath the preceding, and is inserted into the basilar process. Variations It may be absent, or undergo longitudinal cleavage. A fascicle may join the preceding muscle. THE RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS extends from the transverse process of the atlas to the jugular process of the occipital bone. It is homo- logous with the Intertransverse muscles of the verte- bral column. Uses —The greater and the lesser Eecti muscles incline the head forward and slightly rotate it. They antagonize the muscles on the back of the neck. TPIE LONGUS COLLI. The Lcmgus Colli consists of three portions: a median, a superior, and an inferior oblique. The median portion arises from the body of the axis, and passes downward in a nearly straight line to be inserted into the bodies of the third and fourth dorsal vertebrae. The superior oblique portion arises from the tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the third and fourth cervi- cal vertebrte. The inferior portion arises from the second and third dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the ante- rior tubercles of the transverse process of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae. Use.—The Longus Colli bends the neck forward when the median fibres, or to one side when the lateral fibres contract. It may also slightly rotate the cer- vical vertebrae. Variations.—Tlie muscle may be thin or rudimentary. It may send fibres to the head of the first rib.