THE MUSCLES OF THE NECK. 257 ^*<xO^OCX> ■ THE MYLO-HYOID. The Mylo-Hjoid muscle arises from the mylo-h joid ridge of the lower jaw. Its fibres are, strictly speak- ing, entitled to the name only upon the outer margin of the muscle, since here alone are they inserted into the hyoid bone. The remaining fibres are more oblique in position, become successively shorter from below upward, and are inserted into a median raphe. This raphe, at all times indistinct, is often incomplete or absent when the division between the right and left muscle is destroyed. Use.—The Mylo-Hyoid muscle forms the muscular floor of the mouth. It assists in raising the hyoid bone and drawing it forward. It also depresses the lower jaw. Eelations The Mylo-Hyoid muscle is at once the floor of the mouth and, at least in part, the roof of the neck. It lies superficially to the Genio-Hyoid muscle; has the anterior belly of the Digastric and the submental artery superficial to it; and permits the duct of the submaxillary salivary gland to effecj entrance beyond its outer border. Upon the deep or oral surface lie the lingual nerve, the sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the alveo-lirigual groove. Variations It may be fused with the Digastric, or be absent when the last-named muscle takes its place. It may be continued by a few slips with one or more of the depres- sors of the hyoid bone. It may be perforated and dissected by the lobules or duct of the submaxillary salivary gland. THE GEXIO-HYOID. The Genio-Hyoid muscle arises from the inferior genial tubercle of the lower jaw, and passes down- ward to be inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hj^oid bone. Use.—With other muscles of its group to depress the lower jaw and to elevate the hyoid bone. Nerve.—The Genio-Hyoid is supplied by a branch of the hypoglossal nerve. Variations The muscle may undergo complete cleavage, or fuse with the corresponding muscle of the opposite side. Slight variations are met with in the extent of the mandibular and hyoidean attachments. Relations—Above is the Mylo-Hyoid. Below are the Hyo-Glossus in part, and the Genio-Glossus. THE ftENIO GLOSSUS. The Genio-Glossus muscle arises at the symphysis of the lower jaw from the upper portion of the genial tubercle. It radiates through the tongue from before backward, constituting the bulk of the structure of this organ. Under the erroneous impression that this muscle 33 secures an important origin from the body of the hyoid bone, it is frequently described under the name Genio-Hyo-Glossus. Use.—To draw the tongue forwaj'd. Nerve.—It is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. Some of the fibres of the Genio-Glossus extend from the tongue to the anterior surface of the epiglottis. Some of the fibres of the Stylo-Pharyngeus (through the pharyngo- epiglottic ligament) run to the epiglottis. An anomaly of movementof the epiglottis has been described consequent upon paralysis of the left recurrent nerve from pleuritic effusion.^ THE LINGUALIS. The Lingualis muscle lies in the substance of the tongue. It is a longitudinal fasiculus extending from the tip to the base. Some of its fibres can be traced into the Stylo-Glossus and the Hyo Glossus muscles. THE HYO-GLOSSUS. The Hyo-Glossus muscle is a thin, quadrate muscle, arising from the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone, the lateral border of the great cornu, and the lesser cornu. It passes upward and slightly forward to be inserted into the posterior lateral border of the tongue. Use.—-To aid in depressing the tongue. Nerve.—The muscle receives a branch of the hypo- glossal nerve. Relations—Above the muscle lie the Stylo-Hyoid, the Digastric, and the Mylo-Hyoid muscles, and part of the submaxillary gland. It is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and is pierced by Wharton's duct. Tiie muscle rests upon the Genio-Glossus and the origin of the Middle Constrictor. Lying conspicuously beneath it is the lingual artery, and higher up is the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Variations.—It may be comjiosed of a nunil)er of separate bundles. It may receive a slip ii'om the Thyro-Hyoid. THE STYLO GLOSSUS. The Stylo-Glossus muscle arises from the tip of the styloid process. It passes downward and forward, and is inserted into the side and base of the tongue—some of its fibres crossing those of the Hyo-Glossus. Use.-—To aid in the retraction and elevation of the tongue. Variations It may be absent. Its origin may secure accessions from the Internal Pterygoid, the angle of the lower jaw, the stylo-maxillary ligament, the tympanic portion of the temporal bone, or even from the cartilaginous external auditory meatus. Slips may pass to the pharynx. ' Schivieter, (quoted iu Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., April 8, 1875, 411.