253 THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. ribbon-shaped band. It passes forward, expanding as it does so, and is inserted upon the anterior surface of the upper tarsal cartilage. In the case of a boy aged five years, this muscle ■was found by Dr. J. Green^ torn completely across, with resultant falling of the upper eyelid. After an interval of two years the retracted end of the muscle was attached to the tarsal cartilage, and its function entirely re-established. THE RECTI AND OBLIQUE MUSCLES. The four Eecti muscles can be considered together. They arise from the borders of the optic foramen, diverging thence as straight flattened bands, and are inserted by tendinous fibres in the sclera, two or three lines from the border of the cornea. The Superior Rectus is the weakest, and is sepa- rate from the others, which have an origin almost in common. The External Eectus is the strongest of the muscles of its group. It commonly arises in two portions, the lower of which secures a small attachment from the lower edge of the sphenoidal fissure; through which opening the third and the sixth cranial nerves pass, together with the naso-ciliary branch of the fifth nerve and the ophthalmic vein. In some cases of single convergent strabismus the Internal Eectus of the squinting eye is much smaller than its fellow of the opposite side. The Superior Oblique also arises at the border of the optic foramen. It extends to the upper inner angle of the orbit, and becomes tendinous as it passes round the trochlear process of the frontal bone. Be- yond this point the muscle again assumes a fleshy appearance, is deflected backward and outward, and is inserted upon the sclera beneath the insertion of the Superior Eectus, at a point midway between the Superior and the External Eecti muscles, and nearly equidistant from the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Budge^ describes a variety of the Levator Palpebrse Superioris in which a bundle of filaments joined the Superior Oblique muscle. Relations Above is the roof of the orbit; beneath lie the nasal nerve and the Internal Rectus muscle ; the fourth nerve enters the upper surface. A minute bursa is situated beneath the tefldon of this muscle as it passes the trochlea. ' Trans. Am. Oph. Soc, 1871, 134. 2 Zeit. fiir. rat. Med.. 1859, 273. The Inferior Oblique muscle arises from the inner end of the floor of the orbit. It passes beneath the terminal portion of the Inferior Eectus above, and behind to the outer surface of the sclera, upon which it is inserted between the entrance of the optic nerve and the tendon of the External Eectus. Uses.—The Superior Eectus muscle moves the eyeball upward.—The Inferior Eectus moves it down- ward.—The Internal Eectus moves it inward.—The External Eectus moves it outward.—The Superior Oblique rotates the eyeball, and moves it downward. —The Inferior Oblique rotates the eyeball, and moves it upward. Both the oblique muscles, when acting together, can draw the eyeball slightly forward. The Superior and the Internal Eectus acting together will draw the eyeball in a direction neither upward nor inward, but in a line between. In like manner the combined action of any two related muscles will move the eyeball in a direction between the lines of traction of the muscles acting separately. The function of the Levator Palpebrae muscle is antagonized by that of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. In the normal status resulting from the harmonious action of the two muscles the upward movement of the eyelid is less pronounced than when this harmony is destroyed by paralysis of the Orbicularis. In facial palsy, for example, the upper eyelid of the affected side is raised a little higher than the other. The Levator is relaxed when the ej'clids are closed. The capsule of Tenon is a name given to a fibrous envelope of the sclera. It arises from the borders of the orbit, passes behind the conjunctiva to the corneal border, and covers the eyeball from that point as far as the entrance of the optic nerve. It is pierced by the tendons of the periocular muscles, and permits rotation of the ball to take place within its embrace. From the outer surface of the capsule delicate pro- cesses can be traced along the course of the muscles, and from its peripheral connections with the walls of the orbit septa pass, to strengthen the lachrymal sac and eyelids on the inner side, and the external palpe- bral lioament on the outer. THE PERIOCULAR SPACE. This space is defined by the eyeball and the walls of the orbit, and may be said to include the contents of the orbit; the eyeball, and the optic nerve, as it lies within the orbit, alone being excepted. The space is occupied by delicate connective tissue and fat, and being enclosed measurably by the capsule of Tenon