274 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. COO^OOC THE QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. The Quadratus Luniborum lies on the posterior wall of the abdomen, and occupies the interval between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrfe, the last rib, and the innominate bone. It arises from the posterior portion of the iliac crest and the ilio-lumbar ligament, and is inserted by tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebras, and by a broad tendon into the inferior border of the twelfth rib. Accessory tendinous slips arise from the interior trans- verse processes, and join the muscle near its insertion into, the rib. Use.—The anterior portion of the Quadratus mus- cle is considered by Meyer to be functionally distinct from the posterior. The former he identifies as a Scalenus Lumborura, and as a depressor of the last rib, while he holds the latter to be an Ileo-Lumbalis and a tractor of the lumbar vertebra?. The muscle strengthens the posterior wall of the abdomen. Eemakks.—The muscle is incised in colotomy and in nephrotomy. It is the frequent seat of pseudo- neuralgic pains grouped under the name of lumbago. The region of the loin, which in a general way is embraced within the limits of the two Quadrati and the dorsal surface of the lumbar portion of the spine, is the site to which the pains of the kidney are referred. IV. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. (1) The Muscles. The muscles of the upper extremity embrace an extrinsic and an intrinsic set. The Extrinsic muscles include the following:— The Trapezius. The Latissimus Dorsi. . The Rhomboideus. The Levator Anguli Scapulaa. The Pectoralis Major. The Subclavius. The Pectoralis Minor. The Serratus Magnus. The Deltoid.i ' The Deltoid is, in a strict sense, an intrinsic mnscle. It has been included in the extrinsic set for the reason that its relations are with the Trapezius, with whicli it is fused in the majority of animals. All the remaining muscles of the upper extremity belong to the intrinsic set. THE trapezius. The Trapezius presents a triangular figure, the base of which rests along the line of the vertebral spines, the apex being directed toward the shoulder. The upper or occipital border is rounded, while the lower or dorsal is pointed.—^The muscle arises by a thin aponeurosis from the occipital bone at the pro- tuberance, and at the median third of the superior semicircular line; from the ligamentum nuchse, the lower cervical and all the dorsal spines, as well as from the supraspinous ligaments between them.—The upper fibres pass downward, outward, and forward to be inserted into the upper border of the spine of the scapula its entire length, and also into the acromion and the acromial end of the clavicle.—The lower fibres, from the third to the twelfth dorsal spines, pass upward to glide over the triangular area at the base of the spine, and to be inserted by a narrow ten- don into the median or axillary half of this portion of the scapula. Use.—The Trapezius, when acting as a whole, fixes and serves to maintain the position of the scapula against the trunk, an action in which it is assisted by the Serratus Magnus.—The upper fibres can raise the scapula and the clavicle.—The middle fibres tend also to raise the scapula by increasing the obliquity of its spine, and by elevating the glenoid angle. They are of special use in fixing the scapula in this position preparatory to the action of the Deltoid and the Supra-Spinatus muscles.—The ascending fibres draw the scapula downward and backward to the position of rest, thus antagonizing the remaining fibres. The ascending fibres may aid the Latissimus Dorsi. When the insertion of the Trapezius is fixed, the upper fibres draw the head backward and outward toward the shoulder.—When both sides act conjointly, the head is pulled directly back.—When the body is suspended by the raised upper extremity, the lower fibres can twist the vertebral column toward the shoulder. The description of the Trapezius embraces the follow- ing details:— The muscle arises entirely by tendinous points, which at the occiput are closely adherent to the skin, and are of a dull ligamentous hue From the sixth cervical to the third dorsal spine the fibres of origin are glistening and con- spicuous. Tliey increase in length toward the base of the neck, and abruptly diminish at the upper dorsal spines, ;iud