THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. 251 cxxO^OOo— — mal, as in facial eccliymosis or emphysema, it is seen that a free communication by means of the connec- tive tissue exists between the neighboring parts and the region of the muscles of expression. Ecchy- mosis is commonly limited to the injured spot, but sometimes, as in old persons, it may be extensive. After fracture of the jaw ecchymotic swelling may rapidly spread from the point of lesion downward under the skin of the neck and chest, upward to the cheek, and to the lower eyelid of the opposite side, as well as inward to the mucous membrane both of the hard and of the soft palate. Emphysema of the face is more rare. It may follow fracture of the frontal bone over the sinus, when it will be limited to the parts about the forehead; or an ulcer of the mucous membrane may give rise to it. T. P. Heslop' narrates a case of fatal emphysema in a boy aged four years, who, while recovering from measles, suffered from ulceration at the angle of the mouth. The air-distended connective tissue extended from this point downward along the entire length of the trunk. At the autopsy it was found that the mucous membrane at the oral angle was separated from the integument, so that the handle of a scalpel could be inserted nearly an inch into the cheek. The Fat of the face is abundant beneath the cheeks, but is sparsely distributed upon the lips, the nose, the eyelids, and the forehead. The fibres of some of the muscles are interspersed with lobules of fat, as is well seen in the depressor of the lower lip. As a rule, however, the fat lies beneath the skin and around the more superficial muscles, or is less uni- formly distributed among the deeper muscles. A pad is quite constantly found beneath the quadrate ele- vator of the upper lip and the elevator of the oral angle; and a second between the latter muscle and the bone about the infra-orbital nerve. The fat presents a granulated appearance in the in- fant. The fulness of the cheek in the young is not due to the superficial layer alone, but to the deeper- seated mass lying partly upon the Buccinator and partly upon the Masseter muscle. Tlie latter-named mass has received the name of the "button" from its figure, which is abruptly constricted at its base, where it is continuous with the fat of the temporal fossa. The "button" is surrounded by capsule-like connec- tive tissue, and is crossed by branches of the trans- verse facial nerve. As a natural result of the pro- minence of the cheek in a young child, a fall upon the face is apt to result in its injury. If laceration I Med. Times and Gaz., 1868, 638. should involve the "button," this structure may appear, according to Boyers,^ between the lips of the wound. In facial cedema the degree of effusion of serum into the tissues of the region of expression will be naturally determined by the distribution of the fat and the connective tissue. In determining the degree of impairment in the return of the venous blood upon which the occurrence of oedema depends, it is found that the amount of facial cedema bears an exact relation to the amount of involvement of the sub- mucous connective tissue. In the familiar instance of swelling of the face accompanying an alveolar abscess, the exciting cause lies within the alveolar process, which transmits the irritalion to the sub- mucous connective tissue, and thence to the cheek.^ When the oedema is excessive, as in erysipelas, the buccal and the labial tissues will be first af- fected. The lips will be everted and thickened, and the eye closed, more, however, by the pushing upward of the lower eyelid by the engorged buccal tissues than by any change in the structures of the upper eyelid.^ In the swelling of decomposition the lips become greatly everted, and the lower eyelid puffed up. These are due to both of the causes abive mentioned. The position of local oedema of the forehead is determined as follows: The resistance on both sides furnished by the skin without and the pericranium within is so great that the swelling assumes a flat- tened form, and gravity will aid it in taking a position below its point of origin. Thus, in a person stung on the forehead by a bee, the greater amount of swelling takes place leloiu the injured point. " Med. Times and Gazette, 1868, 138. 2 Involvement of a mucous surface tends to the formation of submucous oedema in all instances. In the intestines, however, the presence of a serous covering materially modifies the process, and indeed the fluid is forced, through increased activity of the fol- licular glands, directly into the alimentary canal. The process ig also modified in the trachea and the bronchial tubes. In the mouth, the nose, tlie pharynx, and the parts about the glottis, there is no such limitation, and cedema is developed at once in the submucous tissue. 3 Another example of submucous oedema is seen in the conjunc- tival chamber. A very slight degree of irritation will cause in this region protrusion of the conjunctival membrane, which, when the irritation is excessive, is seen to escape from the pal- pebral chamber and to lie as a red and thickened fold between the lids. Tliis condition is recognized as ckemosis. Persistent che- mosis leads to general infiltration of the structures of the lids when the subcutaneous tissues become involved. This, however, is not coniraon except in severe general ophthalmia. It is an interesting fact that a subcutaneous oedema may be dependent upon one which primarily was of submucous origin.