269 THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. THE MULTIFIDUS SPIN^. The several bundles of the Multifidus Spinas arise from the articular and transverse processes of the vertebral column from the sacrum to the axis, and are inserted into the spinous processes. They are short, and each may include simply the distance from its origin to the spine of the next vertebra above. Many, however, pass to the second or third spine. Compared with the size of the muscle the quantity of fibrous tissue within it is unusually great. In the sacral region fasciculi arise from the groove on the back and the lateral sacral crest; in the lumbar, from the mammillary processes; in the dorsal, from the transverse processes; and in the cervical, from the articular processes of the four lower vertebrae A deeper set, which is developed in the dorsal region, and which passes from the transverse processes to the laminae of the vertebraj above, has i-eceived the name of the Rotatores Spinoj. Use.—To aid in rotating the vertebrse. Remarks.—The post-cervical muscles when divided, as by a sabre-cut, allow the head to sag forward, and the chin to rest upon the sternum as remarked by Larrey.^ It follows that, in oi-der to preserve the rest necessary to secure union between the lips of sxich a wound, the head must be supported in an upright position. Tiie tension of tlie muscles of the back has been shown to be sufficient to squeeze out the contents of an encephaloid tumor situated upon the back.^ A ball can gravitate from the occiput to the sacrum. An enormous abscess beneath the skin of the back n;ay be caused by the unsuspected presence of such a missile. The collection will be limited below by the crests of the iliac bones, and by the posterior sacral aponeuroses. Illustrative cases are mentioned by Portal,^ and were observed by the author during ihe American civil war. The muscles of the back are not efficient in main- taining the erect position of the body, but guide and limit its movements. The cervical muscles, while consisting of differen- tiations of the muscular layers pertaining to the region of the back, are often the factors in torticollis and in associated conditions with which the lower muscles have little or nothing to do. M. J. Moses,^ in the course of a careful study of these muscles in relation to the treatment of a case of traumatic torti- 1 Memoirs, i. 313. * Holmes's System of Svirgery, i. 523. 3 Anatomie Medicale, ii. 12. * New York Med. Jouni., 1873, xvii. 58. collis, found that the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle was not the primary cause of the deformity, but that it was due to an inflammation occurring in the neck on one side, with resulting contraction of the whole or part of the following muscles: The Trapezius, Splenius Capitis, Rectus Posticus Capitis Major, Rectus Posticus Capitis Minor, Obliquus Superior, and Obliquus Inferior behind; and the Rectus Capitis Anticus Major, Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor, and Rectus Capitis Lateralis in front. Dr. John Struthers^ found the muscles normally arising from the spinous process of the axis displaced to the spinous process of the third vertebra. The spine of the axis lacked its usual bifurcation and great size. The inferior oblique retained a small slip of origin from the axis. It was held by this observer that the epispinous bones (represented in the two tubercles which are usually developed from the spinous process of the axis for the attachment of the Rectus Major and the Obliquus Inferior muscle) had by some unknown cause become detached, and had slipped to the spine of the adjoining vertebra below. The Muscles op the Thorax. The muscles of this group are the following:— The Intercostals. The Triangularis Sterni. the intercostal muscles. The Intercostal muscles are two in numlier for each intercostal space. They constitute a series of eleven muscles situated on either side of the thorax. The Internal Intercostal muscle occupies the deeper of the two planes of the intercostal space. It fills the anterior portion, namely, from the angle of the rib forward to the sternal extremity. Its fibres are directed obliquely downward and backward. An aponeurotic extension is continued backward from each muscle to the vertebras. Under the name of tlie Subcostal muscles are included a few subpleural fasciculi which are separated from the plane of the intercostal muscles, and which pass over two or three intercostal spaces. The External Intercostal muscle lies to the outer side of the Internal; its fibres are directed down- ward and forivard^ and are to be found from the tubercles of the ribs forward to near the ends of the costal cartilages. At this point they are continuous ' Ediiiburgli Med. Journ., May, 1SG3, 1041.