THE MUSCLES AND FASCIJ3. 278 oOO^OOc vertebral border of the scapula between the insertion of the Ehomboideus muscle and the origin of the Subscapularis. When the arm is raised from the vertical to the horizontal position, four obliquely placed muscular elevations are seen on the parietes of the trunk. They answer to the digitations of the Serratus from the sixth to the ninth. Use.—The Serratus Magnus intervenes as a soft muscular cushion between the scapula and the sides of the chest. A bursa, which sometimes exists be- tween it and the scapula, lessens friction. When the entire muscle contracts, the ribs being fixed, the scapula is drawn forward (adducted) and held firmly against the thorax, thus enabling the muscles arising from the scapula to secure definite lines of traction. The position described precedes the action of the Del- toid, the Coraco-Brachialis, the Pectoralis Major, the Pectoralis Minor, the Triceps, the Supra-Spinatus, the Infra-Spinatus, the Teres Major, and the Teres Minor muscles. The most important of these is the Deltoid, which cannot effectually raise the arm from the ver- tical to the horizontal position unless the scapula has been previously fixed by the Serratus Magnus.—When the entire muscle contracts, the scapula being re- tracted by the Levator Anguli Scapulge, the Serratus, together with the Trapezius and Rhomboidei, assists in raising the ribs.—The Trapezius and Ehomboidei muscles may be considered as antagonistic in action to the Serratus in most of the motions of the scapula. The interval between the Serratus Magnus and the Ehomboideus, at the vertebral scapular border, may be, it is true, compared to an intermuscular septum, as seen in one of the semilunar lines of the abdomen ; and Barwell^ conceives that when the Serratus and the Ehomboidei act together, traction can be made, as though their fibres were component parts of a single muscle, from the fixed ribs directly to the yielding spinal column, and that this movement may, under favorable conditions, produce one of the varieties of lateral spinal curvature.—Paralysis of the Serratus will cause the scapula to be drawn upward by the action of the muscles named above, and the vertebral border to be notably projected from the sides of the body.—When the upper fasciculus acts independently of the rest of the muscle, it, together with the Pecto- ralis "Minor, pulls forward and downward the glenoid scapular angle.^ 1 Lateral Curvature of the Spine, 1870, 30. 2 For a careful study of the uses of the Serratus Magnus, see Busch, Langenbeck's Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie, 1863, 43 ; also Ducbenne, Pbysiologie des Mouvements. Nerve.—The Serratus Magnus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve. The muscle may be divided into three portions, as follows: The first (upper) arises by a single slip from the lower border of tiie first rib, from the external face of the second, and from a fibrous band extending across the first interosseous space. It is inserted into the smooth triangular facet at the upper vertebral border of the scapula near the angle. This fasci- culus is separated from the rest of the muscle by a narrow cellular interval. Instances have been recorded in which tliis slip was absent Tlie second, or middle division, arises below the first, from the second, third, and fourth ribs, where the Pectoralis Minor is thin, and sometimes in part also from the aponeurosis of the External Intercostal muscle. Its fibres pass outward, spreading as they do so, to assume a fan-like form, and are inserted into the vertebral border for nearly its entire extent. This division may be absent, while the upper and lower are intact The third, or lower division, arises from the remaining ribs, viz., the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, nintl), and sometimes the tenth. The muscles of this division are arranged in a convex manner upon the ribs (tlie sixth slip being the most pronounced), and interdigitate with the upper fibres of origin of the ICxternal Oblique muscle. The fibres from this extensive origin converge, as they pass upward and backward, to form a thick rounded mass, whicli becomes somewhat twisted on itself as it is inserted into the inferior angle of the scapula. There is no cellular interval between the middle and the lower divisions. Variations The Serratus Magnus frequently possesses nine digitations, which arise from but eight ribs, two slips arising from the second. The number of ribs covered by the muscle may vary from eight to ten. Luschka describes the lower division as overlaid in old subjects with a thin layer of firm aponeurotic tissue. TIIE DELTOID. The Deltoid muscle resembles the Greek letter a inverted, the upper border being irregularly concave. It arises from the outer concave portion of the clavicle (anterior or median fibres), from the anterior portion of the acromion (middle fibres), from the greater portion of the under lip of the spine of the scapula, and from the infra-spinous fascia near the axillary border (posterior or lateral fibres). The anterior and poste- rior fibres pass downward obliquely, the middle verti- cally, and are inserted at corresponding parts of the deltoid ridge of the humerus. The median fascicles are closely united with the acromio-clavicular ligament, while they are separated from the greater tuberosity by means of a large bursa. Use.—The muscle, contracting as a whole, and act- ing upon its insertion, raises the arm to the horizontal position. The anterior fibres, when they act alone, raise and