THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. 330 -c-OO^OOo Deep Disskctton of the PEBTNErM.—a. Ischio-cavornosiis muscle. Ts. BiiTho. cavernosus muscle, c. Triangular ligaincut. D, E.\terual poniou of sjiliiiic- tcr aui muscle, f. Bulbous portion of the urethra, o. Levator ani muscle. H. Transversus perinei profundus, i. Fibres of the same constricting the ure- thra. K. Section of the crus penis, a. Internal pudic artery, b. Dorsal artery of the penis, c. Artery of the cavernous body. d. Deep muscular and ure- thral branch. 1. Pudic nerve. 2. Muscular branch of the same. 3. Doisal nerve of the penis. The Obturator Fascia is the proper fascial covering of the Obturator Internus muscle. It lines the wall of the true pelvis, receives the pelvic fascia from above, gives origin to the Levator Ani muscle, and is connected with the lateral margin of the deep peri- neal fascia and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Tlie Pelvic Fascia.—This membrane forms the sub- peritoneal fascia of the pelvic organs Like the sub- peritoneal connective tissue with Avhich it is con- tinuous, the pelvic fascia is loose where it lies near the peritoneum. But as it reaches the lower part of the pelvis, and particularly as it advances to the ante- rior portion, it becomes thicker, until in the neighbor- hood of the pubis and the prostate gland it is aponeu- rotic in structure. The pelvic fascia is composed of two portions, a parietal and a visceral. The 2Ki7-ietal portion or layer extends from the ilio- pectineal line to the origin of the Levator Ani mus- cle, and from the pubis to the great ischiatic notch. It lies in contact and is incorporated with the obtu- rator fascia as well as with the side of the prostate gland and the rectum. Posteriorly, the pelvic fascia crosses the Pyriformis muscle and is united to the anterior surface of the sacrum by four or five slips. Each interspace between the sacrum and the fascia is occupied by a ganglion of the sympathetic nerve. Below, the fascia is intimately associated with the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament. The visceral portion or layer consists of slips or bands from the parietal layer, which, passing down- ward, embrace the deep pelvic viscera. The bands are : (//) The median and lateral true ligaments of the bladder. These are small slips arising from the pa- rietal layer at the pubis and passing to the lower por- tion of the bladder. (J) The posterior layer of the tri- angular ligament. This arises from the posterior lip of the*pubic arch, and passes thence downward; it is pierced by the membranous portion of the urethra, by the dorsal vein of the penis, by the artery of the penis, and by the dorsal nerve. Bands extending from it along the sides of the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder form the so-called ligamentum piiho-prostati- cum and the liyamentum pubo-vesicale. (c) A fascial envelope of the prostate gland continuous with the foregoing, and passing backward to the sides of the bladder and the rectum. This is an important layer, since it embraces the prostatic plexus and is divided in lithotomy, {d) A layer (recto-vesical fascia) pass- ing below the prostate gland and extending upward and backward between the rectum and the bladder, separating these viscera and embracing the vesicuhe seminales. According to Denonvilliers, it is continu- ous with the peritoneum, and forms the prostatico- peritoneal ligament, (e) A slip from the ischium to the prostate gland. (/) A slip from the parietal layer which joins its fellow of the opposite side behind the rectum. (2) The perineum studied from lenecdh. The skin of the perineum is marked in the median line by a raphe. The fasciaj are three in number:— The Superficial Fascia. The Fascia Propria. The Pelvic Fascia. Tlte Superficial Fascia is composed of two layers: The first layer is continuous with the superficial fascia of the trunk and the limbs. It can be traced ante- riorly into the dartos of the scrotum, and posteriorly, by means of the fat within its meshes, into the ischio- rectal fossa. The second layer, also called the deep) perineal fascia.^ is membranous, and serves as an aponeurosis to the Ischio-Cavernosus, the Bulbo-Cavernosus, and the Transversus Perinei muscles. It is attached to the sides of the inferior outlet of the pelvis as far back as the transverse imaginary line, Avherc it becomes thin, and is lost in the perineal centre. It is here continu- ous above with the fascia propria. Anteriorly the