TIIE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 287 tendon of tlie lateral portion is distinct above the wrist. Ac- cording to Henle, the fourtli and fifth slips are united, while the second and third are distinct. All the tendons pass under the anterior annular ligament and diverge in the palm, each to pierce the corresponding tendon of the Flexor Subliniis Digitorum at the first pha- lanx of the second, third, fourth, and fifth fingers, and to be finally inserted by a broad tendon on the base of the third phalanx beneath the insertion of the capsule. As the tendon lies in the sheath with the superficial flexor it is marked by a median sulcus which is sufficiently deep to separate the tendon into two l)undles. The tendon within the finger is held to the tendon of the superficial flexor and chiasmal fibres at and in advance of the carpo-phalangeal joint by one or more minute, thread-like bands {vincida). They are covered with the synovial vascular, villiform pro- cesses, and present concave edges. Attached to the tendons of the two Flexors are four remarkable muscles—the Lum- bricales (r/.v.). Variations of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum embrace a cleavage by which the portion for the index finger is en- tirely distinct; excess of development, shown in a large sur- face of origin from the radius and the coronoid process of the ulna; fusion in part with the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum; insignificant variations in the origins of the Lumbricales muscles, and fusion in the forearm of the tendons for the third, the fourth, and the fifth fingers. THE LUMBRICALES. The Lumbricales muscles are delicate, fusiform slips, four iu number, accessory to the tendons of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. Each muscle arises from a digital division of the flexor in the neighbor- hood of the proximal ends of the metacarpal bones, and ending in a tendon is inserted on the dorsal aponeurosis of the fingers in close relationship with the tendons of the Extensor Communis Digitorum and the Dorsal Interossei muscles. Use.—The Lumbricales extend the last two phal- anges, and flex the first phalanx, and in these acts assist the action of the Interossei. The first Lumbri- cal is a feeble abductor of the first phalanx of the index finger. The function of the Lumbricales per- sists after the loss of flexion and extension, as seen in some forms of paralysis. They apparently give steadiness to the terminal phalanges at the same time that these distal bones are being acted upon by the tendons of the deep Flexor. Variations—The Lumbricales in their variations are seen to become more intimately associated with tlie Flexors of the fingers, particularly the deep Flexor. ISTcrve.—The first and second Lumbricals are sup- plied by the median nerve; the third and fourth by the ulnar nerve. Thus these accessory slips of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum receive nerve sup- ' ply from both the median and ulnar nerves as well as the flexor muscle itself. THE FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS arises from the anterior surface of the radius from the oblique line, as far as the tubercle, to near the i upper edge of the insertion of the Pronator Quad- ratus. It also derives some fibres from the radial half of the interosseous membrane. It becomes ten- I dinous at the lower third of the forearm, the ten- don passing beneath the annular ligament, close to the median side of the trapezium, and is inserted into the terminal phalanx of the thumb. Its tendon in the palm closely resembles the index slip from the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. A stout fibrous border runs alontr the median edo;e its entire length. Use.—To flex the thumb. Its tendon moves as over a pulley round the trapezium in the initiation of flexion, the thumb being forcibly extended. Nerve.—The Flexor Longus Pollicis is supplied by the median nerve. Relations Above it is the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Below are the radius and the Pi'onator Quadratus. To tlie inner side is the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. In the palnj it lies in the large cellular interspace between the two heads of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, but on the thumb it is confined within a sheath. Variations The muscle may undergo longitudinal cleav- age throughout its length. It may receive, commonly, slips from the coronoid process (some writers believe them to be constant), the internal condyle, and the Brachialis Anticus. It may send slips to the first Lumbrical, or to the deep Flexor. It may be absent. A distinct slip may arise at the radius, at the upper margin of the Pronator Quadratus. THE PRONATOR QUADRATUS. The Pronator Quadratus is a small square muscle lying at the lower fourth of the forearm beneath all other muscles. It arises froin the inner and posterior surface of the ulna at its lower fourth and extends across the interosseous membrane toward the radius, where it is inserted upon its anterior surface and outer edoe at the lower fourth of the bone. A thin I fibrous expansion is ofteit seen upon the anterior surface. It is more aponeurotic at its origin than at its insertion. Use.—To pronate the forearm. In this act it is assisted by the Pronator Radii Teres and the Flexor* Carpi Radialis. Its connection with the ulno-radial capsule may be of use in withdrawing the anterior wall from the facets during pronation.