272 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIiE, cxxi^^C^xs tending from the thorax to the innominate bone, and constituting in part the side and the front of the ab- dominal wall. It arises from the anterior outer sur- faces of the ribs frona the fourth to the twelfth. Above, it interdigitates with the origin of the Serratus Magnus, from the fourth to the eighth rib, and below with the Latissimus Dorsi. The posterior fibres pass vertically downward from the last ribs, and are inserted fleshy into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium. The remaining fibres pass obliquely downward and inward, and are in- serted into the linea alba and Poupart's ligament. Poupart's ligament is a tendinous extension lying between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the pubis. It is continuous above with the aponeurosis of the External Oblique muscle, and below with the fascia of the thigh. At its insertion it aids in forming the external abdominal ring. The external abdominal ring is an oblique narrow triangular opening situated one inch to the outer side of the pubis, and designed for the escape of the spermatic cord. It is bounded externally by Pou- part's ligament, and internally by the aponeurotic fibres of the External Oblique muscle. The outer border is called the outer column or pillar, and the inner the inner column or pillar. A small number of sparsely distributed curved fibres stretching from one to the other have received the name of the inter- columnar filn-es; these, becoming strengthened below, have been called the intercolumnar fascia. Relations—Below is the Internal Oblique muscle, a small fasciculus of wliicli lies beyond the postei'ior vertical fibres. THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE. Tlie Internal Oblique muscle (Plate L. fig. 2) is situated beneath the External Oblique. It is a broad sheet of muscular fibre extending upward and for- ward, and thicker in the middle than at the sides. It arises from the lumbar aponeurosis, from the crest of the ilium and its anterior superior spinous process, and from the outer half of Poupart's ligament. The fibres from the lumbar aponeurosis and the beginning of the iliac crest pass nearly vertically up- ward, and are inserted into the twelfth rib. Those arising from the remaining portion of the iliac crest pass obliquely forward and upward, and are inserted into the lower margin of the cartilages of the ninth to the eleventh ribs and into the ensiform cartilage and the linea semilunaris of the abdominal wall; while those arising from Poupart's ligament pass forward in a radiating manner into the linea semilmiaris, and into the tendinous structures continuous with it at the symphysis pubis. The aponeurosis of the muscle is broader above than below, and extends from the inferior margin of the thorax to the Eectus Abdominis at the outer border of which it divides, the one portion going in front to be lost in the aponeurosis of the External Oblique, the other passing behind to be continuous with the aponeurosis of the Transversalis muscle. The anterior portion is weaker than the posterior, and is abruptly terminated about midway between the umbilicus and the pubis to form the semilunar fold of Douglas. But while the Pectus at this part of the abdomen is thus weakened, it is strengthened in front by the undivided aponeurosis of the Transversalis, and at the side by the union of the aponeuroses of the Inter- nal Oblique and Transversalis muscles. This union constitutes the so-called " conjoined tendon," which is inserted into the symphysis pubis. The Cremaster muscle is a special arrangement of the fibres of the Internal Oblique muscle which de- scends in front of the spermatic cord. It is attached at the inner end to Poupart's ligament and to the spine and crest of the pubis. Between thei?e points the loop-like fibres dip down and are incorporated with the cremasteric fascia. A transverse line (linea transversa) often extends from tlie tenth rib; less frequently a similar one corresponds in position to the eleventh. THE TBANSVERSALIS. The Transversalis muscle (Plate L. fig. 3) arises from the deep or anterior layer of the vertebral apon- eurosis, from the lower borders of the six lower ribs, and from the inner lip of the iliac crest at its anterior two-thirds. Its fibres are of unequal length, the middle being the longest. It unites with the Internal Oblique at the origin of the latter from Poupart's ligament, and at the conjoined tendon, as already noticed. It is inserted by a thin aponeurosis into the posterior layer of the sheath of the Pectus mus- cle, except at the lower portion where it joins the In- ternal Oblique in passing in front. The aponeurosis is narrower than the other abdominal muscles. THE RECTUS ABDOMINIS. The Pectus Abdominis muscle arises from the upper border and anterior surface of the pubis. It passes upw^ard as a broad ribbon-shaped muscle, and is inserted into the outer sides of the cartilages of the fiftli, sixth, and seventh ribs, and the ensiform