248 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA. ■ o<o«C.^OO« its growth surrounding parts; while a fibrous tumor by its increase will displace the surrounding tissues, or cause them to atrophy. Gendrin^ has observed that when the subserous cellular tissue, which always participates in the inflam- mation of a serous membrane, penetrates into the interior of an organ, it becomes a ready means of communicating the inflammatory action; but whea the contiguous organ or subjacent part is of a structure different from that of the cellular tissue the extension inward is checked. I. THE MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. The muscles of the head form four groups— The Muscles of the Face. The Muscles of the Auricle. The Muscles of the Orbit. The Muscles of Mastication. The Muscles of the Face. The muscles of the face are divided into three sets: Tlie fronto-palpebral; the nasal; and the oral grou ps. The Fronto-Palpebral Group is composed of— The Occipito-Frontalis. The Pyramidalis Nasi. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum. The Corrugator Supercilii. THE OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS. This muscle consists of two portions—the occipital and the frontal—separated by an aponeurosis. The occipital portion arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior semi-circular line and from the mastoid por- tion of the temporal bone. It ascends a short distance (about two inches) to terminate in the aponeurosis. The frontal portion arises from the aponeurosis near the frontal eminence, and passes downward to be inserted into the brow, becoming thence continuous with the Pyramidalis Nasi. Both portions are thin, sheet-like expansions of muscular tissue, the occipital, however, being less intimately associated with the skin than the frontal. The aponeurosis—the epicranial aponeurosis or galea aponeurotica—is a beautiful fibrous expansion uniting the occipital and frontal portions of the Occipito-Frontalis, and inclosing the crown of the head as a cap. It is intimately associated with the ' Histoire Anatomique des Inflammation, i. 314. scalp above (a sparse distribution of granules of fat here and there intervening), a tedious dissection being- required to separate them. It is very loosely attached to the pericranium, a little loose connective tissue alone intervening. Laterally the aponeurosis is gradu- ally lost in the superficial temporal aponeurosis, and affords attachment to the Attollens and Attraliens Aurem muscles. Use.—The Occipito-Frontalis elevates the brows in conjunction with the Pyramidalis. Tiie conjoined action of the inner portions of both muscles may depress the median portion of the skin of the forehead. To secure this action the lateral part of the muscle must be active in elevating the brow. Some individuals, by the alternate contraction of the occipital and frontal portions, are able to move the scalp backward and forward. THE PYRAMIDALIS NASI. This muscle, as already stated, is a continuation of the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis muscle downward upon the nose, where it terminates in an aponeurosis in common with the origin of the Com- pressor Naris. THE ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM is, as the name expresses, the muscle of the eyelids. It, moreover, surrounds the orbital margins, and encroaches slightly upon the temple and the face. It thus consists of two portions, the palpebral covering the lids, and the orbital surrounding the orbit. The palpebral portion arises from the palpebral ligament, and describes an ellipse entirely upon the lids. The orbital portion arises from the inner border of the orbit at the nasal process of the superior maxilla. Its ellipse is interrupted at the brow by the fibres of the occipito-frontalis muscle. Below an oblique fasciculus passes downward and inward from the outer border of the muscle to the Levator Labii Supe- rioris. While the inner and upper borders are fixed, the lower and outer are free. The fasciculi at the brow are short and compact, but those overlying the external angular process and the malar eminence are long, and exhibit a looser texture. Use.—By the palpebral fibres to elevate the lower eyelid and to depress the upper. By the orbital fibres to act as a sphincter to the region about the lids. The former fibres are involuntary, while the latter are under the control of the Avill.