281 THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. -xx^^ooo- Some fibres also arise from the intermuscular septum between the Teres Major and the long head of the Triceps muscle. The muscle presents a more or less regularly fasciculated appearance, which is due to fibres arising tendinously from the minute ridges of the venter—those from the depressions between them being fleshy. The tendon is broad, and is inserted at the lesser tuberosity and at a slight distance below it on the surgical neck of the humerus. The upper part of the tendon is lost in the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Use.—The Subscapularis rotates the humerus in- ward. According to Dnchenne, it assists in pronation. Nerve.—The nerve is derived from the subscapular. Between the tendon, the neck of the scapula, and the base of the coracoid process, a bursa is seen which coninnunicates with the slioulder-joint, and which is lined with synovial membrane—Some of the lower fibres of the muscle termi- nate wliile still flesliy upon the humerus. Gruber compares tliis slip to an offshoot like tliat of the Teres Minor to the Infra-Spinatus muscle—Henke asserts that the tendon is inserted into the capsule to prevent the nipping of the latter in tiie motions of tlie humerus Tlie lower fibres of the muscle may be attaclied in part to a fibrous prolongation that completes the bicipital groove posteriorly The fasciculi on the venter are five in number, and present intervals within which are seen five otlier fasciculi, by the convergence of which tlie tendon of insertioii is formed. Variations—Tlie chief variations of tiie Subscapularis consist of errors in longitudinal cleavage and in an occasional accessory slip passing from tlie lower border of the scapula to the capsule of tlie shoulder-joint, or over the capsule to tlie humerus. Slips may be received from tlie Pectoralis Major. The Muscles of the Upper Arm. The muscles of the upper arm include— The Coraco-Brachialis. The Biceps Flexor Cubiti. • The Brachialis Anticus. The Triceps. The Anconeus. THE CORACO-BRACHIALIS. The Coraco-Brachialis muscle arises tendinouslv from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula in common with the short head of the Biceps, and hy fleshy fibres from the posterior surface of the tendon of the short head of the same muscle. The muscle is slender and flat, is directed downward and backward to be inserted into the median border of the humerus about on a level with the deltoid ridge, and by a few fibres into the internal intermuscular septum. In muscular subjects the belly of the Coraco-Brachialis can be detected when the forearm is. flexed. 36 Use.—To carry the arm forward and inward, and at the same time to slightly elevate it. It also makes tense the internal intermuscular septum, thus render- ing it a fixed surface for the origin of other muscles. Nerve.—This is derived from the external cuta- neous nerve. A cleft usually exists in the origin and body of tliis muscle, permitting the escape of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Variations.—Among these are to be noticed: (1) The increase of the size of the cleft just mentioned, so tiiat the entire muscle is split into two portions. (2) Rarely, the muscle or the slip to the internal intermuscular septum is absent. (3) The muscle may arise in common with the tendon of insertion of the Pectoralis Minoi-. (4) It may undergo imperfect planar cleavage, exhibited in short slips passing from the coracoid process to the capsule of tiie shoulder-joint, or to the neck of the humerus. (5) Probably belonging to tlie same group are the slips which pass between the tendon of tlie Subscapularis muscle and the brachial fascia, as well as otiiers which pass from the tendons of tiie Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major muscles to tlie tendon of the Coraco-Brachialis. (6) An accession may [)ass to the external intermuscular septum.' THE BICEPS FLEXOR CUBITL This muscle arises by two heads, as the name ex- presses, and is inserted into the tuberosity of the radius. The long or reflected head arises from the edge of the glenoid cavity, penetrates to the interior of the shoulder-joint, and winds over the head of the humerus to enter the bicipital groove, within which it is retained by a number of transverse fibrous bands. It joins the belly of the muscle, just below the inferior border of the Pectoralis Major, about the middle of the arm.—The short head arises by a broad flat tendon from the coracoid process of the scapula. It unites with the main mass at about the same point as the long head. The muscle, thus constituted, presents a conspicuous eminence on the anterior sur- face of the arm. Its posterior border is flattened, its anterior convex, and just above the elboAv it termi- nates abruptly in a tendon, which is slightl}^ twisted upon itself as it approaches its insertion upon the posterior portion of the tubercle of the radius. A bursa mucosa is seen surrounding the long tendon of origin, and another beneath the tendon of insertion. At the insertion of the muscle a slip of fascia (semilunar fascia) is given off from the ulnar border, and is lost upon the fascia of the forearm, which it materially strengthens. 1 For relations of tliis imisclii to the fascia see account of tlie fascia of the arm.