265 THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. ooO^O-O-s • or probe should be used to separate the matted tissues below- the well-defined layers of fascia. In a case of fracture of the right clavicle, under the care of Erichsen,^ a red and oedematous swelling, which was noticed at the base of the neck, filled up the supra-clavicular depression and overlapped the pro- minence of the bone. Such involvement of the con- nective tissue of the neck from injuries to the clavicle is rare. J. W. Cusack^ describes a tumor which occupied the supra-hyoid space, and extended thence below to the thyroid cartilage and above to the left ear. The mass had displaced the submaxillary gland upon the jaw, and pushed the Digastric and Stylo-Hj^oid muscles upward, and the external carotid artery out- ward. It also involved the greater cornu of the hyoid bone and the hypoglossal nerve. In its re- moval the external carotid artery was ligated, and the hypoglossal nerve cut through. The patient recovered with atrophy and paralj'sis of the corre- sponding side of the tongue. Abscess of the upper part of the neck, namely, from the hyoid bone upward, has an inclination to pass directly backward and involve the base of the tongue and the region of the epiglottis.^ Two cases are given by G. Buck,* in which the corresponding half of the epiglottis, together with the aryteno-epi- glottidean fold, became involved from such an abscess. In one of these patients death ensued from oedema of the glottis. Mohrenheim's fossa is the name given to the de- pression above the clavicle to the outer side of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. The subclavian artery can be compressed against the first rib at this point. Incision or the exploration of sinuses, in this region, should be made with caution. The numerous small veins bleed freely, owing probably to their cut ends being made patulous by their connection with the cervical fascia. III. THE MUSCLES OF THE TEUNK. The muscles of the trunk^ embrace— The Muscles of the Back. The Muscles of the Thorax. ' Lancet, Dec. 24, 1870. 2 Dublin Hospital Reports, i., 1818, 205. s R. W. Smith, Dub. Quart. Journ., 1846, i. 553. * N. Y. Med. Journ., 18G6, ii. 36. ' In a classification of muscles based upon physiological con- siderations, the muscles of the trunk do not include those of the perineum, some of which belong to the alimentary canal, and 34 The Diaphragm. The Muscles of the Abdomen. The Muscles of the Back. The best arrangement of the muscles of the back is that based upon their functions. In the first group is embraced the great Erector Spinte muscle, including in this term the Sacro- Lumbalis, Longissimus Dorsi, Spinalis Dorsi, Trans- versalis Cervicis, Musculus Accessorius, and Ascen- dens Cervicis. In the second group are the muscles arising from the vertebrae and inserted into the ribs. These embrace the Levatores Costarum, the Serratus Posticus Supe- rior, and the Serratus Posticus Inferior.^ In the third group may be placed the muscles pass- ing between the vertebra3, and those passing between the vertebras and the skull. Four kinds of motion are here recognized: the backward, forward, lateral, and rotatory. The muscles effecting the lackward move- ment (or extension) are the Splenius Colli, Interspi- nales, RectusCapitis Posticus Minor, and RectusCapitis Posticus Major; those effecting the forward movement (flexion) are the Longus Colli, Psoas,^ Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor, Rectus Capitis Anticus Major; those effecting the lateral movement are the Intertransver- sales, the Rectus Capitis Lateralis, the Trachelo-Mas- toid ; those effecting the rotatory movement are the Rotatores Spina?, Multifidus Spina?, Semispinalis, Obliquus Capitis Inferior, Obliquus Capitis Superior, Complexus, and Splenius Capitis.^ others to the genito-urinary apparatus. It will nevertheless be seen that the muscles of the perineum lie within the trunk, which is defined as that portion of the body which remains when the head, neck, and limbs are removed—the torso of the artist. ' The Scaleni have arbitrarily been considered among the mus- cles of the neck. Their true position is in the second group as above indicated. In like manner the anterior portion of the Quad- ratus Lumborum may be placed in this group. 2 Conventionally included in the muscles of the lower extremity. ' This classification is essentially that of G. Hermann Meyers (Lelirbuch der Anatomic des Menschen, Leipzig, 1855-73), and Theile (Muller's Archiv. fiir Anat., 1839, p. 102, fig.), and, as far as the first group is embraced therein, that of Joseph Leidy (An Elementary Treatise of Human Anatomy, Philadelphia, 1861). Anatomists have not agreed upon a uniform plan for arranging the muscles of the back. The English writers divide them into layers—a purely artificial classification, and designed only to facili- tate the task of their dissection. Five layers are by them named as follows :— The First Layer is composed of the Trapezius. Latissimus Dorsi. The Second Layer of the Levator Anguli Scapulae. Rhomboideus Major. Rhomboideus Minor.