THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA, 296 — 0*^-0^00^ . sesamoid bone, appears in the phalanx through the mediam of a In the human subject the muscle hand only in the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. But if the Interossei be examined with this ideal muscle before the mind, it will be seen (conceding the sesamoid bone to be lost, and the belly of the muscle to have undergone longitudinal cleavage) that the flexor is represented in the second finger by the first Dorsal Interosseous on the lateral border, and by the first Palmar Interosseous on the median. In the third finger, both the elements are represented in the sec- ond and third Dorsal Interossei. In the fourth the lateral element is seen in the second Palmar, and the median in the fourth Dorsal. In the fifth finger the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti represents the median portion of the common Flexor, the lateral being in this instance the third Palmar Interosseous. (2) The Fascia.. The fascia of the upper extremity is freely con- tinuous with the fascia of the trunk by means of that covering the Pectoralis Major, the Deltoid, and the Latissimus Dorsi muscles. It is weak as it lies upon these muscles; it is better developed upon the arm, and best developed in the region of the hand. It is strengthened by slips from the Biceps Cubiti and Palmaris, and by septal slips passing down to the scapula and the bones at and below the elbow-joint. It affords surfaces of origin to many of the muscles. The lines of union between the exserted portion of the upper extremity (namely, from about the inser- tion of the Pectoralis Major) and the trunkal portion (namely, the portion at the sides of the trunk held by the clavicle and the scapula) are marked by two fasciae that demand separate description. These are— The Axillary Fascia. The Costo-Coracoid Fascia, The Axillary Fascia is a thin sheet covering the axilla, and is continuous at the sides with the fascia covering the adjacent muscles. It incloses and pro- tects the lymphatics, a deeper layer overlying the axillary vessels and nerves, and is in part continuous with the insertion of the Pectoralis Minor and with the origin of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle. It is m part also attached to the coracoid process, and is contin- uous with the coraco-clavicular fascia. Occasionally delicate arched muscular fibres cross the axillary fascia from the Latissimus Dorsi to the Pectoralis Major muscle. Tiie Costo-Coracoid fascia is included among the deep fascial of the upper extremity. It lies between the under surface of the clavicle and the coracoid pro- cess, passes inward and downward, and divides into two layers which are inserted upon the under surface of the clavicle between the coracoid and the rhom- boid ligaments. Between the two layers of coraco- clavicular fascia is lodged the Subclavius muscle. The superior layer is thicker than the inferior, and passes without union with the latter to the coracoid pro- cess. At its point of origin the fascia sends a thin expansion to the brachial fascia at the axilla, where a deeper portion enters into the sheath for the axil- lary vessels. Lying above the coracoid attachment is the origin of the Pectoralis Minor muscle. The fascia serves to protect the parts escaping beneath the clavicle, and to support the already stout bands of union between the clavicle and the scapula. The finger cannot be passed far under the bone in conse- quence of the presence of this membrane. An oiT- shoot from the upper surface of the membrane is continuous Avith the fascia over the Pectoralis Minor muscle. Fascia of the Arm.—The fascia over the Biceps muscle is thicker than that over the Brachialis An- ticus and the Supinator Longus. With the last- named muscle it is closely incorporated. It becomes stouter near the elbow, where it is continuous with the fascia of the forearm. The fascia over the Triceps muscle is in turn thicker than that over the Biceps, EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLVIIL Fig. L The same, in part, as Fig. 2, Plate XLVII., but from the opposite side of the body. The flexor longus pollicis and the flexor carpi ulnaris are retained in posi- tion, and the insertion of the supinator longus is seen. The hand is drawn entire throughout, and its sliperficial muscles displayed. Fig. 2. The superficial muscles of the forearm, seen from behind; the hand and the lower portion of the arm are displayed. Fig 3. The superficial muscles of the lateral Cradial) border of the forearm, together with some of the muscles of the hand.